BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                          31-202

                                                                             16 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                         Security

                                                      LOST, ABANDONED OR UNCLAIMED
                                                          PRIVATELY OWNED PERSONAL
                                                                          PROPERTY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: 96 SFS/S5P                                                        Certified by: 96 MSG/CC
                                                                                    (Col Hansen)
Supersedes:    Supersedes AACI 31-202,                                                   Pages: 5
               23 April 2003


This instruction implements DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual and AFI 31-
206, Security Forces Investigations Program. It provides procedures for disposing of privately
owned vehicles abandoned on Eglin AFB and other lost abandoned or unclaimed property. This
instruction is applicable to all personnel assigned, attached or associated with Eglin AFB and its
auxiliary fields. This instruction does not apply to Hurlburt Field. Send recommended changes
or comments for this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised using the Air Force guidelines for numbering and formatting
and to allow for electronic distribution.
1. Property Disposal Board. The 96th Test Wing Commander (96 TW/CC) will appoint three
officers or equivalent grade civilian employees from the 96 TW to serve on a continuing basis on
the Property Disposal Board. The appointments will be in writing and one member will be
selected to serve as chairperson. Defense Reutilization/Marketing Office (DRMO) and Security
Forces personnel may not serve as board members.
 2                                                     EGLINAFBI 31-202 16 OCTOBER 2013


2. Abandoned Vehicles and Personal Property. It is a violation of this instruction to abandon
vehicles or other privately owned property anywhere within the confines of Eglin AFB.
Privately owned property includes, but is not limited to; vehicles, vehicle components, tires,
batteries, equipment, machinery, appliances, furniture, household items, construction materials,
hazardous materials, chemicals, solvents, paint, oil, fuel and trash. All abandoned vehicles will
be impounded utilizing one of the companies identified in the Blanket Purchase Agreement
(BPA).
3. Abandoned/Derelict Vehicles. No person will be allowed to park or abandon a derelict
motorized vehicle within the confines of Eglin AFB for more than 72 hours. Any vehicle parked
for more than 72 hours on a public street, roadway or public parking area, (to include, but not
limited to BX, commissary, hobby shop, dormitories, or base housing), or any vehicle for which
the owner cannot be identified or has permanently departed the immediate vicinity of Eglin AFB,
will be considered abandoned by the owner until determined otherwise by the parking wardens
or Security Forces personnel who will place a DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket, on
the derelict vehicle. The owner must then remove the vehicle from Eglin AFB within 72 hours.
If the vehicle is not removed within 72 hours, a DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice, will
be placed on the vehicle. If the vehicle is not removed within 72 hours of affixing the DD Form
2504, the vehicle is subject to impoundment by 96 SFS personnel at the owner’s expense.
Abandoned and/or derelict vehicles are defined as:
     3.1. A vehicle within the confines of Eglin AFB for more than 72 hours partially dismantled,
     non-operable, wrecked, junked and/or neglected (to include, but not limited to: flat tires,
     spare parts, expired registration).
        3.1.1. Not meeting the requirement of the state in which it is registered.
        3.1.2. Not maintained in operational condition (a vehicle must be safely drivable).
        3.1.3. Involved in an accident which caused major damage to the vehicle.
        3.1.4. Undergoing major repairs in an unauthorized location (the only authorized
        location is the 96 FSS Automotive Hobby Shop).
        3.1.5. Not meeting minimum safety standards for operation.
4. Procedures for Handling (Identification/Discovery of Abandoned/Found) Personal
Property:
     4.1. Establishing Accountability:
        4.1.1. Privately owned personal property such as personal effects, household goods,
        vehicles, etc, which are found on or come into the custody or control of Eglin AFB and
        has apparently been lost, abandoned or left unclaimed for any reason by the owner,
        should be released in a reasonable time to either the Intelligence and Investigations (S2)
        section or the Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) in Building 272 for safekeeping
        and to establish accountability. Whoever receives the property will attempt to contact the
        owner of the property. If contact with the owner is made, a date/time will be arranged for
        the owner to retrieve their property. If the owner cannot be contacted a record will be
        kept of who was called, the telephone numbers that were dialed, and if messages were
        left. This information should not to be placed on the AF Form 52, but should be
        captured on something other than the AF Form 52. For example, if a credit card was
EGLINAFBI 31-202 16 OCTOBER 2013                                                            3


     turned in to BDOC, and contact information cannot be located for the owner, then the
     desk sergeant should contact the credit card company and request that company contact
     its customer, and to have the customer (owner) call BDOC or the property custodian.
     This information should be recorded so if the property custodian assumes control for the
     property the property custodian will understand what transpired prior to assuming
     control. The BDOC will also:
         4.1.1.1. Record the turn-in of the property on an AF Form 53, Security Forces Desk
         Blotter.
         4.1.1.2. Fill out AF Form 52, Evidence Tag, to establish accountability and attach to
         property.
         4.1.1.3. Release the property with AF Form 52 attached to the Security Forces
         Property Custodian.
         4.1.1.4. Wallets/purses, etc, will be stored for safekeeping in the Security Forces
         found property room located in Bldg 272.
         4.1.1.5. Bicycles and other large bulk items will be stored in the Security Forces
         impound lot.
         4.1.1.6. Single item ID Cards (DD Form 2AF, Armed Forces Identification Card,
         and DD Form 1173, Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card) need not
         be maintained. An attempt will be made to contact the owner. If the attempt is
         unsuccessful these items will be released directly to Customer Services, Military
         Personnel Flight, 96th Force Support Squadron, for final disposition.
         4.1.1.7. Firearms/ammunition will be stored in the Security Forces evidence locker
         inside the Security Forces armory in Bldg 272.
     4.1.2. The chairperson of the Property Disposal Board will initiate and comply with the
     instructions in DOD Directive 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual. The
     board members will:
         4.1.2.1. Examine the property and prepare a written and dated inventory including a
         current fair market value.
         4.1.2.2. Conduct diligent inquiries to locate the owner, heirs, next of kin or legal
         representative.
         4.1.2.3. Make sure property valued at less than $300 fair market value for which an
         owner cannot be immediately identified is kept for a minimum of 30 days. During
         this 30-day period the property will be advertised twice in the base bulletin or base
         newspaper.
         4.1.2.4. Make sure property valued at more than $300 fair market value for which an
         owner cannot be immediately identified is kept for a minimum of 45 days. During
         this 45-day period the property will be advertised twice in the base bulletin or base
         newspaper.
  4.2. Releasing Property:
4                                               EGLINAFBI 31-202 16 OCTOBER 2013


    4.2.1. The Property Disposal Board (subject to Installation Commander’s approval) may
    choose to dispose of property in one of the following manners: 1) Turn in to DRMO
    IAW DOD Directive 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual; 2) Donation to a
    non-appropriated fund instrumentality (NAFI), auto hobby shop, etc.; military charity,
    Airman’s Attic, etc.; or private charity, Salvation Army, etc.; and 3) As otherwise
    directed by the Installation Commander destroy, convert to government use or through no
    cost contract with local business/agency, e.g., for disposal of abandoned vehicles.
    4.2.2. Contraband Items:
       4.2.2.1. The Security Forces Property Custodian may destroy nun-chuck sticks, brass
       knuckles, illegal knives, fireworks, etc., after coordination with the Staff Judge
       Advocate and it has been determined that they are no longer of evidentiary value.
       The destruction will be witnessed by at least one other person. The individual may be
       a Security Forces member.
       4.2.2.2. The Security Forces Property Custodian may destroy marijuana, hashish,
       PCP or other controlled substances after coordination with the Staff Judge Advocate.
       IAW AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigation Program, Security Forces will have
       one witness present when destroying drugs. Witness must be in the grade of E-7, GS-
       11 or higher (appointed by the Installation Commander or designee) and may not be
       assigned to the 96th Security Forces Squadron. Eradicated marijuana falls under this
       purview. All other destruction must be witnessed and properly documented by a
       representative from Security Forces Intelligence and Investigations (96 SFS/S2).




                                        DAVID A. HARRIS. Brigadier General, USAF
                                        Commander
EGLINAFBI 31-202 16 OCTOBER 2013                                         5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigations Program , 16 September 2009
DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual
Adopted Forms
AF Form 52, Evidence Tag
AF Form 53, Security Forces Desk Blotter
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2AF, Armed Forces Identification Card
DD Form 1173, Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card
DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket
DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice.
