BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE PAMPHLET
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                           32-401

                                                                                  20 JULY 2012

                                                                                  Civil Engineer

                                                            EGLIN AFB MILITARY FAMILY
                                                                   HOUSING BROCHURE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: 96 CEG/CEAH                                                       Certified by: 96 CEG/CC
                                                                               (Colonel Higdon)
Supersedes:   AACPAM 32-4, 11 Apr 2008                                                 Pages: 17


This pamphlet applies to all individuals residing in military family housing (MFH) on Eglin Air
Force Base. The following pages explain the Air Force responsibility for your home as well as
what we expect from you. A minimum one-year lease is required when accepting base housing.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is revised to update the responsibilities for Eglin AFB housing residents and
should be completely reviewed.
1. Air Force Responsibilities. In support of your government-owned/controlled (leased)
residence, maintenance and repair, refuse collection and disposal, fire and police protection and
grounds maintenance for common areas will be provided.
   1.1. Initial Inspections. Residents will be given an AF Form 227, Quarters Condition
   Inspection Report, to document discrepancies in your yard, home and appliances. You will
   have 15 duty days to return the form to the Housing Office.
   1.2. Maintenance and Repairs. The 96th Civil Engineer Group has the primary
   responsibility for maintaining your home. To request repairs, the service telephone number
 2                                                      EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012


     is 882-8585. Use the same number for emergency service during non-duty hours. When you
     contact Housing Maintenance, you will receive a job order number and an approximate date
     and time the work will be done. There are three categories of service: emergency, urgent
     and routine. The category determines when you can expect the service to be scheduled:

Table 1. Housing Maintenance Response Time
                          Response Time                       Defined As
Service Call
EMERGENCY                 30 MINUTES – 24 HOURS               Failure or deficiency, which
                          (DEPENDS ON SEVERITY)               constitutes an immediate danger or
                                                              health hazard to residents or
                                                              threatens to damage property. A
                                                              structural, utility or mechanical
                                                              problem that could cause loss of
                                                              life or property. Serious damage
                                                              affecting health, safety, security or
                                                              mission. Complete utility failure
                                                              (electricity, gas, heat, water,
                                                              sewage or air-conditioning)
URGENT                    WITHIN 5 DAYS                       Failure or deficiency which does
                                                              not immediately endanger the
                                                              residents or threaten damage to
                                                              property, but would soon
                                                              inconvenience and affect the
                                                              health and well being of the
                                                              residents.
ROUTINE                   30 DAYS (USUALLY                    Work of a routine nature that does
                                                              not meet the criteria of emergency
                          WITHIN 10 DUTY DAYS)
                                                              or urgent.

     1.3. Refuse Collection and Disposal. Trash pick-up is once each week. Please read the
     refuse/recyclables preparation printout in the blue housing assignment folder for collection
     instructions and pick-up times for your area. Garbage cans are government-provided through
     the refuse contract. You are responsible for cleaning the cans. Place trash and garbage
     exceeding the garbage can capacity in a plastic bag, bundle or tie it up and place at curbside
     the morning of pick-up service. Trash and recycle containers are to be returned to their
     proper location and stored after pickup.
     1.4. Lockouts. There are no emergency keys maintained for your unit at the Housing Office
     or at Housing Maintenance. You will be responsible for the cost of replacing any lost keys.
     Where duplicating a key is prohibited commercially, you must reimburse the government for
     replacement keys at a cost of $8 per lock; plus a service fee of $50 (costs are approximate
     and subject to change). You also must pay for missing keys when you terminate family
     housing. The housing inspector will assist you with payment procedures.
EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012                                                                  3


   1.5. Grounds Care. The government will maintain grounds beyond 50 feet or as
   determined by a housing representative of your home or a reasonable natural boundary. The
   government will also prune trees and shrubs “beyond your capability.” You may obtain seed
   and fertilizer at the Self Help Store, 882-3292. Watch for seasonal announcements through
   the www.eglin.af.mil. You are responsible for watering your lawn. Lawn watering hours
   are from 0600L to 1000L or 1900L to 2100L not both, with odd number addresses will water
   on odd number days and even number addresses water on even number days. Tenants are
   responsible for lawn care up to 50 feet from their house.
   1.6. Appliances. We provide and service ranges, refrigerators and dishwashers. If you have
   problems with the government-provided appliances call 882-8585 for repair. Please do not
   attempt repairs or adjustments yourself.
   1.7. Privately Owned Appliances. Privately owned appliances may be used. Notify
   Housing Maintenance at 882-8585 to make arrangements to have the government appliances
   removed. Housing Maintenance will not provide service for privately owned appliances.
   1.8. Filters. Air-conditioning and heating filters are government furnished. Residents are
   responsible for the monthly change out of disposable filters and cleaning permanent filters.
   Replacement filters are available at the Self-Help Store and must be replaced every month.
   High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters are available at the Housing Maintenance
   office. You must provide a medical waiver letter from your primary doctor to be placed on
   the list to receive the special HEPA filters.
   1.9. Base Self-Help Store. To help maintain your home, you may select from a variety of
   items, such as mulch and grass seed from the Self-Help Store. Residents are responsible for
   routine maintenance and minor repairs. You may be required to reimburse the government
   for service if Housing Maintenance is called to repair damage which you have caused.
2. Resident Responsibilities
   2.1. Sex Offender Disclosure and Acknowledgement AF Form 4422, residents are mandated
   to sign AF Form 4422 upon accepting government-managed or privatized housing. Air
   Force Installations require full disclosure from persons applying for military, government-
   managed or privatized housing who are sex offenders or who intend to have dependents who
   are sex offenders reside with them. If you, or an authorized dependent who will reside with
   you, are found to be registered or are required to register as a sex offender under the laws of
   any state, you could be denied residency in Air Force military, government-managed and
   privatized housing. If you, anyone living in your household or visitor is found to be a sex
   offender after you take occupancy, you may be subject to eviction and/or barment from the
   Installation
   2.2. Social Visits. Housing residents are responsible for their guests. Family housing units
   are appropriated for use as single-family dwellings and may not be jointly occupied by more
   than one family. Social visits of 30 days or less do not constitute joint assignment of family
   housing; however, civilians that reside within the commuting area are limited to 2 days. The
   installation commander may authorize extensions. Personnel authorized Basic Allowance for
   Housing (BAH) or Living Quarter Assistance (LQA) who visit more than 30 days forfeits
   BAH and LQA.
4                                                     EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012


    2.3. Leave or Extended TDY. You must not leave your home unattended for extended
    periods (over 5 days). If you plan to be absent longer than this period of time, you must
    arrange for security and prudent care of your home. You will fulfill this responsibility by
    notifying the Housing Office “in writing” of your intended absence and the name of the
    person you designate to perform normal maintenance and to whom you have given access to
    your home. This person must be instructed to check your unit at least once a week while you
    are away. Also, you must notify Security Forces for patrol purposes.
    2.4. Maintenance and Repair. You are responsible for simple maintenance and repair of
    your home, as required by the Air Force. We expect you to take prudent care of your home,
    and hold you responsible for routine maintenance, simple repairs and housekeeping, such as
    changing light bulbs, replacing heater and air conditioner filters, securing door stops,
    replacing sink stoppers, cleaning stove burners, plunging toilets and sinks, and basic insect
    control. Housing Maintenance may still perform this work when your home is vacant or
    when emergencies arise. We encourage you to use the Self-Help Store to get supplies to
    assist you with maintenance and simple repairs. The Air Force has also established cleaning
    standards, and we apply the standards equitably regardless of your grade or position.
    Cleaning standards are minimized for homes scheduled for major renovation.
    2.5. Liability for Damage to Family Housing, Equipment and Furnishings. You may be
    held accountable and liable for loss or damage to the family housing structure, equipment
    and furnishings if you, your dependents or your guests cause the damage through abuse or
    neglect. While the amount of liability is limited to 1 month’s basic pay in cases of simple
    negligence, you may be liable for the full amount of damages or loss for willful misconduct
    or abuse. DFAS-DER7000-8 provides guidance on how to determine responsibility and
    financial liability. It also explains in which situations claims may be waived or limited, if
    your dependent or guest cause the damage and you had no opportunity to prevent the
    damage. It also establishes procedures for processing reports of survey (ROS), how to
    request reconsideration and how to appeal unwaivered claims. It also explains how to
    request for remission of debts.
    2.6. Voluntary Payment for Damages to Family Housing. You should be aware of the
    following before you agree to pay for the repair/replacement of government property:
       2.6.1. You are paying of your own volition and you cannot be coerced or threatened with
       adverse action if payment is not made. Adverse action could consist of administrative
       action and judicial or non-judicial punishment.
       2.6.2. There’s no administrative determination of a debt exists, and there is no legal
       obligation to the government.
       2.6.3. Voluntary payment may not be withdrawn later.
       2.6.4. The normal avenues of relief (appeal, waiver, remission, etc.) are not available if
       voluntary payment is made.
       2.6.5. If you are offering to pay for loss or damage in excess of one month's basic pay,
       you understand that if a ROS were prepared, the liability could be limited to one month's
       basic pay.
EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012                                                               5


   2.7. Insurance. We encourage you to consider buying commercial insurance (renter’s
   insurance) to cover your personal liability for government property and your personal
   property if you have a major loss while residing in family housing. Renter’s insurance
   should clearly include personal liability coverage for loss or damage to family housing,
   furnishings and equipment. You may be able to obtain only liability coverage for
   government property without insuring your personal property. The Housing Office can
   inform you about replacement value of your home, based on net square footage and grade,
   authorized by public law. The Staff Judge Advocate office can answer specific questions.
   2.8. Damages to Housing. When damages beyond reasonable wear and tear are determined
   to be your responsibility, you must meet Air Force standards when completing the repair or
   replacement. The Housing Office staff can fully explain your options to repair or replace
   damaged items and the method of payment.
   2.9. Repair Costs. The following list (Table 2) of most commonly damaged and destroyed
   items is not all-inclusive, but shows typical costs. Costs may vary, depending on
   circumstances:

Table 2. Occupant Damage Maintenance Repair Costs
 Damage                   Estimated Cost                 Remarks
 Broken Window            $200
 Replace Door Lock        $8 /Set                        Plus $50 Service Charge
 Pet Damage                                              Depends on carpet, tile, type of
                                                         damage
 Carpet Damage            $21.50/Yard - Depreciation
 Hole in Wall                                            Depends on size of hole
 - $25 per hour labor fee charge for service             - Charges subject to change

   2.10. Energy Conservation. As a housing resident, we need your assistance in conserving
   energy. Fewer dollars for housing and rising utility costs require us to use good judgment
   and do what is prudent and practical to conserve utilities.
      2.10.1. Water. Normal and reasonable use of water is not restricted. However, since
      excessive usage results in increased costs, we must eliminate waste.
      2.10.2. Heating and Cooling. See Table 3 for recommended temperature settings.
      Conserving these resources will result in large monetary and heating fuel savings for the
      installation without jeopardizing your health. Please help to minimize the fuel waste. If
      anyone in your family has a health condition necessitating emergency service for air
      conditioning or heating, please furnish the Housing Office a copy of the medical
      documentation.
 6                                                      EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012


Table 3. Recommended Temperature Settings
                                  Day                              Night
 Heat                             68                               68
 Air Conditioning                 78                               78
 Hot water heating setting        During the months of Oct-        May-Sep, AC repairs are
 should not exceed 130            Apr, AC repairs are completed    completed as an urgent
 degrees                          on a routine service call.       service call.

        2.10.3. Electricity. You can help to conserve electricity by minimizing the use of
        electrical appliances and lights. When possible use Compact Fluorescent lights.
        Fluorescent lights are available at your Self Help Store one for one exchange. Use
        blinds, drapes or shades on windows to reduce heating from sunlight. Use clothes
        washers, dryers and dishwashers in the morning hours to help reduce the overall demand
        for electricity on base. Try not to leave doors and windows open when the air
        conditioner is on or leave outside lights on during daylight hours. Limit the number of
        lights and decorations used for holidays and remove them no later than 10 days after the
        holiday. Decorations and lights are not allowed on the roofs. All staples, tacks, etc. must
        also be removed and any holes must be repaired. Exterior seasonal decoration lights may
        only be on from dusk until 2300.
     2.11. Environment. Be sure to read the memorandum on lead-based paint located inside
     your blue housing assignment folder. Do not pour waste, engine oils, engine coolants, car
     grease and other similar products into plumbing, drainage system or on the ground. Burning
     leaves and refuse is prohibited.
     2.12. Vehicle Control. Number of vehicles allowed to be kept at your home is limited to
     one vehicle per licensed driver.
     2.13. Care of Interior.
        2.13.1. Windows. Residents are responsible for regularly cleaning the interior surfaces
        of all windows that are safely accessible.
        2.13.2. Kitchen. Give special attention to maintaining appliances, cabinets, windows
        and floors. Clean oven, top burners and drip pans, broiler units and the exhaust fan filter
        regularly to prevent grease buildup, which can quickly become a fire hazard. Clean
        refrigerator interiors frequently to remove food deposits. Do not use gritty or harsh
        detergents when cleaning. To avoid jamming the cutting mechanism in the garbage
        disposal, avoid placing fibrous material inside, such as onions and celery. Also, grease in
        the garbage disposal can solidify in the pipes and cause stoppages. Be careful to keep hot
        pots, pans and utensils off countertops to avoid permanent damage. We recommend you
        use non-adhesive shelf paper in drawers and cupboards to avoid damaging surfaces upon
        removal. Clean walls periodically to prevent grease buildup.
        2.13.3. Bathrooms. Clean tub and shower walls periodically with a product made to
        clean mildew. During routine cleaning of the bathroom you should remove tub and sink
        stoppers to remove grease, hair and soap deposits. Do not use acid.
EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012                                                               7


     2.13.4. Floors. Excessive water can cause damage to any floor, especially wood. Use a
     quality wax remover to prevent wax buildup, and also pay special attention to corners and
     baseboards.
     2.13.5. Carpet. Residents are permitted to install carpeting at their own expense;
     however, it may not be tacked down. Do not use double-faced tape, glue, etc. Residents
     are responsible for care/maintenance of government-installed carpet. Carpets will need to
     be professionally cleaned and a receipt provided at your final inspection, if occupant has
     pets. Do not use carpet cleaners or spot removers containing bleach.
     2.13.6. Walls. Use mild soap and warm water for cleaning walls. You must not apply
     adhesive-backed materials, wallpaper or decals to the walls, since removal can cause
     damage. Use nails or picture hangers for hanging pictures and objects. You will need to
     remove the nails before vacating the unit. Please make sure doorstops are in place to
     prevent damage to walls. Note: If you burn candles on a continuous basis this can create
     a soot film buildup throughout the unit. You are highly encouraged not to do this.
     2.13.7. Mold. Be sure to read the booklet entitled “A Brief Guide to Mold, Moisture &
     Your Home” found in the blue assignment folder given to you by the housing inspector
     during your initial inspection briefing.
     2.13.8. Insect Control. Your unit has been inspected for pests and sprayed, if needed,
     prior to you moving in. You, as the occupant, are responsible for pest control and
     maintaining good housekeeping practices both inside and outside your unit. Self-Help
     pest control products are available for your use and can be obtained from the Base Self-
     Help Center located in Building 665, 309 S 7th Street. If a pest infestation persists
     beyond your control after self-help treatment, call Housing Maintenance at 882-8585.
  2.14. Care of Exterior.
     2.14.1. Windows. Residents are responsible for cleaning the exterior of first floor
     windows that are safely accessible and other floors if the outer surfaces are accessible
     from the interior or safe exterior platforms such as decks and patios. Windows are not
     removable.
     2.14.2. Grounds Care. You must care for grounds up to 50 feet or as determined by a
     housing representative from your dwelling or a reasonable natural boundary. The
     boundary may be identified as either halfway between your home and the adjoining
     home, a line marked by shrubbery, trees or a fenced area. If your yard is fenced inside
     the 50-foot line or inside the natural boundary, you must maintain both sides of the fence
     up to the natural boundary. You are expected to maintain a neat, well-kept lawn. Family
     housing areas are periodically inspected according to the standards listed below. We
     issue discrepancy notices to residents not meeting appearance standards. Repeated
     discrepancies are unacceptable and may lead to termination actions. Residents are
     responsible for damages created by pets. Tree limbs will not be pruned for the purpose of
     opening the tree canopy to allow sunlight to reach the ground so grass may grow. The
     root systems of most oaks in this area grow very close to, and sometimes above, the
     surface of the ground. These root systems are very closely intertwined and it is difficult
     for grass to grow among them. Pruning of limbs will not eliminate the problem of no
     grass and removal of the roots will kill the tree.
 8                                                      EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012


     2.15. Inspection Standards for Family Housing. You may plant flowers. Do not plant
     seeds or beans that are poisonous or which can be a hazard. Keep your flowerbeds neat and
     clean of weeds and grass. If you desire to install a fence (only chain-link allowed) you must
     complete a self-help work request and it must be approved before the work is started. The
     fence can only go straight behind your unit, a maximum of 50 feet back or halfway between
     your home and the unit behind you.

Table 4. Inspection Standards for Military Family Housing
             ITEM                                 STANDARD
 Grass mowing                     Perform as necessary to maintain a neat appearance.


 Weed control                     Maintain yards, driveways, curbs, and parking areas free of
                                  weeds.
 Edging of grass along            Edge to maintain a neat appearance. Trenches between
 sidewalks, driveways and         pavement and yards are not permitted.
 roadways
 Leaves and pine needles          Rake pine needles and leaves from under trees, shrubs and
                                  hedges. (Can or use transparent plastic bags and place by
                                  curb on yard waste pickup days.)
 Trimming of grass and weeds      Trim grass and weeds around foundation of the house, door
 around foundation, air           steps, air conditioner, garbage can areas, sidewalk, pavement
 conditioner, etc.                seams, cracks and areas where lawn mowers cannot reach
                                  (fence lines, utility poles, sign posts, etc.).
 Shrubs and bushes                Shrubs and bushes will be trimmed throughout the year to a
                                  uniform shape and height (less than 6 feet). Residents are
                                  responsible for all trees, shrubs and bushes less than 6 feet
                                  tall. Shrubs in front of window must be trimmed below the
                                  window sill. To have trees trimmed, contact Housing Office
                                  and complete an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineering
                                  Work Request. If shrubs, bushes or trees are causing
                                  damage to your unit, call Housing Maintenance at 882-8585.
 Debris removal/Exterior          Exterior of all units/yards shall be kept free of debris to
                                  include paper, trash, leaves/tree limbs and clutter. Toys and
 Housekeeping
                                  other personal items will be stored when not in use. Outside
                                  storage is allowed only in pre-approved storage sheds. Play
                                  set areas will be kept behind quarters and always neat in
                                  appearance. Basketball backboards/goals must be
                                  freestanding and not be mounted, attached to or supported
                                  by the housing unit, carport, utility pole, garage, storage
                                  building, or any tree or shrub. Backboards must be located
                                  directly behind the quarters or midway up the drive from the
                                  street and be free standing. The specific location of the
EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012                                                                       9


                                 backboard must be shown on the work request. Portable
                                 backboards/goals may also be located on cul-de-sacs on the
                                 grass edge – not on the road.
Vehicles                         Major repair to vehicles in base housing is not authorized
                                 and should occur in the Hobby Shop. Residents may
                                 complete emergency repairs only. Oil changes, tune-ups,
                                 tire rotation, brakes, etc. will be done at the auto hobby
                                 shop. Inoperable, damaged, unsightly, unregistered or
                                 unlicensed vehicles are not allowed in the housing area.
Recreational vehicles, boats,    Use the RV storage lot or other rental space to park these
trailers, etc. No farm           vehicles. No boats, trailers, jet skis, RV’s, etc. allowed in
equipment allowed.               driveways and/or under carports. If you have a RV stored in
                                 the storage lot you have a responsibility to keep your space
                                 clean.
Fences and sheds                 Only 4-foot, chain link fences may be approved for
                                 installation. The fence and/or shed must be kept in a good
                                 state of repair and maintain a neat appearance. Sheds will
                                 be required to be removed when vacating your unit. No
                                 PODS allowed.
Carports and patios              Carports and patios must be neatly maintained. While
                                 storage is limited, these areas must not be cluttered or
                                 unattractive. Parking of motorcycles on patios or sidewalks
                                 is prohibited.
Fill dirt                        Fill in all holes in your yard. Fill dirt is available on a self-
                                 help basis at Housing Maintenance. Dirt must not be piled
                                 higher than foundation.
Yard repair                      Repair and sod bare spots in the yard on a continuous basis.
                                 You are responsible for damages caused by negligence, pets
                                 or dependents.

   2.16. Waterbeds. Waterbeds are not authorized in Eglin’s military family housing.
   2.17. Trampolines. Trampolines are allowed in base housing provided they are in a fenced
   in area that can be secured or they have safety netting that must be secured when not in use.
   2.18. Swimming and Wading Pools. Wading, swimming pools and spas are permitted.
   Pools 12 inches deep by 6 feet in diameter or less must be emptied daily. Pools larger than
   12 inches deep or 6 feet in diameter and all spas must have a complete filtration and
   chlorination system; they are also required to be fenced in. Pumps and other electrical items
   must be properly installed to meet local and the current national electrical codes (wiring must
   be installed under the ground in P.V.C. electrical conduit and be connected to a U.L.
   approved GFCI outlet). NO EXTENSION CORDS ALLOWED. Proper chemical balance
   must be maintained at all times. Pools, spas and hot tubs must be the above ground type,
   directly behind the housing unit and may not be installed on patios. Electrical service for
   spas, hot tubs and large hard side pools must be professionally installed. Before hiring a
 10                                                    EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012


   contractor please refer to http://www.epls.gov/. The website has a search box that will
   appear in the upper left hand corner. You can use that search function to search the
   nationwide list of excluded contractors.
   2.19. Telephone Installation. Quarters are wired for telephone service with two telephone
   jacks. Housing Maintenance is responsible for maintenance and repair of these jacks. If you
   have a problem, call Housing Maintenance first--not your phone service provider. Additional
   jacks/lines may be installed at the resident's expense.
3. Fire Protection. The Emergency Fire Department number is 911 and questions about fire
prevention should be directed to the Base Fire Department at 882-3229 or 882-4235.
   3.1. Instructions on Fire Prevention. Your housing inspector will brief you on fire
   prevention instructions during your initial inspection briefing. Please make sure to read the
   Eglin Fire & Emergency Services pamphlet in your blue housing assignment folder. Portable
   fire pits are allowed in Base Housing except when restricted during fire danger alerts. Please
   use caution when in use.
   3.2. Fire Evacuation Plan. A home fire evacuation plan should be made with primary and
   alternate routes of escape. Establishing and practicing your escape plan, as a family activity,
   may save the life of a member of your family. Please make the fire department aware of
   handicapped family members.
   3.3. Smoke Detectors. An inspection of smoke detectors should be performed at the initial
   inspection of your quarters. You are required to perform an operational test of the detector
   periodically, preferably once a month. The smoke detector is a local alarm only. In case of
   smoke or fire in your quarters, evacuate and notify the Fire Department at 911. Call Housing
   Maintenance if the detector is not working properly. Smoke must be freely detected in such
   areas as hallways, passageways and near sleeping areas. Residents are highly encouraged to
   purchase fire extinguishers if they are not provided with your unit.
   3.4. Fire Reporting. If a fire occurs in your home, call 911 immediately. Give the operator
   your name, house number, and street. Do not hang up until you are sure the information has
   been received correctly. Report any fires regardless of size.
   3.5. Gasoline Storage. Never store flammables in the home. NEVER store gasoline and
   other flammable liquids in an enclosure where a source of ignition is present (furnace or gas
   hot water heater room). Do not use gasoline or other flammable liquids to clean oil spots
   from the carport or other cement surfaces. Storage of gasoline and other flammable liquid is
   limited to 1 gallon and in approved safety containers. Outside storage areas should be
   childproof.
      3.5.1. Gasoline-Powered Lawn Mowers, Chain Saws, Portable Generators, Mopeds,
      Etc. In addition to the safety hazards involved when such equipment is used in a careless
      manner, a dangerous fire potential exists when such equipment is being operated,
      refueled or improperly stored. Do not refuel any power tools or special purpose
      equipment while the engine is running. Allow at least 15 minutes for the tool to cool
      before refueling. Do not store fueled equipment inside facilities. Empty and purge gas
      tanks if equipment is stored inside buildings.
EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012                                                                 11


   3.6. Barbecue Grills. Only adults should light and supervise grills. Keep grills away from
   building overhangs and porches; always keep them at a reasonable distance from combustible
   structures. They can only be stored in the back yard. Never use gasoline to light a grill.
   Open fires are not allowed in base housing.
   3.7. Clothes Dryers. Check and clean lint traps in clothes dryers before or after each
   operation. Do not place plastic articles in the dryer.
   3.8. Cooking Appliances.
       3.8.1. Never leave cooking food unattended. If you have a cooking fire, cover the
       burning pan with a lid, turn off the appliance and call the fire department.
       3.8.2. Never use Water on Grease Fires. Do not attempt to move the pan! Clean
       kitchen exhaust fan filters often to prevent accumulation of grease.
   3.9. Housekeeping. Please do not let trash accumulate in closets, attics, storage areas or
   near any type of heater.
4. Security Forces. The 96th Air Base Wing Commander (96 ABW/CC) is responsible for
controlling and safeguarding base property. The Security Forces routinely patrol housing areas.
When notified, Security Forces will usually investigate incidents under their jurisdiction. Direct
inquiries concerning law enforcement to Security Forces at 882-2502.
   4.1. Parking. Residents and guests will comply with the following:
       4.1.1. Vehicles. Vehicles will be parked in authorized spaces only or in your driveway.
       No vehicles, trailers or items are allowed to be parked or stored at a vacant/empty house.
       4.1.2. Parallel parking on the streets is allowed, with the flow of traffic, only when
       authorized (when parking spaces and driveways are full; parking with two tires on the
       grass and two tires on the street is allowed).
       4.1.3. Parking on grassed areas, sidewalks and patios is prohibited.
       4.1.4. Parking of motorcycles on sidewalks, yards or patios is prohibited.
       4.1.5. Please be reasonable and considerate and talk to your neighbor when problems or
       misunderstandings about parking arise.
       4.1.6. Boats/Trailers/Campers. Privately owned camping trailers and boats may be
       parked in the driveway up to 24 hours for servicing, loading and unloading.
       4.1.7. Campers. Privately owned campers removed from a truck bed can be stored
       under the carport or around the housing unit for 24 hours. Campers not mounted can be
       stored in the Base Housing RV Compound if space is available
   4.2. RV Compound. An area for RVs/trailers, boats and campers is in the Base Housing
   RV Compound. If space is not available in the designated RV parking area, you can check
   with the 96th Services Squadron at 882-2331 for potential rental space or any other off-base
   recreational vehicle storage facility.
   4.3. Visitor Reception. The East and West gates have visitor reception centers where guests
   may sign in and get a temporary pass to come on base. Guests can be pre-announced through
   the West Gate, 882-8083, or East Gate, 882-7500.
 12                                                   EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012


   4.4. Firearms and Fireworks. Storage handling and discharging of fireworks is prohibited
   on base. For information on firearms in family housing, call Security Forces at 882-2502.
   All firearms must be registered with 96th Security Forces Pass and Registration located at the
   East or West Visitor Control Center, using an AF Form 1314/Firearms Registration. Any
   questions call 882-9903.
   4.5. Crime Stop. For fast response to a crime in progress, call 911. For routine calls
   requiring Security Forces call 882-2502.
   4.6. Neighborhood Watch Program. By becoming involved in the Neighborhood Watch
   Program, community residents can greatly reduce the number of burglaries and larcenies in
   their communities. Contact Security Forces, 882-2502, to start or join a program.
5. Good Neighbors. Family housing and close neighbors are synonymous. We appreciate your
support and cooperation in the following areas:
   5.1. Noise Control. Excessive noise is the primary complaint received in the Housing
   Office. Many residents work shifts and sleep during the day. Please be considerate.
      5.1.1. Parties. Many complaints can be avoided by informing neighbors before having a
      party.
      5.1.2. Excessive stereo and television volumes. Don't assume your neighbors enjoy the
      same type of music or television programs that you do--please keep the volume down
      inside and outside your home. The hours between 2200 and 0600 are designated as quiet
      hours.
   5.2. Control of Children. See guidelines in housing in-processing package.
      5.2.1. Supervision. Please closely supervise your children.
      5.2.2. Playground. Avoid using your neighbors' yard and housing area streets as your
      child's playground. Use housing area playgrounds nearest you.
   5.3. Prohibited Pets. Residents may not board dogs of any breed (including a mixed breed)
   that are deemed “aggressive or potentially aggressive,” unless the dog is a certified military
   working dog that is being boarded by its handler/trainer or approval is obtained by the
   Installation Commander in writing. For purposes of this policy, aggressive or potentially
   aggressive breeds of dogs are defined as a Pit Bull (American Staffordshire Bull Terrier or
   English Staffordshire Bull Terrier), Rottweiler, Doberman Pinscher, Chow and wolf hybrids.
   Prohibition also extends to other dogs that demonstrate a propensity for dominant or
   aggressive behavior as indicated by any of the following type of behaviors: unprovoked
   barking, growling or snarling at people approaching the animal, aggressively running along a
   fence line when people are present, biting or scratching people, escaping confinement or
   restriction to chase people. Residents may not board exotic animals such as, but not limited
   to, reptiles, rodents (other than hamsters and guinea pigs), ferrets, hedgehogs, skunks, rats,
   raccoons, squirrels, pot bellied pigs, monkeys, arachnids, or any farm animal.
      5.3.1. Pet Waivers. For government controlled housing, the Installation Commander
      retains the authority to determine the following: number of pets allowed per household
      (2 pets maximum for Eglin AFB), and the termination of residency for failure to remove
      aggressive or unruly pets.
EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012                                                                13


       5.3.2. Pet Control. Pets must be secured with leashes or under positive control while
       outdoors, except in fenced patios and yards. Pets must not be left tied or unattended in
       carports or unfenced yards or allowed to run loose outside fenced yard. Pet owners must
       maintain current immunizations on all pets. Dogs and cats are required to wear a collar
       or harness with current rabies and distemper vaccination attached. Pet areas must be
       cleaned regularly to control and prevent vermin infestation. Pet feces must be picked up
       daily or immediately if the pet evacuates outside the patio or yard. Operating a
       commercial kennel is prohibited.
       5.3.3. Pet Requirements. Owners must not allow their pets to soil the yard or premises
       of neighbors or public areas, nor damage shrubs or flowers. Do not let your pet become a
       neighborhood nuisance with excessive barking, and respect the privacy of your
       neighbors. While pets may be tethered outside the family quarters under certain
       conditions, long-term or continuous use of a tether or chain as the sole means of
       controlling a pet is not acceptable. Animals will not be tethered or attached to the
       housing unit, utility poles/pipes, trees, shrubs or other government property. Neither dog
       runs nor kennels are allowed in base housing. Report stray animals to PAWS at 243-
       1525. It is the responsibility of each household to be familiar with AACI 48-107,
       Control of Animals. Pet owners are responsible for their pets.
       5.3.4. Prohibition Against Animals in Public Areas. Keep animals (except seeing-eye
       dogs and military working dogs performing missions) from the following areas: hospital
       areas, dining halls, base exchanges, concessions, commissaries, clubs, theaters,
       swimming pools, beach areas designated for swimming and sun bathing, tennis courts,
       golf courses, playgrounds, sports fields and school yards.
   5.4. Fishing. Fishing behind any housing unit by non-residents is prohibited. Housing
   residents can’t fish behind any residence, other than their own, without permission of
   occupying resident.
   5.5. Repair Work. To maintain the desired appearance in housing areas and in
   consideration of your neighbors, you may not perform repair work on vehicles or boats in the
   housing area - use the hobby shop.
6. Special Climatic Situations.
   6.1. Hurricanes and Tornadoes. We are subject to hurricanes and tornadoes. The Disaster
   Preparedness Office provides informational handouts during your in-processing. For
   additional information see pamphlet in handout. Once hearing a warning siren, a 3- to 5-
   minute wavering tone, report to your assigned shelter. Disaster Preparedness Information,
   can be picked up at the Housing Office.
       6.1.1. Lightning Damage. IAW AFI 51-502, Personnel and Government Recovery
       Claims.
       6.1.2. High Winds. Remove/secure all items in your yard.          Do not board or tape
       windows.
          6.1.2.1. Portable sheds must be at least 10 feet away from the house and be secured
          for 140 MPH winds. AF FORM 332 is required before installing a shed.
   6.2. Preparing Your Home for Freezing Temperatures:
 14                                                     EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012


       6.2.1. Remove hoses from the exterior of your quarters.
       6.2.2. When absent from your quarters during cold weather, have a neighbor check your
       quarters daily.
       6.2.3. Leave your furnace at 60 degrees. Residents should prepare their quarters for
       any/all possible severe weather conditions before departing the area.
       6.2.4. Unused dryer vents should be covered with duct or masking tape.
7. Community/Residential Activities.
   7.1. Lawn, Garage and Carport Sales. Residents can advertise their sale in the Eglin Flyer
   by calling 678-1080 or any other local newspaper. Signs will NOT be placed at
   intersections, attached to existing poles, stop signs or other traffic control devices. A sign
   announcing the sale may be placed in front of your quarters no earlier than 24 hours prior to
   the sale and must be taken down no later than 24 hours after. Residents are permitted to have
   yard/garage sales two times per year. One additional sale is allowed during your Permanent
   Change of Station (PCS) month. Sales must be confined to the hours of 0800-1600.
   Residents must clean up all trash and debris the same day of the sale.
   7.2. Yard of the Month. Many family housing residents enjoy taking special pride in
   maintaining their homes, and the Air Force likes to recognize these special people. As part
   of our community inspection program, May-August, the base selects "yard of the month”
   winners. Base-wide recognition is given to the winners. Show your pride and compete!
   7.3. Business Enterprises. Some businesses for profit may be conducted from your home.
   Send a written request describing the business to the installation commander through the
   Housing Office. Contact the Housing Office or Legal Office for additional information and
   guidance. If modifications are desired, an AF Form 332 must be submitted prior to
   accomplishing work. All work will be at member’s expense and must be removed when the
   house is returned to the AF. All requests for a home base business must conform to AFI 32-
   6001, Family Housing Management.
   7.4. Solicitation in Military Family Housing. Solicitation, fund raising, scout activities,
   school sales, etc., require prior approval of the Installation Commander.
8. Self-Help Work. You may do self-help work in your home if the proposed work is relatively
simple and is primarily for your benefit. Normally, a self-help project is to improve living
conditions and must not generate additional maintenance or repair costs. For example, you may
not drill holes, install nails, etc., in siding on the exterior walls, overhang or carport ceiling.
   8.1. Requesting Self-Help Work. Any change, alteration or addition to your unit requires
   completion of an AF Form 332 from the Housing Office to request approval for self-help
   work. Do not begin work until coordination and approval from the Housing Office is
   complete. Examples: Utility sheds (prefab-type only), fences, antennas, ceiling fans,
   storm/screen doors, spas, hot tubs and pools larger than 12 inches deep or 6 feet in diameter.
   8.2. Standards and Specifications. The Housing Office can provide standards for
   authorized self-help projects (fence, satellite TV, air-conditioner installation, etc.). An
   inspector will periodically inspect your project while work is in progress. A certified
   electrician must complete all electrical wiring. No attachments such as swings, ceiling fans,
EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012                                                                    15


   lights, storage units, etc. are to be attached to carport frame or any part of the unit without an
   approved AF Form 332.
   8.3. Painting Interior Walls. Painting interior walls is authorized; however, the painted
   walls must be covered with primer to completely cover your work before you vacate your
   Base Housing unit.
   8.4. Disposition of Improvements. When you get ready to move, self-help work installed
   by a resident will be removed before final termination unless the Air Force deems them
   beneficial and/or the upgrades are accepted IN WRITING by the incoming resident. If you
   are required to remove self-help work, the area must be restored to it’s original condition.
   Most exteriors will need to be re-sodded or re-seeded. Consult with the housing
   representative at your pre-final inspection about removing self-help work, transferring the
   project and restoring surfaces. Self-Help work will not be accomplished without an approval
   on completed AF Form 332. Do not accomplish self-help work without knowing the
   standard and obtaining prior approval.
9. Termination Of Military Family Housing
   9.1. Giving Notice. We require 30 days’ notice of your vacating date (short-notice PCS
   excepted). When you know you are leaving, you do not have to wait for orders to visit the
   Housing Office for departure arrangements. Prospective residents may desire to view your
   unit and we’ll attempt to schedule a viewing at an agreed upon time within 24 hours. If you
   notify us promptly, we can schedule your pre-final and final inspections at your convenience
   and ours. We can also help you with your coming move. We recommend you send an
   advance application through our office to your next base. We will need a copy of your orders
   and you will need to fill out a new application for your next base.
   9.2. Temporary Living Allowance. Ask your housing representative if you are eligible for
   a temporary living allowance.
   9.3. Pre-final Inspection. This inspection is designed to assist you in preparing for your
   final inspection. It includes reviewing checkout procedures and provides us an opportunity
   to answer your questions. During the inspection, the housing representative also identifies
   normal maintenance to be accomplished and identifies damages above normal wear and tear.
   The housing representative will provide a cleaning checklist and can discuss your individual
   cleaning needs.
   9.4. Final Inspection. This is not a "white glove" inspection. However, the house and
   grounds must be clean and ready for the next member to move in. The final inspection
   ensures the standards of cleanliness are met and identifies additional maintenance needs. If
   you fail your final inspection, contact the Housing Office at 882-4533 to schedule another
   inspection. If you fail the second inspection the Air Force may turn your unit over for
   contract cleaning at your expense. The responsibility for final clearance of MFH rests solely
   with the resident.




                                              SAL M. NODJOMIAN, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
 16                                                 EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 51-502, Personnel and Government Recovery Claims. 31 July 2008
AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management. 24 October 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 9 September 2009
AACI 48-107, Control of Animals, 1 September 1999
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; June 2001
AF Form 227, Quarters Condition Inspection Report, September 1990
AF Form 4422, Sex Offender Disclosure and Acknowledgement, July 2010
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineering Work Request, January 1991
AF IMT 1314, Firearms Registration, October 2005
EGLINAFBPAM32-401 20 JULY 2012                                                                                       17


                                                       Attachment 2
                                       QUICK REFERENCE NUMBERS

Table A2.1. Quick Reference Numbers
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBERS                                   COURTESY TELEPHONE NUMBERS
Fire Dept (Eglin Housing) ..............911                   Family Housing Office .......…….882-4533
(Camp Rudder)................................911              Housing Inspection Section..882-6869/3502
Ambulance ......................................911           Family Services ...................…….882-2893
Hospital Appointment Desk ............883-8600                Eglin Child Care Center………....882-9048
Emergency Room............................883-8227            Eglin Youth Center……………...882-8212
Crime Stop ......................................911          Chaplain………………………                       882-2111
Security Forces for Housing Area...882-2502                   Contact Chaplain after hrs ...........883-4020
Directory Assistance .......................882-1110          Commissary .................................882-3172
         (Base phone 113)                                     Veterinary Services ......................882-2233
Housing Maintenance……………..882-8585                            Cable TV (Cox Cable) ........…….796-0175
CE Service Desk..............................882-3681         Eglin Federal Credit Union ..........862-0111
After-Hrs Emergencies (Zone 1)….882-3681                       Eglin Main Exchange ..................651-5621
Refuse Pick-Up ...............................882-7744        Bayside Club…………………...651-1010
Base Self-Help……………………678-6312                                Century Link……………...1-888-723-8010
