BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                                                99-105

                                                                                                                       11 AUGUST 2010

                                                                                                                   Test and Evaluation

                                                                         MANAGEMENT AND DOCUMENTATION
                                                                                  OF TASK REQUIREMENT

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 46 TSSQ/TSRM                                                                                            Certified by: 46 TW/CC
                                                                                                                            Pages: 19


This instruction implements AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, and establishes policies
and procedures for the preparation, processing, and approval of Task Requirements to the Air
Armament Center’s (AAC), Eglin Test and Training Complex (ETTC), Operation and
Maintenance (O&M) Contractor. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.


       1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    2
       2.     Organizational Responsibilities. ............................................................................                  2
       3.     Tasking Process. ....................................................................................................          4
       4.     Formal Task Requirements (P-Tasks). ..................................................................                         6
       5.     Informal Task Requirements (E-, M-, and S-Tasks). .............................................                                8
       6.     Task Requirement Amendments. ...........................................................................                       9
       7.     ETS Task Requirement Form Content. ..................................................................                          9
       8.     ETS Task Requirement Amendment Form Content. .............................................                                    13
       9.     Facility Work Requests (FWR). ............................................................................                    15
 2                                                                             EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010


        10.     Task Requirement Evaluation. ...............................................................................           15
        11.     Engineering Task Validation for New ETTC O&M Contract. ..............................                                  16
        12.     Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................   16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         17


1. General.
     1.1. The ETTC O&M Contract provides for operation and maintenance of ETTC facilities to
     include facilities at various 46th Test Wing (46 TW) operating locations, instrumentation and
     related support activities, including engineering services, collection of test data and other
     services necessary for primary support of the AAC mission plus continued support of the
     Major Range Test Facility Base (MRTFB) operation stewardship by the 46 TW as defined in
     the Performance Work Statement (PWS) and Technical Requirements Document (TRD).
     Requests for contract support services are provided to the contractor via Test Directives or
     Task Requirements. Test Directives include a Technical Support Appendix (TSA) when
     O&M support is required. The TSA provides technical direction for test and training mission
     support and defines the schedulable ETTC assets required for specific mission execution.
     Schedulable assets are those that are included in the Central Scheduling Enterprise (CSE).
     Task Requirements provide technical direction or information exchange, or request
     contractor support for technical or administrative matters within the scope of the ETTC
     O&M Contract. Technical direction is defined as that process by which the contractor
     receives guidance and approvals in his/her technical effort as it relates to an element of work
     or task solely within the existing requirements of the contract.
     1.2. The ETTC O&M Contract is a non-personal services type, performance-based contract.
     Thus, tasks must describe, in as much detail as possible, only the technical effort required.
     Clear, concise statements thoroughly describing the technical effort, including drawings,
     schematics, etc., must be provided. Statements providing directions on how and by whom
     performance will be provided are not permitted (this does not preclude listing a contractor
     point-of-contact with whom the Task Originator has discussed details of the Task
     Requirement work effort). All direction to the contractor is through written correspondence.
     1.3. Normally, the ETTC O&M Contractor procures standard supplies (Element of Expense
     and Investment Code [EEIC] 609X) for use in support of Task Requirements. The ETTC
     O&M Contractor procures required standard Air Force stock-listed items regardless of cost.
     Nonstandard equipment items (EEIC 628X) under $3,000 unit cost are also usually procured
     by the contractor to support task efforts.
2. Organizational Responsibilities.
     2.1. 46th Range Group (46 RANG). The 46 RANG is the functional manager, technical
     sponsor, and contract technical director of the ETTC O&M Contract, with the overall
     engineering and configuration control management responsibility for all ETTC resources
     supported by the ETTC O&M Contractor.
     2.2. 46th Range Support Squadron (46 RANSS). The 46 RANSS has the engineering and
     configuration control management responsibility for all ETTC range resources that support
     the 46 TW test and training mission. These range resources consists of the various ranges,
EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                  3


  test & training areas/sites, instrumentation and communications infrastructure associated with
  the Armament Systems Test & Training Environment (ASTTE), Multi-Spectral Test &
  Training Environment (MSTTE), Offshore Test & Training Area (OTTA), Santa Rosa Island
  Test & Training Area, and the General Purpose Support Systems (GPSS).
  2.3. 46th Test Systems Squadron, Contract Management Flight (46 TSSQ/TSRM). TSRM is
  responsible for the overall technical management of the ETTC O&M Contract, the PWS and
  the Task Requirement process. Each task is viewed to ensure it is within the scope of the
  PWS and/or contract as well as conforms to other content and formatting requirements as
  described in this instruction. Additionally, TSRM is the focal point for requirements
  validation and preparation of the periodic overall task evaluation, in accordance with the
  Surveillance and Award Fee Evaluation Plan for the O&M of the ETTC. Taskings initiated
  by flights/organizations other than the 46 RANSS that require material or personnel
  resources assigned to the areas listed in paragraph 2.2, will be coordinated with the respective
  46 RANSS range engineer/POC in order to prevent conflicts with resource allocations.
  2.4. 782nd Test Squadron (782 TS). The 782 TS has the engineering and configuration
  management responsibility for measurement, modeling and simulation services. These
  services include assessing guided munitions performance in the field and through simulated
  target engagements, measuring target signatures and modeling targets and operationally
  relevant environments to provide virtual test ranges. The 782 TS provides electro-optical and
  millimeter wave hardware-in-the-loop instrumentation development; and is responsible for
  the engineering and configuration control management for the Guided Weapons Evaluation
  Facility (GWEF) and suites of field-deployable millimeter wave/infrared/visible
  measurement systems test and evaluation. The 782 TS/TSW has the engineering and
  configuration control management responsibility for the Joint-Preflight Integration of
  Munitions and Electronic Systems (J-PRIMES) and for the McKinley Climatic Laboratory.
  782 TS/TSW is responsible for the design, development, and operation of radio frequency
  (RF) signature measurement systems in ground and airborne test configurations. In addition,
  782 TS/TSW is responsible for parametric measurement and installed systems testing of
  munitions, Command & Control (C2), and seeker and sensor systems installed on weapon
  platforms. The 782 TS/TSW provides the global environmental conditions to allow all
  Department of Defense (DoD) agencies, other government agencies, and commercial
  companies to test weapon systems, weapon support systems and commercial products in
  climatic extremes.
  2.5. 46th Test Support Squadron (46 TSS). The 46 TSS is responsible for the development
  of specialized electronics involved in air armament developmental testing and in “proof-of-
  concept” of air armament systems. Specific areas of development include airborne telemetry
  systems, Global Positioning System-Based Time-Space-Position-Information systems,
  avionics data bus monitoring and control, drone and remote-controlled target control
  systems, RF data links, and data acquisition systems. These programs include all aspects of
  the development, including: systems engineering; circuit design; procurement; fabrication;
  documentation; configuration management; laboratory and installed system testing; initial
  operation and training.
  2.6. 846th Test Support Squadron (846 TSS). The 846 TSS has the technical and
  engineering responsibility to design, install, maintain and provide daily mission support for
  temporary airborne (T-2) instrumentation modifications and installations in 46 TW and other
 4                                                       EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010


     customer (e.g., 53d Wing) aircraft necessary to meet the Eglin weapons development and test
     mission.
     2.7. Financial Management Section (46 TW/FMA). 46 TW/FMA’s mission is to obtain
     funding to support the 46 TW mission by translating program requirements into approved
     budgets, acting as the ultimate source for financial and management information. 46
     TW/FMA is responsible for financial management, budgeting, and control of funds, both
     reimbursable and directly distributed, for all 46 RANG activities. This includes
     development, formulation, presentation and implementation of plans, policies and procedures
     for all units in all financial matters. 46 TW/FMA monitors all expense areas within the
     organization insofar as budgeting, funding and effectiveness of financial management are
     concerned. These duties cross over all 46 RANG squadrons.
     2.8. 46th Test Group OL-AC, Aerospace Survivability & Safety Operating Location, Wright
     Patterson AFB. The Aerospace Survivability & Safety Operating Location consists of two
     flights.
         2.8.1. The Survivability Flight (OL-ACS) conducts Air Force Research Development
         Acquisition Test & Evaluation (RDAT&E) for Aircraft Vulnerability Reduction and
         Survivability and utilizes the Aerospace Vehicle Survivability Facility (AVSF) to
         conduct live fire tests, risk reduction tests, evaluation and analysis of sub/full-scale
         aircraft systems, sub-systems, and components to threat munitions for the purposes of
         vulnerability analysis, filling of modeling and simulation data voids, platform and
         system specification compliance, and platform and system survivability. This RDAT&E
         role extends to the support of joint-service tests performed on any test range. In
         compliance with AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, OL-ACS also
         functions as an intermediary between Air Force aircraft acquisition program offices and
         the China Lake test ranges. Enabled by aircraft vulnerability test experience, the OL-
         ACS responsibilities include assisting Air Force aircraft acquisition program offices
         with preparation of required Test and Evaluation Master Plans, Alternative Test Plans,
         provisioning and preparation for test, test direction at the China Lake test range, data
         analysis and reporting to ensure Air Force acquisition milestones are achieved in a
         timely/effective manner.
         2.8.2. The Landing Gear Systems Test Flight (OL-ACL) conducts DoD RDAT&E for
         aircraft landing gear systems and utilizes the Landing Gear Test Facility (LGTF) to
         conduct certification and performance tests on full scale aircraft landing gear systems
         hardware, including tires, wheels, brakes, struts and associated systems to ensure aircraft
         safety and reliability during aircraft take-off and landing operations. Army land vehicle
         rolling stock can also be tested on LGTF equipment to determine physical performance
         properties. LGTF supports a full range of DoD, Department of Homeland Security
         (DHS), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), industry, foreign government and
         foreign industry customers. The facility has "world unique" test equipment to simulate
         real-world operating conditions for aircraft landing gear systems to provide real world
         solutions to war fighter problems.
         2.9. Other 46 TW and AAC organizations (including 46th Operations Group). Several
         organizations outside of 46 RANG may write Task Requirements on a limited basis.
3. Tasking Process.
EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                 5


  3.1. Task Requirements. Task Requirements for the ETTC O&M Contractor, prepared by
  originating agencies through the Electronic Tasking System (ETS), transmit action directives
  for technical updating and reconfiguration of ETTC facilities under contractor control to
  meet AAC mission requirements. Task Originators must coordinate Task Requirements with
  all involved or affected AAC agencies prior to technical approval. Normally, Task
  Originators do not write Task Requirements for work outside the assigned areas of
  responsibility for their respective flight/squadron. The O&M Contract Management Flight
  will confirm that necessary coordination has been accomplished. Task Requirements are
  either Formal or Informal.
     3.1.1. Formal Task Requirements (P-Tasks) are within the scope of the contract but not
     delineated in the PWS, or are actions that otherwise fall within the purview of paragraph
     5, and require Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) approval.
     3.1.2. Informal Task Requirements (E-, M-, and S-Tasks) are limited to services
     delineated in the contract PWS. Informal Task Requirements may be released to the
     contractor following technical and range management approval. Technical approval is
     normally provided by the respective originating flight/squadron.
     3.1.3. Formal and Informal Task Requirements may be amended by follow-on
     correspondence using a suffix letter with the assigned control number. Amendments are
     limited to minor changes in the original task.
     3.1.4. Task Requirements which are high priority or of an urgent nature shall be
     transmitted through the ETS as Quick Reaction Tasks (QRTs). The ETS will quickly
     alert approving authorities of a QRT in the system. QRTs require an ETTC O&M
     Contractor “Point of Contact” be specified in order for his/her contract administration
     office to quickly contact the appropriate site and initiate the work. QRTs may be either
     Formal or Informal Task Requirements. The ETS incorporates features to provide a rapid
     response, but does not ensure all officials in the approval process will be available at all
     times. It is the responsibility of the QRT Task Originator to follow up to ensure
     promptness. If after a reasonable period of time the QRT has not been processed, the
     Task Originator should use the ETS to determine where the delay is occurring and take
     action to get the approval completed.
     3.1.5. Facility Work Request (FWR). A FWR provides technical details, clarifications or
     additional information to the Description/Requirements section of a specific Task
     Requirement. Only the Task Originator of the original Task Requirement, or other
     authorized person, is allowed to submit a FWR, and any direction provided must be
     within the scope of the original Task Requirement. An FWR cannot be used to modify
     Task Requirement completion dates, cost estimates, Work Breakdown Structure (WBS),
     facilities, or requirements beyond the original Task Requirement content. These changes
     require a Task Requirement Amendment. Because a FWR is constrained within the
     scope of the original Task Requirement, it does not require technical or contracting
     approval. A FWR could be generated in response to extensive preparation and tear down
     times and long periods of execution (up to six months) on a particular Task Requirement.
     It would be impractical to schedule under CSE, on a daily basis, all test and training
     support for several major facilities. Normally, for such cases, an informal Task
     Requirement is prepared in general terms and detailed FWRs are generated under that
 6                                                       EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010


        Task Requirement. In some instances, the Test Directive’s TSA may directly authorize
        preparation of FWRs. In either case, the FWRs are generated through the ETS. See
        paragraph 9 for additional details.
     3.2. Task Requirement Control Number. A serial number (also called a “Task Number”)
     consisting of a letter designator (E - Engineering, M - Management, P - Procurement, and S -
     Support), a sequence number beginning with 001 each fiscal year, a dash, and the last two
     digits of the fiscal year (for example, E001-05). Subsequent correspondence amending the
     same control-numbered task is assigned up to a two-character alphabetic suffix immediately
     preceding the dash in the control number (e.g., E001A-05 or E001AA-05 following E001Z-
     05). These suffixes will be assigned in alphabetic order, excluding I, L, and O. Control
     numbers, including those for Task Requirement Amendments, are automatically assigned by
     ETS.
     3.3. Briefings/Discussions. Communications that include direct interchange of verbal
     information between government personnel and ETTC O&M Contractor representatives.
     These interchanges are appropriate and necessary to ensure that all participants involved with
     specific technical support work efforts understand precisely what is required for successful
     Task Requirement accomplishment and to resolve any problems that may have been
     encountered during work effort performance. These verbal interchanges must not be used as
     a substitute for a Task Requirement, a change to a Task Requirement, a change to the scope,
     price or terms of the basic contract.
4. Formal Task Requirements (P-Tasks). The ACO will approve all Formal Task
Requirements to the ETTC O&M Contractor. Technical approval of Formal Task Requirements
originated within 46 RANG will be by the initiating office, usually a 46 RANG Squadron. These
tasks will be processed via the ETS, which checks funds availability and routes the tasks to
AAC/PKET through TSRM. Examples of Formal Task Requirements are manning changes,
temporary duty of contractor personnel (not including temporary duty incidental to the work
effort under Informal Task Requirements), contractor property account changes, real property
accountability changes, reduced maintenance status changes, fabrication of other than prototype
items, etc.
     4.1. Manning Changes. This includes any temporary change to the manning authorized
     under the contract, as required by the PWS. Examples are temporary manning increases to
     support surge workloads, temporary manning increases or changes in required skill mixes
     due to new missions and temporary reductions in manning as a result of budget constraints.
     If permanent manning changes are required, temporary manning changes may be made
     permanent by changing the contract.
     4.2. Temporary Duty (TDY) Assignments. This includes travel to perform technical efforts
     other than those contractually required in the PWS. Travel to attend seminars, professional
     meetings, general education and Range Commanders' Council (RCC) all require a Formal
     Task Requirement. Travel that is incidental to the performance of any Informal Task
     Requirement (reference paragraph 6) does not require a Formal Task Requirement (for
     example, under an Informal Task Requirement, support personnel may require TDY to Test
     Site D-3, Tyndall AFB, or Holloman AFB, etc.). All Task Requirements (both Formal and
     Informal) requiring TDY will contain, as a minimum, the information specified in paragraph
     7.15.9. All TDY tasks require 46 RANG Director or Deputy Director (46 RANG/CL or 46
EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                7


  RANG/DD) review and approval. The ETTC O&M Contractor requires advance notice on
  TDY assignments. The number of days of advance notice required is shown in the table
  below. If application of the TDY Period and No. of Personnel criteria for determining the
  length of advance notice required yields ambiguous results, the larger of the two advance
  notification periods will be used.

    ADVANCE NOTICE                  TDY PERIOD                       NO. OF PERSONNEL
    24 hrs                          Less than 7 days                 1 to 3
    2 workdays                      Up to 30 days                    Up to 6
    4 workdays                      31 to 60 days                    7 to 10
    5 workdays                      61 to 90 days                    11 to 15
    8 workdays                      91 to 120 days                   16 to 20
    10 workdays                     121 to 180 days                  21 to 30


  4.3. Contractor Property Account Changes. This includes the transfer of government
  property into and out of the contractor's supply account and applies only to non-consumable
  (nonexpendable) items. These items have a singular identity on the accountable property
  lists. It may be determined by the government that an item of equipment has more
  component value than item value and that it is within the best interests of the government for
  the contractor to disassemble the item for components and process the non-usable portions in
  accordance with (IAW) FAR Subpart 52.245-05. In such cases, an Informal Task
  Requirement will be written for disassembly, followed up with a Formal Task Requirement
  indicating the item should be deleted from the accountable property listing and the excess
  processed IAW FAR Subpart 52.245-05, as appropriate. ETTC 2400-2001, Supply
  Procedures provides guidance on retention of component parts.
  4.4. Real Property Accountability Changes. This primarily includes additions or deletions to
  the contractor's real property account. Modifications to real property will normally be
  accomplished through Informal Task Requirements (reference paragraph 6) when the work
  effort is within the scope of the ETTC O&M Contract and an approved AF Form 332, Base
  Civil Engineering Request, is obtained through 96th Civil Engineer Group (96 CEG).
  4.5. Reduced Maintenance Status Changes. This includes both moving equipment/system(s)
  from active into reduced maintenance status and changing status for equipment/system(s)
  already in reduced maintenance status. If the equipment/system(s) currently active is to be
  placed in reduced maintenance status, the Task Requirement must specify the desired
  reduced maintenance category, and may include additional instructions. If the change
  requires temporary activation of equipment/system(s) already in reduced maintenance status,
  the Task Requirement must include O&M instructions (operate only, maintain only, or
  operate and maintain) and disposition instructions (for example, return to a specified reduced
  maintenance category, process IAW FAR Subpart 52.245-05, etc.). Any time there is a
  change in the maintenance status of equipment/system(s), including from one reduced
  maintenance category to another, there may be a corresponding change in the manning and
  support equipment required for O&M of the equipment/system(s). For each Task
  Requirement requesting a change to the maintenance status, whether permanent or
  temporary, a separate Formal Task Requirement must request a proposal from the contractor
 8                                                       EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010


     for any associated manning and support equipment change(s). ETTC equipment/system(s)
     maintenance status is normally documented in the PWS. Permanently changing this
     maintenance status normally requires a PWS change, so the Task Requirement must also
     state “This equipment/system(s) will be added to the PWS in the next update.” The Task
     Originator must request, in writing (letter or e-mail), that the ETTC O&M Contract Program
     Manager amend the PWS to reflect this change. If the change is to dispose of
     equipment/system(s) (in either active or reduced maintenance status), the Task Requirement
     must state that the equipment/system(s) will be processed IAW FAR Subpart 52.245-05. If a
     customer requires an item currently in reduced maintenance for support of their test, a formal
     task must request the contractor to remove the item from reduced maintenance, perform
     required maintenance to make the item operational, operate and maintain the item for the test
     and return it to reduced maintenance upon completion of the test. This task will require a
     reimbursable Job Order Number (JON) provided by the customer.
     4.6. Fabrication of Other Than Prototype Items. Any direction to fabricate or manufacture
     other than prototype range support items will require a Formal Task Requirement. Exempt
     from this policy are fabrication of printed circuit boards, small electronic-mechanical
     assemblies, wiring harnesses, panels, junction boxes and chassis, of which normally not more
     than 10 units will be fabricated.
5. Informal Task Requirements (E-, M-, and S-Tasks). These tasks will be prepared through
the ETS for release to the ETTC O&M Contractor directly from TSRM. Informal Task
Requirements should be limited to technical instructions describing the work required. Informal
Task Requirements that require TDY must include, as a minimum, the information specified in
paragraph 7.15.9. All TDY tasks require 46 RANG Director or Deputy Director (46 RANG/CL
or RANG/DD) review and approval. Types of Informal Task Requirements are:
     5.1. Engineering (E) Task Requirements include requests to accomplish engineering efforts
     such as ETTC configuration changes, equipment modifications, interface designs, etc. The
     following guidelines define the general types of engineering tasks:
        5.1.1. Modification of government property to change its configuration or inherent
        capability. If the modification is permanent and affects government property specifically
        listed in the PWS, the PWS may have to be amended to reflect the configuration and/or
        capability change. The Task Originator must notify, in writing (letter or e-mail), the
        ETTC O&M Contract Program Manager, requesting the PWS be amended to reflect this
        change.
        5.1.2. Direction to the contractor to develop or prepare O&M procedures associated with
        the technical effort.
        5.1.3. Direction to the contractor to install equipment. This may include real property or
        real property installed equipment modifications (Base Civil Engineering type efforts).
        The contractor will initiate the proper actions to secure approval via AF Form 332.
        5.1.4. Temporary removal of components from one item for installation on or in another.
        5.1.5. Relocation and changes to configuration of ETTC resources. Any direction to
        relocate ETTC resources or to make permanent equipment configuration changes must
        have appropriate government approval prior to initiation of the Task Requirement. This
EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                 9


       approval may require review by the Range Configuration Control Committee (reference
       AACI 13-206, Maintenance of Land Test Areas).
   5.2. Management (M) Task Requirements include requests to develop/modify ETTC
   documentation such as plans, procedure, manuals and instructions; review of, and
   transmission of, final operational status letters; requests for management information system
   data vice engineering data; and other management/administrative matters.
   5.3. Support (S) Task Requirements include, but are not limited to, ancillary test support
   such as moving furniture and safes, providing survey support, providing generator support
   and providing mission setup support before the Test Directive has been released.
6. Task Requirement Amendments. Any Task Requirement (Formal or Informal) may be
amended at any time during its active life. Amendments should be limited to minor changes in
the original task (i.e., revised completion dates, funding changes, JON changes, minor work
effort changes, etc.).
7. ETS Task Requirement Form Content. The ETS Task Requirement form includes the
following fields:
   7.1. TASK NO. ETS automatically assigns the Task Requirement Control Number.
   7.2. TO. ETS automatically populates this field, which indicates the Task Requirement is
   sent to the ETTC O&M Contractor.
   7.3. FROM. ETS automatically populates these fields with the Task Originator’s Name,
   Office Symbol and Telephone Number. These entries are editable, if required.
   7.4. JON. JONs must be entered by the Task Originator. Formal Task Requirements (P-
   Task) are limited to one JON for the life of the Task Requirement.
       7.4.1. LABOR JON. Entered by the Task Originator. Used only when labor is to be
       charged to a different JON.
   7.5. TITLE. A concise but descriptive title of no more than 100 characters must be entered
   by the Task Originator.
   7.6. COMPLETION DATE/COMPLETION CODE. Must be entered in the format
   specified in ETS by the Task Originator, who is responsible for ensuring the task is processed
   in sufficient time for the completion date(s) to be met by the ETTC O&M Contractor. The
   Task Requirement Completion Date is the date by which the total task should be completed.
   It must be entered as either Required or Desired. These fields allow prioritization of the
   contractor’s workload. A Required completion date demands careful consideration due to
   the impact on existing task workload and possible contractor overtime costs to meet this date.
   Required completion dates indicate the Task Requirement work performance must be
   accomplished by that date. Desired completion dates indicate the Task Requirement work
   performance should be accomplished by that date. Neither date implies expenditures for
   overtime are approved or prohibited. Any required overtime should be factored into the
   Completion Date and Labor Costs. The Task Requirement may include work phases with
   varying completion dates. If included, these dates may be either Required or Desired and
   must be specified in the DESCRIPTION/ REQUIREMENTS field. Note: It is the
   responsibility of the Task Originator to obtain accurate and realistic cost and schedule
   estimates. These estimates may be accomplished via e-mail and must be coordinated through
10                                                    EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010


  the ETTC O&M Contractor's Enterprise Management Office. Reference paragraphs 8.6,
  8.12, 8.13, and 8.14. The ETTC O&M Contractor will request a task for estimates requiring
  more than eight hours of preparation time. Task estimates are usually returned to the Task
  Originator within three days, the ETTC O&M Contractor will request more time if it is
  required. Circumstances may not allow the ETTC O&M Contractor to provide an estimate
  and the only estimate available is government provided.
  7.7. MISSION SUPPORT. Check this box if your task is direct mission support work.
  7.8. FAD. Force Activity Designator (FAD) will be automatically populated by ETS as “II.”
  This field is editable by the Task Originator. Reference AFMAN 23-110 CD, Volume I, Part
  1, Chapter 24.
  7.9. UND. Urgency of Need Designator (UND) will be automatically populated by ETS as
  “A.” This field is editable by the Task Originator. Reference AFMAN 23-110 CD, Volume
  I, Part 1, Chapter 24.
  7.10. FACILITY CODE(S). Facility Code must be entered by the Task Originator.
  Multiple entries are permitted. The Facility Code indicates the facility for which the work is
  being performed. This does not restrict any required support from contractor personnel from
  other home facilities. The purpose of the Facility Code is to account for contractor personnel
  performing work at locations other than their home location. For example, an engineer from
  a central pool may support an effort at Test Area (TA) B-70 and the Facility Code would be
  that for TA B-70. If no Facility Code is available for the location from which the work is
  being performed, this field should be left blank.
  7.11. WBS(S). Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) code must be entered by the Task
  Originator. Multiple entries are permitted. If no WBS is available, the default “0000” must
  be used. The WBS is used by the Job Order Cost Accounting System (JOCAS) to track
  charges against the JON.
  7.12. MATERIAL COSTS. Must be entered by the Task Originator. If not required (i.e., no
  materials will be required for the Task Requirement), an entry of “$0.00” will be input and
  no funds may be expended for Material Costs. Unless otherwise specified within the
  DESCRIPTION/REQUIREMENTS field, this is an estimate. The Material Costs should be a
  total of those expenditures for materials, parts and other supplies required to accomplish the
  Task Requirement. This includes supplies and equipment ordered by the contractor through
  Base Supply (96 LRS), but should not include capital asset acquisitions from federal stock
  catalogs ("free issue" items) nor supplies and equipment provided by 46 RANG or other
  government agencies. Task Originator will be notified by the contractor when actual costs
  (including any “due-ins”) reach 90 percent of the estimate.
  7.13. LABOR COSTS. Must be entered by the Task Originator. Unless otherwise specified
  within the DESCRIPTION/REQUIREMENTS field, this is an estimate. Task Originator will
  be notified by the contractor when actual costs reach 90 percent of the estimate.
     7.13.1. The ETTC O&M Contractor will provide an overtime justification analysis if
     overtime is required. This analysis will include various overtime scenarios to determine
     the best value to the government.
EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                11


  7.14. OTHER COSTS. Must be entered by the Task Originator. If not required (i.e., no
  Other Costs will be required for the Task Requirement), an entry of “$0.00” will be input and
  no funds may be expended for Other Costs. These are costs not associated with Material or
  Labor Costs, and include shipping, credit card and Blanket Purchase Agreement purchases,
  travel costs, purchased services, etc. Unless otherwise specified within the DESCRIPTION/
  REQUIREMENTS field, this is as estimate. Task Originator will be notified by the
  contractor when actual costs (including any “due ins”) reach 90 percent of the estimate.
  Note: The total task requirement cost is the sum of the Material, Labor and Other Costs.
  This total task cost will be used in evaluation of individual Task Requirements under the
  Award Fee Evaluation Plan.
  7.15. DESCRIPTION/REQUIREMENTS. Give complete description of work to be
  performed, describing what is to be accomplished, not how. Initial part of the description
  should include a brief synopsis of the purpose of the Task Requirement. Phrase instructions
  in such a manner to permit the contractor to proceed as independently as possible and still
  accomplish the desired work effort. Provide PWS and/or TRD references requiring the
  contractor to support the requested efforts. In the case of a formal task requesting support
  outside the PWS or TRD, no reference is required. The contractor should be referred to as
  the ETTC O&M Contractor. References should not be made to the company name since
  some Task Requirements span from one contract to the next where the new contract may be
  awarded to a different contractor. Tasks directing the contractor to obtain items should use
  the words “requisition” or “acquire” and not “buy” or “purchase.” Tasks directing the
  contractor to make something should use the word “fabricate” not “build” or “construct.”
  Tasks directing the contractor to provide technical services should use the word “support”
  and not “assist.” This field will include the following:
     7.15.1. If appropriate, specify any limitations on cost. For example, if the sum of
     Material Costs, Labor Costs, and Other Costs entries is $25,000.00, which represents a
     maximum upper limit of funding available, the Task Originator may so indicate this in
     the DESCRIPTION/ REQUIREMENTS field. Similar limitations may be placed on
     individual costs. Limitations may also be placed on overtime Labor Costs. If no
     limitations are specified, these cost entries are estimates only (reference paragraphs 8.12,
     8.13, and 8.14 and accompanying notes).
     7.15.2. If appropriate, specify any time-phased completion dates. These dates may be
     either Required or Desired (reference paragraph 8.6). Note: If the estimate is
     government provided, include the statement "This is a government estimate." The ETTC
     O&M Contractor cannot be evaluated for the cost part of the estimate. However, the
     government engineer may request that the ETTC O&M Contractor provide an estimate
     once work has begun, "This is a government estimate - Request the ETTC O&M
     Contractor provide an estimate for this effort within X number of days (or by a specified
     date)." The ETTC O&M Contractor's estimate is evaluated, if they are able to provide an
     estimate.
     7.15.3. If required, provide appropriate security classification of equipment, data to be
     collected, etc.
     7.15.4. If required, specify degree of protection to be afforded government property if it
     is to be left on the open range or at a deployed destination.
12                                                    EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010


     7.15.5. If appropriate, provide instructions for disposing of government property residue
     by including the statement “Process (indicate the residue) IAW FAR Subpart 52.245-05.”
     When Informal Task Requirements require modifications or integration with existing
     instrumentation, leaving equipment as surplus, instructions for disposition of the excess
     equipment must be provided. A separate Formal Task Requirement will be required if
     accountable property records of the contractor are changed (reference paragraph 4.3).
     7.15.6. If government property is to be transferred into or out of the contractor's account,
     indicate the descriptive nomenclature, Federal Stock Number (if applicable), current
     equipment account number, location of property and equipment custodian (including
     phone number) to be contacted for additional information. Include reason for the change
     and reference any other relevant contractual document. Informal Task Requirements
     which require a companion Formal Task Requirement for property accountability
     transfer, etc., will reference the appropriate correspondence or indicate that
     correspondence for proper accountability will be, or has been, initiated. It should be
     noted that contractor work on the Informal Task Requirement cannot commence until
     property transfer has taken place.
     7.15.7. If government property is to be placed in reduced maintenance, include the
     appropriate reduced maintenance categories in the Task Requirement. The terms
     “Storage” or “On-Site-Storage” should not be referenced in a Task Requirement or its
     title; always use the term “Reduced Maintenance.” Note: No property may be placed in
     reduced maintenance unless a future need exists and is indicated on the task.
     7.15.8. For Government Furnished Property (GFP) no longer required on a specific
     portion of the contract, the contractor will be instructed to screen the item(s) for use
     elsewhere on the contract. The instructions should tell the contractor to declare GFP
     excess to contract requirements if no present or future use is anticipated. Dispose of
     excess government property by including the statement “Process (indicate the excess
     property) IAW FAR Clause 52.245-05.”
     7.15.9. For Task Requirements (both Formal and Informal) requiring TDY, also include
     the following:
        7.15.9.1. Security information necessary to ensure contractor compliance with DOD
        5220.2-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), for
        safeguarding classified information.
        7.15.9.2. Location where task is to be performed.
        7.15.9.3. Name, grade and telephone number of technical and logistics contact at
        destination.
        7.15.9.4. If appropriate, details of technical work/base support to be provided at
        destination host site.
        7.15.9.5. Include the following statements, as required: "Transportation and lodging
        should be based on the most economical means in accordance with Section H
        Contract Clause, EGLIN-H012 Travel."
        7.15.9.6. Identification of equipment and instructions covering preparation of
        equipment for turn-in to 96th Logistics Readiness Squadron (96 LRS/LGRTCO) for
EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                 13


          packing, crating and shipping by a government Bill of Lading to TDY destination.
          Note: Any government property to be transported under commercial excess baggage
          rates must be coordinated with 96 LRS/LGRTCO before task preparation.
      7.15.10. If the Task Originator is authorized and intends to use FWRs (reference
      paragraph 3.1.5), he/she must indicate that FWRs will be used to provide details of the
      support requirements for the Task Requirement.
      7.15.11. M-Tasks that adjust funding require a justification statement and approval by
      the 46 TW/FMA or his/her designated representative prior to task submittal. This
      approval should be documented via e-mail or other verified documentation and included
      as an attachment to the task. This procedure also applies to all other tasks that specify a
      JON change.
      7.15.12. The DESCRIPTION/REQUIREMENTS field should not include the following:
          7.15.12.1. Request for loan of government-owned supplies or equipment in the
          contractor's possession to other government activities or contractors. If such a loan is
          required, the ETTC 2400-2001, Supply Procedures, allow for the temporary transfer
          of equipment between the contractor and the government (or other government-
          sponsored contractor), by exchange of a hand receipt. This is an informal procedure
          and, normally, no Task Requirement is required. However, if the item is subject to
          being scheduled for direct mission support, an Informal Task Requirement
          authorizing the equipment release would be required. In such cases, the Task
          Originator must coordinate with the Director, 46th Range Support Squadron (46
          RANSS/CL) to request the temporary deletion of such equipment from the
          schedulable resources.
          7.15.12.2. Statements that specific agreements have been reached between
          government and contractor personnel (it is permissible to indicate that review or
          coordination has been accomplished).
          7.15.12.3. Direction to comply with USAF publications.
   7.16. ORIGINATOR. Automatically populated by ETS when the Task Requirement is
   submitted for approval.
   7.17. DATE. Automatically populated by ETS when the Task Requirement is submitted for
   approval.
   7.18. TECHNICAL APPROVAL, CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS, CONTRACTING
   APPROVAL, and respective DATES. The ETS automatically populates these fields during
   the approval process.
8. ETS Task Requirement Amendment Form Content. Amendments are processed through
ETS in the same way as the basic task. For Amendments, the ETS Task Requirement form
includes the following fields:
   8.1. TASK NO. ETS automatically assigns the Task Amendment Control Number,
   including the Amendment suffix letter(s).
   8.2. TO. ETS automatically populates this field.
   8.3. FROM. ETS automatically populates this field which is editable, if required.
14                                                   EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010


  8.4. JON. Must be entered by the Task Originator. If the JON has changed from the
  original Task Requirement (or latest amendment), enter the new JON and reference the
  existing JON under the DESCRIPTION/REQUIREMENTS field. Otherwise, enter the
  existing JON in the JON field. JON changes for Formal Task Requirements (P-Task) are not
  allowed.
     8.4.1. LABOR JON. Entered by the Task Originator. Used only when labor is to be
     charged to a different JON.
  8.5. TITLE. Must be entered by the Task Originator. The title of an amendment must be the
  same as that of the basic Task Requirement.
  8.6. COMPLETION DATE/COMPLETION CODE. Entries in this field should be made
  only if there is a change from the basic Task Requirement or latest amendment. Otherwise,
  leave this field blank.
  8.7. MISSION SUPPORT. Check this box if your task is direct mission support work.
  8.8. FAD. Entries in this field should be made only if there is a change from the basic Task
  Requirement or latest amendment. Otherwise, leave this field blank.
  8.9. UND. Entries in this field should be made only if there is a change from the basic Task
  Requirement or latest amendment. Otherwise, leave this field blank.
  8.10. FACILITY CODE(S). Entries in this field should be made only if there is a change
  (adding new or removing previously assigned facility codes) from the basic Task
  Requirement or latest amendment. Otherwise, leave this field blank.
  8.11. WBS(S). Entries in this field should be made only if there is a change (adding new or
  removing previously assigned WBSs) from the basic Task Requirement or latest amendment.
  Otherwise, leave this field blank.
  8.12. MATERIAL COSTS. Enter in this field only the change (increase indicated by “+,”
  decrease by “-”) to Material Costs required by the amendment.
  8.13. LABOR COSTS. Enter in this field only the change (increase indicated by “+,”
  decrease by “-”) to Labor Costs required by the amendment.
  8.14. OTHER COSTS. Enter in this field only the change (increase indicated by “+,”
  decrease by “-”) to Other Costs required by the amendment.
  8.15. DESCRIPTION/REQUIREMENTS. In this field, describe only the changes in work
  effort requirements. Provide PWS and/or TRD references requiring the contractor to support
  the requested efforts. In the case of a formal task requesting support outside the PWS or
  TRD, no reference is required. If the JON has been changed by the amendment, include the
  statement “The JON for this task has been changed from (old JON; for example, 9993AB12)
  to (new JON; for example, ABCD1234).” If the completion date has been changed, describe
  the circumstances that required the change in the date. If any of the three cost fields have
  changed, include the statement “The (indicate cost field; for example, Material Costs) has
  increased/decreased by (amount; for example, $500.00) for a total of (new total; for example,
  $10,500.00).” If changes are made to the other elements under paragraph 7.15, those
  changes should also be addressed.
EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010                                                               15


       8.15.1. Task amendments that request a JON change require a justification statement and
       approval by the Financial Management Flight (46 TW/FMA) or his/her designated
       representative prior to task submittal. This approval should be documented via e-mail or
       other verified documentation and included as an attachment to the task.
   8.16. ORIGINATOR. Automatically populated by ETS when the Task Requirement is
   submied for approval.
   8.17. DATE. Automatically populated by ETS when the Task Requirement is submitted for
   approval.
   8.18. TECHNICAL APPROVAL, CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS, CONTRACTING
   APPROVAL, and respective DATES. The ETS automatically populates these fields during
   the approval process.
9. Facility Work Requests (FWR). FWRs document the detailed support requirements for test
and training projects that are in approved Test Directives and/or Task Requirements. Except
where directly authorized in a Test Directive, the FWR must be generated under a Task
Requirement, prepared by authorized originating agencies through the ETS. The FWR must not
be used to specify work or support not authorized or defined in an approved Test Directive
and/or Task Requirement. Such prohibited support includes altering the facility configuration,
acquiring materials, tools, equipment, etc. Joint-Preflight Integration of Munitions and
Electronic Systems (J-PRIMES); Guided Weapons Evaluation Facility (GWEF); Advanced
Warheads Experimentation Facility (AWEF), including the High Explosive Research
Development (HERD) Facility; and the McKinley Climatic Laboratory (MCL) are authorized to
use FWRs. Threats and Mobile Targets Flight, Fixed Targets and Facilities Flight, and O&M
Contract Management Flight may also use Work Requests. Other organizations may be
authorized by the O&M Contract Management Flight to generate FWRs, on a case-by-case basis.
FWR tasking is accomplished by authorized personnel within these facilities/organizations.
Normally, this will be the Task Originator of the basic Task Requirement. FWRs are generated
using the work request link which appears on the main menu of ETS if the originator is
authorized to submit FWRs. This links to the Program Information Management System (PIMS)
service order module where authorized government personnel log into PIMS and submit work
requests.
   9.1. Any authorized person may fill out and submit a FWR using the ETS.
   9.2. WORK ORDER NO. If not automatically populated then a sequential numbering
   system such as task number, year and the number of the work order is suggested. For
   example, E123-06-001.
10. Task Requirement Evaluation. Once the contractor submits a Task Requirement for
closure, the Task Originator is notified by both a pop-up message and a message on the ETS
home page. As soon as possible after receipt of the completion notice from the contractor, the
Task Originator will prepare an evaluation of the contractor's performance. This evaluation will
be submitted electronically to the respective Flight/Squadron Performance Monitor IAW the
Surveillance and Award Fee Evaluation Plan for the O&M of the ETTC. The Performance
Monitors will roll-up individual Task Requirement evaluations into an overall evaluation for
their Flight/Squadron. The Task Performance Functional Area Evaluator (46 RANG Technical
Advisor or designated representative) will combine these rolled-up ratings into a single overall
 16                                                   EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010


rating. That overall evaluation will be reviewed by the 46 RANG Director (46 RANG/DD) with
recommendation to the award fee determining official.
   10.1. The Task Originator may, if desired, initiate an interim evaluation at any time during
   the performance period of a Task Requirement. Long-term Task Requirements requiring a
   year or more to complete must be given an interim evaluation every six months by the Task
   Originator. The interim evaluation rating is included into the overall roll-up of Task
   Requirement evaluations for the flight/squadron.
   10.2. Task Requirements utilizing FWRs will be evaluated based on the contractor’s overall
   performance on the Task Requirement. The Task Originator will factor into his/her
   evaluation the contractor’s performance on the individual FWRs.
11. Engineering Task Validation for New ETTC O&M Contract. Task Originators will
review all Informal Task Requirements prior to the beginning of each new ETTC O&M
Contract. All tasks older than two years having continuing requirements will be validated to 46
TSSQ/TSRM by the Task Originator. 46 TSSQ/TSRM will cancel all unvalidated tasks at the
end of the old contract period.

12. Adopted Forms:

      AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineering Request
      AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           SAL M. NODJOMIAN, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 96th Air Base Wing
EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010                                                           17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Performance Work Statement (PWS) for Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the ETTC
Surveillance and Award Fee Evaluation Plan for the O&M of the ETTC
AACI 13-206, Maintenance of Land Test Areas
AFMAN 23-110 CD, Basic USAF Supply Manual, Volume I, Part 1, Basic Air Force Supply
Procedures, Chapter 24, The Uniform Materiel Movement and Issue Priority System
DOD 5220.2-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM)
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 52.245-05, Reporting, Redistribution, and
Disposal of Contractor Inventory
ETTC 2400-2001, Supply Procedure

Abbreviation and Acronyms
AAC— Air Armament Center
ACO— Administrative Contracting Officer
AEWF— Advanced Warheads Experimentation Facility
ASTTE— Armament Systems Test & Training Environment
AVSF— Aerospace Vehicle Survivability Facility
C2— Command & Control
CSE— Central Scheduling Enterprise
DHS— Department of Homeland Security
DoD— Department of Defense
EEIC— Element of Expense and Investment Code
ETS— Electronic Tasking System
ETTC— Eglin Test & Training Complex
FAA— Federal Aviation Administration
FAD— Force Activity Designator
FAR— Federal Acquisition Regulation
FWR— Facility Work Request
GFP— Government Furnished Property
GPSS— General Purpose Support Systems
GWEF— Guided Weapons Evaluation Facility
 18                                                   EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010


HERD— High Explosive Research Development Facility
IAW— In Accordance With
PRIMES— Joint-Preflight Integration of Munitions and Electronic Systems
JOCAS— Job Order Cost Accounting System
JON— Job Order Number
LGTF— Landing Gear Test Facility
MCL— McKinley Climatic Laboratory
MRTFB— Major Range Test Facility Base
MSTTE— Multi-Spectral Test & Training Environment
NISPOM— National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual
O&M— Operations & Maintenance
OL ACL— Landing Gear Systems Test Flight
OL ACS— Survivability Flight
OTTA— Offshore Test & Training Area
PIMS— Program Information Management System
PWS— Performance Work Statement
QRT— Quick Reaction Tasks
RCC— Range Commanders' Council
RDAT&E— Research Development Acquisition Test & Evaluation
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
RF— Radio Frequency
TA— Test Area
TDY— Temporary Duty
TRD— Technical Requirements Document
TSA— Technical Support Appendix
UND— Urgency of Need Designator
WBS— Work Breakdown Structure

Terms
E-Task— Engineering task, directs the contractor to provide engineering support.
Formal Task— A task that requires a contracting officer’s signature (P-Tasks).
Informal Task— A task that does not require a contracting officer’s signature (E, M & S-
Tasks).
EGLINAFBI99-105 11 AUGUST 2010                                                             19


M-Task—Management task, directs the contractor to management support.
P-Task—Procurement task, a formal task requiring a contracting officer’s signature
(Procurement office) dealing with manning, property administration, some TDY’s and
equipment maintenance status.
S-Task—Support task, directs the contractor to provide various forms of mission support.
