BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                           31-201

                                                                                    1 APRIL 2010

                                                                                          Security

                                                                                        CURFEW

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 96 SFS/S5P                                                          Certified by: 96 MSG/CC
Supersedes: Supersedes AACI 31-201,                                                  (Col Bridges)
            15 August 2003                                                                 Pages: 2


This Instruction implements AFPD 31-2, Air Provost Operations. It establishes policy relative to
curfew within the confines of the Eglin AFB Complex, excluding Eglin AF Auxiliary Field 9
(Hurlburt Field). It applies to all persons under the age of 18 who are physically within the
confines of Eglin AFB. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction is being revised to update terminology within the instruction.
1. Definition. Curfew is an order or regulation enjoining specified classes of the population to
retire from the streets at prescribed hours.
2. Curfew Policies:
   2.1. A curfew for youth under 18 years of age on Eglin AFB will be from 2300 hours to
   0500 hours, 7 days a week.
   2.2. During the curfew hours, individuals stipulated in paragraph 2.1. (except active duty
   military personnel and their spouses and other emancipated individuals) are directed to be:
2                                                          EGLINAFBI31-201 1 APRIL 2010


       2.2.1. Off the streets and out of public areas (commercial facilities, playgrounds, parks,
       occupied or unoccupied buildings other than residential quarters, etc);
       2.2.2. Accompanied by a parent, sponsor, or employer or proceeding by the most direct
       route to the residence or off the installation.
3. Curfew Violation Procedures:
    3.1. 96th Security Forces will:
       3.1.1. Detain first-time offenders, and subsequently release them with instructions to
       immediately proceed either to their on-base quarters or off the base via the most direct
       route. Incidents will be documented on AF Form 53/Security Forces Desk Blotter.
       Family members under the age of 18 who arrive at the gates after curfew hours will be
       instructed by Security Forces to proceed directly to their quarters on base.
       3.1.2. Detain and transport repeat offenders to the Base Defense Operations Center
       (BDOC), Bldg 272, for processing. A Security Force Management Information System
       (SFMIS) Report will be accomplished for curfew violation. SFMIS reports will be
       forwarded to the sponsor’s commander for command action.
    3.2. Parents, sponsors, or legal guardians will be contacted/notified to respond and assume
    control of offenders. In the event these people cannot be contacted, the unit commander/first
    sergeant of the sponsor will be notified, however Security Forces will maintain custody of
    the individual until the sponsor or legal guardian is contacted.




                                            BRUCE H. MCCLINTOCK, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
