BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                          21-102

                                                                                  30 APRIL 2010

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                  FLIGHTLINE EXPLOSIVES OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: 46 MXG/MXW                                                           Certified by: 46 TW/CC
Supersedes: AACI 21-102,                                                             (Col Brewer)
            6 September 2005                                                             Pages: 10


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. This instruction applies to
all assigned, associate and contractor personnel using the designated flightline explosives
loading/unloading and arm/dearm areas on Eglin (Main) AFB. The requirements of this
instruction pertaining to contractors will be included in the terms and conditions of the contract.
For 33d Fighter Wing (33 FW), Contractor Logistics Support maintenance will be accomplished
using approved Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) procedures as stipulated in the F-35 contracts.
This instruction establishes policies and safety criteria for loading/unloading and
arming/dearming munitions-loaded aircraft, including aircraft returning with hung ordnance. It
outlines procedures for the operation and control of designated loading/unloading, arm/dearm
areas to ensure explosives operations at Eglin (Main) AFB are conducted safely and efficiently
and with minimum risk to life and property. Note: The 1st Operations Maintenance Squadron
(1 SOMXS) and 33 FW personnel will be responsible for any explosive emergency involving
their assigned aircraft. Send recommended changes or comments for this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Updated office
symbols and changed references from flight to section. AFDTCMAN 91-202, Designation Of
Explosives Laden Vehicle Routes, Combat Aircraft Parking Areas, Explosives
 2                                                          EGLINAFBI21-102 30 APRIL 2010


Loading/Unloading Areas And Arm/Dearm Areas is under revision and will be redesignated as
EAFBMAN 91-202. AFDTCMAN 91-202 remains in effect until superseded; however, the new
designation is used in this instruction. Other administrative changes were made as necessary.
1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. The 46th Maintenance Group Commander (46 MXG/CC) is responsible for 46th Test
     Wing (46 TW) loading operations designated in EAFBMAN 91-202, Designation of
     Explosives Laden Vehicle Routes, Combat Aircraft Parking Areas, Explosives
     Loading/Unloading Areas and Arm/Dearm Areas.
     1.2. All Air Armament Center (AAC), 53d Wing (53 WG), test activity commanders, and
     supervisors involved in explosive operations on the Eglin (Main) flightline are responsible
     for preparing and maintaining current, detailed safety instructions (operating instructions and
     checklists) covering each operation involving explosives. These instructions will be
     coordinated with the appropriate Weapons Safety Office prior to use.
     1.3. Personnel will be familiar with the following related publications:
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management
AFMC Sup 1 to AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management
EAFBMAN 91-202, Designation of Explosives Laden Vehicle Routes, Combat Aircraft Parking
Areas, Explosives Loading/Unloading Areas and Arm/Dearm Areas
EAFBI 11-201, Air Operations
46 MXGOI 21-118, Disassembly, Handling, and Storage Procedures for Gun Systems
Containing 20mm/30mm Ammunition (Applicable to 46 TW)
33 MXGOI 21-118, Parking, Launch and Recovery of Explosive Loaded Aircraft and
Impoundment of Aircraft with Hung Ordnance or Jammed Guns. (Applicable to 33 FW)
2. Explanation of Terms.
     2.1. Arming. The operation performed by ground personnel that transfers control of the
     armament or external stores system to the pilot (such as removing safety pins or clips).
     2.2. Categories I through VI Ordnance. For definition of Categories I through VI ordnance,
     refer to EAFBI 11-201.
     2.3. Cold Gun. Gun system in which all electrical and mechanical safing devices are
     installed to prevent firing of the gun.
     2.4. Combat Aircraft. Aircraft capable of delivering munitions on a target for the purpose of
     destruction, illumination, or munitions test.
     2.5. Safing. The operation performed by ground personnel to remove control of the
     armament or external stores system from the pilot (such as installing safety pins, clips or
     positioning of safing switches).
EGLINAFBI21-102 30 APRIL 2010                                                                 3


   2.6. End of Runway (EOR) Crew. A crew consisting of both weapons/ordnance/Contractor
   Logistics Support (CLS) ordnance personnel and aircraft crew chief personnel whose
   responsibility is to perform systems inspection or any other actions that will change the
   aircraft status from “delayed flight” to “immediately prior to launch” or vice versa.
   Weapons/ordnance/CLS ordnance personnel may dearm without an aircraft crew chief
   present, provided one team member is qualified to marshal aircraft.
   2.7. Weapons/Ordnance/CLS Ordnance EOR Crew. A qualified load crew or qualified
   subcrew consisting of a minimum of two weapons/ordnance/CLS ordnance personnel; one
   will be a checklist qualified supervisor.
   2.8. Explosives. All ammunitions, munitions fillers, demolition material, solid rocket
   motors, liquid propellants, cartridges, pyrotechnics, mines, bombs, grenades, warheads of all
   types, explosive elements of ejection and aircrew egress systems, explosives components of
   missile and space systems, and assembled kits and devices containing explosive materials.
   Explosives, explosive weight, net weight and other like terms also refer to the fillers of an
   explosive item. Fillers may be explosive mixtures, propellants, pyrotechnics, and chemical
   agents. Liquid fuels and oxidizers (JP-8, Liquid Oxygen (LOX), etc.), when not used with
   missiles, rockets, and other such weapons or explosives items, are excluded.
   2.9. Hot Gun. Gun system in which all electrical and mechanical safing devices are
   removed so the aircraft guns can be set to fire.
   2.10. Hung Ordnance. Munitions which did not release when all appropriate switch settings
   were selected and the crew attempted release or fire when a hung indication is present in the
   cockpit for 1760 or 1394 firewire capable weapons. If multiple or triple ejector racks were
   used, ordnance is hung only on those rack stations for which release was attempted. A
   jammed gun is classified as hung ordnance.
   2.11. The Incident Commander (IC) is the Base Fire Chief or designated representative.
3. General Safety Precautions.
   3.1. Drivers assigned to vehicles required to tow, transport, or handle explosives will be
   thoroughly briefed by their supervisors on the hazards involved in the operation of vehicles
   in the vicinity of aircraft, taxiways, and runways. Vehicles transporting explosives to and
   from the designated loading areas will be restricted to designated explosives laden vehicle
   routes. (Refer to EAFBMAN 91-202.)
   3.2. Aircraft returning from any mission involving explosive items will be considered armed
   and must be safed, as necessary, by a qualified weapons/ordnance/CLS ordnance EOR crew
   before proceeding to the parking ramp/hot gun line. (Exception: Captive AIM-7/9/120
   missiles may be safed and arm/safe handles or MAU-12 safety pins may be
   positioned/installed by qualified personnel at aircraft parking area.)
   3.3. The Fire Alarm Control Center (FACC) will monitor status of all aircraft loaded with
   munitions and aircraft sorties involving explosives that originate or terminate on Eglin
   (Main) AFB.
      3.3.1. The appropriate Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) will provide real-time
      notification to the FACC when uploads have been completed for class/division 1.1, 1.2 or
      1.3 munitions. The aircraft location, tail number, and DOD class/division of the
 4                                                           EGLINAFBI21-102 30 APRIL 2010


        munitions uploaded will be provided. The FACC will also be notified when
        class/division 1.1, 1.2 or 1.3 munitions have been removed from the aircraft.
        Class/division 1.4 munitions do not require FACC notification. The MOC will receive
        the status information from the weapons expeditor or Operations Center for USN and
        USMC unit.
        3.3.2. The weapons expeditor/Operations Center (USN/USMC) will provide timely
        munition upload/download completion information to the appropriate MOC for
        class/division 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 munitions. Information provided, will be aircraft location,
        tail number, and DOD class/division of the munitions loaded/downloaded. Class/division
        1.4 munitions do not require MOC notification.
4. Aircraft Launch.
     4.1. Launch operations will be performed in the authorized arm/dearm areas immediately
     adjacent to the active launch and recovery ends of the runway as relayed by MOC. Locations
     will be as specified by EAFBMAN 91-202.
        4.1.1. The required EOR equipment will be used during arming/safing operations:
        checklists, composite tool kits (CTKs), orange vests, aircraft chocks, double hearing
        protection, fire bottles, and lighted wands (during the hours of darkness).
        4.1.2. All members of the EOR crew will wear reflective vests during the hours of
        darkness.
     4.2. A qualified marshaller will assist the pilot in positioning the aircraft in the desired
     location. A qualified marshaller will be visible to the pilot at all times and will also maintain
     a position to observe the actions of the team members. Upon completion of the Go/No-Go
     inspection, the weapons EOR crew will proceed/continue with arming of the aircraft.
     4.3. If the aircraft enters the arm/dearm area with live munitions of any type installed or
     loaded, the use of ground communication cords/headsets is mandatory. The senior
     weapons/ordnance/CLS ordnance EOR crew member will ensure the hands of all aircrew
     members are visible before permitting the weapons crew to start the arming operation.
     4.4. The weapons/ordnance/CLS ordnance EOR crew will start arming actions in accordance
     with approved standard procedures, i.e. Task Assignment List (TALS). Pin bags will be
     utilized as a means to reduce foreign object damage (FOD).
     4.5. (46 TW Only) When civilian contractor personnel are required to participate in EOR
     checks, this action will be cleared by the project engineer (OPR for the test program, 46 TW)
     and either the contracting officer or quality assurance personnel from the Test, Evaluation,
     and Enterprise Acquisition Division (AAC/PKE), as appropriate. In addition, it must be
     coordinated with the Chief of Safety (AAC/SE), 46 MXG/CC and Quality Assurance (46
     MXG/MXQ). (33 FW Only) When civilian contractor personnel are required to participate
     in EOR checks, this action will be cleared by the senior CLS ordnance manager and the
     contracting officer representative. In addition, it must be coordinated with the 33 FW
     Weapons Safety Manager, 33 MXG/CC, 33 FW Chief of Safety, 33 MXG Quality Assurance
     and Chief of Safety (AAC/SE).
EGLINAFBI21-102 30 APRIL 2010                                                                       5


      4.5.1. On request, the AAC/SEW will provide guidance to project personnel, supporting
      activities, and contractor representatives to ensure maximum safety measures are taken in
      all operations.
      4.5.2. The only personnel authorized to remove munitions safety pins/devices as part of
      arming operations are weapons/ordnance/CLS ordnance personnel. Exception: Qualified
      personnel may remove munitions safety pins/devices for captive AIM-7/9/120 missiles
      and may arm/safe BRU-47 arm/safe handles or install/remove MAU-12 safety pins on
      stations with external fuel tanks installed.
   4.6. Aircraft loaded with only empty SUU-20, TER-9A, LAU-118, TGM-65, and inert
   AGM-88s loaded on LAU-88A, LAU-117, or LAU-118 launchers; or any type of captive
   training missiles (CATM), Airborne Instrumentation Subsystem (AIS), Air Combat
   Maneuvering Instrumentation (ACMI), Electronic Countermeasures (ECM) pods and
   Captive Carry Reliability Vehicle (CCRVs) may have safety devices pulled in the normal
   aircraft parking areas. The senior weapons/ordnance/CLS ordnance individual will ensure
   the removal of all munitions-related safety pins after the aircrew accepts the aircraft for flight
   and the pilot is notified that the pins will be pulled. It will be the responsibility of flightline
   expediters/coordinator to notify the appropriate weapons expediter (if the aircraft “ground
   aborts” in the chocks) to reinstall the safety devices.
5. Aircraft Recovery.
   5.1. Recovery operations will be performed in the authorized arm/dearm areas immediately
   adjacent to the active launch and recovery ends of the runway, as relayed by MOC.
   Locations will be as specified on the base D-8 Map and in EAFBMAN 91-202.
      5.1.1. The required EOR equipment will be used during arm/dearm operations:
      checklists, CTKs, orange vests, aircraft chocks, double hearing protection, fire bottles and
      lighted wands (during the hours of darkness).
      5.1.2. All members of the EOR crew will wear reflective vests during the hours of
      darkness.
   5.2. Aircraft returning from missions with Categories I through VI munitions installed,
   where no attempt was made to expend munitions or expenditure cannot be confirmed, will be
   inspected by the weapons EOR crew at the arm/dearm area to determine the status of
   munitions.
      5.2.1. All safety devices/pins will be installed in remaining munitions prior to the aircraft
      returning to the parking spot. Returning aircraft will have the same parking requirements
      as specified prior to launch in EAFBI 11-201 and EAFBMAN 91-202.
      5.2.2. Aircraft returning from missions involving rockets, missiles, and
      downward/rearward ejecting dispensers will be considered to have live munitions
      installed/loaded until all stations are inspected and/or safed by a qualified
      Weapons/Ordnance/CLS Ordnance EOR Crew.
   5.3. If the aircrew or flight leader of aircraft launched with munitions on SUU-20s or TER-
   9/A can determine that all munitions have been expended, the aircraft will return to the
   normal parking area and safety pins will be installed after engine shutdown. If all munitions
 6                                                         EGLINAFBI21-102 30 APRIL 2010


     cannot be confirmed expended, the flight leader should notify the MOC as early as possible
     during return to base and request inspection and/or safing by a weapons EOR crew.
     5.4. Aircraft launched from the normal parking area with only empty SUU-20, TER-9A,
     LAU-118, inert AGM-88s and TGM-65s loaded on a LAU-118, LAU-88/A, or LAU-117
     launcher, or any type of CATM AIS/ACMI/ECM pods and captive CCRVs may proceed
     directly to the normal parking areas. The flightline expediter will notify the appropriate
     weapons expediter that the aircraft has returned and needs safety pins installed.
     5.5. The only personnel authorized to install munitions safety pins/devices as part of safing
     operations are weapons/ordnance/CLS ordnance or 3E8X1 Explosive Ordnance Disposal
     (EOD) personnel. Exception: Qualified personnel may recover captive AIM-7/9/120
     missiles and may safe BRU-47 arm/safe handles or install MAU-12 safety pins on stations
     with external fuel tanks installed.
     5.6. Upon arrival of the aircraft at arm/dearm area, the weapons EOR crew will inspect
     remaining munitions to ensure they are loaded/installed properly and can be safed in
     accordance with appropriate technical data and allowed to return to the designated parking
     location.
     5.7. The weapons EOR crew will begin safing actions from the most outboard station and
     work inward.
     5.8. If it is determined that unsafe or unknown conditions exist (such as drop-type ordnance
     hanging by one lug, rockets unlocked from detents, missiles displaced on launchers, arm
     indications on fuzes, etc.), notify the MOC who will call EOD (96 CES/CESD) to perform a
     visual inspection. For 46 TW operations, the MOC will also notify the Wing Weapons
     Manager (46 MXG/MXW), Weapons Standardization (46 MXG/MXWL), Quality Assurance
     (46 MXG/MXQ), Fire Protection Division (96 CES/CESF), Security Forces Base Defense
     Operations Center (96 SFS/BDOC), and the Weapons Safety Office (AAC/SEW). If the
     aircraft must be shut down, it will be properly grounded. For 33 FW operations, the MOC
     will also notify the Wing Weapons Manager (33 MXG/MXW), Weapons Standardization (33
     MXG/MXWL), Quality Assurance (33 MXG/MXQ), Fire Protection Division (96
     CES/CESF) and the Weapons Safety Office (33 FW/SEW). If the aircraft must be shut
     down, it will be properly grounded.
6. Aircraft Returning with Hung Ordnance/Jammed Guns.
     6.1. EAFBI 11-201 and EAFBMAN 91-202 will be complied with when aircraft return to
     Eglin with hung ordnance.
     6.2. For 46 TW operations, the MOC will notify 46 MXG/MXW, 46 MXG/MXWL, 46
     MXG/MXQ, 96 CES/CESD, 96 CES/CESF, Security Forces Base Defense Operations
     Center (96 SFS/BDOC), Munitions Control (46 MXS/MXMW) and AAC/SEW of all aircraft
     returning with hung ordnance or jammed guns. For 33 FW operations, the MOC will notify
     33 MXG/MXW, 33 MXG/MXWL, 33 MXG/MXQ, 96 CES/CESD, 96 CES/CESF,
     Munitions Control (46 MXS/MXMW) and 33 FW/SEW of all aircraft returning with hung
     ordnance or jammed guns.
     6.3. The Base Fire Chief or designated representative is the IC and will control access to
     aircraft containing hung or unsafe ordnance and guns.
EGLINAFBI21-102 30 APRIL 2010                                                                 7


  6.4. Hung Ordnance Recovery at Eglin AFB.
     6.4.1. Runway 12 is the primary runway for recovering aircraft with hung ordnance.
     Runway 30 is the alternate recovery runway. Exception: Aircraft returning with jammed
     25/30mm guns will use Runway 30 as the primary recovery runway with Runway 12 as
     the alternate recovery runway IAW paragraph 6.7. of this instruction.
     6.4.2. For aircraft recovering on Runway 12 with hung Category I missiles, stop the
     aircraft on the runway short of the departure end BAK-12. For Category I, Eglin
     Boulevard, between the control tower and Memorial Trail, must be closed. This is due to
     1,250-foot safety zones. Taxiway Hotel between Taxiway Foxtrot and Runway 01/19
     will also be closed. For Category I, Memorial Trail must also be closed to traffic
     crossing the departure end between Eglin Boulevard and the horse stables. Recovery of
     Categories II through IV munitions does not require the closure of Eglin Boulevard.
     6.4.3. For aircraft recovering on Runway 30 with hung Category I missiles, stop the
     aircraft on the runway short of the departure end BAK-12. Due to safety zones,
     Taxiways Bravo and Hotel between Taxiways Delta and Echo will be closed. For
     Category I, Perimeter Road must also be closed to traffic crossing the departure end
     between Taxiways D and C. Recovery of aircraft on Runway 30 does not require the
     closure of Eglin Boulevard.
     6.4.4. For aircraft recovering with hung Categories II through IV munitions, secure or
     unsecure, dearm at Taxiway G (Runway 12) or Taxiway D (Runway 30). After dearm,
     allow the aircraft to taxi to the hot gun line. Recovery of aircraft with Categories II
     through IV munitions does not require closure of any roads.
     6.4.5. For hung target practice (TP) and white phosphorus (WP) rockets, if the rockets
     can be confirmed secure, aircraft will return to Eglin AFB with no in-flight emergency
     (IFE) declared. Aircraft will taxi to normal dearm area at Taxiway G/D. If the rocket
     pod can be safed, the aircraft will be allowed to taxi to the hot gun line for download. If
     the rocket pod cannot be safed, the aircraft will be shut down and turned over to 96
     CES/CESD for further disposition.
     6.4.6. For high explosive (HE) rockets, modified recovery procedures will be developed
             and approved by the Airborne Test Review/Safety Board (ATR/SB) IAW EAFBI
     11-201. NOTE: For hung unsecure rockets, the pilot will jettison the pod if necessary
     (rocket pod fire). After successful jettison, the aircraft will recover at Eglin AFB.
  6.5. Personnel actions during recovery at Eglin AFB.
     6.5.1. With approval from the IC, the responding Weapons/Ordnance/CLS Ordnance
     dearm crew will approach the aircraft first. They will:
         6.5.1.1. Perform a visual inspection to determine status of munitions.
         6.5.1.2. Safe munitions in accordance with technical order procedures if possible. If
         the munitions can be safed and/or pinned, the aircraft will be allowed to taxi to the
         hot gun line.
     6.5.2. In the event munitions cannot be readily safed, the aircraft will be shut down and
     the operation will be turned over to 96 CES/CESD. The weapons/ordnance/CLS
     ordnance EOR crew will assist as necessary. For 46 TW operations, the 46
8                                                           EGLINAFBI21-102 30 APRIL 2010


       MXG/MXWL will be available to provide technical advice/assistance to 96 CES/CESD
       personnel or the EOR weapons crew.
       6.5.3. Munitions with thermal batteries may require up to a 3-hour cool down period
       after release attempt before they may be downloaded. These munitions will be pinned by
       the EOR crew or 96 CES/CESD as applicable but will not be otherwise handled or
       downloaded until thermal battery cool down is complete.
    6.6. Aircraft returning with jammed 20mm guns.
       6.6.1. Aircraft will land as normal, roll to the end of the runway, and proceed to the
       normal dearm area. If the gun cannot be safed in the dearm area, the aircraft will taxi to
       the appropriate hot gun line and shut down for safing and/or clearing by
       Weapon/ordnance/CLS ordnance personnel and/or 96 CES/CESD.
       6.6.2. Armament Shop personnel will respond and assist weapons loading personnel (as
       required) for any gun malfunctions.
       6.6.3. 20mm guns that cannot be cleared on the hot gun line will be removed from the
       aircraft and turned over to the Armament Back Shop for disassembly and clearing IAW
       local procedures.
    6.7. Aircraft returning with jammed 30mm guns/25mm.
       6.7.1. Aircraft will not enter the normal dearm areas.
       6.7.2. Aircraft will land on Runway 30 (primary), proceed to hot gun line 6 via Taxiway
       Echo, and taxi into the last available spot. Contact the 96 SFS/BDOC to close perimeter
       road between Taxiways Delta and Charlie and run appropriated checklist. If hot gun line
       6 is being utilized for Air to Ground Weapons Systems Evaluation Program (A/G WSEP)
       aircraft parking, aircraft returning with jammed 30mm guns will taxi to hot gun line 1.
       6.7.3. If the aircraft lands on Runway 12, (alternate) it will back-taxi to hot gun line 6 via
       Taxiway Echo. Contact the 96 SFS/BDOC to close Eglin Boulevard between the control
       tower and Memorial Trail as well as the departure end between Eglin Boulevard and the
       horse stables. If hot gun line 6 is being utilized for A/G WSEP aircraft parking, aircraft
       returning with jammed 30mm guns will taxi to hot gun line 1.
       6.7.4. The following A-10 (GAU-8) 30mm/F-35 (GAU-22) 25mm Unsafe Gun
       Procedures will be followed by the Gun Safing Team:
          6.7.4.1. Gun Safing Team Composition:
              6.7.4.1.1. Weapons supervisor, 2W171 (or equivalent), or above.
              6.7.4.1.2. One 2W151 (or equivalent) or above will be assigned as the Gun
              Safing Team Chief.
              6.7.4.1.3. Two 2W131 (or equivalent) or above will be assigned as Gun Safing
              Team Assisting Technicians.
              6.7.4.1.4. EOD personnel as required.
              6.7.4.1.5. Armament Flight personnel as required.
EGLINAFBI21-102 30 APRIL 2010                                                                 9


          6.7.4.2. The gun is properly safed when the gun safing pin is installed and all
          ammunition is cleared from the gun.
             6.7.4.2.1. The weapons supervisor will monitor the safing operation and
             determine the need for additional personnel. The supervisor will make sure that
             the area in front of gun remains clear at all times during the safing operation. It
             will be the weapons supervisor’s responsibility to ensure that the aircraft is
             properly safed and gun-clearing procedures are followed.
             6.7.4.2.2. If system can be properly safed and clear of live rounds, the aircraft
             may return to the regular parking spot.
             6.7.4.2.3. (46 TW Only) If the gun cannot be safed, rounds cannot be cleared
             from the gun, or a hazardous condition exists, consult with the AAC/SEW, AAC
             System Safety (AAC/SES), and 96 CES/CESD for further instructions. (33 FW
             Only) If the gun cannot be safed, rounds cannot be cleared from the gun, or a
             hazardous condition exists, consult with the 33 FW/SEW and 96 CES/CESD for
             further instructions.
          6.7.4.3. For further assistance, Ogden Air Logistics Center (OO-ALC/WM) has
          developed a Munitions Rapid Response Team to support Air Force units throughout
          the world whenever a munitions incident occurs. This team is made up of experts
          (engineers, equipment specialists, program managers, and safety personnel) from
          weapons and munitions programs. These personnel are able to travel anywhere in the
          world within 24-48 hours to assist in determining the cause of a failure. They can, in
          turn, possibly save a gun system from having to be destroyed by 96 CES/CESD, thus
          reducing the cost of repair. This avenue must be employed prior to any destruction of
          the gun system. AAC/SEW and AAC/SES will aid in implementing this course of
          action if required.
7. Ground Emergencies Involving Munitions.
   7.1. When a mishap occurs or an unknown or unsafe condition is detected involving
   munitions, flightline personnel will declare a ground emergency and will notify the MOC
   who will immediately activate an emergency action checklist, notifying appropriate response
   agencies.
   7.2. The Base Fire Chief or designated representative is the IC and will control access to
   aircraft or munitions involved in the incident.
   7.3. 96 CES/CESD will inspect the munitions involved and will dispose of unsafe munitions
   or release munitions back to weapons personnel for download or movement. No one will
   handle affected munitions until 96 CES/CESD has made an assessment.




   7.4. Termination of the ground emergency will be declared by the IC.
 10                                                 EGLINAFBI21-102 30 APRIL 2010


8. Forms Adopted.
  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                       BRUCE H. MCCLINTOCK, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
