BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                          91-206
                                                                    9 SEPTEMBER 2010

                                                                                           Safety

                                                                 MUNITIONS SOURCE DATA


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AAC/SEW                                                               Certified by: AAC/SE
Supersedes: AACI21-202,                                                              (Col Guidry)
            12 September 2003                                                           Pages: 17


This instruction implements AFPD 91-2, Safety Program, and AFMAN 91-201, Explosives
Safety Standards, by assigning responsibilities and establishing procedures for acquisition and
review of source data necessary to ensure safe and efficient hazard classification, inspection,
storage, transportation and disposal of new munitions and munitions components as defined in
Attachment 1, Glossary of References and supporting information. It applies to the 46th Test
Group (46 TG) and to all AAC activities and tenants at Eglin Air Force Base (AFB) involved in
munitions acquisition, research, development, testing, evaluation or modification. The 46th Test
Group shall follow locally established procedures outlined in the Holloman AFB Supplement 1
to AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management for developing and approving
adequate technical data to support safe and efficient storage, handling, inspection, shipment,
maintenance, and modification of munitions items delivered to Holloman AFB. Changes to the
Holloman AFB Supplement will be coordinated with AAC/SEW and AAC/SES. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates
required data elements IAW Technical Order (TO) 11A-1-47, Ammunition and Explosives
 2                                                                        EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Hazard Classification Procedures, and the latest Data Item Descriptions (DID); shortens the
routine processing time for Technical Data for Munitions Packages (TDM PACKAGE) to 10
working days; defines the process for submitting and coordinating unclassified TDM
PACKAGEs electronically via Livelink; adds guidance on requesting explosives hazard
classification; consolidates the publication of all required data into a single expanded template;
mandates inclusion of U.S. standard equivalents with metric units of measurement; and adds a
glossary of references and supporting information.

        1.     Policy on Preparation and Delivery of Source Data. .............................................                          2
        2.     Source Data Information Requirements. ................................................................                    3
        3.     Routing, Review, Approval and Rescission Process: ............................................                            3
        4.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................   4
        5.     Forms Adopted. .....................................................................................................      6

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            7

Attachment 2—TECHNICAL DATA PACKAGE GUIDE.                                                                                               9

Attachment 3—TECHNICAL DATA PACKAGE TEMPLATE                                                                                             15


1. Policy on Preparation and Delivery of Source Data. The timely preparation and delivery
of accurate, adequate source data is a fundamental prerequisite for receipt, delivery, or use of
new munitions and munitions components. No missions will be placed on the operations order
until all required source data have been reviewed and approved IAW paragraph 3 of this
instruction. New munitions and munitions components shipped to the 46 TG or Eglin AFB
without a required TDM PACKAGE will be suspended and disposition action taken as
appropriate.
     1.1. AAC Systems Safety (AAC/SES) will evaluate all new munitions and munitions
     components, live or inert, for hazardous content and the need for a TDM PACKAGE.
     Hazardous content includes but is not limited to any material classified by Code of Federal
     Regulations (CFR) Title 49 as Non-Regulated or assigned to Department of Transportation
     (DOT) Hazard Classes 1-9. Items not already assigned a final hazard classification may also
     require assignment of an interim hazard classification (IHC) by AAC/SES IAW AFMAN 91-
     201, Explosives Safety Standards, and TO 11A-1-47 if they will be stored on DoD property,
     transported to DoD Property, or transported under a DoD contract.
     1.2. A minimum of 10 working days will be allocated for routine electronic processing and
     review of an unclassified TDM PACKAGE. Additional time will be needed to process
     classified information, documents which must be converted to electronic format or TDM
     PACKAGE submissions which fail to include all required information. Additional time will
     also be needed if key personnel, including alternates, are not available. Because of the
     compressed 10-day review process, it is imperative all information be submitted correctly
     and be formatted IAW Attachment 3. Expedited processing of TDM PACKAGEs may be
     requested IAW AAC Plan 70, Crisis/Command Directed Rapid Response Testing Plan.
EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              3


   1.3. Transportation of new munitions and munitions components shall not begin until
   sufficient data on its hazards and functioning have been provided to the 96th Civil
   Engineering Squadron's Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Flight (96 CES/CESD) and
   safe handling and recovery procedures (SHARP) have been developed and approved.
2. Source Data Information Requirements. Data Items will be submitted to AAC/SES &
SEW IAW Attachment 2 as required by DI-SAFT-81299, Explosive Hazard Classification Data,
DI-SAFT-80931, Explosive Ordnance Disposal Data, and DI-SAFT-80182, Technical Data for
Munitions (TDM). If metric units of measurement are used, include U.S. standard equivalents.
   2.1. When the required DID information is already published in other technical documents
   (e.g. Preliminary TOs, Developmental Program Manuals, Procedural Support Data, other
   service Technical Manuals, etc.), the responsible Test Engineer (TE) will provide AAC/SES
   & SEW the published documents with a cover memorandum in the format of Attachment 3.
   Specifically identify where the required information can be found in the accompanying
   technical document and/or where different data is to be applied.
       2.1.1. Air Force technical documents will be given precedence when documents are
       available from both the Air Force and another source. For example, if a manufacturer’s
       manual for an item does not mandate a pre-use inspection and an Air Force technical
       manual does, the Air Force manual would take precedence.
       2.1.2. When new munitions or munitions component are very similar to an item already
       detailed in a technical document, the technical document for the 'like-item' may be
       considered for use with the new item. To request use of a technical document for a like-
       item as source data for a new item, the responsible TE will provide AAC/SES the like-
       item technical document with a cover letter identifying any differences between the new
       item and the like-item.
3. Routing, Review, Approval and Rescission Process:
   3.1. Initial TDM PACKAGE Submittal. Test customers will compile the required source
   data and submit it for initial review via the Livelink electronic approval process. Customers
   without direct access to Livelink will provide source data to their assigned 46th Test Wing
   (46 TW) test engineer (TE) for submittal through Livelink.
       3.1.1. The preferred electronic format for submitting source data is as a Microsoft Word
       document using Times New Roman font. Source data may also be submitted in Adobe
       Acrobat format but may require more time to process. Approved electronic TDM
       PACKAGEs will be published in Adobe Acrobat PDF format. Sample TDM
       PACKAGEs are available as reference documents in Livelink.
       3.1.2. Classified data cannot be placed on Livelink and must be delivered to reviewers
       via secure means and media. Test customers who wish to exclude proprietary
       information from TDM PACKAGEs should identify pertinent data elements in the TDM
       PACKAGE submittal and provide contact information so reviewers can evaluate the
       proprietary information separately.
       3.1.3. TDM PACKAGE Supplements and Revisions. Test customers can make changes
       to existing TDM PACKAGEs by submitting a request via Livelink to AAC/SES. The
       supplement memo must specify which section of the TDM PACKAGE is affected and
 4                                                  EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


        the exact wording of the change itself. AAC/SES may require a revision to the existing
        TDM PACKAGE if the number of supplements becomes unworkable or the changes are
        substantial.
     3.2. TDM PACKAGE Routing and Approval. Initial TDM PACKAGE submittals, changes,
     supplements and revisions will be routed using Livelink whenever possible. Once AAC/SES
     has determined a TDM PACKAGE is required and provided initial review, the submittal will
     be routed through AAC/SEW, 46 MXS/MXMWMC and 46 MXG/MXQ for review. After
     all offices have completed their reviews, AAC/SEW will approve for EOD source data and
     AAC/SES will approve for System Safety and forward to 46 MXG/MXQ for their
     endorsement. TDM PACKAGE changes, supplements and revisions will be routed the same
     way. 96 CES/ CESD and 46 MXS/MXMWMC will be notified automatically via Livelink of
     all approved TDM PACKAGE submittals, changes, supplements and revisions.
     3.3. Annual Review of TDM PACKAGEs and IHCs. TDM PACKAGEs and IHCs will be
     reviewed annually by the test customer or by the assigned 46 TW TE to validate continued
     use and currency of provided information. Annual review dates will be based upon the date
     of initial approval or be one year from the date of last approved supplement or revision,
     whichever is latest. If the TDM PACKAGE is not formatted IAW Attachment 2, the
     customer or TE must submit a revision to AAC/SES and state in the cover letter that the old
     TDM PACKAGE is superseded.
        3.3.1. 46 MXS/MXMWMC will suspend items from issue and use when their TDM
        PACKAGE annual review is overdue by 30 days. If a TDM PACKAGE annual review is
        still overdue after 90 days, an AF Form 191, Ammunition Disposition Request (ADR),
        will be processed IAW AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management,
        to authorize disposal or return to origin. Attendant expenses involved will be charged to
        the project’s Job Order Number (JON).
        3.3.2. Test customers must maintain an active JON for each TDM PACKAGE against
        which annual review charges can be applied.
     3.4. Rescinding TDM PACKAGEs. Test customers or assigned TEs will ensure TDM
     PACKAGEs are rescinded via Livelink when no longer needed. Before a TDM PACKAGE
     is rescinded, the owner must verify with 46 MXS/MXMWMA that no affected items remain
     on Eglin. Rescinded TDM PACKAGEs may be reinstated at a later date provided the
     munitions data is still current and in the proper format.
4. Responsibilities:
     4.1. Test customers will:
        4.1.1. Compile munitions source data IAW Attachment 2 and send it to AAC/SES or the
        assigned 46 TW TE IAW section 3.1 above prior to shipment of items to Eglin AFB.
        4.1.2. Review TDM PACKAGEs and IHCs annually IAW section 3.3 above.
        4.1.3. Ensure munitions packaging complies with 49 CFR. Request support from the
        Container Integrated Product Team (IPT) when the IHC from AAC/SES cannot be used
        as the packaging authority. They will evaluate munitions packing, handling, and
        transportation data IAW 49 CFR to determine the need for a Certificate of Equivalency
        (COE) or a Competent Authority Approval (CAA). COEs are valid for shipment of
EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               5


     hazardous materials within the Continental United States (CONUS). If International
     shipments are to be made that will involve public transportation infrastructure (roads,
     docks, rails, etc.), a CAA will be required.
     4.1.4. Request Shelf/Service Life extensions from AAC/SES. Serious consideration
     must be given to safety and serviceability prior to requesting extensions. Many bulk
     explosives and propellants become unstable over time and can auto-ignite and explode.
     Test Engineers/Program Managers are responsible for gathering certified documentation
     to justify shelf/service life extension.
     4.1.5. Determine if stability testing is required for bulk explosives and propellants. This
     information can be obtained from item manufacturers or organizations such as the AFRL
     High Explosive Research and Development (HERD) Facility. If testing is necessary,
     identify the time interval (in months) to conduct stability testing and who will conduct the
     testing.
     4.1.6. Coordinate with the 46 TW Munitions Storage Area (MSA) before shipping items
     to Eglin which require special storage or handling (e.g. classified, weather-sensitive,
     etc.). The MSA has limited capabilities for providing secure alarmed inside storage.
     4.1.7. Generate M-Series Work Cards in accordance with AACI 21-101, Local Technical
     Order Writing Procedures, if items will need to be transported outside of their shipping
     container. Note: If items remain in their original DOT shipping container, Eglin
     personnel can use general tie-down procedures as outlined in T.O. 11-1-38, Positioning
     and Tie-Down Procedures Nonnuclear Munitions, for transportation on Eglin AFB.
  4.2. AAC/SES (Systems Safety) will:
     4.2.1. Review demilitarization code for accuracy for each item according to AFMAN 23-
     110V2CD, USAF Supply Manual.
     4.2.2. Review TDM PACKAGEs for compliance with the requirements of this
     instruction relative to the 46 MXS Munitions Storage Area storage and maintenance
     requirements. Advise the test customer or assigned TE of any deficiencies in the TDM
     PACKAGE relative to this.
     4.2.3. Assign an Interim Hazard Classification (IHC), Storage Compatibility Group, and
     UN number for munitions being stored or tested on Eglin AFB.
     4.2.4. Ensure the TDM responsible organization has addressed hazard mitigation
     requirements relative to 46 MXS Munitions Storage Area storage and maintenance
     requirements.
     4.2.5. Coordinate changes to munitions TDM PACKAGEs with the test customer or
     assigned TE, AAC/SEW and 46 MXG/MXQ. Ensure changes do not affect safety.
     4.2.6. Extend the shelf and/or service life of a munitions item only after Test/Program
     Manager provides certified documentation of analysis supporting safety and
     serviceability of the asset after shelf/service life extension.
     4.2.7. Attach a copy of the approved TDM PACKAGE cover letter generated through
     System Safety (AAC/SES) and Weapons Safety (AAC/SEW) to the TDM PACKAGE in
     Livelink.
 6                                                  EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


     4.3. AAC/SEW (Weapons Safety) will review and approve initial TDM PACKAGE
     submittals, changes, supplements, revisions and ensure they contain sufficient information
     for the Munitions Flight (46 MXS/MXMW) and the EOD Flight (96 CES/CESD) to safely
     accomplish their missions.
     4.4. 46 MXG/MXQ (Quality Assurance) will review and approve initial TDM PACKAGE
     submittals, changes, supplements and revisions for the 46 MXG.
     4.5. 96 CES/CESD (EOD) will develop safe handling and recovery procedures (SHARP) as
     required following receipt of TDM PACKAGEs.
     4.6. 46 MXS/MXMWMC (Munitions Inspection) will:
        4.6.1. Review and coordinate on initial TDM PACKAGE submittals, changes,
        supplements and revisions.
        4.6.2. Prepare a DD Form 1348-6, DoD Single Line Item Requisition System Document,
        on each local stock number assigned.
        4.6.3. Receive, inspect and store all munitions items with approved technical data.
        4.6.4. Suspend and place in condition code J (suspended from issue and use, condition
        unknown) all munitions items received without an approved TDM PACKAGE.
            4.6.4.1. Notify AAC/SEW, 46 MXG/MXQ and the test customer or assigned TE that
            munitions items have been suspended until an approved TDM PACKAGE is
            received.
            4.6.4.2. Schedule impounded assets for condition code change if an approved TDM
            PACKAGE is received within 30 days. Allow ten working days for condition code
            change to be applied.
            4.6.4.3. If an approved TDM PACKAGE is not received after 30 days of suspension,
            an AF Form 191 will be processed IAW AFI 21-201 to authorize disposal or return to
            origin. Attendant expenses involved will be charged to the project’s JON.
5. Forms Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
        AF Form 191, Ammunition Disposition Request (ADR)
        DD Form 1348-6, DoD Single Line Item Requisition System Document




                                             SAL M. NODJOMIAN, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                        7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5160.62-D, Single Manager Responsibility for Military EOD Technology and Training
(EODT&T)
AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management
AFJI 32-3002, Interservice Responsibilities for Explosive Ordnance Disposal
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards
T.O. 00-5-3, Technical Order Life Cycle Management
T.O. 11A-1-10, Munitions Surveillance Program and Serviceability Procedures
T.O. 11A-1-47, Ammunition and Explosives Hazard Classification Procedures
DI-SAFT-80931B, Explosive Ordnance Disposal Data
DI-SAFT-81299B, Explosive Hazard Classification Data

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADR— Ammunition Disposition Request
CAA— Competent Authority Approval
CFR— Code of Federal Regulations
COE— Certificate of Equivalency
DOM— Date of Manufacture
DOT— Department of Transportation
EMR— Electromagnetic Radiation
IHC— Interim Hazard Classification
IPT— Integrated Product Team
JON— Job Order Number
MSA— Munitions Storage Area
TDM PACKAGE— Technical Data for Munitions Package
TE— Test Engineer
SHARP— Safe Handling and Recovery Procedures

Terms
Inert— Contains no explosives, active chemicals, pyrotechnics or any type of battery.
Livelink— A web-based application used for all aspects of documentation management
including project management, workflows and documentation tracking.
 8                                               EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Net Explosives Weight—The total quantity of explosives material or pyrotechnics.
New Munitions or Munitions Components— Developmental or modified explosive ordnance
or non-developmental foreign ordnance, test articles, components and certain explosive
commercial products.
Non-Developmental— Not being evaluated for development.
Working Days— Days other than weekends or Federal holidays.
EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                      9


                                           Attachment 2
                           TECHNICAL DATA PACKAGE GUIDE.

Note: This attachment is only to be used as a guide; do not submit Attachment 2 with the
Technical Data Package. Indicate "Not Available" for data values which have not yet been
determined.
DATE: ____________
MEMORANDUM FOR AAC/SES & SEW
46 MXG/MXQI
FROM: [Originating Office (Project Officer/Telephone No.)]
SUBJECT: Technical Data/Hazard Classification Request for [Nomenclature]
1. Item Description:
1.1. Identification
1.1.1. Name: (Official designation/nomenclature of the ordnance, including any common names
and any known foreign designations)
1.1.2. National or Local Stock Number (if assigned)
1.1.3. Part number: (Product code or other unique identifier).
1.1.4. System Used On: (System or next higher assembly of which the subject item is a part).
1.1.5. Application: (A brief general description of the normal application of the ordnance item
plus optional applications).
1.1.6. Markings: (All external markings, paintings and colors. Markings may include ordnance
designation, loading information, settings, index marks, time scales, manufacturer’s marks,
instructional notes, lot numbers and color code designators.).
1.1.7. Other Ordnance Used With This Item: (Fuze data shall state what bombs, dispensers,
projectiles, landmines, grenades or rocket warheads they are used with; bomb data shall state
what fuzes, rockets, fin assemblies or guidance units may be used; dispensers, clusters, launchers
and certain projectiles shall include all sub munitions which could be loaded. If new fusing is
used in conjunction with a munitions item, completed information on the fuze is required IAW
requirements herein).
1.2. Physical Description.
1.2.1. Visual Description: (An overall narrative physical description of the appearance and
condition of the item in the unarmed, pre-armed, and armed conditions. Include dimensions and
unpackaged weight).
1.2.2. Drawings and Schematics: (Illustrations of the configuration of the explosive item, and
the relationship of the item's parts as assembled. Include illustrations of the relationship of the
explosive item to other items in the system).
1.2.3. Composition and Shell Material: (Include material specifications such as type of material
[e.g. steel, aluminum, Bakelite, etc.] and thickness of material).
 10                                                   EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


1.2.4. Description of all major sections, subassemblies, fuze safety features, classified materials
and hazardous components or material. If sections will be shipped or stored separately, define
the hazardous item(s) in each component. (Include their purpose, function, and method of
operation. This includes available illustrations necessary to understand functioning with
appropriate callouts for major sections, subassemblies, hazardous components, power sources;
plus arming, safing and firing subcomponents. Include a cross-reference to reports detailing
design safety features and operational or safety tests but place the document files inside the
Supporting Documents section of Livelink).
1.2.5. Hazardous Materials: (A general description of all toxic or hazardous materials and
liquids; explosive main-charges, subassemblies and firing trains; hydraulics, or pneumatic
pressure sources and routing. Describe electric voltage sources and circuits, thermal or chemical
energy sources, mechanical hazards, fuels and oxidizers. Include explosive or chemical
formulation and the weights of explosive or chemical material. Describe any other item that
could present a physical threat to the safety of personnel. For items containing a liquid or gas,
include the name or type of liquid or gas; physical state; nominal pressure/pressure range in psi
as well as cubic inches of material if pressurized; quantity in both pounds and gallons of liquid;
vapor pressure; and flash point. If batteries are installed, state which type (NICAD, lithium,
alkaline, etc.). Include any known Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approved disposal
information relating to the above items).
1.2.5.1. Explosives or chemical formulation: (Include type, composition, and total weight of
each explosive or chemical subassembly in the item [e.g., detonator, booster, squib, rocket
motor, etc.]).
1.2.5.2. Weight of explosives or chemical material: (Oxidizer volume, propellant volume,
propellant weight, filler volume, filler weight, fired weight, oxidizer weight, etc.).
1.2.6. Net Explosive Weight per Item: (The total weight of all explosive materials in an item).
1.2.7. Electrical power sources for fuzes that contain stored, electrical energy for fuze firing
(e.g., Electronic Safe & Arm Fuze (ESAF) devices, thermal or wet cell batteries, firing
capacitors, etc.) and operation information for arming and firing circuits. Note: Recommend
any data from battery bleed-down tests and all-fire/no-fire tests be provided as part of this.
Recommend any data from extending a battery performance test beyond the required munitions
performance standards to the no-fire level as described below also be provided.
1.2.7.1. No-Fire Time and All-Fire Level: (If known, include time from munitions power
activation until voltage achieves a "no-fire" level of the munitions most sensitive electrical firing
component to initiate an explosive firing train or event. No-fire level is the maximum power
level at which the munition cannot fire. The test to determine no-fire level shall use the same
electrical load (circuitry drain) and normal munitions or system power as would a fielded
munition. Test data shall also reflect the "all-fire" level of the munition. All-fire level is the
power necessary for ordnance to function as designed. Include analytical reports produced from
test instrumentation that monitored the voltage throughout the life span of a battery or firing
capacitor from the time of system activation to the point the battery or firing capacitor decays to
a no-fire level. EOD considers the time it takes for a munition to essentially safe itself by
waiting a prescribed amount of time based upon tested bleed-down times in worst-case
conditions that the munitions fusing system may be found in a dud-fired scenario.
Documentation of these values shall be included in a Report of Test that describes the: overall
EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                     11


test setup procedures, equipment used to monitor and measure electrical power, test objectives
and test results.
1.2.8. Designed Influence Sensitivity or Activation Levels: (Required for influence-actuated
ordnance such as magnetic, acoustic or pressure activated mines. Also state arm time and/or
revolutions/distance to arm).
1.3. Functional Description and Operational Sequence: (Include the step-by-step sequence of
events from the initial pre-arming action through arming and functioning. The functional
sequence description should be supported by graphical illustrations with callouts depicting
critical components described during the sequence of operation or functional description(s).
Electrical block or circuit diagrams should include all electrically-initiated ordnance items and
all power sources, firing capacitor switches and bleeder resistors. Computer graphics depicting
cutaway illustrations, as appropriate, should show internal components).
2. Inspection Procedures:
2.1. Provide inspection procedures for inspecting item. If specific inspection criterions are
required other than inspecting the outer container(s), they must be specifically stated.
2.2. Warnings, Cautions and Notes. List warnings, cautions and notes which should draw
special attention to handling the item (e.g. armed or hazardous condition indicators). Format
headers as follows:
WARNING
(An operating or maintenance procedure, practice, condition, statement, etc., which if not strictly
observed, could result in injury to or death of personnel.)
CAUTION
(An operating or maintenance procedure, practice, condition, statement, etc., which if not strictly
observed, could result in damage to or destruction of equipment or loss of mission effectiveness.)
NOTE
(An essential operating or maintenance procedure, condition or statement, which must be
emphasized.)
2.3. Defects. (List any critical/major/minor defects that render the item unsafe or unserviceable
such as corrosion, punctures, dents, leaks, arm indicators and safing devices.)
2.3.1. Critical Defects. (A critical defect is one that is likely to result in hazardous or unsafe
conditions for individuals using, transporting or maintaining munitions; a defect that is likely to
cause the destruction of/or serious damage to the weapon or launcher under normal training or
combat conditions.)
2.3.2. Major Defects. (A major defect is a defect other than critical, that is likely to result in
failure during use or which precludes or reduces materially, the usability of the item for its
intended use.)
2.3.3. Minor Defects. (A minor defect is a defect other than critical or major that is not likely to
result in failure during use. It does not affect use or operation of the item, but should be
corrected prior to issue.)
2.3.4. Corrective Actions. (List any authorized actions to correct defects.)
 12                                                  EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


2.4. Periodic Inspection Interval and Percentage. (List periodic inspection (PI) time interval in
months and percentage sample size (percentage of total quantity stored which must be inspected
as part of the periodic inspection) for items to be maintained in storage. The item will otherwise
be considered PI exempt.)
2.5. Stability Testing Interval and Agency. (For bulk and exposed explosives/propellants,
identify time frame in months to conduct stability testing and who will conduct the testing.)
3. Packaging Data:
3.1. Description of Packaging (A narrative description of how each item is packaged and
secured. Include type, size and gross weight. {e.g. wood, cardboard, metal, etc.}.)
3.1.1. Number of items per inner package.
3.1.2. Number of inner packages per outer package.
3.2. Required DOT Labels and Markings (Markings must comply with TO 11A-1-10, Munitions
Serviceability Procedures and 49 CFR.)
3.3. Provide container disposition instructions (reusable container, ship to destination or destroy
when empty. If reusable, provide shipping information disposition, address and POC for receipt).
3.4. Desiccation Requirements (e.g. how many units to install per container).
3.5. Illustration of packing and shipping containers.
4. Storage Criteria and Limitations:
4.1. Shelf Life in Months. (The shelf life identifies how long from the date of manufacture an
item in prescribed packaging and storage conditions can be considered serviceable. Shelf life
should be based on scientific evidence as recommended by the manufacturer.
4.2. Service Life in Months. (The Service Life is the length of time an item can remain installed
in operating configuration or in actual usage. If service life is shorter than shelf life, clearly
define what starts the service life [e.g. item removed from container; item placed in ready use
configuration] and if the service life can be stopped [e.g. item placed back into original
packaging configuration]. Unless otherwise specified, service life will be considered as starting
on the date item is issued from the MSA. Expiration date for service life will be the last day of
expiration month regardless of actual expiration date [service life date will not exceed shelf life
date of an item].)
4.3. Date of Manufacture (The DOM must also be marked on the item packaging.)
4.4. Temperature limits. (Provide minimum and maximum exposure limits.)
4.5. Humidity Requirements. (Identify how often in months the humidity of an item in storage
must be checked.)
4.6. Stacking Height. (Identify how many shipping containers may be stacked on top of each
other. If stacking is forbidden, specify "One.")
4.7. Requirement for special storage (e.g. classified, weather-sensitive, alarmed, etc.)
5. Special Handling Criteria:
5.1. Special handling procedures (include fragile areas to avoid and specify grounding points).
EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 13


5.2. Special equipment required for handling the item (e.g. conductive wrist straps).
5.3. Drop heights from which items may be considered unserviceable:
5.3.1. Drop height in the container
5.3.2. Drop height out of the container
5.4. Personal Protective Equipment (list any PPE required for normal handling and when the
equipment is to be used [e.g. gloves for PCP-treated wooden boxes].)
6. Special Tie-Down Procedures:
6.1. For transportation on Eglin Main and the Eglin Reservation, Eglin personnel can use
general tie-down procedures as outlined in T.O. 11-1-38, Positioning and Tie-Down Procedures
Nonnuclear Munitions, for munitions items, provided the items remain in their original DOT
shipping container.
6.2. Transporting items out of their container will require the use of MHU-series munitions
trailers; test managers must generate M-Series Work Cards in accordance with AACI 21-101,
Local Technical Order Writing Procedures.
7. Emergency Procedures:
7.1. State any unique procedures that must be accomplished or taken into consideration in an
emergency (e.g. fire, armed condition, etc.). If none, state so.
7.2. Information on any known sensitivity of item to external energy (e.g. electromagnetic, heat,
radiological, etc.) that could accidentally function item if it was damaged or disassembled.
7.3. Emergency Protective Equipment (e.g. gas mask, self contained breathing apparatus, etc.)
for hazardous/toxic solids, liquids or gaseous materials likely to be encountered. If material
safety data sheets (MSDS) are available, include a cross-reference in the TDM PACKAGE but
place the MSDS files inside the Supporting Documents section of Livelink.
7.4. Disassembly procedures. (If disassembly is possible, describe step-by-step the normal
disassembly of the item required for EOD to separate the explosive and hazardous components
from the item body. This would include installation of safing devices, protective devices, cable
disconnections and tools required. Include computer graphics illustrations or drawings as
appropriate to help illustrate difficult procedures. Include separate procedures for varying item
configurations if possible/required.)
8. Demilitarization Information:
8.1. A live munitions item or an item containing batteries of any type would reflect a [G] code.
8.2. An inert munitions item would reflect [B] code.
9. Munition Security Classification: (Include Controlled Item Code [CIC] and CAC if
assigned. For classified items, state the classification instead of saying, “classified.”)
10. Unit Cost:
10.1. List cost per component if multiple components are sent or packaged separately.
11. Additional Information:
 14                                                  EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


11.1. List the original TDM PACKAGE requester's address, phone number, e-mail address, etc.,
for the munitions item.
11.2. List the name, phone number and e-mail address for responsible Test Engineer/Program
Manager from Eglin AFB. Include at least two local points of contact.
11.3. Include any other pertinent information as applicable.
11.4. Additional EOD data. If available, inclusion of the following useful data is optional but
recommended.
11.4.1. Fittings and Features (All fittings and features, which will differentiate the item from a
similar item within a class or family of ordnance items. Features or fittings should be visible and
obvious without touching or disassembling the item.)
11.4.2. Thread specifications.
11.4.3. Level II engineering drawings of the components with external views and internal
cutaways
11.4.4. Detailed Dimensions (cartridge case length, maximum diameter, minimum diameter,
maximum thickness, minimum thickness, maximum total length, minimum total length, fuze
maximum exposed length, fuze minimum exposed length, maximum height, minimum height,
maximum width, minimum width).
EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                  15


                                          Attachment 3
                        TECHNICAL DATA PACKAGE TEMPLATE

NOTE: This attachment is only to be used as a template; do not submit Attachment 3 with the
Technical Data Package. Indicate "Not Available" for applicable data values.
DATE: ____________
MEMORANDUM FOR AAC/SES & SEW
46 MXG/MXQI

FROM: (Originating Office (Project Officer/Telephone No.)
SUBJECT: Technical Data/Hazard Classification Request for (Nomenclature).
1. Item Description:
1.1. Identification.
1.1.1. Name.
1.1.2. National or Local Stock Number (if assigned).
1.1.3. Part number.
1.1.4. System Used On.
1.1.5. Application.
1.1.6. Markings.
1.1.7. Other Ordnance Used With This Item.
1.2. Physical Description.
1.2.1. Visual Description.
1.2.2. Drawings and Schematics.
1.2.3. Composition and Shell Material.
1.2.4. Description of all major sections, subassemblies, fuze safety features, classified materials,
and hazardous components or material.
1.2.5. Hazardous Materials.
1.2.6. Net Explosive Weight per Item.
1.2.7. Electrical power sources and operation information for fuze arming and firing circuits.
1.2.7.1. No-Fire Time and All-Fire Level.
1.2.8. Designed Influence Sensitivity or Activation Levels.
1.3. Functional Description and Operational Sequence.
2. Inspection Procedures:
2.1. Provide inspection procedures for inspecting item.
 16                                                 EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


2.2. Warnings, Cautions and Notes.
2.3. Defects.
2.3.1. Critical Defects.
2.3.2. Major Defects.
2.3.3. Minor Defects.
2.3.4. Corrective Actions.
2.4. Periodic Inspection Interval and Percentage.
2.5. Stability Testing Interval and Agency.
3. Packaging Data:
3.1. Description of Packaging.
3.1.1. Number of items per inner package.
3.1.2. Number of inner packages per outer package.
3.2. Required DOT Labels and Markings.
3.3. Provide container disposition instructions.
3.4. Desiccation Requirements, and if required, how many units to install per container.
3.5. Illustration of packing and shipping containers.
4. Storage Criteria and Limitations:
4.1. Shelf Life in Months.
4.2. Service Life in Months.
4.3. Date of Manufacture.
4.4. Temperature limits.
4.5. Humidity Requirements.
4.6. Stacking Height.
4.7. Requirement for special storage.
5. Special Handling Criteria:
5.1. Special handling procedures.
5.2. Special equipment required for handling the item.
5.3. Drop heights from which items may be considered unserviceable:
5.3.1. Drop height in the container.
5.3.2. Drop height out of the container.
5.4. Personal Protective Equipment.
6. Special Tie-Down Procedures:
EGLINAFBI91-206 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               17


6.1. For transportation on Eglin Main and the Eglin Reservation, Eglin personnel can use
general tie-down procedures as outlined in T.O. 11-1-38, Positioning and Tie-Down Procedures
Nonnuclear Munitions, for munitions items, provided the items remain in their original DOT
shipping container.
6.2. Transporting items out of their container will require the use of MHU-series munitions
trailers; test managers must generate M-Series Work Cards in accordance with AACI 21-101,
Local Technical Order Writing Procedures.
7. Emergency Procedures:
7.1. State any unique procedures that must be accomplished or taken into consideration in an
emergency (e.g. fire, armed condition, etc.). If none, state so.
7.2. Information on any known sensitivity of item to external energy (e.g. electromagnetic, heat,
radiological, etc.) that could accidentally function item if it was damaged or disassembled.
7.3. Emergency Protective Equipment.
7.4. Disassembly procedures
8. Demilitarization Information:
8.1. A live munitions item or an item containing batteries of any type would reflect a [G] code.
8.2. An inert munitions item would reflect [B] code.
9. Munition Security Classification: (Include Controlled Item Code [CIC] and CAC if
assigned. For classified items, state the classification instead of saying, “classified.”)
10. Unit Cost:
10.1. List cost per component if multiple components are sent or packaged separately.
11. Additional Information:
11.1. List the original TDM PACKAGE requester's address, phone number, e-mail address, etc.,
for the munitions item.
11.2. List the name, phone number and e-mail address for responsible Test Engineer/Program
Manager from Eglin AFB. Include at least two local points of contact.
11.3. Include any other pertinent information as applicable.
11.4. Additional EOD data.
