BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                            32-9002

                                                                                      25 JULY 2013

                                                                                  Civil Engineering

                                                                 ASSIGNMENT OF BUILDINGS,
                                                                  FACILITIES, AND QUARTERS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: 96 CEG/CEAR                                                           Certified by: 96 CEG/CC
                                                                                       (Col. Higdon)
Supersedes: AACI 32-9002, 3 February 2000                                                    Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Asset Management. This instruction
establishes responsibilities and outlines procedures for the allocation, assignment, utilization, and
termination of assignment of all Eglin AFB buildings and facilities (on and off installation)
included in the real property accountable records. It applies to all activities assigned, attached, or
an associate to Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result
of prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updates publication references and office symbols. Specifies notification of assignment of
facility managers will now be sent to 96 CES/CEOSC.
1. Policy. All buildings or structures will be utilized as allocated and indicated on the
Installations Inventory of Existing Facilities Report (RP - RCS: SAF-MIL (A) 7115).
Specifically, floor space will only be used for the purpose approved in the allocating
documentation. It will be reported as available for reallocation whenever its utilization changes.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The Eglin AFB Facilities Board is responsible for maximum utilization of existing
   assets and the accurate and compatible reporting thereof to higher headquarters.
 2                                                          EGLINAFBI32-9002 25 JULY 2013


     2.2. The 96th Civil Engineer Group (96 CEG) is accountable for all real property and is
     responsible for assignment of all Eglin AFB buildings and facilities (on and off installation)
     and for maintaining complete and accurate real property records.
     2.3. The Chief, Housing Division (96 CEG/CEAH) will be the manager for all family
     housing. Individual assignments will be made according to AFI 32-6001, Family Housing
     Management.
     2.4. The 96 CEG/CEAH will assign dormitory space to specific organizations. The
     organization using the most space in each dormitory will designate a building manager.
     2.5. The Base Lodging Manager (96 FSS/FSVL) will be the manager for transient quarters
     (VQ/VOQ/VAQ/TLF). Assignment will be according to AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging
     Program.
     2.6. All commanders will appoint in writing a primary and alternate facility manager for
     each building/facility and real property asset assigned to their organization. In multipurpose
     facilities, the organization assigned the most square footage will appoint the primary facility
     manager. Any other organization using a portion of a multipurpose building will appoint an
     alternate facility manager for the area occupied. Any buildings/facilities assigned to
     contractors will also have a facility manager appointed by their upper military/civilian
     management personnel. Facility managers should be the equivalent of an E-5 or above with
     at least two years retainability. Facility managers must complete initial and annual training
     developed                                                                                   by
     CE Customer Service (796 CES/CEOSC) prior to appointment. Facility manager
     appointment letters should be updated at least every two years, when there are facility
     manager personnel changes, or when a building/facility is reassigned or relinquished.
     2.7. The 796 CES/CEOSC is responsible for operating, monitoring and training of the Eglin
     AFB Facility Manager Program. 796 CES/CEOSC maintains the master copies of all
     appointment letters and training certificates and are also responsible for updating all
     corresponding computer files. Facility managers will obtain clearance from 796 CES/CEOSC
     prior to departing Eglin AFB.
3. Procedures for Requesting and Assigning Space:
     3.1. Submit a written request for space to the Real Property Office, 96 CEG/CEAR, on Eglin
     AFB Form 35, Request for Space. Requests for space, as well as any changes in utilization
     within a facility, will be signed by commanders of two-letter staff activities or commanders
     of associate units. These changes will then be presented to the Eglin AFB Space
     Management Committee for approval/disapproval. All contemplated contract actions that
     involve providing space in government facilities to contractor personnel, or to lease space off
     base, must be approved by the Space Management Committee prior to initiation of the
     contract. Requests will include:
        3.1.1. Justification, including reasons the currently assigned space is not adequate.
        3.1.2. Square feet of floor space needed to perform functions and any requirement for
        alteration of an existing facility. (Any conversion or re-designation of facilities will be
        according to AFI 32-9002, Use of Real Property Facilities.)
        3.1.3. An estimate of the time the requested space will be required.
EGLINAFBI32-9002 25 JULY 2013                                                                   3


  3.2. All requests for buildings (facilities and floor space) to be used by the Range O&M
  Contractor will be sent through the Services Management Organization (AFTC/PZZ). The
  contracting officer/property administrator will validate the requirement and the O&M
  contractor will send the written request to 96 CEG/CEAR for action.
  3.3. Upon initial assignment of a building/facility, advise 796 CES/CEOSC in writing of the
  primary and alternate facility managers appointed (paragraph 2.6). This notification will
  include information outlined in AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability & Reporting and
  according to this instruction.
  3.4. Notify 96 CEG/CEAR when an organization no longer requires a building or facility. A
  96 CEG/CEAR inspector and the facility manager will conduct a physical inspection. If the
  condition of the assigned building or facility is acceptable, the keys will be turned over to 96
  CEG/CEAR and the manager will be cleared. Organizations may make a change of manager
  without physical inspection unless the new manager desires one.
  3.5. Changes in unit strength, completion of a test contract, or function that serve to reduce
  or modify the justified and approved allocation of space resources, will be reported promptly
  to 96 CEG/CEAR. The space made available by these events will be reallocated according to
  this instruction.




                                            DAVID A. HARRIS, Brig Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
 4                                                   EGLINAFBI32-9002 25 JULY 2013


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-90, Real Property Asset Management, 6 Aug 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Prescribed Form
EGLIN AFB Form 35, Request for Space, Jul 13
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
