BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                          33-304

                                                                                  20 JUNE 2013

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                                    RECORDS DISASTER/
                                                                EMERGENCY PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: 96 CS/SCOK                                                           Certified by: 96 CS/CC
                                                                                 (Lt Col Mitchell)
Supersedes: EGLINAFBI33-304,                                                             Pages: 11
            4 Jun 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Air Force Information
Management, by listing procedures to be followed for protecting records in all offices of record
and the base staging area and restoring them in the event of disasters. Use this instruction with:
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities. This instruction applies to
all assigned host, tenant, and geographically separated units on Eglin AFB with the exception of
the 96 Medical Group’s HIPAA related medical records. Maintain and dispose of records
created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Records
Disposition Schedule. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

1. Records Disaster Prevention. Each Office of Record to which this plan applies should
develop a plan that at a minimum identifies those records that are considered vital. All
Functional Area Records Managers (FARMs) must have a copy of an Emergency Action Plan
for Vital Records (Attachment 2) on file from all Records Custodians who have vital records.
This must be maintained in the FARM handbook. All records professionals must use the
Records Professional Disaster Recovery Checklists pertinent to their areas (Attachment 3). Vital
records are defined as those records that are needed to maintain operational responsibility and to
protect the legal and financial rights of individual citizens and their government (Attachment 4).
 2                                                           EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013


Each Chief of an Office of Record should identify measures to minimize destruction of vital
records and must make a reasonable effort to find, restore, or reconstruct damaged records.
2. Establishment of an Emergency Response Team (ERT). Unit commanders and/or division
chiefs should appoint personnel familiar with the respective records being maintained to act as
Emergency Response Team personnel in case a disaster occurs involving records under their
charge. The ERT should be composed of the assigned Chief of an Office of Record of the
affected office and staff provided by the unit. Agencies that can serve in an advisory role include
the Base Records Manager (96 CS/SCOK), Civil Engineer Resource Division (96 CEG/CEA),
Safety (96 TW/SE), and Weather (96 WS/WST). Conducting a successful and efficient salvage
operation after a disaster requires activation of a team that should be established before an
emergency occurs.
3. Plan of Action for Emergency Situations Occurring at Eglin Air Force Base:
     3.1. Water Damaged Materials. Short of destruction by explosion or fire, damage to records
     resulting from water is probably the most severe. Although the specific methods for
     salvaging small amounts of material may differ from the methods for salvaging large
     amounts, the same drying procedures are used for any type of water damage.
        3.1.1. Treatment of Records to be Frozen. The most effective method of stabilizing and
        restoring a large volume of water-damaged materials is by freezing documents at
        temperatures below 20 degrees. A large volume is defined as 5 cubic feet or more. If a
        large volume of holdings is damaged, the least expensive and most successful method for
        drying is vacuum or freeze-drying. After material has been sent to the freezing facility,
        shelf areas should be repaired and sterilized. Documents should not be moved into the
        stacks until the shelves are thoroughly clean and dry and proper temperature and
        humidity have been restored.
        3.1.2. Treatment of Records without Freezing. After the ERT and agency OPR
        determine the types and quantities of material that can be dried without freezing, drying
        rooms should be set up away from the affected area. If the air conditioning equipment
        and humidity controls are still working, then the drying of records should take place.
        Electric fans should be used to circulate air on the documents.
        3.1.3. Treatment of Photographic Materials. Photographs or negatives are salvaged and
        restored in a different manner than described above. Before taking any action, contact
        the Base Visual Information Manager at extension 2-2825 for assistance and or
        instructions. Materials, including data sheets, will be removed from plastic or paper
        enclosures or frames, carefully rinsed, and then dried. Hang photographs with clips on
        non-image areas or lay flat on absorbent paper.
     3.2. Treatment after Drying of Records. After the critical drying operation is over, materials
     should be returned to the respective agency and sorted according to the different degrees of
     repair or restoration needed. Before being returned to their original locations, the materials
     should be monitored daily for several weeks to ensure that mold or fungus has not developed.
4. Temporary Off-Site Facilities. Should temporary off-site facilities be needed during the
emergency effort, the ERT shall coordinate requirements through the Civil Engineering Real
Estate Flight (96 CEG/CEA).
EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013                                                                       3


5. Supplies. All records personnel should be familiar with and have on hand the supplies
necessary for handling relatively small recovery efforts.
6. Facility Integrity and Security. In the event of a major disaster at the Base Staging Area or
any base facility, priority must be placed on facility security. Similar security concerns shall also
be of major importance for any off-site staging area that may be needed as part of a disaster
recovery effort.
7. Documentation of Disaster and Salvage Operations. In the event of a disaster, a post-
disaster assessment report should be written to determine the effectiveness of the recovery
techniques utilized. Extensive photographs and written records of the conditions of the building
and the procedures followed should be kept. All resources used to cope with a disaster shall be
documented, including personnel, materials, time, and expenses.




                                              DAVID A. HARRIS, Brig Gen, USAF
                                              Commander
 4                                                      EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-3, Air Force Information Management, 8 Sep 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013                                                                      5


                                          Attachment 2
          SAMPLE OF EMERGENCY ACTION PLAN FOR VITAL RECORDS

Figure A2.1. Sample of Emergency Action Plan For Vital Records


                                                                      DATE
MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT FARM


FROM XXX XXX


SUBJECT: Emergency Action Plan for Vital Records


The following records are identified as Vital Records for the (name of office) and an emergency
action plan is in place:


1. Title of Records Series
2. Emergency Operating Vital Record or Vital Record Relating to Rights
3. Medium of Which Record is Recorded
4. Physical Location for offsite storage of copies of the records series or systems: (If located on
   the ERM, the BNCC backs up all records)
5. Frequency Records are Updated
6. Licensed Copy of Software to Read Records Available?




                                                     NAME OF RECORDS CUSTODIAN
                                                     Title
 6                                                          EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013


                                         Attachment 3
     RECORDS PROFESSIONAL DISASTER RECOVERY CHECKLISTS (FARM/RC)

Figure A3.1. Records Professional Disaster Recovery Checklists (FARM/RC)
            RECORDS PROTECTION, RECOVERY, AND RESTORATION
            CHECKLIST
                          BASE RECORDS MANAGEMENT
NUMBER                                   ACTION                                     YES NO   NA
            SAFE STORAGE OF RECORDS
            Staging area is weather tight, properly secured, adequately
      1     lighted, heated, ventilated, and temperature controlled.
            Check staging area for roof leaks or signs of the presence of
      2     rodents or insects during the monthly safety checks.
            Store records more than 6 inches from the ceilings or suspended
      3     lights or 18 inches from sprinkler heads.
      4     Prohibit eating and drinking in the staging area.
      5     Purchase required supplies to protect records during a disaster.
      6     Maintain the relative humidity at 35 - 50%.
      7     Keep flammable solvents out of the records storage area.
            RECORDS DISASTERS
            Roof Water Leaks
      8     Determine the location of the leak.
            Place plastic sheeting on the top of the records staging area near
      9     the leak.
      10    Place pails and buckets to collect water.
      11    Contact the building custodian for CE to repair the damage.
            Recover damaged records using established procedures
      12    identified below.
            Preparing for a Hurricane
            Collect milk crates, cardboard boxes, wood pallets, and paper
      13    towels.
            Verify and update, if required, the listing of restoration
      14    companies.
            Verify and update, if required, the listing of contacts for a freezer
      15    truck.
EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013                                                 7


          Contact FARMs and direct them to run the FARM records
   16     protection/recovery checklist.

   17     Cover the shelves in the staging area with plastic sheeting.
          Place records sitting on the staging area floor on top of tables
   18     and cover them with plastic.
          Print a staging listing from AFRIMS. Cover with plastic and
   19     place inside desk. Do not lay flat.
          Recovering from a Records Disaster
   20     Check building 18C for further threats.
   21     Check the staging area for damaged records.

          Identify damaged records. 1st - Vital records, 2nd - 9 year to
   22     permanent records, 3rd - 2 to 8 year records
          Contact FARMs to determine if the organizations have damaged
          records. Contact 96 CES and determine which buildings
          received damage. Contact FARMs for the buildings. If FARMs
   23     not available, contact the organization's UCC.
   24     Assess the damage to staging area and base records.
          Large Volume of Damaged Records
   25     Contact 96 LRS/UCC for a freezer truck.
   26     Work with FARMs to identify and gather records for the freezer.


          Small Volume of Damaged Records
   27     Evaluate and document damage.
   28     Gather staff and workers.
   29     Establish a record-keeping mechanism.
          Gather supplies and equipment. Obtain a copier dedicated to
   30     making copies of damaged records.
   31     Move all damaged records out of the area.
   32     Set up for air drying. Obtain fans and dehumidifiers.
   33     Pack and transport damaged records to the recovery location.
          Carry out air drying procedures. Copy mold damaged records.
          Obtain approval to destroy damaged records after copies are
   34     made. Destroy damaged records.
   35     Monitor and document work.
8                                                       EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013


    36   Clean and restore record recovery work area.
         Return recovered records to the shelves or office of records, as
    37   required.
         After Action
    38   Write a post-disaster assessment report.
                FUNCTIONAL AREA RECORDS MANAGER
NUMBER                                ACTION                                   YES NO    NA
          SAFE STORAGE OF RECORDS
          Verify that offices with vital records have established and
    1     annually reviewed the vital records plans.
    2     Contact offices to verify that they have plastic covers and tape.
          RECORDS DISASTERS
          Preparing for a Hurricane
          Contact records custodians and direct them to run the records
    4     custodian records protection/recovery checklist.
    5     Print a copy of each office’s file plans.
          Identify building custodian for each office to ensure access to
    6     records
          Recovering from a Records Disaster
    7     Conduct a damaged records assessment for each office.
    8     Contact the Base Records Manager.
          Assist the offices and Base Records Manager with recovering
    9     damaged records.
          After Action
    10    Write a post-disaster assessment report.
                           RECORDS CUSTODIAN
NUMBER                                ACTION                                  YES   NO   NA
          SAFE STORAGE OF RECORDS
    1     Identify vital records on the vital records spreadsheet.
          Protect classified and FOUO records from unauthorized
    2     disclosure.
    3     Protect records from unauthorized destruction.
    4     Purchase supplies (plastic covers, tape, pails and/or buckets).
EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013                                               9


           RECORDS DISASTERS
           Roof Water Leaks
    5      Determine the location of the leak.
    6      Place plastic sheeting on records near the leak.
    7      Place pails and buckets to collect water.
    8      Contact the building custodian for CE to repair the damage.
           Contact the Functional Area Records Manager if records
    9      were damaged.
           Preparing for a Hurricane
    10     Return records to the filing cabinet.
    11     Place all records upright in a desk drawer or filing cabinet.
           Move the two bottom drawers of the filing cabinet to a higher
    12     location and cover with plastic.
           Back up disks, hard drives, etc, containing official records.
    13     Protect the media.
           Cover filing cabinet, desk, etc, containing official records,
    14     with plastic and secure with tape.
           Recovering from a Records Disaster
    15     Check office for damaged records.
           Identify damaged records in the following priority: Vital
           Records, 9 year to permanent records, 2 to 8 year records,
    16     less than 2 year records.
           Contact Functional Area Records Manager. The FARM will
    17     contact the Base Records Manager.
    18     Evaluate and document damage.
    19     Gather staff and workers.
    20     Establish a record-keeping mechanism.
    21     Gather supplies and equipment.
    22     Move all damaged records out of the area.
    23     Set up for air drying.
           Carry out air drying procedures. FARM and Base Records
    24     Manager will assist.
    25     Monitor and document work.
    26     Restore damaged records or replace.
10                                                     EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013


          Return treated/copied records to the office locations. Contact
          the Base Records Manager to obtain approval to destroy
          damaged records after copies have been made or replaced.
          Hold all records until you receive AF/NARA approval
     27   through the Base Records Manager.
          After Action
     28   Write a post-disaster assessment report.
EGLINAFBI33-304 20 JUNE 2013                                                                      11


                                          Attachment 4
                             DEFINITION OF VITAL RECORD

Figure A4.1. Definition of Vital Record


1. Emergency operating records serve the Federal Government if the country is attacked and
include records necessary for military efforts and mobilization; protection of material, personnel,
services, systems, public health, safety, and order; and those needed to conduct civil defense
activities.
Emergency operating centers must keep vital records immediately available.
2. Rights and interest records uphold the legal rights and interests of individual citizens and
their Government and include research, Social Security, retirement, payroll, and insurance
records.
The Social Security Administration maintains social security records.
The Office of Personnel Management maintains civilian retirement records.
The Air Force Military Personnel and the Air Force Reserve Personnel Centers send the military
personnel retirement records to the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC), 9700 Page
Avenue, St Louis, MO 63132-5100.
The Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) maintain payroll and accompanying
insurance records.
