BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                         48-108

                                                                                18 APRIL 2011

                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                               INDOOR AIR QUALITY (IAQ)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 96 AMDS/SGPB                                                     Certified by: 96 MDG/CC
                                                                                    (Col Walker)
                                                                                         Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, and HQ USAF Interim
Policy and Guidance for the Prevention, Surveillance, and Remediation of Water Damage and
Associated Mold Contamination in Air Force (AF) Facilities policy letter dated 10 May 2005 and
the United States Air Force IERA, Guide for Indoor Air Quality Surveys dated February 2003.
This Guide establishes the requirements for Indoor Air Quality surveys and procedures for
evaluating, managing, and eliminating factors that may lead to poor indoor air quality. Guidance
within this instruction is done so in accordance with (IAW), the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA), the Center of Disease Control (CDC), and the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA). This instruction applies to military and federal civilian employees
assigned to EAFB and associate units on the Eglin reservation (except Hurlburt Field) including
Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard and Civil Air Patrol. It does not apply to contractor
personnel working on Eglin AFB. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Background:
   1.1. Indoor air quality (IAQ) concerns begin when decisions are made about design,
   operation, or maintenance of a facility without considering the impact on worker’s or
2                                                           EGLINAFBI 48-108 18 APRIL 2011


    resident’s health or comfort. Indoor air quality problems are typically caused primarily by
    high levels of CO2, but may also be due to building material off-gassing or mold.
    1.2. With the ever-increasing efforts toward energy conservation, the desire to reduce
    heating and cooling costs have led to changes in construction techniques in both commercial
    and residential buildings which reduced ventilation rates. These changes include tighter
    building envelopes, fewer and inoperable windows, decreased use of operable windows in
    older construction, use of sealant foams and vapor barriers, reductions in the amount of
    outdoor air used for ventilation. Another area of concern is improperly sized and designed
    heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems, renovations of existing buildings
    without corresponding changes to the HVAC systems, and inadequate building maintenance.
    These changes have had two basic effects: an increase in the number and types of
    contaminants in the indoor environment and a decrease in the amount of fresh outdoor air
    that is introduced into structures to dilute contaminants and satisfy the health and comfort
    needs of the occupants.
    1.3. Increased insulation in buildings, better building materials and techniques have resulted
    in tighter buildings, which retain moisture and provide a more favorable environment for
    microbial growth. Another concern that affects moisture buildup is changes in acceptable
    operating temperatures. Decreases in the amount of outside replacement air led to “stuffy”
    environments that feel too damp and cold in winter and too warm and stuffy during the
    summer.
       1.3.1. Molds are very common in the indoor and outdoor environment surrounding Eglin
       AFB, and removing all mold spores in an indoor environment is impossible. Moisture
       control is the most effective strategy for containing mold amplification. Mold grows
       rapidly when spores have sufficient moisture to support active fungal growth. The
       typical conditions leading to mold growth in buildings include inadequate moisture
       control, deficient ventilation systems, poor housekeeping, and chronic water intrusion.
       The key to an effective mold program is controlling moisture in the facility or housing.
       However, moisture control must be combined with adequate housekeeping and active
       participation of facility/residents in inspecting and responding promptly to initial signs of
       mold. By promoting timely facility/residential moisture control, installations can
       successfully control mold growth and prevent potential subsequent medical concerns.
    1.4. IAQ complaints and health effects are sometimes similar to those from colds, flu, stress,
    and other causes. Symptoms related to mold exposure will vary person to person, but
    typically those symptoms include headaches, breathing difficulty, skin irritation, allergic
    reactions, and aggravation of asthma symptoms. When the reported complaints are
    nonspecific and diverse, difficulties may arise when trying to determine if problems are
    caused by sources or conditions in the building and what can be done to remedy the
    complaints.
    1.5. In some instances, a specific source of contamination or specific building condition
    causing the complaints is readily obvious. However, in the majority of cases, the
    investigators must consider all the factors that relate to indoor air quality to identify possible
    contaminants and stressors, which could be responsible for the reported complaints and
    effects.
EGLINAFBI 48-108 18 APRIL 2011                                                                     3


   1.6. A building investigation is performed in an effort to make these determinations.
   Because the process of relating symptoms and health effects to stressors and sources is
   complex, a multilevel team approach is used, including civil engineering, bioenvironmental
   engineering, facility managers, and others as needed (e.g. tenants, commanders, anyone who
   has stake in the facility).
   1.7. This instruction covers both facility (e.g., administrative, industrial, dormitories, child
   development centers, and family housing) and management issues related to indoor air
   quality and water damage including: prevention, evaluation, and control.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. Facility Managers:
       2.1.1. Ensure a clean environment is maintained in each working area within their
       respective facility.
       2.1.2. Conduct regular evaluations throughout their facilities to inspect HVAC systems
       to ensure the exterior of all ventilation ducts and filters are regularly cleaned and initiate
       proper corrective actions when deficiencies are identified.
       2.1.3. As needed, request IAQ survey through 796 CES/CEOC. Assist and become part
       of the indoor air quality investigation team.
       2.1.4. Initiate recommended corrective actions following investigation of indoor air
       quality complaints associated with their facility.
       2.1.5. Clean and correct any small mold problems or water damage within their
       capability promptly (within 48 hours). If mold contamination or water damage exceeds
       the building manager’s abilities, the manager will submit an AF Form 332 work order.
       2.1.6. Inspect and report moisture problems before mold and related microbial
       contamination become problematic. Routine building inspections, including: Heating,
       Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems, Pipe Chases, Utility Tunnels,
       Building “envelope” (roof, walls, flooring, etc.)
   2.2. Civil Engineering Squadron (796 CES) will:
       2.2.1. Conduct facility evaluations (upon facility manager’s request) in dormitories,
       family housing, lodging, industrial, and administrative buildings. In facilities where
       mold and/or moisture/excess humidity problems are present, CE should determine the
       source. CE may request Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) to assist with the facility
       evaluation as required for sampling.
       2.2.2. Survey, evaluate, and complete repairs and maintenance requested by facility
       managers when implicated as stressors for indoor air quality complaints.
       2.2.3. Respond to facility managers’ requests for HVAC inspections due to air quality
       concerns.
       2.2.4. Housing Managers will initially investigate occupant complaints to screen out
       complaints associated with invasive mold/water problems due to poor housekeeping. If
       mold-related contamination or water damage exceeds the housing manager’s abilities, the
 4                                                           EGLINAFBI 48-108 18 APRIL 2011


        manager will contact and submit a work order through their sub-unit Housing
        Maintenance.
            2.2.4.1. If a housing manager receives occupant health complaint(s), he/she should
            refer the potentially affected resident(s) to their medical provider.
            2.2.4.2. Housing managers will distribute copies of the EPA Mold Guide to all
            incoming military family housing occupants.
     2.3. Medical Treatment Facility (MTF)
        2.3.1. MTF Commander: The MTF Commander will provide personnel and expertise
        to evaluate occupant building related health complaints (These complaints may or may
        not be due to the indoor environment within a building but because of health concerns
        require medical and occupational health personnel evaluation).
        2.3.2. MTF Physicians: Will provide medical evaluation and appropriate care to
        personnel with health complaints that may be building related. Physicians will work with
        members of the Team Aerospace Squadron when requested to evaluate facilities for
        potential building related illnesses. If the medical provider believes the symptoms are
        related to occupational exposure, then they should send an AF Form 190, Occupational
        Illness/Injury Report, or SF-513, Medical Record-Consultation sheet through the Public
        Health Flight.
            2.3.2.1. Civilian members seeking medical care for suspected building related
            illnesses or nonspecific indoor-related symptom complaints will notify their
            supervisor and should seek medical care from their own primary care provider.
     2.4. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE): BE, with 796 CES, will conduct health risk
     assessments to investigate/identify potential causes of building-related or housing illnesses.
     BE will work with other Team Aerospace members to determine the need for and in the
     completion of health risk assessments in response to physician identified illness that may be
     building related.
        2.4.1. As requested, BE will conduct an Indoor Air Quality survey as part of the
        investigation/identifying of potential causes of building-related or housing illnesses.
        2.4.2. Provide recommendations such as engineering, substitution, or administrative
        controls that will help reduce or eliminate identified indoor air quality stressors.
        2.4.3. BE will monitor IAQ parameters such as Carbon Dioxide (CO2), relative humidity
        and temperature. BE will provide recommendations/corrective actions if the results of the
        survey fall outside of the recommended levels in Table 2.1

Table 2.1. Recommended IAQ Levels.
        Parameter                                  Recommended Level
        CO2                                        1000 part per million (ppm) or less
        Relative Humidity                          40-60%
        Temperature                                68-76°F
EGLINAFBI 48-108 18 APRIL 2011                                                                    5


3. Procedures:
   3.1. Indoor air quality surveys will be initiated either due to an occupational illness report, a
   special survey request to BE, or request made to 796 CES or other member of the IAQ
   investigative team. A special survey request is commander requested bypassing 796 CES
   response.
   3.2. If an IAQ special survey request is submitted by the facility manager to BE, the survey
   will be conducted and scheduled based on a priority basis.
   3.3. Individuals with health complaints associated with their work environment will report
   their concerns to their facility manager for individualized corrective actions. Facility
   managers will call 796 CES/CEOC to schedule an initial IAQ survey and will report
   accumulative reports of health complaints or concerns from building occupants to BE (96
   AMDS/SGPB). Facility manager has to advise the individual showing signs and symptoms
   to their primary care manager.
   3.4. If a more detailed evaluation is necessary, a team approach will be used for the
   assessment, which may include BE, Occupational Medicine, Public Health, and Civil
   Engineering. The team will determine any stressors as possible contaminant sources for the
   indoor air quality complaint (HVAC, renovations, new furnishings, etc.).
   3.5. If deemed appropriate by the team, BE will conduct air sampling for possible airborne
   contaminants.
   3.6. The survey team will out-brief supervisor(s), and facility manager(s), and present them
   with recommendations for corrective actions.

4. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report
SF-513, Medical Record-Consultation sheet
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             SAL M. NODJOMIAN, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 96th Air Base Wing
 6                                                           EGLINAFBI 48-108 18 APRIL 2011


                                          Attachment 1
     INDOOR AIR QUALITY GUIDE FOR FACILITY MANAGERS/SUPERVISORS

A healthy indoor environment is one in which the surroundings contribute to productivity,
comfort, and a sense of health and well being. The indoor air is free from significant levels of
odors, dust, and contaminants and circulates to prevent stuffiness without creating drafts.
Temperature and humidity are appropriate to the clothing and activity of the building occupants.
The definition of good indoor air quality includes:
Introduction and distribution of adequate ventilation air.
Control of airborne contaminants, and
Maintenance of acceptable temperature and relative humidity.
Good air quality is an important component of a healthy indoor environment!
A practical guide to indoor air quality (IAQ) cannot overlook the temperature and humidity
factors, because thermal comfort concerns underlie many complaints about “poor air quality.”
Furthermore, temperature and humidity are among the many factors that effect indoor
contaminant levels. It is important to remember that while occupant complaints may be related to
time at work, they may not necessarily be due to the quality of air. Other factors such as noise,
lighting, ergonomic stressors (work station and task design), and job related psychological
stressors can (individually or in combination) contribute to the complaints.
Failure to respond promptly and effectively to IAQ problems can have consequences such
as:
Increasing health problems such as cough, eye irritation, headaches, and allergic reactions, and in
some rare cases, resulting in life threatening conditions (such as carbon monoxide poisoning or
Legionnaire’s disease).
Reducing productivity due to discomfort or increasing employee absenteeism.
Accelerating deterioration of furnishings and equipment.
Straining relations between tenants, employers and employees.
Opening liability problems due to insurance policies’ tendency to exclude pollution-related
claims.
Provision of good air quality requires conscientious effort by both building staff and occupants.
The commitment to address IAQ problems starts with the building owner or facility manager, the
person who has an overview of the organization, sets policy, and assigns staff responsibilities.
You have the authority to see that an IAQ policy is articulated and carried out; the ability to
identify staff with skills that enable them to react promptly and effectively to complaints; and the
incentive to initiate a program that will prevent indoor air problems in the future. As you decide
how best to respond to the challenge of preventing and resolving indoor air quality issues in your
building, it will be helpful to keep in mind the following thoughts:
It is important to establish a process that encourages an active exchange of information.
EGLINAFBI 48-108 18 APRIL 2011                                                                         7


Without an open communications policy, an atmosphere of distrust may be created that
complicates your efforts to diagnose and correct problems.
Facility staff members are in a position to notice malfunctioning equipment or accidental
events that could produce indoor air quality problems.
They can play a critical role in identifying problem situations and averting IAQ crises. On the
other hand, if staff members are not aware of IAQ issues, their activities can also create indoor
air quality problems.
Facility staff members are often instructed to keep energy costs to a minimum.
Changes in building operation intended to save energy have sometimes contributed to IAQ
problems (for example, by reducing the flow of outdoor ventilation air without taking action to
maintain the quality of the recirculated air). The correction of IAQ problems has sometimes led
to reduced energy use due to the efficiency associated with a cleaner and better-controlled
heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system. The energy needed to condition and
distribute ventilation air is only a small part of total building energy consumption and is
overshadowed by other operating costs. Attempting to limit operating costs by reducing
ventilation can be false economy if it leads to problems such as increased occupant complaints,
reduced productivity, and also absenteeism.
An indoor air quality problem may be the direct or indirect result of an apparently minor
modification.
Actions such as the placement of interior room dividers, acquiring new office equipment, and
personal activities such as cooking can have an impact on indoor air quality. Communication
between building occupants and building management concerning their mutual responsibilities is
a critical element in the management of indoor air quality.
Indoor air quality in a large building is the product of many influences, and attempts to
bring problems under control do not always produce the expected results.
Some indoor air quality problems are complex and may require the assistance of outside
professionals. When contracting for services, you need to be an informed client to avoid
unnecessary costs and delays in solving the problem. If there is a reason to believe that an IAQ
problem may have serious health implications, Public Health (846-3461) and Bioenvironmental
Engineering (846-4259) should be called in as soon as possible. Many indoor air quality
problems are not difficult to correct and can be solved with in-house expertise. However,
gathering congruent information about the problem and identifying appropriate corrective actions
are likely to require a coordinated effort by people with a variety of skills. Be prepared to answer
the following:
What is the problem?
Where is the problem?
Who is affected?
When does the problem occur?
Note that the development of health effects on an individual who is exposed to chemical,
physical, and biological stressors depends on factors including genetics, sex, personal habits,
diet, age, and health status. After a telephone interview, it will be determined if an investigation
 8                                                          EGLINAFBI 48-108 18 APRIL 2011


of the building is necessary. The inspection will start with the administrative of a health effects
questionnaire. Results will be analyzed and a building evaluation will usually be accomplished.
If characterization of contaminates is needed sampling may be performed. Final evaluation and
analysis is then accomplished to generate a report outlining apparent causes of reported
symptoms and recommended corrective actions.
