BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                        31-213

                                                                        18 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                      Security

                                                          ARMED FORCES DISCIPLINARY
                                                            CONTROL BOARDS AND OFF-
                                                            INSTALLATION LIAISON AND
                                                                         OPERATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 96 SFS/S-5P                                                      Certified by: 96 SFS/CC
                                                                              (Lt Col Hollman)
Supersedes:   AFJI 31-213/AACI Sup 1,                                                  Pages: 7
              29 September 2000


This instruction implements EAFBI 31-213, Applies to all Eglin AFB and Hurlburt Field
Military personnel. Send recommended changes or comments for this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change updates Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB) areas of responsibility
to include Eglin Air Force Base and Hurlburt Field and deletes the term “Northwest Florida
Region”, which had included Pensacola Naval Air Station. Additionally, it adds a list of board
members, by position, which identifies non-voting and voting members. Finally, the instruction
clearly delineates the rotation of presidency for the AFDCB and gives the opportunity to each
Installation Commander to work together to come to a final conclusion that protects the health,
safety, morale and welfare of Armed Forces personnel and family members in the local area to
include Eglin AFB, Hurlburt Field, Duke Field, 7th Special Forces Group compound and Camp
Rudder.
 2                                                  EGLINAFBI31-213 18 DECEMBER 2013


1. Authority. The 96 Test Wing (TW) Commander, Eglin AFB, along with the 1 Special
Operations Wing (SOW) Commander, Hurlburt Field, are responsible for maintaining the
health, safety, morale, welfare and discipline of military personnel and their families on Eglin
AFB, Hurlburt Field, Duke Field, 7th Special Forces Group compound, and Camp Rudder. To
carry out this responsibility, the 96 TW Commander along with the 1 SOW Commander are
authorized under AFI 31-213. Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Boards and Off-Installation
Liaison and Operations to declare establishments, businesses and areas “off-limits” to military
personnel where there exists sufficient cause to believe that service members may be exposed to
or victimized by crime-conducive conditions, or forms of discrimination.
2. Purpose. The AFDCB is an organization whose purpose is to assist the 96 TW Commander
and 1 SOW Commander in eliminating undesirable conditions and situations that may adversely
affect the health, safety, morale and discipline of military personnel and their families. The goal
of the AFDCB is the correction of the deficiency by the off-base establishment, business or area.
However, when the deficiency is not or cannot be corrected, the AFDCB may recommend to the
96 TW Commander and 1 SOW Commander to place the establishment, business or area “off-
limits”.
3. Board Composition. The presidency of the AFDCB will be divided and rotated amongst the
Commander, 96th Security Forces Squadron, and the Commander, 1 st Special Operations
Security Forces Squadron. On even calendar years the 1 SOSFS Commander will sponsor and
serve as President of the AFDCB for Hurlburt Field and Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. On odd
calendar years the 96 SFS Commander will serve and sponsor as President of the AFDCB for
Hurlburt Field and Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. Furthermore, whichever installation presides
the AFDCB will also be liable for all the responsibilities of the AFDCB as outlined in AFJI 31-
213, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Boards and Off-Installation Liaison and Operations.
     3.1. Duties of the president include scheduling and presiding at all AFDCB meetings.
     Whichever installation is presiding the AFDCB should invite and/or coordinate with
     representatives from the neighbor installation whether it be Eglin AFB, Hurlburt Field, Duke
     Field, 7th Special Forces Group, or Camp Rudder.
     3.2. The following are designated as members of the board
EGLINAFBI31-213 18 DECEMBER 2013                                                            3


Figure 1. Designated Board Members
   Voting Members
    96 SFS/CC (Board President/odd years)
    1 SOSFS/CC (Board President/even years)
    96 TW/CCC
    1 SOW/CCC
    One representative from 96 SFS (S2 may serve as voting member)
    One representative from 1 SOSFS (S2 may serve as voting member)
    One representative from 6 RTB/PMO
    One representative from 7 SFG/PMO
    One representative from NAVSCOLEOD/MA
   Non-Voting Permanent Members:
    Board Secretary (96 SFS/S2 or 1 SOSFS/S2)
    Law Enforcement (AFOSI, CID, Local Agencies)
    Board Legal Advisors (96 TW/JA and 1 SOW/JA)
    Wing Safety (96 TW/SEG and 1 SOW/SE)
   Non-Voting Advisors (as required):
    Health, Alcohol and Drug Abuse (96 MDG and 1 SOMDG)
    Environmental Protection (96 CEG and 1 SOCES)
    Public and Consumer Affairs (96 TW/PA and 1 SOW/PA)
    Equal Opportunity (96 TW/EO and 1 SOW/EO)
    Fire (96 CES/FD and 1 SOCES)
    Chaplains’ Service (96 TW/HC and 1 SOW/HC)
    Personnel and Community Activities (96 FSS and 1 SOFSS)
    AT/FP (96 MSG/CCW and 1 SOW/ATO)
    Board visitors or guests not listed above

4. Responsibilities of the Board. The AFDCB functions under the supervision of a president
and serves all military personnel and family members at or near Eglin AFB and Hurlburt Field.
   4.1. The board meets as often as determined by the sponsoring AFDCB president. The
   board will convene at least once quarterly or as situations dictate.
   4.2. If a situation dictates the board convene immediately, the commanders of the 96 SFS
   and the 1 SOSFS and their respective legal office representatives will convene in person or
   via teleconference to discuss the situation and make recommendations. The board’s
 4                                                    EGLINAFBI31-213 18 DECEMBER 2013


     recommended course of action will be forwarded to each wing commander via a single e-
     mail from the board president.
     4.3. The AFDCB studies and recommends appropriate action on all reports of conditions
     considered detrimental to the health, safety, welfare, morale and discipline of Armed Forces
     personnel and families. These activities include, but are not limited to, prostitution, sexually
     transmitted disease, liquor violations, racial and other discriminatory practices, alcohol and
     drug abuse, drug abuse paraphernalia, criminal or illegal activities involving cults, hate
     groups or other groups that conduct or associate with criminal activity, illicit gambling and
     areas susceptible to terrorist activity.
5. Procedures. Prior to recommending off–limits restriction, the sponsoring AFDCB will send
a written notice (certified mail–return receipt requested) to the individual, group or firm
responsible for the alleged condition or situation. The AFDCB will specify, in the notice, a
reasonable time for the condition or situation to be corrected, along with the opportunity to
present any relevant information to the board.
     5.1. If the individual, group or firm responsible for the alleged conditions or situation takes
     remedial action to correct undesirable conditions previously noted, then the AFDCB should
     send a letter of appreciation to recognize this cooperation.
     5.2. If subsequent investigation reveals that the responsible person has failed to take
     corrective action, the board will make a recommendation to the sponsoring Installation
     Commanders to begin off-limit proceedings.
     5.3. When conditions have not been corrected the proprietor or a (representative) will be
     invited to appear before the AFDCB and be granted the opportunity to explain why the
     establishment should not be placed off-limits.
     5.4. In these cases where proprietors or their representative have been invited to appear
     before the board, the president of the board will perform the following:
        5.4.1. Prior to calling the proprietor:
            5.4.1.1. Review the findings and decision of the previous meeting.
            5.4.1.2. Call for inspection reports.
            5.4.1.3. Allow those present to ask questions and discuss the case.
        5.4.2. When the proprietor or his or her representative is called before the board, the
        board should:
            5.4.2.1. Present the proprietor with a brief summary of the complaint concerning the
            establishment.
            5.4.2.2. Afford the proprietor an opportunity to present matters in defense.
            5.4.2.3. Invite those present to question the proprietor. After the questioning period,
            provide the proprietor an opportunity to make a final statement before being
            dismissed.
     5.5. Deliberations on recommended actions will be in closed session, attended only by board
     members (without the presence of the proprietor or representative). The voting members
EGLINAFBI31-213 18 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  5


   should then vote on whether or not to place the establishment, business, or area “off-limits.”
   The board should recommend an off–limit restriction only after the following:
       5.5.1. The letter of notification has been sent.
       5.5.2. An opportunity for the proprietor to appear before the board has been extended.
       5.5.3. Further investigation indicates that improvements have not been made.
   5.6. After deliberation, the minutes will be written by the sponsoring installation and will
   indicate the AFDCB’s recommended courses of action. When a recommendation is made to
   place an establishment off–limits, the minutes will show the procedural steps followed in
   reaching the decision.
       5.6.1. Minutes will be prepared in accordance with Attachment 1. The written minutes
       of AFDCB meetings will constitute the official record of the AFDCB proceedings.
       5.6.2. Distribution of the minutes of AFDCB meetings should take no longer than 10
       business days and will be limited to the following agencies when routing.

Figure 2. AFDCB Routing Agencies
                    96 TW/CC
                    1 SOW/CC
                    96 TW/CV
                    1 SOW/CV
                    96 TW/JA
                    1 SOW/JA
                    96 SFS/CC
                    1 SOSFS/CC

   5.7. Recommendations of the AFDCB will be jointly submitted to the 96 TW Commander
   and the 1 SOW Commander who will coordinate with one another to come to a conclusion
   based on recommendations and evidence given by the AFDCB. The installation
   commanders will either approve or disapprove the recommendations and forward their
   decision to the AFDCB president.
   5.8. After each commander concurs upon a course of action, the president will inform the
   proprietor whether the off-limits restriction will or will not be imposed.
   5.9. If off-limits restrictions are imposed, then the sponsoring Installation will be responsible
   for drafting a policy letter for each installation commander to sign and informing the public
   which local establishments are off-limits.
   5.10. A copy of the minutes will be filed with the 96 SFS/S-5 Superintendent and the 1
   SOSFS/S-5 Superintendent IAW, AFI 33-332, Records Management Program.
6. Removal of Off-Limits Restrictions. No time period should be established for how long an
off-limits restriction will remain in effect. The adequacy of the corrective action taken by the
 6                                                      EGLINAFBI31-213 18 DECEMBER 2013


proprietor of the establishment must be the determining factor in removing the off-limits
restriction. As a matter of policy, a change of ownership, management, or name of any off-limits
establishment does not, in and of itself, revoke the off-limits restriction.
     6.1. Removal of an off-limits restriction requires AFDCB action.                  Proprietors of
     establishments declared off-limits should be advised that they may submit to the president of
     the AFDCB at any time a petition to remove off-limits restrictions. The petition must be in
     writing and include a detailed report of action taken to eliminate the condition or situation
     that caused imposition of the restriction. The president of the AFDCB may direct an
     investigation to determine the status of the corrective actions noted in the petition. The board
     will either recommend the removal or continuation of the off-limits restriction to the 96 TW
     Commander and 1 SOW Commander based on the results of the investigation. A letter of
     notification for continuance of the off-limits restriction should be sent to the proprietor if the
     AFDCB does not remove the off-limits restriction. The proprietor may further appeal to the
     96 TW Commander and 1 SOW Commander.
     6.2. When the board learns the proprietor has taken adequate corrective measures, the
     AFDCB will take the following actions:
        6.2.1. Discuss the matter at the next meeting and make appropriate recommendations.
        6.2.2. Forward a recommendation for the removal of the off-limits restriction to the 96
        TW Commander and 1 SOW Commander. If approved, a letter removing the restriction
        will be sent to the proprietor.
        6.2.3. The minutes will reflect action taken.




                                                DAVID A. HARRIS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Commander
EGLINAFBI31-213 18 DECEMBER 2013                                                        7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,11 March 2008
AFI 31-213. Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Boards and Off-Installation Liaison and
Operations, 27 July 2006
AFI 33-332, Records Management Program, 5 June 2013
Forms Adopted
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
