BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE                                                          48-102

                                                                                  30 JUNE 2011

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                                 NON-IONIZING RADIATION
                                                                      CONTROL PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 96 AMDS/SGPB                                                       Certified by: 96MDG/CC
                                                                                     (Col Walker)
Supersedes:    AACI 48-102, 11 August                                                   Pages: 14
               2000


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, AFOSH STD 48-9,
Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, AFOSH STD 48-139, Laser Radiation
Protection Program and ANSI Z136.1, American National Standard for Safe Use of Laser. It
applies to all EAFB units and associates on the Eglin reservations (except Hurlburt Field) that
possess or use non-ionizing radiation systems and equipment. It specifically excludes medical
diagnostic or therapeutic systems used for patient treatment. In this instruction, the term non-
ionizing radiation refers to laser and radio frequency (RF) radiation. Send recommended
changes or comments for this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using
the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change reflects updated laser classifications IAW ANSI Z136.1-2007.
1. General. Equipment used to produce radiation is useful in industrial applications,
construction, research projects, test missions, armament development and communications.
Military applications in target range finding, designating and imaging are increasing in number.
These systems may be directly or indirectly hazardous to personnel by virtue of their potential to
cause damage to body tissues and organs, and will be rated based on the ability of the laser beam
 2                                                            EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011


to cause biological damage to the eyes or skin. A Class 1 laser system is considered to be
incapable of producing damaging radiation levels during operation and is exempt from any
control measures or other forms of surveillance. Class 1M laser system is considered to be
incapable of producing damaging radiation levels during operation unless the beam is viewed
with an optical instrument such as an eye-loupe (diverging beam) or a telescope (collimated
beam) and is exempt from any control measures other than to prevent potentially hazardous
optically aided viewing; and is exempt from other forms of surveillance. Class 2 and 2M laser
systems emit in the visible portion of the spectrum (0.4 to 0.7 um), and eye protection is
normally afforded by the aversion response. A Class 3 laser system (medium-power) may be
hazardous under direct and specular reflection viewing conditions, but is normally not a diffuse
reflection or fire hazard. A Class 3R laser system is potentially hazardous under some direct and
specular reflection viewing condition if the eye is appropriately focused and stable, but the
probability of an actual injury is small. This laser will not pose either a fire or diffuse-reflection
hazard. A Class 3B laser system may be hazardous under direct and specular reflection viewing
conditions, but is normally not a diffuse or fire hazard. A Class 4 laser system (high-power) is a
hazard to the eye or skin from the direct beam, and may pose a diffuse reflection or fire hazard.
Class 4 lasers may also produce laser generated air contaminants and hazardous plasma
radiation.
2. Objective. The primary objective of the program is to minimize risks to health and safety
without unduly restricting the use of potentially hazardous systems, and implement required
regulatory controls.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Installation Radiation Safety Officer (RSO).
        3.1.1. Implements and executes the Non-ionizing Radiation Control Program.
        3.1.2. Is appointed in writing by 96 ABW/CC as required by applicable Air Force policy
        and directives.
        3.1.3. Inspects, surveys or assesses work areas that maintain or use non-ionizing
        radiation sources to ensure safe use according to applicable Air Force and federal
        directives.
        3.1.4. Leads investigations for suspected exposures in excess of the occupational
        exposure limit (OEL) for RF sources or the maximum permissible exposure (MPE) for
        laser sources. Investigations will be done according to the applicable AFOSH STD.
        3.1.5. Notifies appropriate authorities of suspected or actual exposures to non-ionizing
        radiation above established levels.
        3.1.6. Conducts periodic hazard reviews and recommends adoption of necessary
        protective measures to ensure radiation exposures is maintained below established levels.
        Such measures may include engineering or administrative controls or both.
        3.1.7. Inspects users of non-ionizing radiation equipment when unsafe conditions are
        indicated or suspected, and takes action to terminate use of such equipment when
        conditions are found to be unnecessarily detrimental to health and safety.
EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011                                                                3


     3.1.8. Ensures users of non-ionizing radiation equipment are briefed annually on the
     relevant hazards, the radiation control program and on the use and care of radiation
     protection equipment.
  3.2. Public Health (96 AMDS/SGPM).
     3.2.1. Through the Occupational Health Working Group, ensures appropriate medical
     surveillance for people who work with Class 3B or 4 laser systems.
     3.2.2. Reports suspected non-ionizing radiation overexposures brought to their attention
     to the Installation RSO, 96 AMDS/SGPB, 883-8607.
     3.2.3. Prepares and distributes reports (AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury
     Report) of suspected and actual overexposures to appropriate authorities within 45 days
     following a reported overexposure.
  3.3. Ground Safety (ACC/SEG).
     3.3.1. Reviews test directives involving the use of non-ionizing radiation sources on the
     Eglin reservation and makes appropriate recommendations with regard to personnel
     safety.
     3.3.2. Coordinates with or consults the Installation RSO, 96 AMDS/SGPB, prior to
     recommending or implementing controls for potential non-ionizing radiation hazards.
  3.4. Unit Commanders and Civilian Managers (Squadrons or Equivalent 3-Letter Offices).
     3.4.1. Appoint Unit RSOs/Laser Safety Officers (LSOs) (as appropriate) in writing in
     workplaces that:
         3.4.1.1. Operate RF radiation emitters with moderate or high-risk ratings, or as
         determined necessary by the Installation RSO.
         3.4.1.2. Use Class 3B or 4 (non-embedded) lasers, or as determined necessary by the
         Installation RSO.
     3.4.2. Monitor workplace enforcement of this instruction and other restrictions and
     requirements imposed by the Installation RSO based on their interpretation of applicable
     AF or federal directives.
     3.4.3. Make resources available for purchasing safety equipment necessary for safe use
     of non-ionizing radiation equipment. Refer questions regarding the need for specific
     equipment items to the Installation RSO at 883-8607.
  3.5. Workplace Supervisors.
     3.5.1. Enforce this instruction and other restrictions and requirements recommended by
     the Unit RSO/LSO or Installation RSO.
     3.5.2. Obtain and make available safety equipment necessary for the safe use of non-
     ionizing radiation equipment.
     3.5.3. Ensure that initial and annual laser safety training is completed and documented
     for users of readily accessible (non-embedded) class 3B and 4 laser systems as described
     in ANSI STD Z136.1. Training requirements outlined in AFOSH STD 48-139.
 4                                                          EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011


        3.5.4. Ensure that initial and annual RF radiation safety training is completed and
        documented for workers that operate or may be exposed to RF emitters with moderate or
        high-risk ratings.
     3.6. Unit RSOs and LSOs.
        3.6.1. Annually check RF emitters and facilities to ensure compliance with labeling and
        posting requirements and operating instructions (OIs) and to ensure proper operation of
        required engineering controls. Identify discrepancies to users, supervisor and Installation
        RSO.
        3.6.2. Prepare proposed RF/laser safety OIs and training plans and send them to 96
        AMDS/SGPB for review and approval.
        3.6.3. Provide initial and annual RF or laser safety training to workers. See paragraph 4
        for specific requirements.
        3.6.4. Immediately notify the Installation RSO of any incident, accident or unusual
        circumstances involving non-ionizing radiation.
        3.6.5. Coordinate with the Installation RSO prior to initiating projects or work processes
        involving new non-ionizing radiation equipment covered under the Non-ionizing
        Radiation Safety Program. This includes changes to existing equipment, working
        conditions or activities.
        3.6.6. Update the workplace non-ionizing radiation systems inventory as changes occur,
        and submit an annual summary to the Installation RSO by 1 October of each year.
     3.7. Users of non-ionizing radiation producing equipment.
        3.7.1. Become familiar with and practice the rules of safety as outlined in applicable
        workplace operating instructions.
        3.7.2. Wear protective clothing and equipment as recommended by the LSO/RSO.
        3.7.3. Strive to keep exposures to radiation below established OELs or MPEs, as
        appropriate.
        3.7.4. Report accidents and hazardous conditions promptly to their supervisor.
     3.8. Government Contract Originators. When a project or program requires the use of non-
     ionizing radiation equipment on the Eglin reservation by contractors:
        3.8.1. Request a hazard evaluation and written approval for using the equipment
        according to paragraph 5, or
        3.8.2. Ensure appropriate contract documents include the requirement for the contractor
        to request a hazard evaluation and written approval for using the equipment according to
        paragraph 5.
4. Training.
     4.1. Workplace supervisors schedule and document training, and maintain records of
     training. Training records must be retained for at least 3 years and must document subjects
     covered and dates training was provided.
EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011                                                                 5


   4.2. The Installation RSO or their alternate typically provides training to workplace
   RSO/LSOs who then provide the required training to other employees assigned to the
   workplace.
   4.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) will provide a training outline upon request to
   assist workplace RSOs/LSOs with developing a workplace-specific training plan and outline.
   4.4. Training requirements for contractor employees should be included in contract
   specifications or other appropriate documents. Contractors must comply with federal and
   state laws dealing with the safe use of non-ionizing radiation producing equipment.
5. Hazard Evaluation and Approval Requirements. All non-ionizing radiation producing
equipment must be evaluated by the Unit RSO for potential hazards prior to use. To ensure the
hazard evaluation is completed in a timely manner, users must submit a written request for
evaluation to the Installation RSO at least 30 days before the expected date of equipment use.
Unless it is classified, information necessary to perform this evaluation must be provided with
the request (see attachments 1 and 2).
6. Personnel Monitoring and Surveillance (Lasers Only). The 96 MDG Aerospace Medicine
Council, Occupational and Environmental Health Working Group, will determine specific
medical surveillance for AF military and civilian workers. Such surveillance will be based upon
each worker’s health risks as documented by BE, established medical guidance/protocols,
regulatory standards, Air Force policy and Installation RSO advice as needed.
7. Posting of Hazardous Areas. Potential non-ionizing radiation exposure areas will be
marked in accordance with AFOSH STD 48-9, figure 3.1. Laser exposure areas will be marked
according to the requirements of the ANSI Z535-series, American National Standard
Specification for Accident Prevention Signs. ANSI Z 136.1 contains sample signs for the
different classes of lasers or laser systems.
8. Reporting Accidents and Incidents. Individuals or their supervisors must report all actual
or suspected exposures to non-ionizing radiation immediately upon discovery of the event. This
report will be made directly to the Installation RSO, 96 AMDS/SGPB, by calling 855-8607
during normal duty hours or the Eglin Command Post at 883-4020 during non-duty hours. The
command post controller will then contact the BE Flight on-call/stand-by technician for
appropriate response action.
9. Reporting Documentation. Documented exposures will be considered an occupational
illness and reported to the Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS).




                                           SAL M. NODJOMIAN, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                      EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFOSH STD 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, 1 August 1997
AFOSH STD 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, 10 December 1999
ANSI Z136.1, American National Standard for Safe Use of Laser, 16 March 2007
ANSI Z535-series, American National Standard Specification for Accident Prevention Signs
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report
EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011                                                                     7


                                         Attachment 2
            DATA REQUIRED FOR HAZARD EVALUATION OF LASERS

A2.1. Hazard Evaluation and Approval for all Laser Systems. All laser radiation producing
equipment must be evaluated by the Installation RSO for potential hazards before being used.
To ensure the evaluation is completed in a timely manner, users must submit in writing the
following information to 96 AMDS/SGPB:
   A2.1.1. Wavelength.
   A2.1.2. Waveform (continuous wave (CW) or pulsed).
   A2.1.3. Beam diameter at exit aperture, to include the definition criteria for the diameter (1/e
   point, 90% point, etc.).
   A2.1.4. Beam divergence including definition criteria for the diameter (i.e. 1/e point, 90%
   point, etc).
   A2.1.5. If CW, the total on time of the system.
   A2.1.6. For pulsed systems: Pulse width and pulse repetition frequency (PRF).
   A2.1.7. A complete technical description of any modifying optics such as spatial or
   chromatic filters, frequency doublers, or columniation devices.
   A2.1.8. Expected conditions of use including room and building if applicable.
   A2.1.9. Site drawing.
       A2.1.9.1. This should include areas occupied by individuals, structures, parking lots,
       uncontrolled access areas, etc.
       A2.1.9.2. Existence of other hazards such as fuel or ordnance storage.
   A2.1.10. Unit safety operating instructions that include training and emergency procedures.
A2.2. Classified Systems. Contact the Installation RSO at 883-8607 to schedule an evaluation.
Do not discuss classified information over the telephone.
 8                                                            EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011


                                           Attachment 3
          DATA REQUIRED FOR HAZARD EVALUATIONS OF RF EMITTERS

A3.1. Hazard Evaluation and Approval Requirements for Unclassified Systems. All RF
radiation-producing equipment must be evaluated by the Installation RSO for potential hazards
before being used. To ensure the hazard evaluation is completed in a timely manner, users must
submit in writing the following information to 96 AMDS/SGPB.
     A3.1.1. Frequency.
     A3.1.2. Power level (peak).
     A3.1.3. Modulation characteristics and beam elevation.
     A3.1.4. Waveform (continuous wave (CW) or pulsed).
     A3.1.5. If pulsed:
        A3.1.5.1. Pulse repetition frequency (PRF)
        A3.1.5.2. Pulse width (PW)
     A3.1.6. Antenna information:
        A3.1.6.1. Size
        A3.1.6.2. Beam width
        A3.1.6.3. Gain in dB
        A3.1.6.4. Orientation
     A3.1.7. Barriers, interlocks, visual or audible alarms in use with the system.
     A3.1.8. Site drawing. Include structures, parking lots, areas occupied by individuals,
     uncontrolled access areas, the existence of potential hazards such as fuel or ordinance storage
     areas, and the room and building number if applicable.
     A3.1.9. Topographical information.
     A3.1.10. Unit safety operating instructions that include training and emergency procedures.
A3.2. Classified Systems. Contact the Installation RSO at 883-8607 to schedule an evaluation.
Do not discuss classified information over the telephone.
EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011                                                                   9


                                         Attachment 4
                    LASER MEDICAL SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM

A4.1. Medical examination requirements are limited to individuals who have potential
exposures to Class 3B and 4 systems. People who work with Class 1 through 3R systems are not
required to be monitored. Laser workers who require exams will fall into one of the following
two categories:
   A4.1.1. Incidental workers are employees whose work makes it possible, but unlikely, that
   they will be exposed to laser energy sufficient to damage their eyes or skin. This includes
   custodial workers, military personnel on maneuvers, clerical and supervisory workers who do
   not routinely work in a laser environment.
   A4.1.2. Laser workers are employees who work routinely with or near operating lasers and
   have a higher risk of accidental overexposure.
A4.2. Frequency and type of examinations.
   A4.2.1. For both types of workers, pre- and post-placement medical examinations must be
   performed. Periodic examinations are not required. Following any suspected laser injury, an
   ophthalmologist will determine the pertinent examinations required.
   A4.2.2. Laser workers must have their ocular history determined and an ocular examination
   including a check of visual acuity and color vision. The color vision check is to determine a
   baseline and an individual’s ability to work in a laser environment. An Amsler grid test must
   also be done.
       A4.2.2.1. If the ocular history reveals no problems, visual acuity is 20/20 (6/6 in each
       eye for far, Jaeger 1+ for near) with corrections, Amsler Grid is normal, and color vision
       tests are acceptable, no further examination is required.
       A4.2.2.2. Persons with medical conditions noted in the ocular history should be
       evaluated carefully with respect to the potential for chronic exposure to laser radiation.
       A4.2.2.3. Any deviations from acceptable performance will require identification of the
       underlying pathology either by a fundoscopic examination or other tests deemed
       appropriate by the responsible medical or optometric examiner.
   A4.2.3. Incidental workers must have an eye examination for visual acuity, pre- and post-
   employment.
 10                                                        EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011


                                         Attachment 5
          INVESTIGATION OF LASER INCIDENTS AND (OR) ACCIDENTS

A5.1. Incident. Every incident involving a suspected laser radiation exposure to personnel
covered by this standard will be investigated and documented. NOTE: Aircrew who receive a
laser exposure from either friendly or hostile sources should immediately report to the Flight
Surgeon’s Office (FSO). The FSO will manage and coordinate the event with the MAJCOM,
USAFSAM/AFC, 311th HSW/YA and AFRL as appropriate.
A5.2. Alleged or Suspected Exposure. Whenever a suspected exposure to laser radiation
occurs, the following steps will be taken:
   A5.2.1. Individuals exposed will seek medical care, without delay, at their host medical unit
   emergency treatment facility. THE LASER HOTLINE (1-800-473-3549) SHOULD BE
   CALLED ASAP BECAUSE IMMEDIATE INDICATED CARE IS CRITICAL. The
   individual’s supervisor will be notified immediately and ensure action is taken to prevent
   injury to other personnel.
   A5.2.2. The immediate supervisor will immediately notify the unit commander and safety
   officer or LSO and the BE.
   A5.2.3. The unit safety officer and (or) LSO will keep the unit commander and other unit
   personnel informed of actions being taken or required as part of the medical investigation.
   A5.2.4. The BE will notify wing safety, public health services, staff judge advocate, and
   MAJCOM medical staff immediately. Within 24 hours the Bioenvironmental Engineer will
   also notify the Tri-Service Laser Radiation Hotline at Brooks AFB, (1-800-473-3549). Tri-
   service Laser Radiation Hotline personnel will notify USAFSAM/AFC.
   A5.2.5. PH will ensure the Air Force Safety Automated System is initiated by the attending
   physician and forwarded to BE.
   A5.2.6. Medical Care unit will perform an examination IAW AFOSHSTD 48-139. The
   individual will be reexamined within 72 hours. In the case of an exposure to a military
   member or civil service employee in the Air National Guard, or the Reserves, the member
   will be sent to a contract ophthalmologist or military optometrist or ophthalmologist for
   examination. PH or any available flight surgeon will conduct a human factors evaluation of
   the incident for inclusion in the report. The individual will be reexamined within 72 hours.
   During a UTA weekend, the member may be initially evaluated by the base ophthalmologist,
   if available. If the individual(s) suspected of exposure is being cared for in a non-AF medical
   treatment facility, the host USAF medical facility will ensure that a USAF physician calls the
   attending physician. This shall be accomplished within 24 hours in order to determine the
   clinical status of the individual and coordinate medical examination and treatment required
   by the USAF. The occupational physician will initiate the investigation in coordination with
   BE. When the individual is released or transferred to USAF care, the attending USAF
   physician will obtain and review the record of examination and care given by the non-AF
   facility and ensure all USAF medical examination requirements have been met. A copy of
   the incident and (or) accident report must be filed in the medical record of each exposed
   person. In the case of an exposure of a military member or civil service employee in the Air
   National Guard (ANG), the PH of the ANG base will contact the attending physician within
EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011                                                                  11


   24 hours to determine whether, in the case of a military member, referral to a military MTF is
   required. In the case of a civil service employee, the PH will ascertain from the treating
   physician whether further consultation with a specialized practitioner familiar with laser eye
   injuries is necessary. An occupational medicine consultation with USAFSAM may be
   required.
   A5.2.7. If it is known or suspected that a defect of any kind in a laser may have caused the
   injury, the laser shall be immediately taken out of service until the deficiency has been
   corrected.
A5.3. Investigation. Upon notification of a suspected exposure, BE will promptly investigate
the incident or accident and determine the following:
   A5.3.1. Name, rank, and social security account number (SSAN) of individual alleged or
   suspected to have been overexposed. This investigation is separate from, but may become a
   part of, any mishap investigation conducted under AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
   Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health Program.
   A5.3.2. Laser nomenclature, characteristics and operating parameters at the time of the
   incident(wavelength, peak and average power, pulse width and frequency, beam diameter
   and divergence, etc.) including those parameters that may be classified.
   A5.3.3. Date, place, unit, time, and duration of the exposure, and the individual’s position
   relative to the laser.
   A5.3.4. Description of what happened. If possible, obtain signed brief narrative statements
   from all individuals who have first-hand knowledge of the incident per AFI 91-301.
   A5.3.5. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and (or) clothing in use at the time of the
   accident, and eyewear transmission characteristics at the wavelength of the laser.
   A5.3.6. Facility configuration at time of the event.
   A5.3.7. Name, rank, address, and telephone number of the attending physician. If the
   attending physician is other than a USAF physician, give name, rank, title, address, and
   telephone number of the consulting USAF physician.
A5.4. Reconstruction. It is essential that the event be reconstructed by BE if possible and
measurements and (or) calculations made to ascertain as nearly as possible the exposure level to
the individuals. If the equipment and expertise do not exist locally to fully investigate and
reconstruct the incident, support should be requested from another source. Telephone
consultation with the MAJCOM BE, and IERA Radiation Surveillance Division is strongly
recommended.
A5.5. Interim Report. Upon completion of the investigation, the BE will provide a detailed
report of their findings IAW AFOSH Std 48-139, para 2.6.5, to PH, SEG, Installation Staff Judge
Advocate, and the Command BE within 30 workdays.
A5.6. Final Report. Within 45 workdays following submission of the investigation report, BE
will prepare and coordinate with appropriate installation organizations a final detailed report
consisting of a summary of the estimated exposure, time table of medical evaluations, discussion
of further medical follow-up recommendations, copies of the reconstruction report; and copies of
all narrative statements and medical evaluations. BE will then forward the report information
 12                                                        EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011


through their chain of command to AFMOA/SGOR with a courtesy copy to IERA Radiation
Surveillance Division for entry into the laser incident repository. BE will coordinate with PH to
ensure a copy is placed in each individual’s medical records and placed in the appropriate case
file. This report is in addition to the 30-day report described in paragraph 2.6.5of AFOSH Std
48-139.
A5.7. Individual Medical Records. PH personnel will ensure a copy of all forms and reports
concerning the incident and relating to an exposed individual are included in each individual’s
medical record.
EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011                                                                       13


                                           Attachment 6
                  INVESTIGATION OF ALLEGED EXPOSURES TO RFR

A6.1. Each alleged incident involving personnel exposure that may exceed the PELs IAW
AFOSH 48-9, table 2.1 shall be investigated and documented. Usually during the initial reporting
phase of an incident, an experienced engineer or BE technician can predict or estimate whether
or not the individual could have exceeded the PEL, and if so by how much. Following the initial
estimation of exposure, the actions listed below should be taken for exposures expected to be at
or above the PEL, and must be taken for exposures expected to be five times greater than the
adjusted PELs in table 2.1of AFOSH Std 48-9:
   A6.1.1. RFR measurements for documentation of the RFR exposure that may have been
   received.
   A6.1.2. Medical examination and recommendations for medical follow-up.
   A6.1.3. Documentation providing a description of the circumstances surrounding the
   exposure incident, statements from personnel involved in that incident, and recommendations
   to prevent similar occurrences.
   A6.1.4. The following actions must be taken whenever an overexposure is suspected or
   alleged to have occurred.
A6.1.5. Immediate Actions. The individual will immediately report the incident to his or her
supervisor. Medical attention should be sought within the first 72 hours following exposure.
Symptoms that may be associated with the exposure field should be reported to the attending
physician and recorded for medical investigation purposes. The medical examination should be
accomplished, according to paragraph 3.5.4 of AFOSH Std 48-9, by the Flight Surgeon's office.
A6.2. The Responsible Area Supervisor. The supervisor will notify the installation BE Flight
upon initial report of the incident and will advise all other appropriate authorities within the unit
according to unit reporting procedures.
A6.3. BE Flight. BE will provide initial notification of the alleged incident to the MACJCOM
BE and HQ AFMOA/SGOE. BE will conduct a preliminary investigation of the alleged incident
and perform a reconstruction of the incident, to include field measurements when necessary
according to the instructions provided in attachment 2 of AFOSH 48-9. BE will be responsible
for notification of all applicable medical authorities, such as the PH office. BE will also ensure
the information listed in attachment 2 of AFOSH Std 48-9 is collected and mailed to AL/OERS,
8305 Hawks Road, Building 1182, Brooks AFB, TX, 78235-5324, telefax number DSN 240-
5923. BE will prepare a final report of the investigation and findings and provide this to the PH
office.
A6.4. Public Health. The PH office will prepare a summary of medical evaluations and
findings, attach a copy of the final report of the BE investigation, and distribute the detailed final
report to the recipients listed in attachment 2 of AFOSH Std 48-9. The final report must be
distributed within 45 work days following the completion of the investigation, and must include
all of the information listed in attachment 2 of AFOSH Std 48-9. The summary must
conclusively state whether an overexposure did or did not occur, or state why the final
determination cannot be conclusive, based on the findings from the field and medical
 14                                                         EGLINAFBI48-102 30 JUNE 2011


investigations. A copy of the medical summary must be placed in the alleged exposee’s medical
records. If the patient is treated by a non-Air Force medical facility, then the officer or NCO in
charge of PH will attempt to obtain copies of all treatment records, and include them in the
summary documentation. Appropriate authorization for the release of medical information to
the Air Force should be obtained from the individual prior to review of personal medical data.
A6.5. Medical Evaluation. A post-exposure medical examination and follow-up
recommendations should be performed for all reported cases within 72 hours following the
alleged exposure. The initial work-up should include a standard medical history, routine medical
examination, and an eye examination or visual acuity test, if the eyes were involved. Document
the exposure duration and level as this information is made available, and record the patient’s
reported symptoms. If the reconstruction of the incident verifies exposure occurred in excess of
the PEL, the treating physician may elect to perform further follow-up examinations based upon
the symptoms exhibited. For example, anomalies noted during an initial eye test or exam might
indicate the need for additional investigation or treatment. Cases found to be in excess of 5 times
the PEL should be followed for a period of up to two weeks or until all medically substantiated
symptoms have subsided, whichever occurs first. For personnel whose exposure(s) occurred at,
or above, five times the PELs in table 2.1of AFOSH Std 48-9, a medical examination and
recommendations for medical follow-up are mandatory. Hospitalization is not required unless the
patient displays significant signs or symptoms of injury or illness that require diagnostic
evaluation or treatment. Any reported symptoms or changes in physiologic function should be
evident within the first 72 hours following the exposure. Symptoms that develop after 72 hours
are probably not RFR related, but should be assessed and documented by the treating physician.
After assuring the patient’s well-being, the principal concerns will be to quantify the exposure,
assess exhibited symptoms and compare them to the level and duration of exposure, and to
document pre-exposure and post-exposure baselines from which to measure future changes,
should any occur. See para 5.5 of AFOSH Std 48-9 for familiarization with the biological effects
of RFR exposures and attachment for recommended medical surveillance procedures.
A6.6. Closure. Upon completion of the medical and field investigations, the patient alleging
exposure must be advised of the findings and provided a copy of the written report. The patient
should receive a complete explanation of the findings and given a chance to ask questions
regarding his/her alleged exposure. The BE and attending AF physician should be available to
answer any technical or medical questions during the final briefing of the patient.
