BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      EIELSON AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EIELSON AIR FORCE BASE (PACAF)                                              32-7002

                                                                          3 DECEMBER 2014

                                                                                 Civil Engineer

                                                                   USE AND CONTROL OF
                                                               OFF-ROAD VEHICLES (ORV)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 354 CES/CEIEA                                                   Certified by: 354 MSG/CC
                                                                    (Colonel Larry G. Rice, Jr.)
Supersedes:   354 FWI 32-7002,                                                         Pages: 11
              13 March 2009


This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, establishes procedures and
responsibilities for controlling ORVs, prescribes ORV operating conditions, ensures
natural/cultural resources protection, establishes a safety and accident prevention program, and
minimizes use conflicts. This instruction applies to all military units, Air National Guard,
personnel assigned or attached to Eielson AFB, civilian employees, military dependents, and all
other individuals while on Eielson AFB land. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Web-RIMS Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised. Some of the major areas of changes are: Section
2 removed the requirement for base registration of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs). Section 3 added
the requirement for all ORV operators to possess the ATV Safety Institute (ASI) card. Paragraph
4.1 added that operators of privately owned or rented ORV will attend appropriate off-road
 2                                               EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014


performance-based safety training for on-installation operation. Section 8 is updated to reflect
changed street names.
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Civil Engineer. Responsible for maintaining the ORV hands-on training site near
     Spruce Lake. Prescribes ORV operating conditions protective of natural/cultural resources
     and minimizes use conflicts. Maintains appropriate signs and barricades to delineate and
     protect trails and special-use areas, monitors ORV impacts, and modifies this instruction
     when warranted.
     1.2. Security Forces. Provides policy enforcement through patrols and handles violations in
     accordance with military directives.
     1.3. Wing Safety. Implements and monitors ORV safety education and accident prevention
     program for two-wheeled vehicles, ATVs, utility vehicles (UTVs) and snowmobiles. Issues
     the ASI card to personnel who successfully complete the ATV course. Issues the AF Form
     483, Competency Card, to individuals who successfully complete the training for two-
     wheeled vehicle, UTV and snowmobile operations.
     1.4. All Personnel. Report any infractions to this policy or unsafe behavior to Security
     Forces.
2. Registration. Current registration with any state is required for all privately-owned ORVs
prior to operation on base. If required, display the state registration decal as outlined by state
law. An ORV is considered operational if parked next to a housing unit or work place, and must
therefore be registered with any state.
3. Operator License and Age Requirements. To operate an ORV, all personnel must have
either the ASI card to operate an ATV, or an AF Form 483 Competency Card to operate a UTV,
dirt bike or snowmobile. Operators must carry these cards with them at all times while operating
an ORV on base.
4. Safety Education Program:
     4.1. All operators of privately-owned ORVs or those rented from 354 FSS Outdoor
     Recreation will attend appropriate off-road performance-based safety training for on-
     installation operation. An AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency, is required for
     snowmobile, UTV, and dirt bike operation on Eielson.
5. Liability Insurance. All ORVs must be insured per AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural
Resources Management, paragraph 10.3.1.
6. Mandatory ORV Equipment. All ORVs operating on Eielson AFB will have working
brakes, headlights, and taillights. All ORVs will have a factory installed exhaust system (or
equivalent) in good working order for constant operation. Excessive noise, pollutants, or muffler
cutout, bypass or similar devices are not allowed.
7. Safety Requirements. The following are applicable to all ORVs operated on Eielson AFB
land:
     7.1. The manufacturer’s designed seating capacity will not be exceeded.
EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014                                                                 3


   7.2. A rigid tow bar is required to tow passengers in a sled, trailer, cart, inner tube, toboggan,
   etc.
   7.3. All ORV racing and competition events are prohibited on base except as authorized by
   the 354th Mission Support Group Commander. Requests to have races or competition events
   will be submitted to the 354th Mission Support Group Commander through the
   Natural/Cultural Resources office and Wing Safety.
   7.4. Protective helmets meeting minimum DOT®™, Snell specifications are required for all
   persons riding or being towed by ORVs.
   7.5. Eye protection (full-face shield, wrap around glasses or goggles) designed to meet or
   exceed American National Standards Institute Standard Z87.1, United Nations Economic
   Commission for Europe 22.05 is mandatory and will be properly worn.
   7.6. Headlights and taillights must be turned on at all times when using an ORV.
   7.7. Full-finger gloves (made of leather or other abrasion-resistant material), long-sleeved
   shirt or jacket, long pants, and over-the-ankle boots are mandatory for motorcycle, trail bike,
   and ATV operators. In addition, ATV operators should also wear knee pads, shin guards and
   padded full-fingered gloves.
8. Rules Governing Operation:
   8.1. No one shall operate an ORV on Eielson AFB lands:
      8.1.1. In a reckless or negligent manner, under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or in
      such a manner as to damage or destroy government or private property.
      8.1.2. In excess of established speed limits (posted speed limits or those established by
      this instruction).
      8.1.3. Beyond existing trails, right-of-ways, or approved ORV usage areas.
      8.1.4. To chase, disturb, or in any manner cause disruption of normal wildlife activities.
   8.2. Persons under 16 years of age must be under the direct supervision of their parent or
   legal guardian. Direct supervision is riding the same ORV if the seating capacity is not
   exceeded or another ORV within 100 feet of the youth.
   8.3. Non-street legal ORVs will be transported on a trailer through the main gate.
   8.4. Operating non-street legal ORVs on any maintained paved or gravel roads or parking
   areas is prohibited. The following exceptions apply:
      8.4.1. During snowmobile season, snowmobiles and ATV use is allowed on the
      shoulders of the following roads: Manchu Trail east of the French Creek Bridge, Ski
      Lodge Road, Quarry Road east from the intersection of Mullins Pit Road, and roads west
      of the Richardson Highway. Road use is allowed on the Trans-Alaska pipeline up to the
      base boundary and the military pipeline. Obeying posted speed limits and operating on
      the road’s extreme right-hand side is mandatory. Attachment 3 illustrates the usage
      areas.
      8.4.2. During snowmobile closed season, operators of privately-owned ATVs and trail
      bikes must take the most direct access route to get to usage areas. Attachment 2
 4                                                EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014


        illustrates the summer usage areas. Operators using the ATV and trail bike access routes
        to get to use areas will possess an ASI Card or a base certificate of competency. Housing
        occupants cannot operate west or south of Arctic Avenue unless to get fuel from the base
        service station. All dorm residents will exit the dorm resident ATV storage lot onto
        Wabash Avenue, proceed east on Wabash Avenue to Central Avenue, cross Central
        Avenue to McKinley Street, travel east on McKinley Street to Arctic Avenue, go north on
        Arctic Avenue to Transmitter Road. Operation on Transmitter Road between Arctic
        Avenue and Central Avenue is prohibited. ATV and trail bikes are prohibited from
        operating on Quarry Road west of Mullins Pit Road and west of Wildlife Way. ATV and
        trail bike operations are limited to the extreme right-hand side of these streets. The speed
        limit on these roads is 15 mph. When crossing a bridge or culvert on a road not permitted
        for ATV or trail bike use, the speed limit is restricted to maintaining forward motion,
        roughly 5 mph.
        8.4.3. ORVs can operate within the military and the Trans-Alaska pipelines right-of-
        away. A Right-of-way Use Guideline (RUG) card from Alyeska Pipeline Service
        Company is required to access the Trans-Alaska pipeline. Possession of the RUG card
        and an ATV Safety Institute Card are mandatory while riding on the Trans-Alaska
        pipeline.
     8.5. ORVs must operate off the drivable road surface except on those roads authorized for
     ORV use.
     8.6. ORV use is prohibited in or adjacent to areas where training is being conducted,
     children are playing, or heavy equipment is operating.
     8.7. ORVs will not be driven to and from duty sections or places of employment.
     8.8. Firearms or other hunting instruments can be carried on any ORV. ORV operators will
     comply with 354 FWI 32-7001, Conservation and Management of Natural Resources,
     concerning the discharge and use of firearms on Eielson AFB. Firearms will be in plain view
     and unloaded when being carried on an ORV to or from authorized hunting areas. It is
     prohibited to leave firearms unattended or unsecured.
     8.9. Crossing streams with ORVs where no bridge, culvert, or designated crossing exists is
     prohibited, except when the ground and stream are frozen enough to support ORV and
     operator.
     8.10. Snowmobile use is prohibited until there is adequate snow cover to prevent damage to
     underlying terrain. The 354th Mission Support Group Commander determines the beginning
     and end of the snowmobile season on Eielson AFB.
     8.11. Completely steel-tired or tracked, medium or heavy ORVs will not be operated on
     base.
     8.12. No licensed privately owned vehicles are allowed off-road on Eielson AFB.
9. Closed Areas. The following areas are closed to all ORV use: (See maps on Attachments 2-3
or go to Natural Resources Office, Bldg. 2215)
     9.1. Airfield.
     9.2. Firing range and impact area.
EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014                                                           5


   9.3. Asbestos landfill, soil remediation area, and fire training area.
   9.4. Quarry Road and Engineer Hill Munitions Storage areas.
   9.5. Explosive Ordinance Disposal controlled area and the hazardous cargo route to potential
   explosion sites.
   9.6. Ski slope and sledding hill next to ski lodge.
   9.7. Fuel storage tank farms.
   9.8. Sewage lagoon and treatment area.
   9.9. Par course trail, picnic area, and self-guided nature trail.
   9.10. Arctic survival training area and command post.
   9.11. Cross-country ski area bounded by the ski slope, the east and south boundaries of
   Eielson AFB, and Quarry Road, as well as 160 acres in the Yukon Maneuver Area granted
   for use to Eielson by United States Army Alaska.
   9.12. Area bounded by Central Avenue, Transmitter Road, Garrison Slough, north base
   boundary, and Old Richardson Highway is closed to ORV use. This area includes the main
   gate and Alaska railroad tracks north of Transmitter Road.
   9.13. Archery practice and field ranges and trap/skeet range.
   9.14. When snowmobile season is closed, ORV operation is prohibited on the dike
   surrounding Moose Lake and French Creek subdivisions, Bear Lake, Scout Lake wildlife
   management areas, on paved bike trails and all grassed areas within the cantonment area,
   Mullins Pit, and Cathers Lake. ORV use is prohibited surrounding Mullins Pit and Cathers
   Lake areas when construction equipment is operating.
   9.15. The forested buffer zone around Manchu Ponds.
   9.16. School grounds to include the high school football field and track.
   9.17. When there is no snow cover on the ground, the Chena Campground area is closed to
   the operation of ATVs. ORVs may only be used to access campsites from the roads within
   the Chena River Campground.
   9.18. Detachment 460 Air Force Technical Application Center (Det 460), Remote Operating
   Facility. ATV use within Det 460 area to include Beaver Creek Road is prohibited.
   9.19. “C” Battery off Johnson Road in the Yukon Maneuver Area.
   9.20. Birch Lake recreation area.
   9.21. In the base cantonment area, ORVs will not operate or park on grass areas, sidewalks,
   lawn areas, and athletic fields except during snowmobile season.
   9.22. During the closed snowmobile season, ORVs are prohibited from operating in
   wetlands.
10. Designated Use Areas. ORV operation is authorized only at designated areas or trails as
outlined in attachments 2 and 3. Additional maps are available at Natural Resources, building
2215.
 6                                                EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014


     10.1. Two-Wheeled ORVs:
        10.1.1. The use of motorcycles and motor scooters is prohibited on Eielson AFB except
        on maintained roads to access designated-use areas (areas not listed in paragraph 9).
        10.1.2. The use of trail bikes is prohibited on Eielson AFB except in designated-use
        areas (areas not listed in paragraph 9) and on designated access routes, paragraph 8.4.2.
        10.1.3. When there is snow cover on the ground, two-wheeled ORV use is prohibited.
     10.2. Four-Wheeled ORVs: Privately owned ATV use is prohibited except on designated
     access routes (paragraphs 8.4.1. and 8.4.2.) and in designated-use areas (see attachment 2).
     ATVs can operate on the base streets listed in paragraph 8.4. to get to the usage areas. If gas
     is needed, the ORV operator will take the most direct route to and from the gas station.
     During snowmobile season, ATVs may use snowmobile trails across the frozen, snow-
     covered lawns to get to the use areas.
     10.3. Snowmobiles:
        10.3.1. Snowmobile use is prohibited except on specific access routes, paragraph 8.4.1.,
        in designated-use areas (areas not listed in paragraph 9).
        10.3.2. Operation in the base cantonment area:
            10.3.2.1. Base cantonment operations are limited to the most direct route necessary
            to reach designated use areas. The base cantonment area is the transit zone to the
            designated usage areas only, not a designated use area.
            10.3.2.2. Operation on streets or parking areas is limited to crossing perpendicular to
            traffic flow. Snowmobiles will yield the right-of-way to vehicles and pedestrians at
            all times.
            10.3.2.3. The cantonment speed limit for snowmobiles is restricted to maintaining
            forward motion, roughly 5 mph. Operators will take the most direct route to
            designated-use areas and maintain a 100-feet building separation. When 100-feet
            separation is not possible, transit the buildings at an equal distance.
        10.3.3. Snowmobilers meeting all the requirements for on-base operation can only
        enter/exit Eielson AFB using A Battery Road or the Trans-Alaska pipeline off
        Transmitter Road.
11. Public Access. The public can obtain base ORV privileges, subject to safety, property
security, mission requirements, and all restrictions and rules stated in this instruction.
12. Parking and Storage. ATV storage next to base family housing year round is permissible.
All dormitory residents will store their ATVs and snowmobiles in the storage lot located off
Wabash Avenue, northwest of building 2275, throughout the year. During summer months,
housing resident ATVs are to be parked in an orderly fashion in a parking space, garage, or patio.
No ATV parking on seeded areas is allowed from April through October. During the
snowmobile season, ORV parking on frozen, snow-covered lawns adjacent to assigned quarters
is allowed. Snowmobiles are not year-round vehicles; summer storage in either assigned garages
or the recreational vehicle storage lot is mandatory.
EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014                                                               7


13. Exceptions:
   13.1. Government-owned or leased ORVs used for official duties may operate in closed
   areas and on closed roads. Operation is restricted to official duties only. When time allows,
   permission shall be obtained from the proper custodian of the closed, off-limits, or controlled
   area. The operator is liable for any damage to natural/cultural resources and must comply
   with the base ORV safety prevention program.
   13.2. Government-owned ORVs will have an Air Force vehicle registration number or
   marked as follows:
       13.2.1. Either USAF or the organizational name will be stenciled or attached using a
       metal plate to both sides of the snowmobile cowling, gas tank, or below the handlebars
       on an ATV.
       13.2.2. The lettering must be at least 1 3/4 inches in height and contrast with the color of
       the vehicle.
   13.3. Direct written requests to operate personal ORVs in closed areas to Natural/Cultural
   Resources. A request will contain a reason and length of entry, type, color, and year of ORV,
   and ORV license and registration number. Natural/Cultural Resources will coordinate the
   request with the proper authorities. Both Natural/Cultural Resources and the property
   custodian will approve the request before it can be granted. Natural/Cultural Resources will
   forward an approved request copy to the Security Forces.
14. Violations:
   14.1. Instruction violations include: Violating state and base ORV registration requirements,
   operator license, age requirements, mandatory equipment requirements, safety requirements,
   rules governing ORV operation, trespassing in closed areas, or ATV and snowmobile parking
   and storage rules.




                                             MICHAEL P WINKLER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 8                                             EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7001, Conservation and Management of Natural Resources, 21 June 2004
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 September 2004
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
Adopted Forms
AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency

Abbreviations and Acronyms:
ASI—All Terrain Vehicles Safety Institute
ATV—All Terrain Vehicles
Det460 AFTAC—Detachment 460 Air Force Technical Application Center
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORV—Off-road Vehicles
POL—Petroleum, Oils, and Lubricants
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RUG—Right-of-way Use Guideline
USARAK—United States Army Alaska
UTV—Utility Vehicles

Terms
All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV)— Tracked vehicles, low-pressure/flotation-type tired vehicles,
amphibious machines including airboats, and air cushion vehicles primarily designed for
recreational purposes. This includes all brands of three or four wheelers.
Medium Weight ATV— Argo, Big Mac, Coot, Cushman Trackster, Eagle, Pac-Trac, Playcat,
Raidtrac 718, Ranger Ferret, Sidewinder, etc.
Heavy Weight ATV— Bombardiers, Kid, Nodwell, Raidtrac 1800, Sno Cats, Surplus Military
Track Vehicles, Thiokol, Weasel, SUSV, and so on.
Off-Road Vehicle (ORV)— Includes all ATVs, trail bikes (non-street legal motorcycles), UTVs
or snowmobiles.
Snowmobile— Any vehicle propelled by mechanical power, steered using skis, and designed to
travel over ice and snow.
Trail Bike— A two-wheeled ORV not meeting the requirements for on-street operations, e.g.,
motor cross motorcycle, dirt, or mini bike.
EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014                                                 9


Utility All—Terrain Vehicle (UTV) - A small two-six person, four-wheel drive off-road
vehicle, e.g., side-by-side ORVs, Polaris RZR, Polaris Ranger.
 10                                     EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014


                                  Attachment 2
                      EIELSON SUMMER ORV USE AREAS

Figure A2.1. Eielson Summer ORV Use Areas
EIELSONAFBI32-7002 3 DECEMBER 2014                    11


                                   Attachment 3
                       EIELSON ORV WINTER USE AREAS

Figure A3.1. Eielson ORV Winter Use Areas
