BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   ELLSWORTH AIR FORCE BASE
ELLSWORTH AIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 21-507

                                                                                 11 JUNE 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                        FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD)
                                                               PREVENTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 28 BW/FOD                                                          Certified by: 28 BW/CC
                                                               (Colonel Mark E. Weatherington)
                                                                                         Pages: 8




This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance and AFI 21-101,
Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management. It establishes Foreign Object Damage (FOD)
prevention program as required in AFI 21-101 Paragraph 14.19 in addition to any applicable
MAJCOM instructions. Maintain and dispose of all records created as a result of prescribed
processes in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Send comments and
suggested changes to this supplement through channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication, to 28 BW/FOD, 28 MXS/QA, 1910 Bergstrom, Suite 105.
 2                                                  ELLSWORTHAFBI 21-507 11 JUNE 2012


1. Concept.
     1.1. This instruction establishes the 28th Bomb Wing Vice Commander (28 BW/CV)
     Foreign Object Damage (FOD) prevention program and provides unit guidance. Effective
     FOD prevention program requires compliance with this instruction and adherence to AFI 21 -
     101 Paragraph 14.19, CAF 21-101.
2. Requirements.
     2.1. The 28 BW/CV will:
        2.1.1. Appoint the 28th Bomb Wing Foreign Object Damage (28 BW/FOD) Program
        Manager and Alternate (must be in the rank of Technical Sergeant or above).
        2.1.2. Chair Wing FOD prevention meetings.
        2.1.3. Promote aviation safety through FOD awareness.
     2.2. The 28 BW/FOD Manager will.
        2.2.1. Monitor the 28 BW/FOD program for validity by performing daily FOD checks,
        documenting high interest areas, performing FOD sweeps with the FOD magnet,
        maintaining a database with monthly FOD trends and analysis.
        2.2.2. The 28 BW/FOD manager will formally train all unit FOD monitors and
        alternates. All aspects of FOD education, prevention and protection will be presented.
        Unit FOD managers are the linchpin of a successful Wing program.
        2.2.3. The 28 BW/FOD manager will conduct FOD briefings for all newly assigned
        maintenance personnel to include: impact of FOD to B-1B aircraft, sound maintenance
        procedures, personal responsibility, accountability and key areas where individuals can
        make a difference with respect to mishap prevention.
        2.2.4. Hold quarterly meetings chaired by the 28 BW/CV discussing current prevention
        methods, high interest areas, monthly and quarterly statistics and pitfalls to the program.
        2.2.5. Perform Failure Analysis Service Test (FAST) on all confirmed damaged engines
        and track results for trends over time.
        2.2.6. Conduct and document unit FOD prevention monitor program spot inspections to
        ensure compliance with this instruction.
        2.2.7. Conduct and document weekly spot inspections of Consolidated Tool Kits (CTKs)
        to ensure compliance with FOD preventative measures.
        2.2.8. Maintain a database which documents the use of installation FOD Boss, magnets
        and unit level sweepers.
        2.2.9. Conduct routine inspections and follow-ups of unit FOD walks to ensure
        compliance with the prevention program.
        2.2.10. Plan and facilitate Wing-Wide FOD walks a minimum of twice annually;
        additionally at the discretion of the 28 BW/CV to include: runways, taxiways, parking
        locations, airfield infield, and runway over-runs.
ELLSWORTHAFBI 21-507 11 JUNE 2012                                                                 3


       2.2.11. Specify and document responsibility for FOD containers located at all Entry
       Control Points (ECPs). The FOD prevention manager will also provide a central drop off
       location for FOD accessible during shift work hours.
       2.2.12. Conduct daily assessments of FOD containers located at ECPs.
       2.2.13. Perform daily FOD check point assessments and document compliance and
       noncompliance.
       2.2.14. Conduct and document annual assessments on unit run prevention programs to
       validate effectiveness. The 28 BW/FOD manager will use a formal checklist to conduct
       the assessment and publish a report detailing findings, recommendations and best
       practices. The report should be routed to the unit commander no later than one week
       after assessment.
       2.2.15. Report an annual FOD assessment to the 28 BW/CV that details high interest
       areas, trends, local hazards specific to the B-1B and encompasses findings from unit
       inspections.
       2.2.16. Conduct spot inspection assessments of localized bench stock, work order residue
       and unrestricted supply points. These inspections should focus on the level of
       consumption to complete specific maintenance tasks. During the inspection the FOD
       manager will validate the documentation of hardware removed to accomplish
       maintenance tasks.
       2.2.17. Publish FOD flashes and literature pertinent to safe FOD free flying operations.
3. Maintenance and flying units will.
3.1. Appoint in writing, a primary and alternate FOD monitor and forward a copy to the 28
BW/FOD Program Manager.
4. The unit assigned FOD prevention monitor will.
   4.1. Maintain a FOD bulletin board in each work center. One centrally located board may
   cover all shops located within a single building. At a minimum, the board will contain the
   following:
       4.1.1. FOD prevention point of contact visual aids for Wing and Unit FOD POCs.
       4.1.2. Incentive program visual aide.
       4.1.3. All current FOD watches or alerts.
   4.2. Maintain a FOD continuity binder. At a minimum the binder will contain the following
   and assembled as follows:
       4.2.1. Tab A, copy of squadron FOD monitor appointment letter.
       4.2.2. Tab B, ACC directory 90-2409,Compliance and Standardization Requirements
       List (C&SRL), Logistics (A4/A4M), FOD Prevention.
       4.2.3. Tab C, appropriate FOD self-inspection checklist.
       4.2.4. Tab D, completed quarterly self inspection checklist.
 4                                                 ELLSWORTHAFBI 21-507 11 JUNE 2012


        4.2.5. Tab E, documentation of weekly unit/flight FOD walks, FOD boss and magnet (if
        applicable) spot checks, FOD briefings and FOD walk policy letter.
        4.2.6. Tab F, 28 BW/FOD committee minutes (for one year).
        4.2.7. Tab G, copy of current FOD flashes (minimum one year).
     4.3. Perform interim duties for the 28 BW/FOD program during periods of primary FOD
     Program Manager's and alternate’s absence.
     4.4. Present a comprehensive FOD briefing annually to their respective units during unit
     commander' calls. This briefing will include: The current Ellsworth Air Force Base FOD
     trends, sound maintenance practices, personal reliability, accountability, FOD incentive
     programs and key areas where unit individuals can help with FOD mishap prevention. Unit
     commanders should also caveat and stress FOD awareness.
     4.5. To help promote FOD awareness within the ranks of E-l through E-4, unit FOD
     prevention monitors will advise their unit supervision to encourage a minimum of one
     enlisted (E-l thru E-4) to attend the 28 BW/FOD meeting. The meeting will also be used to
     recognize personnel making significant contributions to FOD prevention.
     4.6. Flyer's newcomer briefing will be conducted with the Squadron Assigned Flight Safety
     Officer (SAFSO) and include a segment on FOD prevention, individual FOD responsibilities
     and key areas where operators can help to eliminate the risk of FOD. Unit FOD prevention
     monitors will provide pertinent information or attend the briefing as deemed necessary by the
     SAFSO.
5. All 28 BW Personnel Will.
     5.1. Pay close attention to areas under and immediately in front of aircraft during FOD
     walks. FOD walk follow up assessments may be conducted by 28th Maintenance Group
     Quality Assurance (28 MXG/QA), 28 BW/FOD Program Manager and 28th Bomb Wing
     Flight Safety (28 BW/SEF). FOD walks will be annotated by the unit FOD manager on a
     weekly basis. Each unit will conduct scheduled FOD Boss and Tow Magnet sweeps of their
     respective ramp areas. As a minimum FOD sweeps will be conducted once a day. FOD
     Boss and Tow Magnet will be inspected and made FOD free prior to the beginning of any
     daily sweep.
     5.2. Monitor work areas to ensure a FOD free area. Secure FOD container to vehicle in a
     manner that does not modify or damage rental or government leased vehicles and prevents
     the container from tipping over while the vehicle is in motion. Vehicle FOD containers may
     be locally manufactured and secured using bungee cord or similar material. Containers will
     not be obscured from view. Add "Empty FOD container daily" to an "Other" block on the
     AF IMT 1800 or 1807.
     5.3. Areas requiring a sweeper will be called into Maintenance Operations Center (MOC),
     who will in-turn notify Airfield Management Operations (AM Ops).
     5.4. Maintenance units will clean all grounding points within their respective area on a
     weekly basis and annotate in the unit FOD manager’s weekly checks. They will ensure the
     grounding points are kept free of sand and rock build-up that could hide potential FOD
     sources. Inspection and cleaning of grounding points will be accomplished during the daily
     FOD walk.
ELLSWORTHAFBI 21-507 11 JUNE 2012                                                                5


   5.5. All maintenance personnel working in aircraft docks will perform FOD walks in their
   respective areas a minimum of once per shift. These dock areas are subject to spot
   inspections by quality assurance, 28 BW/FOD Program Manager and 28 BW/SEF.
   5.6. All loose hardware will be contained in cloth screw bags and secured to the removed
   item to prevent them from becoming FOD hazards. In back-shop environments, small parts
   containers may be used in lieu of cloth screw bags during active, ongoing maintenance where
   the use of bags is impractical.
   5.7. Engine, aircraft, seat, and pitot tube covers will be removed no earlier than 2 hours prior
   to crew show, take high wind conditions into consideration for more stringent need.
   5.8. Vehicle operators will perform a visual FOD inspection on all equipment and tires, to
   include golf carts, four wheelers and vehicles with FOD proof tread prior to entering airfield
   areas or after departing an unpaved surface. The tire rollover technique will be used. This
   method involves rolling the vehicle forward, not more than 2 feet, after the initial FOD check
   has been completed; allowing for inspection of tire underside. If the driver vacates the seat,
   the vehicle must be placed in park/neutral if manual and emergency brake set. A vehicle
   walk around will be accomplished, ensuring vehicle is free of foreign objects (i.e., rocks,
   water bottles, trash, etc.) to include wheel wells. All loose items or material that could fall
   from the vehicle will be secured.
   5.9. All vehicles operating on the airfield must have a locally manufactured FOD picker to
   remove FOD from vehicle tires. FOD pickers will be etched with the vehicle's ID number,
   attached to vehicle key ring, and annotate on the vehicle's AF Form 1800, Operator’s
   Inspection Guide and Trouble Report and AF Form 1807, Operator’s Inspection Guide and
   Trouble Report (Fuel Servicing Vehicles).
   5.10. All vehicles operating on the flight line during hours of darkness must have a
   serviceable flashlight to perform roll over FOD check. If assigned to vehicle, etch the
   flashlight with the vehicle's ID number and annotate on the vehicle's AF Form 1800/1807.
   5.11. With the exception of removable (e.g., slide on) pocket clips on tools, do not
   disassemble or damage tools for the purpose of removing clips, rubber switch guards, extra
   bulbs, etc. in accordance with AFI 21-101 para. 10.3.9.
   5.12. The 28 BW/FOD Manager, in coordination with Airfield Management (28 OG/OSAA)
   and 28 BW/SEF may suspend vehicle operator's flight line driving privileges for failing to
   perform FOD checks. Violators are subject to suspension of flight line driving privileges for
   a minimum of 15 days. Return of privileges will require written proof of retraining and a
   written statement from the individual along with the corrective course of action from the unit
   commander provided to the 28 BW/CV.
   5.13. All wing agencies dispatching by vehicle or other means to aircraft
   parking/runway/taxi areas and aircraft maintenance areas will ensure all tools, supplies,
   packing materials, etc. are accounted for prior to entering the controlled area and after reason
   for dispatching has been completed. If any items are missing, responsible person will notify
   the MOC and ensure the lost item checklist is initiated (ref AFI 21-1-1 para 3.2.2.).
6. Prior to any aircraft engine operation, personnel will ensure the following.
   6.1. Tools, equipment and hardware have been accounted for and secured.
 6                                                 ELLSWORTHAFBI 21-507 11 JUNE 2012


     6.2. Engine run supervisor will ensure a FOD check to the front, sides and aft of the intakes
     is conducted.
     6.3. Areas where unpaved portions are directly behind the aircraft and areas where debris
     may be blown onto active taxiways/parking ramps will be inspected immediately after engine
     shutdown for FOD.
7. Incident and mishap investigation.
     7.1. Initial emergency response vehicles responding to an In-Flight Emergency/Ground
     Emergency will perform a vehicle FOD inspection as time permits. FOD checks will be
     accomplished at flight line ECP or standard FOD checkpoints. If a FOD check was not
     accomplished prior to entering the flight line it will be accomplished at the predetermined
     staging area. Once staged and time permitting, all vehicles will do a tire rollover check. If
     time does not permit (i.e., aircraft has already landed) a FOD check will then be
     accomplished after In Flight Emergency (IFE) terminates and before returning to station.
     The on-scene commander, AM Ops, 28 BW/SEF, or 28 BW/FOD Program Manager will
     ensure the airfield is inspected for FOD and sweepers called if necessary. If response
     vehicles did not perform a FOD inspection, prior to entering taxiway(s), they will inform
     Ellsworth tower of known or suspected FOD. Tower will ensure aircraft do not taxi over the
     affected areas.
     7.2. The 28 BW/FOD Program Manager will be notified of all Dropped Objects (DOP),
     FOD, Lost Tools and suspected/confirmed engine foreign object damage. The 28 BW/FOD
     manager will track, report and investigate all lost tools and dropped objects to completion
     and provide synopsis' of each event to the 28 BW/CV.
     7.3. The 28 BW/FOD Program Panager will provide monthly DOP updates to 28 BW/SEF.
     7.4. Upon completion and receipt of FAST results the 28 BW/FOD Program Manager will
     contact the 28 BW/SEF office and provide a copy of the FAST results for mishap
     investigation purposes.
8. Incentives and awards.
     8.1. FOD prevention awareness awards and incentive programs are established by the 28
     BW. All FOD Fighter of the Month and FOD poster contest nominations must reach the 28
     BW/FOD Program Manager by the 25th of the month in order to be considered. These
     awards are subject to change based upon availability and funding requirements.
     8.2. FOD Fighter of the Month Award. This award recognizes anyone contributing
     significant value to the FOD prevention program by increasing FOD awareness to personnel
     or improving the FOD prevention program. Any person, from any level of supervision, may
     nominate an individual for the FOD Fighter Award. Submit written nominations to the 28
     BW/FOD Program Manager. State what was done, who did it (name, rank, duty title, unit
     and phone number), when it was done, and how it prevented damage to assets. The 28
     BW/FOD Program Manager selects the winner at the end of each month, with final approval
     by the 28 BW/CV. Winner receives a certificate of recognition and an award of the wing's
     choice. Nominee packages for the FOD Fighter award are due to FOD manager NLT the
     25th day of the month.
ELLSWORTHAFBI 21-507 11 JUNE 2012                                                         7


  8.3. FOD Poster Contest. Submit posters to the 28 BW/FOD Program Manager. Posters
  must be on standard 8 ½ " X 11" paper (or electronic equivalent) and include a slogan with
  the acronym "FOD". On the back of the poster or in email, print creator's name, rank,
  squadron, flight and duty phone. The 28 BW/FOD Program Manager and Quality Assurance
  selects the winner at the end of each month; with final approval by the 28 BW/CV. Winner
  receives a certificate of recognition and an award of wing's choice. FOD posters will be
  submitted no later than the 25th day of the month no exceptions.
  8.4. Golden Bolt Award. Individual is recognized for finding the "Golden Bolt" placed by
  the 28 BW/FOD Program Manager. The monitor (or designated representative) places the
  "Golden Bolt" somewhere on the ramp or in a maintenance back shop. If it is not found
  within a reasonable time period, it is moved to a different location. Winner receives a
  certificate of recognition and an award of wing's choice.




                                         MARK E. WEATHERINGTON, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander, 28th Bomb Wing
 8                                             ELLSWORTHAFBI 21-507 11 JUNE 2012


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010, Incorporating
Change 1, 16 Aug 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report
AF Form 1807, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (Fuel Servicing Vehicle

Abbreviations and Acronyms
28 BW—28th Bomb Wing
28 BW/CV—28th Bomb Wing Vice Commander
28 BW/SEF—28th Bomb Wing Flight Safety
28 MXG/QA—28th Maintenance Group Quality Assurance
AM Ops——Airfield Management Operations
CTKs——Consolidated Tool Kits
DOP—Dropped Objects
ECP—Entry Control Point
FAST—Failure Analysis Service Test
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
IFE—In Flight Emergency
SAFSO—Squadron Assigned Flight Safety
