BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             INSTRUCTION 32-7087
                                                                                        13 AUGUST 2003
                                                                      Certified current 16 November 2010
                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                               FORT GEORGE WRIGHT CEMETERY

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 92 CES/CEV (Mr. Gerald. Johnson)                 Certified by: 92 CES/CD (Mr. Ronald R. Daniels)
                                                                                             Pages: 3
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction establishes procedures for operation and maintenance of Fort George Wright Cemetery.


1. Who is Eligible to be Interred in Fort George Wright Cemetery. Fort George Wright Cemetery is
a military cemetery that has accommodated active duty, retired and dependents of military members since
1899. Due to space limitations new burials may only be accommodated under two instances:
   1.1. Military or family members who previously made reservations at the time when a qualifying
   family member was buried. These reservations must be recorded in the Official Interment Record
   Book kept and maintained by Fairchild AFB Mortuary Affairs, 92 SVS/SVMM.
   1.2. Family members may elect to have their cremated remains, contained in an urn, buried in the
   same plot as an eligible relative who is already interred in the cemetery. No more than two of these
   additional interments will be allowed per plot.

2. Reserving Gravesites. Two plots are available in Fort George Wright Cemetery, which limits new res-
ervations.

3. Procedures for Conducting Interments. The following steps will be followed when an eligible per-
son is to be buried in the cemetery:
   3.1. When a burial is necessary, 92 CES/CEVN and/or 92 SVS/SVMM will be contacted by the fam-
   ily of the deceased or the funeral home to ensure that the person has a reservation and to begin the pro-
   cess necessary for the interment of the individual.
   3.2. The 92 CES/CEVN will process an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to
   obtain approval of the Fairchild AFB Civil Engineer Commander. The proper gravesite will also be
   delineated for the funeral home.
   3.3. Family members are responsible for contacting a local funeral home to handle all arrangements
   for burial, in addition to the following requirements.
2                                                         FAIRCHILDAFBI32-7087 13 AUGUST 2003


       3.3.1. For a full casket burial Fairchild AFB requires the funeral home to arrange for the grave
       opening, installation of a concrete vault, closing of the grave and placement of the sod over the
       grave. Excess soil will be properly disposed of offsite by the funeral home or their contractor. Any
       needed awning, chairs or other items related to the funeral service are the responsibility of the
       funeral home and will not be provided by Fairchild AFB.
       3.3.2. The family will bear all costs.

4. Permitting Disinterment. The cemetery permits disinterment only when the next of kin furnish valid
reasons, in writing, or when a court order directs disinterment. Anyone wishing a disinterment must apply,
in writing or in person, to 92 CES/CC, 100 West Ent Street, Fairchild AFB WA 99011. The next of kin or
estate must pay any expense related to the disinterment.

5. Furnishing Grave Markers and Memorial Markers. The next of kin will make arrangements for
the procurement of a headstone, 92 SVS/SVMM will assist in submitting a VA Form 40-1330, Applica-
tion for Headstone or Marker, for deceased veterans who qualify. 92 CES/CEOHH will assist in place-
ment of these veteran markers. All headstones will be upright and of white marble or light gray granite
type, refer to VA Form 40-1330 for an example and dimensions if a private firm is to provide the marker
for other than veterans. If a marker is desired when cremated remains are buried in an existing grave, a flat
marker will be installed as a footstone. Markers are the responsibility of the next of kin and placement will
be coordinated with 92 CES.
    5.1. Inscription format on grave markers.
       5.1.1. Military Personnel.

1st Line    Full name, including maiden name, if desired.
2nd Line    Full rank, including branch of service.
3rd Line    Lower left side, date of birth; lower right side, date of death.
            (Religious emblem if desired)
       5.1.2. Spouse or Child of Military Sponsor.

1st Line    First, middle, and if desired, maiden name of deceased if appropriate
2nd Line    Left side, date of birth; right side, date of death.
3rd Line    Wife/husband or daughter/son of (applicable relationship to sponsor)
4th Line    Rank (sponsor’s rank, abbreviated) and full name of sponsor.

6. Decorating or Placing Memorials in the Cemetery. Visitors may place cut flowers, wreaths, and
artificial floral arrangements on graves. Cemetery maintenance people will remove floral arrangements
when they become unsightly. Visitors may not plant flowers in the cemetery.

7. Cemetery Operations.
    7.1. Fairchild AFB Mortuary Affairs Office, 92 SVS/SVMM, will keep the official interment record
    and the reservation record for Fort George Wright Cemetery. They will make contact with reservation
FAIRCHILDAFBI32-7087 13 AUGUST 2003                                                                     3


  holders every two years to assure that there is continuing need for the reservation. At the end of each
  month, in which a burial has taken place, prepare in duplicate an AF Form 593, Interment
  Record-Base Cemetery. Submit the original to HQ AMC/SVX, 503 Ward Drive Bldg 1910 Ste 203,
  Scott AFB IL 62225-5335, retain duplicate at the installation. 92SVS/SVMM responds to requests for
  authorized military honors if the next of kin requests them.
  7.2. 92 CES is responsible for maintaining the grounds at the cemetery. This will include the con-
  struction and maintenance of walks, roads, walls, fences, and drainage facilities; erosion control; care
  of shrubs, trees, and grass; procurement and installation of temporary grave markers; and installation
  of permanent markers. They also provide for the delineation of the grave plot at the request of funeral
  home prior to the opening of the grave. 92 CES also maintains maps of the cemetery and updates them
  as needed.
  7.3. 92 CES will also procure small grave decorating flags and ensure their placement for Memorial
  Day and Veterans Day, and their removal thereafter. All graves are decorated during the 24-hour
  period immediately preceding these days. The flags will be removed on the first working day follow-
  ing the observance of these days.
  7.4. Forms Adopted: . AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, AF Form 593, Interment
  Record-Base Cemetery, and VA Form 40-1330, Application for Headstone or Marker



                                                    RANDAL D. FULLHART, Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander
