BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
                                                                                    32-002
                                                                                            14 MAY 1997

                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                      MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR REAL
                                                                     PROPERTY FACILITIES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 92 CES/CEOF (SMSgt J. Guidry)                                              Certified by: 92 CES/CC
                                                                            (Major Wayland H. Patterson)
Supersedes FAIRCHILDAFBI32-002,                                                                   Pages: 8
           20 June 1994                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction tells how to use, control, assign, and maintain buildings/facilities. It concerns all real
property of the Air Force, Air National Guard, and tenant unit commanders under AFI 32-9002, Use of
Real Property Facilities. This publication governs the maintenance of certain records which contain per-
sonal information, the disclosure of which may constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
Such information should not be disclosed; see AFI 37-132, Air Force Privacy Act Program, for guidance.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Rename Building and Alternate Building Manager to Facility and Alternate Facility Manager and include
routing of AF Form 332, BCE Work Request through Local 11 NFFE if the requesting unit commander
deems necessary.



1. TERMS EXPLAINED.
   1.1. Real Property (RP). Real property includes land; leaseholds; buildings; improvements and appur-
   tenances thereto, whether temporary or permanent. All requests for space, change of use, and turn-ins
   are reviewed by the Base Facility Use Panel (FUP) with recommendations forwarded to the Base
   Facilities Board (FB) for approval or disapproval.
   1.2. Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE). Government owned or leased accessory equipment,
   apparatus, and fixtures which aid in the function of the real property and are permanently attached.
   Equipment Authorization Inventory Data (EAID) and other technical operating equipment are not
   RPIE, but using organization responsibility. As a general rule, equipment is normally considered
   RPIE if it can aid in the function of that facility regardless of the facility use.
   1.3. Facility Responsible Officer (FRO). The organization commander will be the FRO assigned the
   responsibilities outlined in paragraph 3.
2                                                             FAIRCHILDAFBI 32-002 14 MAY 1997


    1.4. Facility Manager (FM). The FM and alternate FM are assigned the authority and responsibility
    outlined in paragraph 4.
    1.5. Inventory. Physical check of each facility. Periodic inventories will be conducted by the Real
    Estate Element (92 CES/CERR). An inventory will be conducted when a facility is vacated. The
    inventory will be conducted by the current FM and his/her replacement when responsibility is trans-
    ferred.
    1.6. Key Control. FMs control all keys to their facilities. The appropriate Zone Customer Service Unit
    (CSU) is responsible as directed in paragraph 7.

2. MODIFICATIONS TO RP/RPIE FACILITIES. An AF Form 332, BCE Work Request, must be
signed by the unit commander for all work changing RP/RPIE facilities (classified minor construction).
Any change in work conditions to bargaining members of the union must be coordinated through the
squadron commander, group commander, and Civilian Personnel Office then to Local 11 NFFE. It is nec-
essary that approval be obtained from Civil Engineering prior to the physical start of any work which
involves a change to RP/RPIE facilities. This applies regardless of the funds source and/or when no funds
are needed. AF Form 332, BCE Work Request for maintenance or repair may be signed by the FM.

3. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FRO. All commanders of base or tenant units will:
    3.1. Submit a memo signed by the appropriate group commander to 92 CES/CERR requesting any
    proposed change in use or assignment of facilities. All changes in assignment or use require FUP or
    FB approval.
    3.2. Appoint a real property FM and an alternate FM. The primary work assignment of the individual
    should be in the facility for which the individual is appointed. In multiple-unit facilities, the FM will
    be from the organization of the principal occupant if one exists and, if not, from the organization occu-
    pying the largest portion of the facility. The appropriate Zone CSU will be advised, in writing, of all
    changes in the FM assignments 30 days prior to date of change. All changes will include the name,
    rank, duty phone, organization, and home phone number of the primary and alternate FMs. This infor-
    mation will not be used as a custodian sign on the exterior of buildings or displayed on bulletin boards.
    3.3. Ensure, with help from the FM and/or alternate FM, that all occupants and users of a facility exert
    every effort to safeguard the property from loss or damage. Everyone is responsible for the care, cus-
    tody, and protection of assigned real property facilities.
    3.4. Be responsible for the termination of the facility occupancy. Ensure all provisions of the “Action
    Checklist for Real Property Moves” (Attachment 1) have been met.

4. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FM. All FMs and/or alternate FMs will:
    4.1. Publish procedures for opening and closing the building/facility at all times and include security
    measures to be observed.
    4.2. Inform the occupants of their responsibilities for care, custody, and protection of property,
    including pecuniary liability for loss and damage unless it is the result of acts beyond their control.
    4.3. Ensure good housekeeping and conservation of utilities. Set up procedures to ensure all lights are
    turned off and the building secured when it is unoccupied. Ensure only a minimum of lights are on
    during evening cleanup periods. Ensure that outside lights are off during the day.
FAIRCHILDAFBI 32-002 14 MAY 1997                                                                         3


  4.4. Check all utilities in accordance with FAFBI 32-009, Energy Conservation.
  4.5. Set up procedures to assure heating temperatures are set 10-15 degrees lower at night and over
  the weekend when the space is unoccupied. Also, during the cooling season, air conditioning is turned
  off as appropriate to conditions and use of the facility.
  4.6. Conduct monthly checks of the assigned facility and installed equipment, including doors, win-
  dows, glass, lights, plumbing, heating ventilation, and air conditioning equipment to determine the
  condition of the property. Maintain facility maintenance log showing work for facility maintenance
  teams to perform during the rotation to your facility. If the work is too large in scope, an AF Form 332
  will be accomplished by the FM as follows:
     4.6.1. Fire hazards are submitted through the Fire Protection Flight for assignment of a Fire
     Safety Deficiency Code (FSDC) as outlined in AFI 32-2001, Fire Protection Program.
     4.6.2. Health or environmental hazards are submitted through the base bio-environmental engi-
     neer (usually assigned to the base hospital) for assignment of a risk assessment code (RAC).
     4.6.3. Safety hazards are submitted through the Wing Safety Office for RAC assignment.
  4.7. Set up policing procedures for the grounds and parking lots next to the facility.
  4.8. Follow up on all discrepancies and irregularities that are noted during base fire and safety inspec-
  tions and any routine maintenance requests on at least a quarterly basis to ensure corrective action has
  been accomplished. Contact the appropriate Zone CSU for status and update records accordingly.
  4.9. Promote fire safety within the facility through compliance with fire prevention directives and
  correction of fire inspection discrepancies. Acquaint yourself with the base hazardous response plan
  by preparing the required hazardous chemicals list and briefing building occupants on any potential
  hazards that may exist in the facility and their location.
  4.10. Advise the 92d Civil Engineer Squadron (CES) of any potential fire or safety hazards. Immedi-
  ately report any damage or loss of the property and assist in determining the cause. Report all fires no
  matter how minor in nature.
  4.11. Request custodian services from 92d Contracting Squadron, if applicable, for the assigned facil-
  ity.
  4.12. Take part in annual surveys of the facility and furnish justification to support alteration and
  modification projects due to mission changes.
  4.13. Prepare and initial AF Form 332 and send with appropriate comments to the unit commander as
  necessary.
  4.14. Ensure that facility occupants do not tamper with, replace, repair, or adjust electric equipment
  including fuses and thermostats, heating, and ventilating equipment such as radiators, registers, vents,
  and blowers, except as outlined in paragraph 4.5. for energy conservation.
  4.15. Ensure that building/facility occupants/users do not alter arrangement of, move, or remove per-
  manent water, heat, lighting, ventilating air conditioning, plumbing and related fixtures or other
  installed equipment.
  4.16. Assist the appropriate Zone CSU and the FRO to decide liability and determine if a statement of
  charges/report of survey for costs of willful damages to the facility and/or installed equipment by
  occupants/users or others will be required.
4                                                            FAIRCHILDAFBI 32-002 14 MAY 1997


    4.17. Notify appropriate Zone CSU promptly when emergencies occur, describe the problem and
    what action is being taken to minimize the damage or loss of the property. FROs and FMs should be
    familiar with the location and operation of utility controls so they may be shut off in emergencies.
    4.18. Ensure no installation or removal of RP/RPIE or internal/external change occurs without the
    authority of an approved AF Form 332 from the Base Civil Engineer.
    4.19. Report any unsafe condition, leaks, or any emergency service requirements to the appropriate
    Zone CSU.
    4.20. Attach a statement of circumstances to an AF Form 332 when damage occurs to a facility to
    include the following:
       4.20.1. Item to be repaired.
       4.20.2. How damage occurred.
       4.20.3. Responsible individual(s).
    4.21. Send work requests which are not the result of fair wear and tear on a reimbursable basis to your
    Zone CSU so the individual(s) responsible can be charged.
    4.22. Keep a continuity folder that has, at a minimum, the following directives and records:
       4.22.1. FAFBI 32-002, Management Responsibility for Real Property Facilities.
       4.22.2. FAFBI 32-2001, Fire Prevention and Protection.
       4.22.3. AFPD 23-3, Energy Management.
    4.23. FMs are not held responsible or accountable for equipment installed in utility rooms (boiler
    rooms, electrical rooms) when keys to these rooms have not been issued. All requests for utility room
    keys must be approved, in writing, by 92 CES/CEO.
    4.24. Attend the Facility Manager Training Course hosted by your Zone Manager. This course is
    designed to acquaint FMs and alternate FMs with their duties and responsibilities. Annual classes will
    give all FMs a better understanding of all methods of work accomplishment in CE. Out of cycle
    classes will be held in the FM’s respective zone upon request during high personnel turn over rates.
    4.25. Be held responsible or accountable for all keys issued for his/her facility as outlined in para-
    graph 7.

5. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMANDER, 92 CES (through the 92 CES/CERR and Zone
CSUs).
    5.1. Conduct periodic inventories of all facilities (92 CES/CER).
    5.2. Train/brief designated FRO and FM personnel on a one-time basis. Training will be annual (Zone
    CSUs). A refresher class will be made available upon request to the appropriate zone.
    5.3. Ensure training is current and accurate. Schedule FMs and/or alternate FMs who require training
    (Zone CSUs).

6. FACILITY MANAGER RECORDS.
FAIRCHILDAFBI 32-002 14 MAY 1997                                                                          5


   6.1. The records you keep are the only chronological history of your facility. They tell CE what has
   been done to your facility throughout the years.
   6.2. The miscellaneous records section of your file is not an official record, it simply provides a place
   for you to keep records on your facility. These are non-permanent records and can be discarded when
   no longer needed.
   6.3. The following forms are required to keep facility records:
      6.3.1. AF Form 3132, Facility Manager Log, kept by the FM and/or alternate FM.
      6.3.2. AF Form 3136, Key Control Register, kept by the FM and/or alternate FM.

7. KEY CONTROL.
   7.1. The FM is responsible for all keys issued for their facility/facilities.
   7.2. Requests to rekey a facility and/or for additional keys will be submitted to appropriate Zone
   CSU. No FRO or FM is authorized to turn-over the control of keys to the next occupant, when an
   organization vacates a facility.
   7.3. The key request memo (two copies) signed by the FM or alternate FM will be hand carried to the
   Zone CSU. The memo will include the following:
      7.3.1. Facility number.
      7.3.2. Key or lock number.
      7.3.3. Number of keys needed.
      7.3.4. Requester’s name and phone number.
      7.3.5. Justification.
      7.3.6. Total charge to be paid for replacement key(s) (see 7.5. for key replacement costs).
   7.4. Only the FM or alternate FM may pick up and sign for initial issue keys.
   7.5. When the FM determines that a lost key has compromised the security of the facility, a fee of
   $50.00 per lock for the parts and labor to rekey and replace tumblers will be charged. No request for
   keys will be honored by the zone CSU until proof that payment for the lost key has been made or a DD
   Form 200, Report of Survey, has been submitted. All other keys will be $2.00 for each key replaced.
   7.6. When any facility is vacated, all keys must be returned to 92 CES/CERR.
   7.7. The appropriate Zone CSU will be responsible for verifying signatures for all keys made at Fair-
   child.

8. REQUEST FOR ALLOCATION OF SPACE. (See Attachment 2 for instructions)
   8.1. The request will be presented to the FB with sufficient justification.
   8.2. All requests presented to the FB will show current assets versus requirements.
6                                                          FAIRCHILDAFBI 32-002 14 MAY 1997


NOTE: Requester must be prepared to appear before the FB, if necessary, to support a request. (Ref: AFI
32-9002, Use of Real Property Facilities.)



                                                   WAYLAND H. PATTERSON, Major, USAF
                                                   Commander, 92 CES
FAIRCHILDAFBI 32-002 14 MAY 1997                                                                         7


                                               Attachment 1

                     ACTION CHECKLIST FOR REAL PROPERTY MOVES

A1.1. This checklist lists the actions required for moving into and out of a facility.

A1.2. PRIOR TO MOVING OUT OF A FACILITY.
   A1.2.1. The unit commander will appoint a project officer if the Facility Manager is not available.
   A1.2.2. Assure that the move has been approved by the Facility Board.

A1.3. The FM or AFM will submit an AF Form 3215, C4 Systems Requirement Document, to 92d Com-
munication Squadron with coordination of Unit Communication Control Officer to terminate a communi-
cation service to the facility.
   A1.3.1. Submit AF Form 601, Custodian Request/Receipt, to 92d Supply Squadron, Equipment Man-
   agement Section for changes or reductions of equipment requirements.
   A1.3.2. Ensure the interior of the facility is cleaned and outside grounds are mowed and trimmed.
   A1.3.3. Set up appointment with 92 CES/CERR to perform termination inspection and final inven-
   tory.
   A1.3.4. Accomplish DD form 200, Report of Survey, if necessary.
   A1.3.5. Turn in all keys to 92 CES/CERR.

A1.4. PRIOR TO MOVING INTO A FACILITY:
   A1.4.1. The unit commander will submit a request signed by applicable group commander by memo
   to 92 CES/CERR for consideration by the FUP and the FB.
   A1.4.2. After FB approval of space allocation, appoint a FM and an AFM or project officer.
   A1.4.3. The FM and AFM or project officer will submit AF Form 3215 for required communication
   services through their Unit Communications Control Officer to the 92 CS. Submission should be at
   least 21 days prior to the move if possible.
   A1.4.4. Also submit AF Form 601 to 92d Supply Squadron for any changes of equipment require-
   ments.
   A1.4.5. Sign for all keys received for the building andcorrect building listing and personnel location
   in Personnel Concept III (PC 3) in unit Orderly Room.
   A1.4.6. Correct telephone listing with 92 CS.
8                                                              FAIRCHILDAFBI 32-002 14 MAY 1997


                                               Attachment 2

    INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING REQUEST FOR ALLOCATION MEMORANDUM

A2.1. The request memorandum will be completed by the unit commander of the organization desiring
the space as follows:

A2.2. Prepare memorandum on 92 ARW letterhead addressed to 92 CES/CERR with group commander
approval.

A2.3. Include organization, office symbol, building, and phone number.

A2.4. Facility number and address on which you are requesting the action.

A2.5. Present usage and unit owner.

A2.6. Justification: brief description of section purpose, number of personnel, and their official functions.

A2.7. Square footage required as prescribed in AFH 32-1084, Standard Facility Requirements Hand-
book, a listing of facility requirements for all functions supporting the Air Force mission.

A2.8. Official title and office symbol of person who will occupy the space.

A2.9. Special requirements for utilities, floor load, computer air conditioning, special security require-
ments, dust and/or static free environment are few a examples.

A2.10. Permanent or temporary requirement (under one year is considered temporary).
