BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE
FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE                                            INSTRUCTION 36-2502

                                                                               26 MARCH 2014

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                      SENIOR AIRMAN BELOW THE ZONE
                                                                          PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 92 FSS/FSMPD                                                       Certified by: 92 FSS/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col Maria N. Hatchell)
                                                                                       Pages: 13




This instruction implements AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, and establishes
procedures, policy and responsibilities for the Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-Zone (BTZ)
Promotion Program applicable to all units, to include tenant units, on Fairchild AFB. Both the
Central Base Board (CBB) and large units will utilize the procedures outlined in this instruction
and AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route the AF Form
847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.


1. OBJECTIVE. The SrA BTZ Program provides a one-time consideration for early promotion
to exceptionally well-qualified Airmen First Class. Selection opportunity is 15 percent for
promotions that are effective 6 months prior to the fixed (fully qualified) phase point.
2                                                 FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014


2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. 92d Air Refueling Wing Commander (92 ARW/CC) prescribes BTZ promotion
    procedures and is the CBB promotion selection authority.
    2.2. 92d Force Support Squadron/Military Personnel Section (MPS) Career Development
    (92 FSS/FSMPD) acts as the overall office of primary responsibility for the Fairchild AFB
    SrA BTZ Program to include ensuring the applicability and currency of this instruction.
       2.2.1. Will determine quotas and distribution based on 15 percent of the eligible
       population. Eligible Airmen must meet time-in-grade (TIG) and time-in-service (TIS)
       requirements.
       2.2.2. Will provide the SrA BTZ Eligibility Listing to each unit with Airmen First Class
       (A1C) assigned, as well as unit status (whether large or small) no later than the second
       week of the first processing month (i.e. Jan, Apr, Jul, Oct). Large units are those with
       seven or more eligible; small units are those with six or less eligible.
       2.2.3. Will ensure they have received all CBB nomination packages from units with
       eligibles; if a unit is not going to nominate, they will ensure a negative reply is received.
       2.2.4. Will provide a selection folder (content identified in paragraph 6.1.) to every board
       member and the president.
       2.2.5. Will verify BTZ eligibility of A1Cs departing to ensure a BTZ selection folder is
       prepared prior to PCS departure, if necessary. If a BTZ candidate has departed on PCS
       prior to consideration, unit personnel should contact 92 FSS/FSMPD for copies of
       Enlisted Performance Report(s) (EPR) and decoration in an effort to determine whether
       or not to compete the individual for SrA BTZ consideration.
    2.3. Unit Commanders:
       2.3.1. Must review any EPR(s) the Airman may have, his/her Personal Information File
       (PIF) if available, and discuss nominations with the member’s supervisors/rating chain
       prior to making a nomination decision, regardless if the Airman is meeting a large unit
       board or CBB.
       2.3.2. Will ensure proper documentation is completed, to include returning the SrA BTZ
       Eligibility Listing to 92 FSS/FSMPD no later than the last duty day of the processing
       month (i.e. Feb, May, Aug, Nov), to meet all suspenses for the board procedures.
       2.3.3. Must notify 92 FSS/FSMPD immediately of any derogatory quality indicators
       affecting selectees, e.g. 2 or less EPR rating, establishment of an unfavorable information
       File (UIF), etc.
       2.3.4. Are the promotion selection authority when large units convene.
    2.4. Board Presidents. The board president must ensure fair and equitable consideration of
    each nominee. Should the situation arise where the board may have been prejudiced in any
    way, the board president will immediately halt the board proceedings and report the incident
    to the promotion authority. Based on the information provided, the commander will
    determine whether the board may continue or be reconvened with new members.
FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014                                                              3


3. IMPLEMENTATION.
   3.1. The selection boards will normally be held during the first half of the selection month.
   (i.e. Mar, Jun, Sep, and Dec)
   3.2. When a commander has promotion authority over two or more units, the eligibles are
   combined and the unit commander complies with established small/large unit procedures.
   3.3. Small Units (six or less eligible Airmen) will nominate to the CBB and the procedures
   defined in this instruction will be used.
   3.4. Large Units (seven or more eligible Airmen).
      3.4.1. With the commander’s approval, large units may choose to nominate to the CBB
      in lieu of having a BTZ board. If this option is chosen, large units must relinquish
      selection authority and all quotas to the CBB, done by annotating the bottom of the SrA
      BTZ Eligibility Listing.
      3.4.2. If large unit commanders do not use the CBB procedures defined in this
      instruction for internal BTZ boards, they will establish written selection procedures
      which ensure their SrA BTZ program is fair, equitable, and provides timely promotion
      consideration.
   3.5. Commanders are not required to select a nominee to fill the unit’s quotas.
   3.6. In the event a commander disapproves a board’s proceedings, a new board will be
   convened with new board members.

TABLE 3.1. Timeline.
           OPR
                 Large                       Action                              Time
  CBB
                 Board
                                                                       NLT the second week of
  92 FSS         92 FSS/
                              Provide SrA BTZ Eligibility Listing       the processing month
 /FSMPD          FSMPD
                                                                         (Jan, Apr, Jul, Oct)
                Unit          Notify MPS if they will hold a board
   N/A
             Commander        (large unit) or nominate to the CBB
   Unit      Unit
                                    Review Airman Records                 Prior to nomination
Commander Commander
                                                                         Last Thursday of the
   Unit      Unit                Provide CBB Nominations to               month prior to the
Commander Commander                    92 FSS/FSMPD                        selection month
                                                                        (Feb, May, Aug, Nov)
                                  Provide BTZ packages to
                                                                          First Monday of the
 92 FSS/         92 FSS/     92 ARW/CCCE (CBB) or SrA BTZ
                                                                            selection month
 FSMPD           FSMPD       Record on Individual Person (RIP) to
                                                                         (Mar, Jun, Sep, Dec)
                                 board recorder (large units)
4                                                FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014


                                                                          First Thursday of the
92 ARW/          Board        Provide BTZ scoring sheets to Groups
                                                                             selection month
 CCCE           Recorder      (CBB) or board members (large units)
                                                                          (Mar, Jun, Sep, Dec)
                                                                        Second Thursday of the
93 ARW/          Board        Receive the completed scoring sheets
                                                                           selection month
 CCCE           Recorder        from Groups or board members
                                                                         (Mar, Jun, Sep, Dec)
                                                                          Second Friday of the
 92 FSS/         Unit
                                Conduct Large Unit Board / CBB              selection month
 FSMPD        Commander
                                                                          (Mar, Jun, Sep, Dec)
                                                                        Third Wednesday of the
 92 FSS/         Board
                                      Submit Board Report                   selection month
 FSMPD          Recorder
                                                                         (Mar, Jun, Sep, Dec)
   Unit      Unit                                                       After Board Reports are
                                      Release Notifications
Commander Commander                                                            received
   Unit      Unit
                             Return the SrA BTZ Eligibility Listing
Commander Commander
   Unit      Unit                   Provide written promotion            Prior to the promotion
Commander Commander                     recommendation                       effective date

4. DOCUMENTATION/NOTIFICATION.
    4.1. The unit commander must sign and date each page of the SrA BTZ Eligibility Listing,
    underlining the name(s) of the nominee(s).
    4.2. Board Reports. Large unit boards will make notifications to 92 FSS/FSMPD NLT three
    work days after the board convenes. 92 FSS/FSMPD will provide the CCB report to the
    92 ARW/CCC NLT three work days after the board convenes for review prior to submission
    to the 92 ARW/CC for approval.
       4.2.1. All reports will use the format in Attachment 2 and will include:
           4.2.1.1. A list of board president, board members, and board recorder;
           4.2.1.2. Order of merit including board ranking and promotion effective date (if
           applicable);
           4.2.1.3. Name and unit of selectees, alternates in order of merit, and nonselectees in
           order of merit;
           4.2.1.4. (If applicable) Tie-breaking justification.
       4.2.2. Must be signed by the board president, board recorder, and promotion authority.
    4.3. Notifications will be made after the promotion authority approves the board report. The
    92 ARW/CC will notify Squadron Commanders (through Group Commanders) of their
    nominees’ status. The notification method will be at the Squadron Commander’s discretion.
FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014                                                           5


  4.4. Unit commanders will provide a written promotion recommendation prior to the
  promotion effective date to 92 FSS/FSMPD. This may be accomplished by adding the
  names(s) to the monthly Airman promotion selectee listing.
5. NOMINATION.
  5.1. Units must consider all qualified individuals meeting TIS and TIG requirements, even if
  they are TDY, on leave, or have a projected reassignment with a “report no later than” date
  during or subsequent to the processing month.
  5.2. All members forwarded to the board must have a minimum passing Fitness Assessment
  (FA) to be considered.
  5.3. Names appearing on Part III of the SrA BTZ Eligibility Listing are “considered” for
  BTZ promotion, but cannot be selected since they are ineligible for promotion according to
  AFI 36-2502, Table 1.1.
  5.4. Unit commanders may nominate none, one, some, or all eligible Airmen to a large unit
  board or the CBB after careful consideration of the individual and their merits of
  accomplishment.
  5.5. If a BTZ candidate has departed on PCS prior to consideration, unit personnel should
  contact 92 FSS/FSMPD for copies of EPRs and decorations in an effort to determine whether
  or not to compete the individual for SrA BTZ consideration.
  5.6. AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, will be used for all nominations.               See
  Attachment 3.
     5.6.1. Submissions are limited to 21 lines, including headings: Leadership and Job
     Performance in Primary Duties, 9 lines; Significant Self-Improvement, 2 lines;
     Base/Community Involvement, 3 lines; Education, 3 lines.
     5.6.2. All accomplishments from the time the member entered the service can be
     referenced on the AF Form 1206, even if this data is already captured on an EPR or in a
     decoration narrative.
     5.6.3. Categories:
         5.6.3.1. Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty: Describe significant
         leadership accomplishments and how well the member performed assigned primary
         and additional duties. Define the scope and level of responsibility and the impact on
         the mission and unit. Include any new initiative or techniques developed by the
         member that positively impacted the unit and/or the mission. Include results of Air
         Force, MAJCOM, Numbered Air Force-level inspections and/or evaluations. Include
         awards received; e.g., Airman of the Quarter, Maintenance Professional of the Year,
         and so forth. Emphasize innovation, impact, and results.
         5.6.3.2. Significant Self-Improvement: Show how the member developed or
         improved skills related to primary duties; e.g., formal training, on-the-job training,
         certifications, and so forth. Cite any other relevant training or activity that
         significantly enhanced the member’s value as a military citizen. Emphasize impact
         and results. DO NOT INCLUDE: Career Development Courses (CDC), Community
6                                                FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014


           College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree, or off-duty education data. See paragraph
           5.6.3.4. below.
           5.6.3.3. Base/Community Involvement: Define the scope and impact of the
           member’s positive leadership and involvement in both the military and civilian
           community. Include leadership, membership, or participation in unit advisory
           councils, professional military organizations, associations, and events; e.g., President
           of the First Four, Enlisted Dining Out Committee, member of the Air Force
           Sergeant’s Association, Sunday School teacher, and so forth. Emphasize impact and
           results.
           5.6.3.4. Education. Provide the following information about the member’s education
           record:
              5.6.3.4.1. CDC pass/fail data. If the member does not have CDCs, put “CDC:
              N/A.” If the member is currently in work, put “INW” and annotate time in work,
              volumes complete/total volumes e.g. CDC: INW; 6 mo, 3/4. If the member is
              complete, put “Complete,” annotate the completion timeline versus the standard
              completion time, and the members End of Course (EOC) score versus the average
              EOC score e.g. CDC: Complete; 6 mo/12 mo std., 85%/95%. NOTE: CDC
              average score will be retrieved from https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/AE-ED-02-
              37/default.aspx, “Course Statistics” folder, “CDC_SC Course Analysis Reports”
              folder, “CDC Course Analysis Report (CAR) - FY XX” Excel sheet.
              5.6.3.4.2. CCAF Completion data. If the member has a CCAF degree, put “Yes.”
              If the member does not have a CCAF degree, put “No” and annotate the total
              number of semester hours completed since technical school graduation (or basic
              training graduation if the member did not attend technical school) e.g. CCAF:
              No; 8 sem.
              5.6.3.4.3. Off-Duty Education: If the member has a degree, put “Yes” and
              annotate the Type and Title e.g. Off-Duty Education: Yes; BAS, Sports and
              Health Sciences. If the member does not have a degree, put “No” and annotate
              the total number of semester hours completed since the member was awarded
              his/her CCAF.
6. BOARD PROCEDURES.
    6.1. The CBB will conduct “record only” boards using selection folders. Selection folders
    will be destroyed when no longer needed. Selection folders will include:
       6.1.1. SrA BTZ RIP.
       6.1.2. AF FORM 1206, Nomination for Award.
       6.1.3. Air Force Fitness Assessment and History Printout.
    6.2. Board Composition.
       6.2.1. CBB: One SNCO from each of the following organizations: OG, MSG, MDG,
       MXG, DS and a board recorder provided by 92 FSS/FSMPD. In addition, the 336 TRG
       will be afforded the opportunity to provide a board member. The board president will be
       the 92 ARW/CCC or his/her appointee.
FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014                                                          7


     6.2.2. For large units using the CBB procedures: A minimum of four SNCOs assigned
     to the unit and a board recorder (no rank requirement) appointed by the unit commander.
     The board president will be the unit Superintendent or his/her appointee.
     6.2.3. The board president is a non-voting member except in the case of a tie.
  6.3. The Board Recorder or 92 ARW/CCCE provides nomination packages and score sheets
  to groups/units.
     6.3.1. Groups/units identify board members, consolidate scores, and return the completed
     board score sheets NLT 1400 hours the day prior to the board.
     6.3.2. For large units using the CBB procedures, the board recorder consolidates the
     scores and determines the order of merit of nominees prior to the board convening. For
     the CBB, the 92 ARW/CCCE will consolidate the scores and determine the order of merit
     of nominees prior to the board convening.
     6.3.3. Board convenes and discusses the results. In the event of a tie, the procedures in
     paragraph 6.8.9. are followed.
     6.3.4. Board president identifies proposed selectees, alternates, and non-selectees in
     order of merit.
         6.3.4.1. Selectee: Selected for promotion
         6.3.4.2. Alternates: Not selected for promotion but eligible to promote early if
         primary promotees become ineligible.
         6.3.4.3. Non-Selects: The member does not meet the criteria for promotion below-
         the-zone and will not be promoted early.
  6.4. Scoring.
     6.4.1. An Excel product, “92 ARW BTZ Boarding,” will be used to score nomination
     packages.
     6.4.2. Groups/Director of Staff (DS) will be provided an Excel spreadsheet to capture
     board member scores. See Attachment 4 for an individual package example.
     6.4.3. Each line of the package in the Leadership and Job Performance in Primary
     Duties, Significant Self Improvement, and Base/Community Involvement sections will be
     scored using a range of 0 to 5 points; 0 being the lowest and 5 being the highest.
     6.4.4. All three lines in the Education section will be considered together and scored
     using a range of 0 to 5 points; 0 being the lowest and 5 being the highest.
     6.4.5. The members FA history will be considered and scored using a range of 0 to 3
     points; 0 being the lowest and 3 being the highest. NOTE: Exemptions are neither
     positive nor negative and should have no bearing on your score.
     6.4.6. Board members can award up to 5 points for strength of record. This allows board
     members to apply professional judgment and grade the whole person concept. Board
     members do not need to award any points in this area.
     6.4.7. Evaluators should consider all contributing factors when reviewing packages. For
     example, duty position: is the member going above and beyond what is normally
8                                                 FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014


       expected; opportunity: is the member’s shift schedule/TDY tempo conducive to
       extracurricular activities; impact: did the Airman impact a section, squadron, group,
       base, etc.? Evaluators should also guard against judging the quality of the writing versus
       the quality of the nominee.
       6.4.8. The ranking a nominee receives from an individual board member will be
       determined by the overall score, highest score ranked 1, second highest ranked 2, and so
       on.
       6.4.9. A nominee’s overall ranking will be the sum of the board member ranking; e.g., if
       rankings were DS = 1, MDG = 2, MXG = 1, MSG = 2, OG = 2, and TRG = 2, then the
       overall ranking would be 10.
       6.4.10. In the event of a tie, all board members will review the appropriate records a
       second time and the board president will lead a discussion. As part of the board report,
       the board will provide the promotion authority a recommendation on order of merit with
       justification.
7. ALTERNATE SELECTION.
    7.1. Alternates may be selected in the event a selectee is removed or not recommended for
    promotion before the promotion effective date.
    7.2. 92 FSS/FSMPD will review the board report to determine the first alternate and notify
    the commander of the selection.
    7.3. The commander recommends/does not recommend for promotion. If the commander
    recommends the alternate for promotion and the selection was part of the CBB, he/she
    forwards a letter to the 92 FSS/FSMPD for the concurrence of the 92 ARW/CC.
    7.4. If the alternate’s projected BTZ Date of Rank (DOR) has passed when the MPS is
    notified of ineligibility of a former selectee, the alternate will receive the original BTZ DOR
    and an effective date of promotion equal to the date the unit commander signs the approval
    letter. 92 FSS/FSMPD will assist in applying for a retroactive promotion effective date to
    HQ AFPC/DPSOE.
8. SUPPLEMENTAL CONSIDERATION.
    8.1. If an eligible Airman was not considered, and the error is discovered before the
    promotions are announced, large unit commanders may consider the Airman and adjust
    selections accordingly. The CBB will be reconvened to consider small unit eligibles and
    adjust accordingly.
    8.2. If the error is found after the promotions are announced, the 92 FSS/FSMDP will
    forward a request for supplemental consideration, by message, to HQ AFPC/DPSOE.




                                             BRIAN M. NEWBERRY,
                                             Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014                             9


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs, 31 Dec 2006
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 Sep 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, 21 Jun 1993
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF FORM 1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A1C—Airman First Class
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
BTZ—Below-the-Zone
CBB—Central Base Board
CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
CC—Commander
CDC—Career Development Course
DOR—Date of Rank
EOC—End of Course
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
MPS—Military Personnel Section
PIF—Personal Information File
RIP—Record on Individual Person
SrA—Senior Airman
TIG—Time in Grade
TIS—Time in Service
 10                                         FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014


                                      Attachment 2
                                  BOARD REPORT

Figure A2.1. Board Report (Page 1).
FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014   11


Figure A2.2. Board Report (Page 2)
 12                                      FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014


                                  Attachment 3
                              NOMINATION FORM

Figure A3.1. AF FORM 1206, Nomination for Award, Example.
FAIRCHILDAFBI36-2502 26 MARCH 2014                13


                                   Attachment 4
                                  SCORE SHEET

Figure A4.1. Board Member Score Sheet.
