BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               INSTRUCTION 10-203
                                                                                            15 JUNE 2005

                                                                                                 Operations

                                                             PERSONNEL RECALL NOTIFICATIONS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:         This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
                http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 92 MSS/DPMX (TSgt Ives)                                                     Certified by: 92 MSS/CC
                                                                                (Lt Col Brenda K. Roberts)
Supersedes FAIRCHILDAFBI10-203,                                                                    Pages: 9
           9 May 1997                                                                       Distribution: F

Recall is a formalized system of emergency notification procedures documented by recall rosters and sup-
ported by defined procedures. Recall rosters will be constructed to efficiently notify personnel in a mini-
mal amount of time. If there is a need to recall personnel during duty hours, the most expeditious means
will be used. This instruction applies to wing recalls affecting 92 Air Refueling Wing (ARW) Active Duty
and civilian personnel. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard and Reserve personnel,
unless they are assigned to 92 ARW active duty units. Maintain and dispose of records according to the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, accessible on-line at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Added the revised wing report-
ing options (para’s 2.4.) and procedures for reporting unit strength number to the Personnel Readiness
Unit (PRU) (Attachment 2). A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.


1. Execution.
   1.1. Concept of Operations. A system utilizing unit recall rosters is required to expeditiously notify
   Fairchild Air Force Base (AFB) personnel (excluding those on leave, Temporary Duty (TDY), and
   quarters, who will be recalled via other means) of an order to report for duty. The Military Personnel
   Flight (MPF), Personnel Readiness Unit (PRU, 92 MSS/DPMX) will be the base focal point for
   recalls and strength reporting. The Command Post is responsible for the initiation of all recalls, actual,
   exercise or test.
   1.2. Tasks.
       1.2.1. 92 ARW will conduct periodic tests of the recall system as directed by 92 ARW Com-
       mander (CC) or Vice Commander (CV).
2                                                             FAIRCHILDAFBI10-203 15 JUNE 2005


       1.2.2. Unit CC’s will develop procedures for the preparation and maintenance of recall rosters for
       their units. They will ensure the Command Post receives monthly updates of all rosters. Unit CC’s
       will compile strength figures and report information to the Personnel Readiness Unit (PRU) dur-
       ing personnel recalls, unless directed otherwise (Attachment 2). Unit CC’s will prepare the mes-
       sage/letter to recall personnel from leave/TDY in the local area along with the written strength
       summary report (Attachment 3) and messages to recall personnel from TDY outside the local
       area (Attachment 4).
       1.2.3. Unit commanders will conduct quarterly tests of their recall system.
       1.2.4. The PRU will provide training to unit recall monitors in basic recall and strength reporting
       procedures.
       1.2.5. The PRU is responsible for compiling unit strength statistics provided by unit control cen-
       ters during personnel recalls and forwarding this information to the Command Post for presenta-
       tion to the Crisis Action Team (CAT).

2. Personnel Policies.
    2.1. General Guidance.
       2.1.1. When a recall has been initiated, the Command Post will contact the Wing Commander,
       Vice Wing Commander, Director of Staff and each group commander. Group commanders will
       then contact each squadron commander within the group to instruct them to initiate a recall of unit
       personnel. Command Post may also use pagers and text messages to advise on recall procedures.
       Method of recall notification will be determined by 92 ARW/CC.
       2.1.2. Group commanders, Director of Staff and unit commanders will inform the Command Post
       by e-mail every time they are off-station and out of pager/cellular telephone range, and who to
       notify in emergency/recall situations during their absence.
    2.2. Unit Commander/Director of Staff Responsibilities.
       2.2.1. Maintain a current recall roster. Ensure recall rosters are developed and revised as neces-
       sary and provide a copy via e-mail to the Command Post. Recall rosters must contain the Privacy
       Act Statement “THIS (ROSTER/LISTING) CONTAINS PERSONAL INFORMATION AND IS
       TO BE USED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES ONLY.” All personnel must be aware the recall roster
       is for official use only. Disclosure or use of information contained on these rosters is for official
       business.
       2.2.2. Appoint unit recall/strength report monitors in writing to (92 MSS/DPMX). Letter must
       include grade, name and phone number.
       2.2.3. Ensure defense message system capability is available for recalling members from TDY,
       when required.
       2.2.4. Ensure key personnel pagers/cell phones are monitored 24/7.
       2.2.5. Ensure squadron personnel are educated on recall procedures.
       2.2.6. Develop procedures to notify personnel who do not have telephones.
       2.2.7. Ensure internal sign-in procedures are developed for strength accounting purposes.
       2.2.8. Develop procedures for notifying personnel in the event of a communications outage recall.
FAIRCHILDAFBI10-203 15 JUNE 2005                                                                            3


     2.2.9. All organizations employing civilians will maintain a civilian recall roster. These rosters are
     to be used during inclement weather or emergency situations to ensure information (delayed
     reporting or change in duty reporting instructions) is conveyed to all workers. Those civilians
     desiring to be exempt from inclusion must ensure their supervisor has a contact phone number.
     2.2.10. Ensure recall rosters are not used as social rosters. Guidance for social rosters is available
     in AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, para 12.1.1.
     2.2.11. Recall rosters shall not be placed on shared drives unless each person will an access has a
     need to know.
  2.3. Key Military Personnel required to maintain continuous operations must be identified on the
  recall roster by a double asterisk next to their name. An example of when these personnel could be
  called includes when severe weather, such as blizzards, have closed the base. A corresponding note
  will be printed at the bottom of the roster stating, “**KEY PERSONNEL.”
  2.4. Recall procedures.
     2.4.1. Recalled personnel, when directed, will report to their duty section immediately. In accor-
     dance with dress and appearance standards, during an exercise or deployment, personnel will wear
     battle dress uniforms (BDU), black socks, and the Battle Dress Uniform (BDU) cap vice unit base-
     ball caps. Individuals must also be equipped with reflective belts for wear during non-daylight
     hours.
     2.4.2. One of the following options will be used, as directed, to notify personnel of a recall.
         2.4.2.1. OPTION 1: “This is a Wing Recall. Complete your pyramid recall and report to your
         duty section immediately. Recall time is ______L.” Stand up Unit Control Centers (UCCs)
         and the Commander’s Support Staff (CSS) CAT. Units must report strength numbers to PRU
         In Accordance With (IAW) Attachment 1. Leave/TDY recall letters/messages are required,
         unless the 92 ARW CC/CV deletes the requirement at the first Battle Staff meeting. These let-
         ters/messages are due As Soon As Possible (ASAP) but NLT the 3-hour strength report. This
         recall option applies to all personnel regardless of their duty shift or crew rest status. Recall all
         personnel ASAP.
         2.4.2.2. OPTION 1 ALPHA: “This is a Wing Recall. Complete your pyramid recall and report
         to your duty section immediately. Recall time is ______L.” Stand up UCCs and the CAT CSS.
         Units must report strength numbers to PRU IAW Attachment 2. Leave/TDY recall letters/mes-
         sages are required, unless the 92 ARW/CC/CV deletes the requirement at the first Battle Staff
         meeting. These letters/messages are due ASAP but NLT the 3-hour strength report. Do not
         recall personnel in crew rest or personnel scheduled to work shifts who are assigned to
         operations manned 24 hours a day. Personnel in crew rest or working shifts are consid-
         ered present for duty.
         2.4.2.3. OPTION 2: “This is a Wing Alert. Complete your pyramid alert notification and
         remain on telephone stand-by. Alert time is _________L.” Stand-up UCCs. Units report
         strength numbers to PRU IAW Attachment 2, unless otherwise directed (available number is
         all individuals contacted and advised to remain on telephone stand-by). Leave/TDY recall let-
         ters/messages are not required, unless the 92 ARW CC/CV establishes a requirement.
         2.4.2.4. OPTION 3: “This is a Selective Wing Recall to support __________(a Weapons of
         Mass Destruction, Major Accident Response Exercise (MARE), conventional MARE, TITAN
4                                                             FAIRCHILDAFBI10-203 15 JUNE 2005


          FURY, GLOBAL HAWK, etc). If the event is real world, 92 ARW CC/CV will provide pre-
          cise wording to pass to commanders. Complete your pyramid recall. Recall time is ______L.”
          Stand-up UCCs and the CAT CSS. Key personnel, as determined by group and squadron com-
          manders, will report to their duty section as directed. Members assigned as “Key Personnel”,
          under all situations, will be identified by a double asterisk (**) on the recall roster. All others
          will remain on telephone stand-by. Units report strength numbers to PRU IAW Attachment 2,
          unless directed otherwise. Adjusted and available numbers will include only those personnel
          considered key, including those who are to report on a later shift or those who are already at
          work. Leave/TDY recall letters/messages are not required, unless the 92 ARW CC/CV estab-
          lishes a requirement.
          2.4.2.5. OPTION 4: “This is a test of the pyramid alert notification system. Complete your
          pyramid alert notification. This is NOT a Recall or Wing Alert. Time is ________L.” Stand-up
          UCCs. Units must report strength numbers to PRU IAW Attachment 2. Leave/TDY recall let-
          ters/messages are not required, unless the 92 ARW CC/CV establishes a requirement. Do not
          notify personnel in crew rest. Notify all others ASAP.
NOTE: Additional instructions will be provided as necessary. Units should provide instructions to mem-
bers on how to report back to UCCs on personnel who were not contacted.
    2.5. Limiting Factors (LIMFACS).
       2.5.1. Lack of voice communication capabilities could severely hamper recall actions. Units must
       prepare non-telephonic recall procedures.
       2.5.2. Some individuals may not have telephones. In these cases, maps and directions will have to
       be provided to all individuals in the contact chain to assure recall of the member.



                                               ANTHONY M. MAUER, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
FAIRCHILDAFBI10-203 15 JUNE 2005                                                                     5


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
ASAP—As Soon As Possible
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
BDU—Battle Dress Uniform
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CC—Commander
CV—Deputy Commander
CSS—Commander Support Staff
FOUO—For Official Use Only
IAW—In Accordance With
LIMFACS—Limiting Factors
MARE—Major Accident Response Exercise
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
PRU—Personnel Readiness Unit
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCC—Unit Control Center

Terms
Assigned Strength—The total number of personnel assigned to your unit. This includes personnel on
TDY, leave, PCS en route to next duty station, hospitalized, etc.
Adjusted Strength—Assigned strength minus all personnel who are on TDY, leave, pass, PCS en route
to next duty station (e.g. Option 3 available strength numbers only includes those designated as key
personnel).
Available Strength—The number of personnel you have available for duty as directed by the recall
option used (e.g. Option 3 available strength numbers only includes those designated as key personnel).
Communications Outage Procedures—If you are unable to contact the PRU by phone, you must send a
runner with your strength report to arrive NLT the established suspenses. Email will not be used. No
extension of the suspenses can be granted.
Key Personnel—Personnel identified by respective Unit Commanders, as required to maintain
continuous operations during non-duty hours, severe weather or emergency situations. Key personnel are
identified by double asterisk (**) next to their name on recall rosters.
Reporting Format—Call PRU by phone. Provide grade, name and unit caller is representing. Caller will
6                                                             FAIRCHILDAFBI10-203 15 JUNE 2005


provide three numbers, first one is assigned strength (x), second number is adjusted strength (y), and third
is available strength (z). For Operations Security/Communication Security purposes, units will not
provide the labels on each number; therefore, the correct order must be followed. Example: “This is (rank/
name) from (unit), our numbers are (x), (y), (z).”
FAIRCHILDAFBI10-203 15 JUNE 2005                                                                        7


                                             Attachment 2

                                         REPORTING TIMES

A2.1. Units should contact the PRU to obtain the correct "RECALL Hour", if they do not have this infor-
mation already. All suspenses are based on this time. The following is a list of the suspenses for submis-
sion of strength figures.


UNIT SUSPENSE TO PRU
RECALL + 1:10 (Initial Strength Report as of Recall + 1:00)
RECALL + 2:10 (Initial Strength Report as of Recall + 2:00)
RECALL + 3:00 (Messages/Letters Due) WHEN DIRECTED
RECALL + 3:10 (Third Strength Report as of Recall + 3:00)
RECALL + 12:00 (Only required if you haven’t reached 100% strength accountability)


PRU SUSPENSE TO CAT
RECALL + 1:20 (Initial Strength Report to CAT)
RECALL + 2:20 (Second Strength Report to CAT)
RECALL + 3:20 (Third Strength Report to CAT)
RECALL + 12:00 (Required only if 100% accountability was not reached by third hour reporting)
8                                         FAIRCHILDAFBI10-203 15 JUNE 2005


                           Attachment 3

SAMPLE MEMORANDUM IDENTIFYING INDIVIDUALS RECALLED FROM LEAVE/TDY
FAIRCHILDAFBI10-203 15 JUNE 2005                     9


                                   Attachment 4

                    SAMPLE RECALL FROM TDY MESSAGE
