BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE
FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE                                                      INSTRUCTION 11-201
                                                                                    27 FEBRUARY 1998
                                                                        Certified Current 16 March 2011
                                                                                       Flying Operations

                                                                    SILENT WARRIOR PROCEDURES



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 92 OSS/OSK (Capt Michael S. Fields)               Certified by: 92 OG/CC (Col Michael J. Billings)
                                                                                            Pages: 16
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction established procedures used to launch aircraft in a communication sensitive environment.
It applies to all units and personnel assigned or attached to 92 ARW, Fairchild AFB, Washington. The 141
ARW may supplement this instruction. It does not preclude required airborne Air Traffic Control (ATC)
reporting procedures on peacetime training missions.



1. Purpose and Definitions.
   1.1. Purpose: The goal of Silent Warrior is to provide commanders the ability to minimize routine
   generations, launch and recovery communications to mask actual intentions or capabilities via the
   electromagnetic spectrum (EMS). The denial of vital operations communications is necessary to pro-
   tect airborne assets and determination of friendly capabilities or intent. The training goal for a com-
   munication sensitive environment is to maintain a normal level of communication at all times on all
   easily monitored communications systems. The level of communication should be typical for the time
   of day and day of week.
       1.1.1. Silent Warrior activity at Fairchild AFB is designed solely for the purpose of training crews
       and base agencies to operate in such environments. It is not to trick or deceive any outside agen-
       cies of local training operations.
       1.1.2. Silent Warrior may be used as a tool for deployed commanders. The training procedures
       discussed in the instruction are written to be easily adapted for an operational environment. In sec-
       tion 3, Functions and Responsibilities, each area will need to be examined if it applies in the oper-
       ating environment, and common sense modifications may need to be implemented based on local
       factors.
   1.2. Definitions.
       1.2.1. Silent Hawk: A cell/aircraft commander directed communications discipline, which mini-
       mizes the routine radio calls from pre-flight to takeoff.
2                                                      FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998


       1.2.2. Silent Warrior Level I (SWI): For formation flights only. Lead will make all normal com-
       munications typical to launching as a single ship. Lead tanker will be designated on the weekly
       flying schedule as an SWI sortie. Other aircraft in the formation will have the SWII in the remarks.
       The commander will determine a block time, and all communications will support the activity of
       a single ship launch, including maintenance and sortie generation.
       1.2.3. Silent Warrior Level II (SWII): A commander directed option that directs all local aero-
       drome non-secure, non-wire communication supporting the launch of designated aircraft be pro-
       hibited during specified block times. Can apply to both single or multi-ship generation and
       launches.
       1.2.4. Silent Warrior Level III (SWIII): This references a Fairchild operations plan for generation
       and launch of aircraft using Silent Warrior concepts. This is normally not a training option and is
       designed as a tool for deployed commanders. This is not a stand alone program, and will work in
       conjunction with OPSEC and other deception programs. All communication and references
       regarding generation and launch will normally occur only over secure means. The purpose of
       Silent Warrior III is to mask flying activities from outside agencies. The 92 OSS/OSK is the OPR
       for the Operations Plan.
       1.2.5. Silent Recovery: This is a commander option to recover aircraft using the same concepts of
       launching under Silent Warrior level II.
       1.2.6. Commander: The commander is normally defined as either the 92 ARW/CC or 92 OG/CC.
       1.2.7. Silent Warrior Block Time (Applicable Time): Period of time where silent procedures will
       be used. This time is to reflect the desired training. It could be as short as crew show, or as long as
       a generation lasting a few days.

2. Command and Control.
    2.1. Air Mobility Command (AMC). Air Mobility Command Information Operations Branch (AMC/
    DOKI) is the OPR for Information Operations for all AMC units.
    2.2. 92 ARW/CC. The 92 ARW/CC normally delegates authority to the 92 OG/CC to implement the
    silent warrior program.
    2.3. 92 OG/CC. The 92 OG/CC will provide oversight and approval authority for the 92 ARW Silent
    Warrior program involving 92 ARW aircrews and aircraft.

3. Functions and Responsibilities.
    3.1. Functions and Responsibilities. This section discusses the roles of various wing units and coordi-
    nating each into a close working group to successfully achieve the objectives of Silent Warrior. Lateral
    coordination with delegation from appropriate authorities is essential.
    3.2. Commander. The executing commander will establish a Silent Warrior Applicable Time.
       3.2.1. Prior to Warning Order dissemination, the commander will determine, based on Intel’s
       assessment, whether any Information Operations will be conducted, to include the level of Silent
       Warrior.
FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998                                                                      3


     3.2.2. The commander will direct all agencies that provide personnel or resources generating,
     launching and recovering aircraft to implement silent warrior procedures concerning a specific
     launch of one or more aircraft or an entire day(s) of activities.
     3.2.3. The commander or his or her appointed representative (Launch Facilitator) will be present
     on the ramp during execution of aircraft to provide required command and control should his
     authority be needed for deconfliction or mission prioritization. This individual will have the capa-
     bility to selectively monitor all aerodrome ground and airborne UHF frequencies.
  3.3. 92 OSS/OSK. The OPR for the 92 ARW Silent Warrior Program is the 92 OSS/OSK, (Wing Tac-
  tics Officer or his or her designee). This office is responsible to:
     3.3.1. Maintain and revise this instruction.
     3.3.2. Develop and maintain a Silent Warrior operations plan for use in real world contingencies.
  3.4. Intelligence (92 OSS/IN). Local Intel should provide continuous information to the commander
  concerning the ability of indigenous personnel or remote platforms (i.e., sea based, space based, etc.)
  which give target individuals the capability to monitor friendly aerodrome activity within the Area of
  Responsibility (AOR). Local Intel briefs for the commander and aircrews should include specific air-
  craft voice, navigational and radar equipment that may be realistically monitored that could alert the
  target (or forces aligned with the target) of significant aerodrome aircraft activity in preparation, exe-
  cution or recovery from a contingency or training mission.
  3.5. 92 Flight Scheduling (92 OSS/OSOK).
     3.5.1. Unless otherwise directed by the commander, Wing Scheduling will annotate Silent War-
     rior sorties on the weekly flying schedule. They will distinguish between SW I, SWII and Silent
     Hawk. Silent Warrior III annotations will not be placed on an unclassified schedule.
     3.5.2. The weekly flying schedule will be the primary document used by personnel to coordinate
     with various wing agencies in implementing Silent Warrior I and II training events. This reflects
     the delegated authority for individuals to carry out pertinent tasks.
  3.6. Flying Units. Tasked units will:
     3.6.1. Provide a Tower Officer. This individual should be an experienced Pilot or Navigator famil-
     iar with airfield operations.
     3.6.2. Provide a squadron staff officer, instructor pilot or navigator, or experienced aircraft com-
     mander to serve as a Launch Facilitator (Jester).
     3.6.3. Prepare a Silent Warrior brief for aircrews (recommended 3+15 hours prior to takeoff for
     single ship, 3+30 for multi-ship departures). Use the briefing guide on attachment 3 as a reference.
     Insure all pertinent topics are covered.
     3.6.4. Unless operational necessity dictates, mission plan the duty day prior to flight. The crews
     or launch facilitator will make every effort to file the night before the flight to expedite the clear-
     ance process.
     3.6.5. Insure preflight crews are properly briefed and adhere to Silent Warrior Procedures when
     accomplishing the preflight. Do not disclose over radios a preflight is occurring.
  3.7. Operations Supervisor (Hawkeye). The Supervisor of Flying, (SOF), will:
4                                                       FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998


       3.7.1. Attend the Silent Warrior briefing and if a multi-ship formation obtain a Cell summary
       sheet from flight lead.
       3.7.2. Provide assistance to the Launch Facilitator and aid in coordination for the entire Silent
       Warrior operation.
       3.7.3. If directed, obtain a secure Land Mobile Radio (LMR).
       3.7.4. The SOF will be on the ramp during aircraft operations to monitor for safety. Terminate
       Silent Warrior if safety becomes jeopardized.
    3.8. Tower Officer and Tower Personnel.
       3.8.1. The tower officer will attend Silent Warrior briefings and obtain a cell summary sheet from
       flight lead.
       3.8.2. The tower officer will be in the control tower at least one hour prior to takeoff. Brief all
       tower personnel, and if applicable Spokane Approach Control on the timing flow plan, aircraft
       parking locations, and Silent Warrior designation. Also the tower officer will insure tower light
       guns are operational.
       3.8.3. The Launch Facilitator will call Tower by phone from base operations and request clear-
       ance for all Silent Warrior aircraft. This conversation will be recorded and is the official ATC
       clearance. It must be relayed verbatim to the aircrews and preceded with the words “ATC clears.”.
       Crews file a 1+30 early false takeoff time so clearances should be available before they leave base
       operations. Lead must remember that clearances will drop out of the system two hours after pro-
       posed takeoff time, therefore keep tower advised of any delays.
       3.8.4. Silent Warrior I aircraft will call for clearance on UHF as part of the deception. Tower will
       read ONLY clearance for SW I aircraft to include ONLY the highest altitude of the block (a bogus
       clearance that simulates single ship operations. They already have their real clearance).
       3.8.5. If the clearance changes, the Tower Officer will notify the Launch Facilitator on UHF 311.0
       and request he/she contact the tower on a land line if practical to obtain changes. The Launch
       Facilitator will then pass amended clearance to the crews. Safety must not be compromised. If the
       Launch Facilitator cannot be reached or if there is any doubt the crews understand their clearance,
       terminate Silent Warrior.
       3.8.6. The 92 OSS/OSA will maintain a Letter of Agreement (LOA) with ATC and Spokane
       Departure. This should detail standard departure instructions for silent warrior aircraft, to preclude
       instructions being issued to aircraft just prior to take off.
       3.8.7. Coordinate with Command Post for them to notify the Tower Officer via landline when air-
       craft parked in areas obstructed from the tower begin to taxi.
    3.9. Launch Facilitator (LF). For 92 ARW training operations, the Launch Facilitator will use Jester
    as their call sign. The use of the Jester call sign is for continuity purposes only. A single occurrence of
    using the Jester call sign will compromise a silent warrior operation. This is an accepted training arti-
    ficiality. Another call sign will be issued during exercises or operational missions. The Launch Facil-
    itator will:
       3.9.1. Attend the Silent Warrior briefing and obtain a cell summary sheet from flight lead. Check
       with flight lead to see what late takeoff capabilities exist.
FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998                                                                     5


     3.9.2. Obtain a LMR from 92 CS/SCML (x5310). It is convenient to obtain LMRs for other key
     players in Silent Warrior (SOF, DCC, RAMCO, etc.). The Launch Facilitator will ensure all oper-
     ations personnel with access to the local communications net (i.e. hand held radios, cellular tele-
     phones, etc.) are informed and briefed on local communications procedures. This is to minimize or
     eliminate radio traffic, which may alert “listening stations” to unusual volumes of activity or activ-
     ities routine to preparation and launch of aircraft or sensitive missions.
     3.9.3. The Launch Facilitator will coordinate (one day prior to the launch day or block time) with
     applicable agencies the Silent Warrior level and applicable block times, specific timing that effects
     each agency, and any other pertinent information needed by each agent. Agencies are:
        3.9.3.1. Commander (Coordinated on Pre 60-2)
        3.9.3.2. Scheduling (x2165)
        3.9.3.3. Tower/Airfield Management (x5263/x5481)
        3.9.3.4. Maintenance/MACC (x5906)
        3.9.3.5. Crew Comm- For Launch Facilitator Vehicle (x2272)
        3.9.3.6. Comm Mobile- For UHF (x2751)
        3.9.3.7. Command Post (x4051)
        3.9.3.8. Wing Logistics Plans (XPL, x5582, exercises only)
        3.9.3.9. Transportation (x2244)
        3.9.3.10. 141st ARW (x7100)
        3.9.3.11. Crew Control (exercises only)
        3.9.3.12. Supply (Fuels, etc.)
        3.9.3.13. Security Forces
        3.9.3.14. Deployment Control (XPL, x5112, exercises only)
        3.9.3.15. Life Support
        3.9.3.16. Fire Department
        3.9.3.17. Public Affairs (for large scale exercises)
        3.9.3.18. Receivers (if buddy departure)
        3.9.3.19. Non-participating, collocated units
     3.9.4. This is not a comprehensive list. Each location and situation is unique, and should be ana-
     lyzed to determine applicability. The Launch Facilitator may delegate some coordination duties,
     but will ensure via feedback such coordination did occur.
     3.9.5. Obtain a vehicle (operating beacon desired), install the UHF mobile radio from Comm
     Mobile, and check your LMR with tower and command post. This check should occur prior to the
     first crew leaving base operations. If it is feasible, and part of the exercise, attempt to make the
     UHF secure capable. (It is advised to obtain the vehicle and radio the duty day prior to the event).
6                                                       FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998


       3.9.6. The Launch Facilitator will check that all flight plans were filed in time to receive clearance
       from the control tower via land-line. Crews are directed to file a 1+30 early take off time. For cell
       departures, crews often submit the flight plan the night before. Check with Base Operations prior
       to crew arrival at Base Operations and check on the status of the flight plan.
       3.9.7. From Base Operations call Tower and obtain the departure clearance and IFF/SIF settings
       for each aircraft (this will be recorded and represents the official ATC clearance, and will include
       the phrase (“ATC Clears…”). Pass this information to each aircrew at base ops. Act as a relay
       between the aircrews, Command Post, Maintenance Aircraft Readiness Center, and the Tower
       Officer. Once on the flight line, notify aircrews of any changes to the departure clearance ASAP.
       3.9.8. If ATIS is unavailable, provide aircrews with current altimeter settings for their preflight.
       3.9.9. The Launch Facilitator may delegate some duties to the SOF (Hawkeye), such as message
       relay to crews while in the aircraft.
       3.9.10. If required, notify the Command Post via landline or secure radio of a late takeoff.
       3.9.11. The Launch Facilitator will be on the flight line in a clear position to observe the aircraft
       and tower during taxi through takeoff, and ensure tower signals are being observed and followed.
       In the interest of safety intervene with any means available when a conflict is observed between
       tower and the moving aircraft.
       3.9.12. Obtain the Launch Facilitator Kit and if desired pick up the RSO building key from base
       operations, and check the phone with command post. This is a convenient phone to use when
       needed in obtaining updates and to coordinate changes. The kit will include a maintenance head-
       set, a large dry erase board with marker, airfield diagram with parking spots, flashlight, and com-
       mon flight line procedures guide. The OPR for the kit is OSS/OSK (x5597).
       3.9.13. The Launch Facilitator will be notified of changes in a variety of means. The two pre-
       ferred are a flashing red light directed at the LF, (if in a unobstructed location and not near the air-
       craft or other vehicle that may intercept the signal), signaling to call Command Post via land line,
       or a UHF call stating “Jester check in” or similar verbiage.
       3.9.14. The Launch Facilitator must be familiar with each agency’s responsibilities.
    3.10. Command Post. Command Post personnel will check the weekly flying schedule and identify
    Silent Warrior sorties. In addition, Command Post will:
       3.10.1. Coordinate through the launch facilitator with any changes, and if necessary, call the
       Launch Facilitator (Jester) on UHF to have him/her contact command post.
       3.10.2. Duty controller will not broadcast any information via the UHF radio or commanders net
       pertaining to Silent Warrior operations except to terminate.
       3.10.3. Conduct a LMR check on the Command Net with LF and Tower, if applicable.
       3.10.4. For aircraft parked in obstructed parking areas (60’s row, etc.), the Tower Officer will
       request notification via land line when aircraft start taxi in parking areas.
       3.10.5. For changes not needing immediate actions, call Tower to determine if it is practical notify
       the Launch Facilitator with a flashing red light, (He should be clearly visible and not near other
       vehicles or aircraft to confuse signals). This will signify he or she needs to contact Command Post
FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998                                                                   7


     via landline. If the Launch Facilitator is in an obstructed position, call on UHF, “Jester check in”
     or other similar verbiage.
  3.11. Maintenance (MACC).
     3.11.1. Maintenance personnel will relay non-typical information pertaining to Silent Warrior I
     and all information pertaining to Silent Warrior II aircraft by personal contact using people and
     vehicles on the flight line.
     3.11.2. Attempt, within reason, to park participating aircraft in the same vicinity. Coordinate with
     the 141 ARW if a joint operation is being conducted. However, the 92 ARW does not control pro-
     cedures used by the 141 ARW.
     3.11.3. Develop and implement any special procedures to be used during Silent Warrior opera-
     tions to ensure silent communications. This may include following aircraft out to the hammer-
     head, assigning additional vehicles to support SW operations, etc.
     3.11.4. If any SW aircraft encounters a maintenance problem, the crew will turn on the lower red
     strobe or flash the landing/taxi lights to alert maintenance to respond. If the affected system is a
     required system in the Minimum Equipment List and will interfere with the scheduled takeoff
     time, the crew will notify the Launch Facilitator on ground frequency and state: “JESTER, Red-
     ball, spot #.” The Launch Facilitator will respond and work timing and or spare issues, including
     working a Rolex if necessary. NOTE: Aircraft will turn on applicable beacons prior to takeoff in
     the hammerhead. For certain cell positions, this means the lower red beacon will come on. Brief
     an alternative signaling method to the Launch Facilitator and/or maintenance personnel for air-
     craft parked in the hammerhead waiting takeoff (flashing taxi lights, opening crew door, etc.).
  3.12. 92 TRNS. Transportation squadron will:
     3.12.1. Ensure personnel understand the importance of Silent Warrior and understand procedures
     for maintaining communications security.
     3.12.2. Appoint an officer or NCO Silent Warrior facilitator, when directed, to receive applicable
     mission information and times from the Launch Facilitator and who will in turn brief ramp super-
     visors of applicable times and ramp communication procedures.
     3.12.3. Have at least one crew bus available for immediate response to assist aircrews in moving
     to spares, picking up equipment, or other contingencies. The Launch Facilitator will direct.
  3.13. 92 ARW Mobility Control/DCCS. Appoint an officer or NCO Silent Warrior facilitator, when
  directed, to receive applicable mission information and times from the Launch Facilitator and who
  will, in turn, brief ramp supervisors. Make no reference to Silent Warrior over non-secure means. For
  exercises, coordination will occur through the Wing Tactical Deception Officer for further procedures.
  3.14. 92 Supply Squadron 92(SUPS). Appoint an officer or NCO Silent Warrior facilitator, when
  directed, to receive applicable mission information and times from the Launch Facilitator and who
  will, in turn, brief ramp supervisors. Make no reference to Silent Warrior over non-secure means.
  3.15. 92 Security Forces Squadron (92 SFS). Appoint an officer or NCO Silent Warrior facilitator,
  when directed, to receive applicable mission information and times from the Launch Facilitator and
  who will, in turn, brief ramp supervisors. Make no reference to Silent Warrior over non-secure means.
8                                                       FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998


    3.16. Life Support (92 OSS/OSOL). Appoint an officer or NCO Silent Warrior facilitator, when
    directed, to receive applicable mission information and times from the Launch Facilitator and who
    will, in turn, brief ramp supervisors. Make no reference to Silent Warrior over non-secure means.
    3.17. Fire Department (92 CES/CED). Appoint an officer or NCO Silent Warrior facilitator, when
    directed, to receive applicable mission information and times from the Launch Facilitator and who
    will, in turn, brief ramp supervisors. Make no reference to Silent Warrior over non-secure means. In
    an emergency, Silent Warrior will be terminated and normal ramp procedures apply.
    3.18. Public Affairs (92 ARW/PA). In certain exercises, attention may be drawn to unusual base activ-
    ities by radio hobbyist or other civilian agencies. Public Affairs will be briefed of the training activi-
    ties and respond in accordance with the commander’s objectives.
    3.19. Non-Participating Collocated Units. The Launch Facilitator will brief the Supervisor of Flying
    or Duty Crew of non-participating units to ensure they understand the ramifications of the procedures
    and ensure non-participating aircraft do not divulge information concerning Silent Warrior units while
    operating on the ramp.

4. Silent Warrior Procedures.
    4.1. Commander. The commander will establish a Silent Warrior level and block time and direct
    selection of Silent Warrior facilitators from each applicable agency.
    4.2. Routine Aircraft Maintenance and Sortie Generation. If directed block times include the period
    for aircraft generation.
       4.2.1. Communication discipline is not applicable during sortie generation for Silent Hawk sorties
       unless specifically directed by the commander.
       4.2.2. All facilitators will ensure required workstation personnel are briefed (especially those with
       non-secure hand held radios, mobile phones, beepers, etc.) and notified of the SW applicable time
       and ensure required SW procedures are implemented. Notify the commander that SW is imple-
       mented in your area of responsibility.
       4.2.3. All areas should conform to restricted communication directives to ensure denial of vital
       operational information that my give hint or divulge information concerning the upcoming opera-
       tion(s).
       4.2.4. Immediately cancel SW procedures if injury to personnel, damage/destruction of equip-
       ment or the site comes under attack unless rules of engagement given by the commander are con-
       trary to this directive.
    4.3. Mission Planning/Briefing.
       4.3.1. Prior to the cell briefing, flight lead (or designated representative) will call the command
       post and obtain parking locations, maintenance status, and any schedule changes from the duty
       controller. Also he or she will confirm if Silent Warrior operations are still in effect.
       4.3.2. Flight lead will obtain weather. The weather minimums for SW operations are VFR. SW
       operations will be terminated prior to taxing if the weather does not meet these minimums.
       4.3.3. Aircrew should plan for a Cell/Silent Warrior brief 3+30 or as directed prior to launch. It is
       recommended that Cell/Silent Warrior briefs occur prior to flight and not on mission planning day.
FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998                                                                      9


     4.3.4. Aircraft commanders and flight lead will ensure that all aircrew members, Launch Facilita-
     tor, Hawkeye and the Tower Officer are present for the cell brief. Pass out cell summary sheets.
     During the cell brief, aircraft commander/lead will brief timing flow plan, taxi sequence, light sig-
     nals, launch procedures, cell procedures, emergency procedures, termination procedures and
     Silent Warrior procedures listed in attachment 3 of this instruction.
     4.3.5. Flight lead will need to determine a taxi plan. This may become complicated in large cell (4
     or more aircraft) with aircraft parked in various locations. Common sense and good coordination
     is essential. Use of staggered start taxi times may be useful.
     4.3.6. The aircraft commander, Launch Facilitator or his or her representative should file the night
     before to ensure the flight plan is in the system, (file an early departure time 1+30).
  4.4. Base Operations.
     4.4.1. The Launch Facilitator will get the IFR clearance and IFF/SIF settings from the tower and
     pass them to each crew prior to leaving base ops. Aircraft commanders will crosscheck their hard
     copy of the ATC flight plan with other aircraft in the flight.
     4.4.2. Prior to crews leaving Base Operations, the Launch Facilitator will confirm mission status
     with Command Post mission status.
     4.4.3. Aircraft commanders will confirm parking locations with each other, and brief a taxi plan
     to prevent conflicts.
     4.4.4. For Silent Warrior I: Lead will brief the cell on radio calls. All radio transmissions will only
     reference lead as a single ship. All clearances to lead are clearances for the entire flight.
     4.4.5. Ground, tower, and departure frequencies will be confirmed prior to leaving Base Ops.
  4.5. Preflight. References are to SW II aircraft unless otherwise noted.
     4.5.1. Upon arrival to the aircraft, the aircraft commander will brief maintenance support person-
     nel, crew chiefs, and security personnel (if applicable) on the silent launch, to include engine start
     time, taxi time, and aircraft maintenance procedures. Ensure all personnel understand that they
     will make no radio calls outside the confines of SWI or SWII unless safety dictates.
     4.5.2. Preflight, engine start, taxi and takeoff will be accomplished IAW the timing flow plan.
     Any significant delays will be coordinated with the Jester who will relay to the appropriate agen-
     cies.
     4.5.3. Radio checks for SW II aircraft: Each aircraft will accomplish radio checks on ground con-
     trol frequencies for UHF and VHF radios. Only one radio check will be made per radio (Example:
     “Fairchild Ground, UHF radio check.” Do not use aircraft call sign. The crew may use aircraft tail
     number to reflect a maintenance check. For normal training, accomplish secure voice and
     HAVE-QUICK after level off. If in a SW I cell, lead may coordinate during the brief to have one
     of the SW II formation aircraft to check radios during normal lead transmissions, using lead’s call
     sign. (Note: Radio checks are a safety measure, these procedures are designed to minimize radio
     traffic. In an operational setting, these checks may or may not be performed).
     4.5.4. The crew chief will relay maintenance problems to the launch officer and to the MACC
     using any available maintenance vehicle. The Launch Facilitator will relay any problems affecting
10                                                     FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998


        mission timing to Command Post via land line or secure LMR. He or she will also notify the tower
        officer if delays are to be expected, and new timing if applicable.
        4.5.5. Prior to engine start, the Launch Facilitator will confirm with tower the ATC clearance.
        Crews will be notified by exception only.
        4.5.6. Non-secure transmissions, intentional or not, or inadvertent references do not terminate
        Silent Warrior.
        4.5.7. If secure voice or HAVE QUICK must be checked on the ground, use the following proce-
        dures: Load secure voice and/or HAVE QUICK during preflight. Establish, during the formal
        briefing, a specific time when a single mickey will be transmitted by the lead aircraft on a desig-
        nated frequency. No preparatory transmission will be made. All participating aircraft should
        switch to active net immediately following receipt of mickey to check HAVE-QUICK. Use
        HAVE-QUICK for interplane communications. For secure voice, establish a specific time to “go
        green.” If either HAVE-QUICK or secure voice fails to operate on the ground, reattempt opera-
        tions in-flight after level off. NOTE: Load Secure Voice using the PTT button located on the
        KY-58 assembly. Do not use the mike switch; this emits a distinct signal indicative of secure oper-
        ations. NOTE: Secure communications (Secure Voice and HAVE QUICK) still emit signals that
        can compromise Silent Warrior. The intent of Silent Warrior is to minimize all radio transmissions.
     4.6. Engine Start and Taxi. References are to SW II unless otherwise noted.
        4.6.1. Start engines and taxi IAW the timing flow plan. Aircrews should monitor ATIS prior to
        engine start and during taxi operations when needed.
        4.6.2. If the crew requires maintenance assistance after the chocks are pulled and crew chief is off
        intercom, turn on lower red strobe to signal crew chief for assistance. Common sense signaling
        should be exercised throughout silent warrior. Opening the window for use of hand signals, etc., is
        recommended.
        4.6.3. When ready to taxi, flash the taxi lights. Be cognizant of other taxing aircraft. If a cell
        departure, keep the lower strobes off until approximately 5 minutes prior to takeoff or arrival in
        the hammerhead area, (upper strobes will be on for engine start and taxi IAW AFI 11-206.
        4.6.4. If information must be passed to an aircraft after it has taxied, and it does not warrant ter-
        mination, the Launch Facilitator will drive to the appropriate hammerhead and signal the aircraft
        by flashing the vehicle headlights. The aircrew will respond by opening the crew entry chute and
        sending any available aircrew member down to the Launch Facilitator to receive the information.
        Under no circumstances will he or she leave the vehicle unattended in the vicinity of aircraft with
        engines running. Other methods, such as using a dry erase board, may be used to pass information
        to the crews.
        4.6.5. If weather does not permit visual acquisition of the Control Tower signals, (regardless of
        what METRO is saying), terminate SW operations.
        4.6.6. The Launch Facilitator will notify aircrews of any ATC changes.
        4.6.7. Tower will give a flashing green light to clear taxiing onto the parallel. ATIS provides per-
        tinent airfield information. Tower personnel should include unstick winds in ATIS. If ATIS is
        inoperative, the controllers should broadcast a current weather report and unstick winds on ground
        frequency at the pre-briefed time before takeoff.
FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998                                                                          11


       4.6.8. Silent Warrior I: Taxi clearance for lead is clearance for the entire formation. Use of light
       signals is recommended for practice, and at the discretion of the commander.
       4.6.9. After reaching the hammerhead, hold well short of the runway hold line and turn taxi lights
       off. Do not taxi to the hold line until all aircraft in the flight are ready for takeoff and have signaled
       this to the LF by turning their taxi lights back on.
       4.6.10. Crews will monitor ground frequency until at the hold line, ready for takeoff. At the hold
       line monitor tower frequency until given clearance for takeoff, then switch to departure frequency,
       or as assigned.
   4.7. Takeoff. NOTE: SW I is designed to have the capability to launch a formation without the use of
   light signals, though generally it will not be practiced as such. The following details SW II proce-
   dures, though they apply to all Silent Warrior activities.
       4.7.1. The Launch Facilitator will be on the hammerhead prior to aircraft approaching the hold
       line. After the aircraft/cell is positioned on the hammerhead, he or she will await each aircraft to
       turn their taxi lights on to indicate, “ready to takeoff”. A thumbs up is another good backup for
       additional measure. Then the Launch Facilitator will proceed to drive with his or her beacon/emer-
       gency lights flashing indicating to each cell aircraft, and lead, that the cell is ready for takeoff.
       Upon seeing this lead will know he or she may proceed to the hold line.
       4.7.2. A steady green light from tower means there are no changes to the clearance and the air-
       craft/flight is cleared for takeoff.
       4.7.3. Silent Warrior I: Takeoff clearance for lead is clearance for the entire formation. Use of
       light signals is recommended for practice, and at the discretion of the commander.
       4.7.4. After takeoff, contact departure control. Silent Warrior procedures DO NOT preclude nor-
       mal ATC communications.
       4.7.5. Takeoff does not terminate Silent Warrior. Ground personnel are encouraged to practice
       Silent Warrior procedures during the entire flight and block period. Aircrews are encouraged to
       practice EMCON with other military agencies.
       4.7.6. The Launch Facilitator will call in takeoff times to Command Post.
   4.8. Emergency Procedures.
       4.8.1. Silent Warrior will be terminated any time safety is jeopardized or when communication
       problems cannot be resolved.
       4.8.2. Termination: Any individual detecting a situation that may jeopardize safety will broadcast
       over UHF Guard if available, “Terminate Silent Warrior.” If UHF Guard is not available, the per-
       son detecting the hazardous situation will notify the command authority, launch facilitator, SOF,
       Command Post, or Tower. All participating crews will acknowledge the termination call.

5. Silent Recovery.
   5.1. Silent Recovery. This is a training option to recover aircraft at Fairchild using Silent Warrior II
   procedures. This does not preclude normal ATC communication procedures. Silent Recovery is
   intended to be a continuation of Silent Warrior II. All communication procedures outlined in this
12                                                      FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998


     instruction apply to Silent Recovery. All requirements for a Launch Facilitator and a Tower Officer
     remain the same.
        5.1.1. Silent Recovery is designed for a full stop, straight-in, instrument approach ONLY. In the
        event of a missed approach, Silent Recovery will be terminated.
        5.1.2. During the Cell/Silent Warrior brief, each Aircraft commander will brief an approximate
        arrival time to the Launch Facilitator (now Recovery Facilitator (JESTER)) and the Tower Officer.
        He or she will also go over arrival procedures, including Tower signals, taxiing and parking proce-
        dures.
        5.1.3. The Recovery Facilitator will coordinate parking location to the Tower, and coordinate with
        Command Post on transportation as soon as possible.
        5.1.4. Once Spokane Approach Control has cleared the recovering aircraft to contact Tower, the
        aircraft will set Comm 1 (if not already) to Command Post, Comm 2 and Comm 3 (VHF) to Tower
        and begin radio silence.
        5.1.5. Tower personnel will be vigilant in identifying the participating aircraft on their radar, and
        tell the Tower officer as soon as radar identification is confirmed. The Tower Officer will relay to
        the Recovery Facilitator by LMR or other secure means that contact is established.
        5.1.6. If the aircrew finds the estimated time of arrival is significantly different from briefed, call
        Command Post as soon as possible and provide an update.
        5.1.7. Once the aircraft is inside the final approach fix, Fairchild Tower personnel will give the
        recovering aircraft the appropriate light signal:
            5.1.7.1. STEADY GREEN LIGHT: If the recovering aircraft is cleared to land and the landing
            gear is down. The recovering aircraft will acknowledge by slowly flashing the aircraft landing
            light two times.
            5.1.7.2. STEADY RED LIGHT: Give way to other aircraft and continue circling. The Recov-
            ering aircraft will acknowledge by responding in the clear their “full call sign and on the go.”
            They will execute a missed approach or follow tower instructions. Silent Recovery will be ter-
            minated.
            5.1.7.3. FLASHING RED LIGHT: The airport is unsafe-Do not land. Silent Recovery is ter-
            minated, follow tower instructions.
            5.1.7.4. IF BY 3 DME THE AIRCRAFT HAS NOT RECEIVED A LIGHT SIGNAL: The
            recovering aircraft will state in the clear “(numerical call sign), gear down” (ie: “21, gear
            down.”). Tower will respond with “(numerical call sign), cleared to land” or “(full call sign),
            go around” as appropriate.
        5.1.8. The Recovery Facilitator and Hawkeye will be on the flight line observing for safety con-
        flicts and landing configurations of recovering aircraft.
        5.1.9. The Recovery Facilitator will coordinate a taxi clearance for the recovering aircraft with
        Tower. If there is a conflict, the Recovery Facilitator will wait for appropriate signals from Tower
        to proceed with taxiing to parking. As in SW II, a FLASHING GREEN light is clearance to taxi.
        Other applicable signals are also the same.
FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998                                                                     13


     5.1.10. Maintenance will provide a follow me from the hammerhead to parking. Rotating beacon
     and/or flashing emergency lights on his or her vehicle signals the recovering aircraft to clearly
     identify themselves as the follow me to parking. The RF and the follow me vehicle will be diligent
     for Tower light signals. Aircraft position on the taxiways may hinder visual acquisition of the
     tower, and the crew may not be able to detect light signals.
     5.1.11. If the recovering aircraft lands and there is no follow me, the aircraft will wait for a recov-
     ery vehicle. After five minutes and no vehicle has appeared, or in the aircraft commander’s judg-
     ment the aircraft presents a hindrance to normal taxi operations, the aircrew will request taxi
     instructions from ground on ground control frequency in the clear.
     5.1.12. After engine shutdown, the aircrew will brief the aircraft status and maintenance problems
     to the crew chief.
     5.1.13. After the aircraft is parked and engines shut down, the Recovery Facilitator will proceed
     to Base Operations and inform Command Post of the actual land time.
  5.2. Weather Minimums. To ensure safety during times of low visibility, silent recovery procedures
  will not be used when weather is below VFR. This will ensure that the aircrew has sufficient visibility
  to see the light signal on final.
  5.3. Termination. If for any reason the aircrew needs to terminate silent recovery, the aircrew will
  make normal radio calls to Tower and Command Post and state that silent recovery is terminated.
     5.3.1. If silent recovery needs to be terminated due to immediate safety or time critical factors, the
     aircrew, Tower, or any applicable agency should immediately resume normal communication pro-
     cedures. Once silent recovery procedures have been terminated, they may not be resumed.
     5.3.2. Silent recovery will be terminated whenever the tower radar (DBRITE) is out of service.
14                                             FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998



Timing Flow Plan For Silent Warrior
Date______
ACFT COMMANDER            CALL SIGN   TAIL #           PARKING                    STATUS



Launch                                               Tower
Officer______________                                Officer________________
Secure LMR Radio Check-Command Net (Command Post, Launch Officer, and Tower Officer)
First Take Off Minus 1+20_________________
EVENT                           TAKEOFF MINUS                LOCAL TIME

CREW SHOW TIME           AS REQ                    _____________
SILENT OPS/CELL BRIEFING 3+15 (3+30 Cell)          _____________
CREW BUS                 AS REQ                    _____________
DEPART BASE OPS          AS REQ                    _____________
ARRIVE AT A/C            1+30 (summer)             _____________
START ENGINES            0+25                      _____________
TAXI                     AS REQ                    _____________
WEATHER UPDATE           0+10(ATIS)                _____________
TAKEOFF                                            _____________
TOWER LIGHT SIGNALS (LAUNCH)
FLASHING GREEN            CLEARED TO TAXI ONTO PARALLEL
STEADY GREEN              CLEARED TO TAKEOFF
STEADY RED                STOP
FLASHING RED              TAXI CLEAR OF RUNWAY IN USE (JESTER CONTACT CP)
FLASHING WHITE            RETURN TO STARTING POINT
ALTERNATE RED/GREEN       GENERAL WARNING-EXERCISE CAUTION
SILENT WARRIOR SIGNALS
Flashing Green           CLEARED TO TAXI ONTO PARALLEL
Steady Green             CLEARED TO TAKEOFF
Steady Red               STOP
Flashing Red             TAXI CLEAR OF RUNWAY IN USE (OR JESTER CONTACT CP)
Flashing White           RETURN TO STARTING POINT
Alternate Red and Green  GENERAL WARNING-EXERCISE CAUTION SILENT
                         RECOVERY SIGNALS
Steady Green             CLEARED TO LAND AND LANDING GEAR IS DOWN
FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998                                                                     15


Steady Red                           GIVE WAY TO OTHER AIRCRAFT, EXECUTE MISSED
                                     APPROACH
Flashing Red                         AIRPORT IS UNSAFE—DO NOT LAND
AIRCRAFT SIGNALS
Flashing Taxi Lights, (Lower Red Strobe outside Hammerhead): NEED TO TALK WITH CREW CHIEF/
LAUNCH FACILITATOR, etc.
Open Entry Hatch (after taxi): NEED TO TALK WITH LAUNCH FACILITATOR, and, AIRCRAFT IS
CLEARED TO APPROACH.
Holding short of parallel: Signals tower that aircraft/flight is READY TO TAXI ONTO THE PARALLEL.
Taxi up to Hold Line: Signals tower that aircraft/flight is READY FOR TAKEOFF.
LAUNCH FACILITATOR SIGNALS
Flashing Headlights: REQUEST TO APPROACH AIRCRAFT. Crew should respond by opening crew
entry hatch when clear to approach.
Beacon/Emergency Blinkers On: At Hammerhead, after ALL aircraft have turned on taxi lights signaling
ready for takeoff: INDICATES TO ALL CELL AIRCRAFT CELL IS READY FOR TAKEOFF AND
MAY PROCEED TO HOLD LINE.
SILENT WARRIOR BRIEFING GUIDE
The following is a suggested list of points to cover during the cell brief. It is recommended that they be
integrated into the normal flow of the brief and not presented as a separate Silent Warrior brief. The goal is
for all participants to leave the brief with a solid understanding of exactly what will happen and when.
-Roll Call: All crews, Launch Facilitator, SOF, and Tower Officer.
-Silent Warrior designation (I or II)
-Base Ops:
Crosscheck flight plans and takeoff times
Jester calls tower and receives ATC clearance
If SW II, call Command Post for launch approval and mission status
Preflight/Engine Start
Jester passes current altimeter (SWII)
Radio check procedures
Notification procedures for maintenance/delay problems
Taxi:
Anticollision/Beacon signals
Taxi light signal for crew chief ready to taxi
Stub locations and Taxi flow plan
Restrictions of Taxiways, Airfield limitations
Maintenance Problems after Taxi (flashing/strobe settings, etc.)
Tower ATIS or weather broadcast procedures and times
16                                                      FAIRCHILDAFBI11-201 27 FEBRUARY 1998


Last chance inspection procedures if applicable
SW II Tower procedures for Parallel and Hold Line
Hammerhead procedures (lights, etc.)
SW I clearance procedures
SW II radio frequency settings and switch times
Takeoff:
Hammerhead procedures, aircraft lighting
Individual aircraft lighting, signaling for ready for takeoff
Jester procedures to confirm ready for takeoff status
Tower signals
Departure reporting procedures
Recovery:
Silent Recovery Procedures
Tower signals
Go around procedures
Taxiing procedures
Weather Procedures (VFR)
Termination Procedures
Safety
Insure participants acknowledge



                                                      MICHAEL J. BILLINGS, Colonel, USAF
                                                      Commander, 92 Operations Group
