BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               INSTRUCTION 32-023
                                                                                   29 SEPTEMBER 2004
                                                                         Certifed current 22 February 2010
                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                                 ENERGY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 92 CES/CEOE (Mr. Arthur Boysen)                                             Certified by: 92 CES/CC
                                                                           (Lt. Col Salman M. Nodjomian)
Supersedes FAFBI32-023, 1 March 1997                                                               Pages: 5
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction provides guidance for energy use by base personnel and defines energy management
responsibilities of the Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG). It applies to all staff agencies and
organizations on Fairchild AFB. The wing energy management program includes three areas of focus: air-
craft, vehicles and utilities. Base personnel should seek methods of conserving energy in these areas and
thereby further national energy policy and obtain monetary savings. Effective energy conservation
requires the support of every member of Team Fairchild, and energy usage can be reduced by vigilance
and sound management. See Attachment 1 for glossary of references and supporting information. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Web-RIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil/
rds/index.cfm.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document has been revised and must be reviewed in its entirety.


1. COMPLIANCE: Energy management policy is assessed by taking measurements in two areas:
Mobility Energy and Utility Energy.
   1.1. Mobility Energy: Consists of actual fuel consumption for aircraft and vehicle operations. Mea-
   suring compliance with the policy for reducing mobility energy will be accomplished by assessing
   actual petroleum consumption. Measurement will be charted annually and compared to the Fiscal
   Year (FY) 85 baseline for aircraft operations and FY91 baseline for vehicle operations.
   1.2. Utility Energy: Consists of utility consumption including electricity, natural gas, petroleum and
   others. Utility consumption includes installation and industrial operations. Installation operations and
   industrial operations will be charted annually and compared to the FY85 baseline.
2                                                   FAIRCHILDAFBI32-023 29 SEPTEMBER 2004


2. POLICIES:
    2.1. The EMSG will coordinate all energy matters. The 92 CES/CEOE will be the office of primary
    responsibility for the EMSG, with the 92 ARW/CV as chairperson. The 92 MSG and 92 OG are
    offices of collateral responsibility. The EMSG will consist of representatives from all major energy
    consuming activities as follows:


92 ARW/CV                  92 MXG/CC                  92 LRS/CC                  92 ARW/PA
92 MSG/CC                  92 MDG/CC                  2 SS/CC
92 OG/CC                   336 TRG/CC                 92 CES/CC/CEOE

    2.2. The group will meet to promote energy awareness, review energy program status and issues,
    identify to the commander necessary actions, ensure implementation of energy policies, directives and
    plans, and ensure effectiveness of the energy program.
    2.3. EMSG meetings will occur semiannually.

3. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    3.1. The 92d Air Refueling Wing Vice Wing Commander (92 ARW/CV) will be the EMSG chairper-
    son. The chairperson will be responsible for implementation and formulation of all energy policies
    and ensure the projects and programs of the base fulfill those policies.
    3.2. The 92d Civil Engineer Squadron, Maintenance Engineering Flight (92 CES/CEOE) will act as
    the Base Energy Manager and will ensure duties as outlined in AFPD 23-3, Energy Management, are
    accomplished. The Base Energy Manager will arrange meetings and agendas, and maintain correspon-
    dence and meeting minutes. The Base Energy Manager will coordinate closely with the EMSG chair-
    person.
    3.3. The 92d Operations Support Squadron, Weather Flight (92 OSS/OSW) will report on current
    weather and will compare recent weather with climatological averages. They will also report on any
    long-range forecasts available.
    3.4. The 92d Logistic Readiness Squadron (92 LRS) will report on vehicle mobility energy consump-
    tion.
    3.5. The 92d LRS is responsible to account for fuel usage basewide, and is tasked to research fuel
    consumption, and will report information to designated EMSG representative.
    3.6. The 92d Operations Group (92 OG) will report on aircraft mobility energy consumption.
    3.7. The 92d Civil Engineer Squadron (92 CES) will report on utility energy consumption.
    3.8. All other members are expected to report to their respective organizations on developments in
    energy policies and programs. All other members will also ensure sound energy management prac-
    tices are utilized throughout the base.

4. UTILITY ENERGY CONSERVATION (OPR: 92 CES):
    4.1. 92 CES/CEOE shall research methods of reducing utility energy consumption by purchasing effi-
    cient and cost-effective equipment, and replacing overpowered equipment with lower-powered equip-
FAIRCHILDAFBI32-023 29 SEPTEMBER 2004                                                                       3


   ment, where warranted. The base shall increase utility energy efficiency through capital investments
   and improved operations.
   4.2. Electricity Conservation: Base personnel shall make sure all lights and other electrical units are
   not used more than necessary.
   4.3. Heating and Air Conditioning Conservation:
       4.3.1. Any space not used at night, during weekends and holidays shall be heated to the lowest
       temperature or cooled to the highest temperature necessary for mission accomplishment and pro-
       tection of health and property. Energy Management Control System (EMCS) shall be used to pro-
       gram setbacks at night, on weekends or during periods of non-occupancy. This paragraph does not
       apply to military family housing units and dormitories.
       4.3.2. In base facilities, all heating and cooling controls shall be fixed and set by Civil Engineer-
       ing personnel. Civil Engineering will curtail utility use in accordance with a load shedding plan
       and will curtail utility use in accordance with a shelter-in-place plan.
       4.3.3. In base facilities, mechanical rooms are off limits to unauthorized personnel.
       4.3.4. When heating or air conditioning equipment is being used, all windows and doors shall be
       closed except for ingress or egress, or where required for ventilation. Hangar doors shall be used
       only for aircraft entry and exit where vehicle and personnel doors also exist. Vehicles shall use
       vehicle doors and personnel shall use personnel doors where they exist. If opened, heating or air
       conditioning shall be shut off.
       4.3.5. When housing occupants temporarily vacate their base house, due to TDY or leave, the
       occupant shall set the thermostat to 50º Fahrenheit in the heating season.
       4.3.6. Hot water temperature for domestic and lavatory use shall be limited to 140º Fahrenheit, or
       the manufacturer’s recommended temperature. This paragraph does not apply to military family
       housing units and dormitories.

5. MOBILITY ENERGY CONSERVATION: The 92 MSG and 92 OG are responsible for managing
the mobility energy program. The 92 OG is responsible for monitoring aircraft fuel consumption and
implementing efficient aircraft operating guidance. The 92 MSG is responsible for managing, effectively
maintaining and acquiring an energy efficient vehicle fleet.

6. VEHICLE OPERATIONS FUEL CONSERVATION (OPR: 92 LRS):
   6.1. The Vehicle Management Flight shall implement AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, and ensure the
   efficient and economical operation of the base vehicle fleet. This policy lists fleet management
   responsibilities, dispatch operations responsibilities and all personnel responsibilities.
       6.1.1. Vehicle users shall be trained to conserve fuel by using appropriately sized vehicles, riding
       together if possible and scheduling to minimize number of trips and distance. The LRS shall ana-
       lyze transportation services to ensure they are cost effective, efficient and customer-service ori-
       ented.
       6.1.2. It shall be the responsibility of all personnel using Air Force vehicles to: ensure proper care,
       inspection and maintenance on vehicles are performed, ensure vehicle malfunctions are reported
4                                                  FAIRCHILDAFBI32-023 29 SEPTEMBER 2004


       to vehicle maintenance and vehicle is made available for repairs, prevent misuse, abuse and dam-
       age to unit vehicles, and enforce Air Force vehicle official use policies.
       6.1.3. Other methods of reducing vehicle fuel consumption are by reducing idle time by turning
       vehicle off if waiting more than three minutes, not exceeding the speed limit and parking vehicles
       inside garages.

7. AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS FUEL CONSERVATION (OPR: 92 OG):
    7.1. Energy efficiency in flying operations can be obtained by two methods: obtaining fuel-efficient
    aircraft and modifying flying operations to take advantage of fuel-efficient altitude and speed.
    7.2. AFPD 23-3, Energy Management, states energy efficiency will be incorporated into the deci-
    sion-making process during the design and acquisition of aircraft.
    7.3. The wing will be proactive when managing flying operations. These modifications are included
    in AFI 112-KC135V3, Vol 10, FAFB Sup 1, C/KC-135 Operations Procedures.

8. ENERGY CONSERVATION VIOLATIONS:
    8.1. Reporting energy conservation violations is every Air Force member’s responsibility. Unit com-
    manders, supervisors and facility managers are first in the line of action on energy conservation
    issues.
    8.2. More than one violation of aforementioned energy conservation guidelines by a person in base
    housing can be grounds for removal from base housing.

9. ENERGY CONSERVATION SUGGESTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS:
    9.1. Energy conservation suggestions can be forwarded to 92 CES/CEOE.
    9.2. Significant achievements of individuals and organizations for conserving aircraft, vehicle and
    utility energy shall be recognized and rewarded by the EMSG.



                                              ANTHONY M. MAUER, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 92d Air Refueling Wing
FAIRCHILDAFBI32-023 29 SEPTEMBER 2004                            5


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 23-3, Energy Management
AFI 11-2KC-135V3CH10/FAFBSup1, C/KC-135 Operations Procedures
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
EMCS— Energy Management Control System
EMSG— Energy Management Steering Group
FAFBI— Fairchild Air Force Base Instruction
FY— Fiscal Year
RDS— Record Disposition Schedule
TDY— Temporary Duty
