BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE
FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE                                               INSTRUCTION 32-701

                                                                                27 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                     ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY CONTROL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 92 CES/CEIE                                                          Certified by: 92 CES/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Jason S. Campbell)
Supersedes:    FAIRCHILDAFB32-7,                                                           Pages: 8
               2 April 2008


This instruction directs the policies necessary for developing an organized, integrated, multi-
disciplinary environmental protection program. It also provides direction to all base personnel so
they will conduct their activities in a manner that protects and enhances environmental quality. This
instruction applies to all 92d Air Refueling Wing (92 ARW) personnel and Fairchild Air Force
Base (AFB) associate units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include: The 92d
Civil Engineer Squadron (92 CES) Environmental Flight is now the 92 CES Environmental
Element (CEIE) under the Installation Management Flight (CEI), which also encompasses the
former 92 CES environmental planning function. The Environmental Management
Subcommittee is now referred to as the Environmental Management System Cross Functional
Team. Section 3.2.2. Environmental Compliance Subcommittee was removed. Section 3.2.3.
HMMP Team membership list was updated. ESOHCAMP requirements were added and update
 2                                              FAIRCHILDAFBI32-701 27 JANUARY 2014


to include information regarding conducting annual environmental inspections, and Stage 1 and
Stage 2 ESOHCAMP checklists/self-inspections. Sections 6.4. and 6.5 were added regarding the
scope and availability of information with respect to Fairchild AFB EMS.
1. Responsibility. Per Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy,
and Transportation Management “It is the policy of the United States that Federal agencies
conduct their environmental, transportation, and energy-related activities under the law in
support of their respective missions in an environmentally, economically and fiscally sound,
integrated, continuously improving, efficient, and sustainable manner.” By this Order, the Air
Force (AF) as a Federal Agency has the responsibility for conserving energy and for prevention,
control, and abatement of environmental pollution at its bases.
2. Environmental Policy Statement. Fairchild AFB is committed to a policy of excellence in
all four pillars of environmental stewardship: Compliance, Pollution Prevention, Protecting
Natural and Cultural Resources, and Restoration. We have consistently gone beyond mere
compliance with federal, state, and local laws and insisted on maximum protection for human
health, natural resources, and the environment. We are proud to have developed a reputation for
first-class environmental practices and the collaborative implementation of environmental
standards throughout all aspects of base activities. To maintain this tradition, the men and
women of Fairchild will continue to:
     2.1. Maintain an effective environmental management system, promote the use of safe
     technologies and operation practices, and remain ready to respond to emergencies in order to
     improve our environmental performance and minimize adverse impacts to installation
     workers, their families, and the environment.
     2.2. Set environmental goals, measure progress, take corrective action when necessary, and
     communicate results and other environmental information regarding the installation’s
     operations and its environmental accomplishments to workers, the community, suppliers,
     regulators and the public.
     2.3. Investigate and evaluate new and innovative technologies and practices as appropriate,
     establish and implement an effective pollution prevention program, minimize the generation
     of wastes, recycle materials otherwise destined to become waste when possible, and dispose
     of any remaining wastes in an environmentally responsible manner.
     2.4. Ensure the responsible use of energy throughout the installation, including the adoption
     of innovative practices and procedures that will conserve energy and improve energy
     efficiency.
     2.5. Provide regular operation-specific environmental performance reviews and assessments,
     and develop plans to address actual or potential noncompliance situations.
3. Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC). The ESOHC provides
senior leadership involvement in ensuring an interdisciplinary, integrated approach to
environment, safety, and occupational health issues and monitoring progress toward achieving
Executive Orders, higher headquarters’ goals, and internal Environmental Management System
(EMS) objectives.
     3.1. Membership. The ESOHC chairmanship is delegated to the Vice Wing Commander.
     The Executive Secretary of the ESOHC is the Deputy Base Civil Engineer (CE). ESOHC
FAIRCHILDAFBI32-701 27 JANUARY 2014                                                         3


  membership is comprised of group commanders, the director of staff, and a senior-level
  representative from each associate unit. In addition, attendance by squadron commanders is
  required to document program oversight and involvement.
  3.2. ESOHC Subcommittees. Subcommittees to the ESOHC are established to further
  implement environmental requirements throughout the base and serve in an advisory role to
  the ESOHC.
     3.2.1. Environmental Management System Cross-Functional Team (EMS CFT): The
     EMS CFT is co-chaired by the Deputy Commanders of the 92d Mission Support Group
     (92 MSG/CD) and 92 Maintenance Group (92 MXG/CD). The co-chairs are tasked with
     decision-making authority directly representing the development and implementation of
     AF policy. The EMS CFT assists in establishing the environmental priorities/significant
     aspects of the EMS. Program topics for consideration and/or action include any
     environmental aspects and potential impacts identified throughout the base, including
     (but not limited to): pollution prevention; commute trip reduction; recycling; green
     procurement; hazardous waste; storm water; air quality; and any EMS objectives.
         3.2.1.1. Meetings are held quarterly or as needed. Small process action teams may
         be established with specific members of the EMS CFT to address emerging issues.
         3.2.1.2. Unit Environmental Coordinators (UEC). A primary and alternate UEC to
         represent the 92d Director of Staff; the 92d Operations Group; the 92d Medical
         Group; each squadron within the 92d Mission Support Group and 92d Maintenance
         Group; each Group within the 141st ARW; and each associate unit shall be appointed
         by the respective unit commanders. The unit UEC is responsible for serving as the
         single point of contact for environmental issues impacting their unit to include
         Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program (ECAMP);
         recycling; commute trip reduction; hazardous material management; and
         implementation of base-wide environmental priorities as determined by EMS. UECs
         shall attend UEC training as provided by the Environmental Element (CEIE);
         participate in EMS CFT meetings; and educate their units on relevant issues discussed
         at the meetings and/or with environmental program managers. UECs shall be the
         focal point for maintaining environmental compliance and preventing pollution
         within their respective unit.
     3.2.2. Tree Board. The Tree Board is chaired by the Deputy Base Civil Engineer and
     acts as the advisory board for oversight of the Tree City United States of America (USA)
     program and management of trees on base. The Tree Board membership is subject to the
     approval of the chairman and the Board will meet as needed to effectively implement the
     program.
     3.2.3. Hazardous Material Management Process (HMMP) Team. The HMMP Team is
     chaired by the Deputy Base Civil Engineer and is responsible for implementing the
     requirements of AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Material Management. The Team manages the
     procurement and use of hazardous materials (HAZMAT) on the base which includes the
     activities and infrastructure required for ongoing identification, management, tracking,
     and minimization of HAZMAT. The team includes members from Civil Engineering
     (Environmental, Fire Department, and Operations), Bioenvironmental Engineering,
 4                                                 FAIRCHILDAFBI32-701 27 JANUARY 2014


        Contracting, 92d Ground Safety, 336th Ground Safety, 141st Ground Safety, Logistics
        Readiness, Maintenance Group, and Medical Group.
     3.3. Restoration Advisory Board (RAB). The RAB acts independently of the ESOHC but
     may cross-feed information that is applicable to the ESOHC. The RAB is a public forum to
     encourage members of affected or potentially-affected communities to participate in the
     cleanup process at military installations. Team Fairchild’s RAB provides an avenue for the
     local community, the AF, and regulatory agencies to work together in an atmosphere that
     encourages discussion and exchange of information. The meetings are held as necessary and
     are co-chaired by the Vice Wing Commander and one elected member from the community.
4. Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). The National Environmental Policy Act
(NEPA) of 1969 and the President’s Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) regulations
require federal agencies to analyze the potential environmental impacts of proposed actions and
alternatives. Use of those analyses in making decisions or recommendations on whether and
how to proceed with proposed actions is further required. The Air Force has formulated the
Environmental Impact Analysis Process to comply with NEPA and CEQ regulations.
     4.1. It is the responsibility of each office, unit, or activity that begins an Air Force action to
     consult with the 92d Civil Engineer Squadron Environmental Element (CEIE) to determine if
     the proposed action has the potential for significant impact on the environment. This
     analysis shall be accomplished in the early planning stages in order to develop mitigation
     plans with less-disruptive impacts on later planning elements. Initial assessment will be
     completed as a coordination action on the AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request.
     Those actions determined to be a categorical exclusion (CATEX; as noted in block 23 of the
     AF Form 332) do not require any further environmental assessment, except those CATEXs
     that specifically require documentation on an AF Form 813, Request for Environmental
     Impact Analysis, provided the scope of the project does not change. The Executive Secretary
     of the ESOHC, the 92 CES/CEIE Environmental Planner and Element Chief, the 92
     CES/CEI Flight Chief, and/or a representative as designated by the Executive Secretary of
     the ESOHC is the authorized Category Exclusion (CATEX) issuing and approving authority.
     4.2. Those actions not designated as a CATEX will require further environmental
     assessment. The proponent of the action must complete an AF Form 813, “Preliminary
     Environmental Impact Analysis.” The AF Form 813, complete with a description of the
     proposed action and alternatives, will be submitted to 92 CES/CEIE.
        4.2.1. CEIE will finalize the AF Form 813 and description of proposed alternatives and
        route the AF Form 813, along with the appropriate documentation, to Bioenvironmental
        Engineering, Safety, and Legal for review. Each agency shall conduct a prompt review
        to ensure the timeliness of the proposed action is not adversely impacted. After each
        agency has coordinated on the AF Form 813 and associated documentation, it shall be
        routed for final signature.
     4.3. Final signature authority for an AF Form 813 is the 92 ARW/CV, the Executive
     Secretary of the ESOHC, or the 92 CES Installation Management Flight Chief (CEI). The
     Executive Secretary of the ESOHC shall also have authority to sign Finding of No
     Significant Impacts (FONSI) on those actions determined to require an Environmental
     Assessment (EA). EAs which indicate a FONSI or the need to prepare an Environmental
     Impact Statement (EIS) will be referred to the ESOHC Chair for approval.
FAIRCHILDAFBI32-701 27 JANUARY 2014                                                            5


5. Environmental Compliance. All units shall incorporate environmental policies and goals
into existing checklists, policies, and plans which guide their day-to-day operations or develop
such procedures/documentation to ensure compliance with environmental laws and standards.
   5.1. Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment Management
   Program (ESOHCAMP): To assess the on-going compliance status of operations throughout
   the base, the base will perform semi-annual Stage 2 ESOHCAMP evaluations and quarterly
   shop-level Stage 1 ESOHCAMP evaluations. In addition, 92 CES/CEIE will perform annual
   rolling environmental inspections of each unit. Only environmental and occupational health
   compliance are assessed in this manner. 92 ARW/SEG has separate processes for evaluating
   safety compliance.
       5.1.1. The 92 CES Environmental Element (CEIE) has primary responsibility for
       managing the environmental portion of the base ESOHCAMP with assessment support
       from other agencies throughout the base.
       5.1.2. Internal environmental inspections will be performed on a rolling basis with
       different Groups and/or Associate Units being assessed each month. Each unit must be
       assessed at a minimum once every 12 months. These unit inspections will be used to
       support the completion of the programmatic Stage 2 ESOHAMP checklists on at least an
       annual basis or otherwise approved by the EMS CFT. These inspections will also verify
       the shop-level Stage 1 checklists are being completed on a quarterly basis.
       5.1.3. Stage 1 ESOHCAMPs consist of shop self-inspection checklists. Each shop shall
       complete a Stage 1 checklist on a quarterly basis. The Stage 1 checklists will be
       reviewed as part of the annual environmental inspections and Stage 2 ESOHCAMP
       process.
       5.1.4. Each finding identified during an environmental inspection requires the owning
       unit to prepare a Management Action Plan (MAP) with their commander’s endorsement
       to address how the finding will be corrected, actions taken to prevent the finding from
       reoccurring, and estimated/actual closure date. MAPs must be completed within 2-weeks
       of receiving written notification of the finding.
   5.2. Environmental Reporting. Any spill/release occurring on Air Force owned or leased
   property must be reported immediately.
       5.2.1. In the event that a fuel or hazardous material is spilled/released, shop personnel
       must take immediate action to mitigate any effects to the environment or human health.
       All spills must be cleaned up immediately. If the spill/release is beyond the resources of
       the shop, contact the base fire department immediately at 911 or 247-5215. The fire
       department will provide proper response and containment along with contacting other
       base agencies, including the Environmental Element. Requirements for further clean-up
       and/or disposal of absorbents shall be coordinated with the Environmental Element.
       5.2.2. Report all other incidents or potential incidents that threaten the environment to
       the Environmental Element at 247-2313.
       5.2.3. The Environmental Element is responsible for all required regulatory notifications
       relative to a release to the environment. The off-base notifications will be made with the
       approval of Wing leadership within the regulatory timeline required.
 6                                              FAIRCHILDAFBI32-701 27 JANUARY 2014


6. Environmental Management System. Team Fairchild originally implemented an EMS in
compliance with Executive Order 13148. The base continues to improve the existing EMS in
accordance with Executive Order 13423, which replaced Executive Order 13148, and in
conjunction with Air Force guidance.
     6.1. EMS Cross-Functional Team. Team Fairchild’s EMS Cross-Functional Team (CFT)
     serves as the CFT required under the AF guidance. The membership of this CFT is
     comprised of UECs who are responsible for promoting EMS awareness and objectives within
     their units.
     6.2. EMS Champions. The EMS champions are the 92 MXG/CD and the 92 MSG/CD. As
     the co-chairs of the EMS CFT, they are to ensure EMS participation from throughout Team
     Fairchild is achieved and that an effective EMS is implemented and maintained.
     6.3. EMS Coordinator. The EMS coordinator will be the Environmental Element Chief
     (92 CES/CEIE). This person is responsible for ensuring critical elements of our EMS are
     developed, reviewed, and updated. These elements include tracking of objectives and
     targets; developing and maintaining EMS standard operating procedures; conducting EMS
     assessments; and compiling reports. The EMS Coordinator is responsible for overall
     maintenance of the EMS Manual. The EMS Manual is maintained on e-DASH.
     6.4. The scope of the EMS covers all units of the 92 ARW and those associate units with
     potential for impact to the environment. The associate units have host-tenant agreements to
     address the mutual support and participation within the environmental programs. Associate
     units which have minimal environmental impact are not included within the scope.
     6.5. Elements of the EMS are readily available to internal base organizations and personnel.
     They are made available to the public on an as-requested basis.




                                             BRIAN M. NEWBERRY, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 92d Air Refueling Wing
FAIRCHILDAFBI32-701 27 JANUARY 2014                                                      7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
Management
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management, 4 Nov 2011
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Material Management, 1 Nov 2004
AFI 90-801, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Councils, 25 Mar 2005
AFI 90-803, Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program, 24 Mar 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms: None
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
CATEX—Categorical Exclusion
CEQ—President’s Council on Environmental Quality
CEI—92d Civil Engineer Squadron Installation Management Flight
CEIE—92d Civil Engineer Squadron Environmental Element
CFT—Cross-Functional Team
EA—Environmental Assessment
ECAMP—Environmental Compliance and Assessment Program
EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process
EIS—Environmental Impact Statement
EMS—Environmental Management System
EMSG—Energy Management Steering Group
 8                                       FAIRCHILDAFBI32-701 27 JANUARY 2014


ESOHCAMP—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment
Management Program
ESOHC—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
FONSI—Finding of No Significant Impact
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
HMMP—Hazardous Material Management Process
IAW—In Accordance With
MAP—Management Action Plan
NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RAB—Restoration Advisory Board
UEC—Unit Environmental Coordinator
