BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE
FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE                                              INSTRUCTION 23-502

                                                                                   11 JULY 2013

                                                                           Materiel Management

                                                            RECOVERABLE AND UNUSABLE
                                                                 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 92 LRS/LGRF                                                         Certified by: 92 LRS/CC
                                                                        (Major Daniel M. Hervas)
Supersedes:    FAIRCHILDAFBI23-502,                                                       Pages: 5
               29 November 2000


This instruction establishes procedures for collecting, storing, returning to inventory, reusing,
recycling, and disposing of all recoverable, unusable, and hazardous waste petroleum products
generated on base. This instruction applies to all units and agencies assigned to or attached to
Fairchild Air Force Base (AFB), to include all National Guard and Air Force Reserve units
operating on Fairchild AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and
route the AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially changed and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include paragraph 2.1, identifies base stock of more than one diesel fuel and the reduction to one
grade of unleaded gasoline; paragraph 3.2. identifies generating unit responsibilities for draining
off and treating water; paragraph 3.3. changes the wastewater authorization point of contact;
paragraph 5.1. provides links to research national stock numbers (NSNs); paragraph 5.2.
acknowledges the addition of the Hydrants Area “B” facility and identifies procedures for after
hours requests; paragraph 5.3. establishes procedures for returning aviation fuel; paragraph 5.4
 2                                                    FAIRCHILDAFBI23-502 11 JULY 2013


deleted; paragraph 6.2. deletes the 2d Support Squadron responsibilities, unit deactivated;
paragraph 7.3. deletes return of product to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
(DRMO); paragraph 7.4. changes PPRC to 90-day accumulation facility.
1. General Policies
     1.1. Organizations that generate recoverable or unusable petroleum products must adhere to
     this instruction. Every precaution will be taken to ensure petroleum products are not
     contaminated by foreign substances including different fuel types or foreign objects.
     1.2. All recoverable fuel must meet minimum specifications IAW Technical Order (T.O.)
     42B-1-1, Quality Control of Fuels and Lubricants, to be returned to the 92d Logistics
     Readiness Squadron (LRS) Fuels Management Flight.
2. Petroleum Products Stocked on Base
     2.1. Currently, Fairchild AFB stocks aviation fuel (Jet-A), E-85 ethanol, automotive gasoline
     unleaded, biodiesel, and petroleum diesel fuels.
3. Generators of Recoverable and Unusable Products
     3.1. No organization, with the exception of the LRS Fuels Management and aircraft
     maintenance squadrons, anticipates the generation of recoverable or unusable petroleum
     products.
     3.2. LRS Fuels Management and aircraft maintenance squadrons (aircraft maintenance and
     aerospace ground equipment (AGE) units) generate recoverable petroleum products from
     refueling unit sumps, fuel storage tanks, aircraft sumps, aircraft requiring fuel cell
     inspections and repairs and AGE equipment. This fuel will be collected and temporarily
     stored in approved portable fuel bowsers. All water must be drained off by the generating
     unit prior to delivering the bowser to LRS Fuels Management for fuel reclamation and
     treated IAW paragraph 3.3. of this instruction.
     3.3. Wastewater collected from refueling unit sumps, mobile and fixed filter separator units,
     low point drains, aircraft sumps, and AGE equipment will be collected in a wastewater
     container by the generating organization. Authorization for and disposal of wastewater must
     be coordinated through the base environmental office (92 CES/CEV).
4. Collecting Recoverable or Unusable Petroleum Products
     4.1. Each organization is responsible for establishing procedures for collecting recoverable
     or unusable fuel products. Contact the base environmental coordinator for assistance. The
     LRS Fuels Management Flight will provide organizations owning support tanks the required
     tank custodian training classes and answer questions or provide assistance on any fuel-related
     problem.
5. Methods, Equipment, and Facilities Available to Collect, Store, Return to Inventory,
Reuse, Recycle, and Dispose of Products
     5.1. Approved Containers: Portable fuel bowsers and 55-gallon drums are approved
     containers for collecting petroleum products. Different fuel bowser sizes available for
     procurement can be found in Fed Log or www.dlis.dla.mil/webflis/pub/pub_Search.aspx.
FAIRCHILDAFBI23-502 11 JULY 2013                                                                  3


   5.2. Location of Fuel Bowsers on Base: The LRS Fuels Management Flight will maintain its
   fuel bowsers in the following areas: Fuels Bulk Storage (Building 2400), Hydrant Areas “A”
   and “B” (Buildings 2028 and 2151), and Refueling Unit Parking Lot (Building 2024).
   Aircraft maintenance squadrons will maintain their bowsers on the south side of Building
   1011 when not in use. Under no circumstance will any squadron other then LRS “store”
   their bowsers at Hydrant Area “A”. If an emergency requires the after-hours emptying of
   any bowser, the owning organization will contact the Maintenance Operational Control
   Center (MOCC) and request LRS Fuels Management Flight assistance in the matter. The
   requesting organization will provide an individual to act as a safety person in this situation.
   That individual will remain with the bowser during the entire off-loading process. If the
   bowser has been emptied or refused due to contamination, the bowser will be moved to its
   proper storage area.
   5.3. Returning fuel to LRS Fuels Management: Aviation fuel may be returned to the LRS
   Fuels Management Flight provided it meets the established specifications IAW T.O. 42B-1-
   1, Quality Control of Fuels and Lubricants, or may be downgraded to a different product
   IAW T.O. 42-B-1-23, Management of Recoverable and Waste Liquid Petroleum Products. It
   must be free of both chemical and solid contaminates. Any person or organization found to
   be intentionally disposing of hydraulic fluid, brake fluid, or any other foreign substance
   (chemical or solid) in a marked fuel bowser will face possible disciplinary action. The fuels
   laboratory is the focal point to determine if the petroleum product is suitable for return to the
   base fuels inventory. Quality and quantity of product will be determined by the LRS Fuels
   Management Flight representative. Bowsers found to contain contaminated fuel will be
   retrieved by the organization.
   5.4. Accounting for Fuel Returned to LRS Fuels Management: A LRS Fuels Management
   Flight representative will determine the quantity of product recovered and document it on a
   Department of Defense (DD) Form 1898, Fuel Sale Slip. The DD Form 1898 will be
   forwarded to the Fuels Accounting Office to be processed through the Fuels Enterprise HUB
   for credit to the generating organization.
6. Storage and Disposal Requirements for Unusable Petroleum Products
   6.1. All organizations that collect unusable petroleum products must maintain containers
   either in a controlled area or in a secured posture using locks with a positive key control
   system. The storage area should be equipped with either acceptable spill containment
   equipment or a permanent or portable diked area. Best management practices must be
   employed to assure that a spill will not enter groundwater, surface water, or the sanitary
   sewer and storm water collection system.
   6.2. The CES/CEV can arrange to have unusable products picked up at the point of
   generation. The 90-day accumulation facility (Building 2411) representative may be sent to
   pick up full containers if the product cannot be stored and collected by the waste oil
   contractor at the point of generation. If the 90-day accumulation point is required, their
   representative must be provided the following information: location, quantity, and entry/exit
   points.
7. Unusable products must be recycled through positive means whenever possible. The
following prioritized guidelines have been established for sound property conservation and
management of recoverable and unusable petroleum products
4                                                     FAIRCHILDAFBI23-502 11 JULY 2013


    7.1. On-specification fuel: On-specification fuel will be returned to the LRS Fuels
    Management Flight’s inventory for use as the original grade.
    7.2. Off-specification fuel: Off-specification fuel can be returned to the LRS Fuels
    Management Flight for possible blending into the original product or downgrading to another
    product. Feasibility of this will be determined by a LRS Fuels Management Flight
    representative. In the event the fuel cannot be returned to stock, the generating organization
    will be responsible for arranging for disposal.
    7.3. Surplus/Waste Fuel: Fuel that cannot be returned to the LRS Fuels Management Flight
    inventory should be categorized as surplus/waste fuel. This fuel may be recycled through a
    waste oil contractor or the 90-day accumulation facility by the originating organization.
    7.4. Non-recyclable Waste: Treat non-recyclable waste as hazardous waste IAW the
    Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. All hazardous waste must be disposed of through
    the 90-day accumulation facility.




                                             BRIAN M. NEWBERRY, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 92d Air Refueling Wing
FAIRCHILDAFBI23-502 11 JULY 2013                                               5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
T.O. 42B-1-1, Quality Control of Fuels and Lubricants
T.O. 42B-1-23, Management of Recoverable and Waste Liquid Petroleum Products
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1898, Fuel Sale Slip
Addressees
92 LRS/LGRF
400 S Gate 35 Road
Fairchild AFB WA 99011
92 CES/CEV
100 W. Ent St
Fairchild AFB WA 99011

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
DD—Department of Defense
MOCC—Maintenance Operational Control Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
T.O.—Technical Order
