BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE
FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 33-114

                                                                         18 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                             Communication and Information

                                                    SOFTWARE LICENSE MANAGEMENT
                                                                        PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 92 CS/SCOO                                                        Certified by: 92 CS/CC
                                                                     (Maj Steven P. Brummitt)
                                                                                       Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-114, Software Management, and
Technical Order (TO) 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management
Procedures and Practice Requirements. It establishes policies, procedures, and responsibilities
for software license management at Fairchild Air Force Base (AFB). It applies to all personnel
(officer, enlisted, and civilian) assigned or attached to units located at Fairchild AFB. This
instruction clarifies commander involvement in the Fairchild AFB Software Licensing Program.
It also outlines responsibilities for the 92d Communications Squadron Commander (92 CS/CC),
Base Software License Manager (BSLM), Unit Software License Managers (USLMs), Client
Support Technicians (CSTs)/Functional Service Administrators (FSAs), and individual users.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with the Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

1. 92 CS/CC Responsibilities.
   1.1. The 92 CS/CC will designate primary and alternate BSLMs to manage the wing and
   base Software License Programs.
2. Unit Commander Responsibilities.
 2                                             FAIRCHILDAFBI33-114 18 FEBRUARY 2014


     2.1. All unit commanders will:
        2.1.1. Appoint a primary and alternate USLM to administer the Software License
        Programs.
        2.1.2. Forward USLM appointment memorandums to the BSLM.
        2.1.3. Ensure the outgoing and incoming license managers conduct a joint inventory of
        all software and endorse all inventories.
        2.1.4. Annually certify in writing to the BSLM that the annual inventory list or
        memorandum has been completed by the USLM. This is accomplished by signing the
        annual inventory list or memorandum.
        2.1.5. Ensure software acquisitions are coordinated through the respective software
        license manager and BSLM prior to purchase.
        2.1.6. Ensure delivered software is routed through the respective software license
        manager. Ensure the BSLM is informed so the software can be added to the inventory.
        2.1.7. Ensure necessary training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique
        software purchased or developed by the unit.
3. BSLM Responsibilities.
     3.1. The BSLM will:
        3.1.1. Place semiannual reminders of the need for proper software license management
        in base bulletins and other media to increase and reinforce the legal requirement of
        maintaining software licenses according to their stated conditions.
        3.1.2. Provide software license training for newly appointed BSLMs and USLMs and
        cross feed locally developed materials between unit managers, CSTs, and FSAs. This
        training will include, but is not limited to:
            3.1.2.1. Ensure USLMs are familiar with AFI 33-114, paragraph 9.
            3.1.2.2. Ensure USLMs complete the United States Air Force Software License
            Management and Anti-Piracy computer-based training.
            3.1.2.3. Explain how to maintain accurate records of installed software.
            3.1.2.4. Learn the basics of software licenses and the Copyright Act.
            3.1.2.5. Ensure Commercial-off-the-Shelf (COTS) applications have licenses.
            3.1.2.6. Verify that the use of software corresponds to the applicable license
            agreement.
            3.1.2.7. Identify software that does not have associated licenses, coordinate with
            USLMs for assembling proofs of purchase, and request replacement licenses from
            publishers, as needed.
            3.1.2.8. Perform periodic compliance visits to base units, and inspect unit accounts at
            least once annually.
            3.1.2.9. Conduct annual software license meetings for USLMs.
FAIRCHILDAFBI33-114 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                            3


         3.1.2.10. Maintain current list of all USLMs.
         3.1.2.11. Ensure automated tools are used to the maximum extent possible for
         tracking software installed on the base network.
         3.1.2.12. Ensure approval is obtained from the designated approval authority (DAA)
         for any software placed on computers or computer systems on the base network.
4. USLM Responsibilities.
   4.1. The USLM will:
      4.1.1. Become familiar with license agreements of software used in their organizations.
      4.1.2. Coordinate with the BSLM, FSAs, CSTs, users, and/or purchasers on all software
      acquisitions.
      4.1.3. Combine software acquisitions, if possible.
      4.1.4. Receive all new software, inform the BSLM of new software, and become familiar
      with license agreements prior to releasing software.
      4.1.5. Store evidence (user manuals, purchase documentation, compact disk (CD, etc.))
      and physical software media in a secure location (locked drawer, file cabinet, room, etc.).
      4.1.6. Ensure legal acquisition and use of all software.
      4.1.7. Identify software that does not have associated licenses, assemble proofs of
      purchase, and request replacement licenses from publishers, as needed.
      4.1.8. Act as liaison between personal computer (PC) users and BSLM.
      4.1.9. Respond to the BSLM as necessary.
      4.1.10. Coordinate training with the BSLM, as needed.
      4.1.11. Ensure newly assigned personnel receive software license training within 30 days
      of their arrival and annually thereafter. This training will include, but is not limited to:
         4.1.11.1. Promoting user awareness of unauthorized or illegal use of computer
         software.
         4.1.11.2. Providing how and to what extent the user may be held liable for
         unauthorized or illegal use of computer software.
         4.1.11.3. Training users on procedures for acquiring new software.
         4.1.11.4. Making users aware of the importance of identifying unauthorized or illegal
         software on their systems.
         4.1.11.5. Circulating software licensing information throughout the organization.
         4.1.11.6. Supporting and implementing the base software license program.
         4.1.11.7. Performing an annual inventory of all unit software.
         4.1.11.8. Performing a joint inventory of software before transferring responsibility
         to another software license manager. Ensure the unit commander endorses the hard-
         copy report.
 4                                              FAIRCHILDAFBI33-114 18 FEBRUARY 2014


5. CSTs/FSAs Responsibilities.
     5.1. CSTs and FSAs will:
        5.1.1. Notify USLMs when installing software from shared folders or using installation
        Compact Disc Read-Only Memory.
        5.1.2. Notify USLMs when uninstalling, upgrading, or performing any actions that
        change the amount or number of licensed software products installed on the base
        network.
        5.1.3. Ensure software covered by an enterprise license agreement is removed from
        hardware storage devices (hard drives, etc.) when performing automated data processing
        (ADPE) equipment turn-in.
        5.1.4. Not purchase or obtain software without prior coordination of the USLM.
6. PC User Responsibilities.
     6.1. Each PC user will:
     6.2. Assist USLMs with software inventories on PCs as required.
     6.3. Not install or remove any software application without first coordinating with the
     USLM.
     6.4. Not make any illegal copies of copyrighted software.
     6.5. Not install personally-owned software on their government system unless DAA
     approval is obtained and documented in the certification and accreditation (C&A) package or
     the Department of Defense Information and Technology Security Certification Process
     (DITSCAP).
     6.6. Report all unauthorized or illegal software on their system to the USLM for resolution.
     6.7. Complete initial software license training 30 days of arrival and annually thereafter.




                                               BRIAN M. NEWBERRY, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 92d Air Refueling Wing
FAIRCHILDAFBI33-114 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                   5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
TO 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice
Requirements, 06 August 2010
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
BSLM—Base Software License Manager
C&A—Certification and Accreditation
CD—Compact Disk
COTS—Commercial-Off-the-Shelf
CST—Client Support Technicians
DAA—Designated Approval Authority
DITSCAP—DoD information technology Security Certification and Accreditation Process
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
ESA—Enterprise Software Agreements
ESI—Enterprise Software Initiative
FSA—Functional Service Administrators
IAW—In Accordance With
IT—Information Technology
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
 6                                              FAIRCHILDAFBI33-114 18 FEBRUARY 2014


PC—Personal Computer
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
ROM—Read-Only Memory
TO—Technical Order
USLM—Unit Software License Manager

Terms
DoD Information Technology Security Certification and Accreditation Process
(DITSCAP)—The DoD standard for certifying and accrediting information technology (IT)
systems that collect, store, transmit, or process unclassified or classified information. The
standard applies to any IT life cycle, including the development of new IT systems, incorporation
of IT systems outside the infrastructure, development of prototype IT systems, and
reconfiguration or upgrade of existing systems and legacy systems.
License Agreement—A contract between the software publisher and the user which instructs
and limits how the software is to be used. When software is purchased, the purchaser acquires a
license to use it, but the publisher retains full rights to the software and can further distribute and
reproduce it. License agreements generally fall into the following categories:
Enterprise License—The Department of Defense (DoD) Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI)
and the Enterprise Software Agreements (ESA) entered into by DoD components who manage
the acquisition of commercially available software at the DoD Enterprise level to reduce the cost
of acquiring and maintaining software products. By aggregating requirements and leveraging
DoD’s buying power together with the buying power of related communities of interest such as
the intelligence community, the DoD is able to achieve the most favorable terms and pricing for
commercially available software and software maintenance.
Individual License—A license for use on a single machine only.
Network License—A license that allows every member of the network to access the software.
Site License—A license defined by a geographic restriction, such as a building, unit, wing, or
base.
FAIRCHILDAFBI33-114 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                7


                                          Attachment 2
                                  SAMPLE MEMORANDUM

MEMORANDUM FOR FAIRCHILD AFB SOFTWARE LICENSE MANAGER

FROM: UNIT CC

SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Software License Manager (USLM)

1. In accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-114, Software Management, the following personnel have
been designated as the primary and alternate USLM(s) for (Unit Name):

                Name                      Rank              Unit            Duty Phone
 Primary        Isee Alot                 Maj                               247-1234
 Alternate      Steve Rogers              Capt                              247-5678

2. This letter supersedes all previous letters of same subject. If you have any questions, please
call (unit) USLM at ext (Duty Phone Number).




                                                     NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                     Commander




                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                         (When Filled In)
