BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE                                         INSTRUCTION 32-2001

                                                                                    22 MAY 2013

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                              FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 17 CES/CEF                                                          Certified by: 17 CES/CC
                                                                             (Maj Kurt E. Muller)
                                                                                         Pages: 20




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Emergency Services,
and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 6055.06, Department of Defense Fire and Emergency Service
Program. This instruction outlines the policies, responsibilities, procedures, and standards to
provide maximum fire safety to all property on Goodfellow AFB (GAFB) and off-base support
sites, and all personnel (military and civilian) permanently or temporarily assigned to GAFB.
Military personnel are responsible for the actions of their families and guests on base. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained according to
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of according to the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS), located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfm. This
instruction applies to all personnel assigned and attached to GAFB. It applies to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and to Air National Guard (ANG) units gained by GAFB upon
mobilization and when published in the ANG Master Catalogue. It also applies to contractor
personnel and concessionaires working on Goodfellow AFB and off-base supported sites. Send
requests for waivers to this regulation to the fire chief.

Paragraph 1 (Section 1) applies to all personnel. It places specific prohibitions on military
personnel for which a violation is punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ), Article 92(1). Civilian employees who violate paragraph 1 are subject to disciplinary
action under AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, or AFMAN 34-310, Nonappropriated
Fund Personnel Program Management and Administration Procedures, as appropriate.
 2                                                                      GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been completely revised and must be completely reviewed for updated
approving authority, office symbols, and references throughout this instruction.


        1.      Prohibitions and Control of Smoking. ...................................................................                          2
        2.      Reporting Fires, Fire Drills, Fire Prevention Visits, Fire Extinguishers, and FES
                Support. ..................................................................................................................       3
        3.      Responsibilities, General Housekeeping, and Privatized Housing. .......................                                           5
        4.      Construction and Renovation, Exits, Stairs, and Halls, and Decorative Materials.                                                  8
        5.      Fireworks, Barbecuing, and Commercial Cooking and Dining Hall Facilities. ....                                                   10
        6.      Powered Mechanical Equipment, Electrical Systems and Appliances, Welding
                and ..........................................................................................................................   10
        7.      Flammable Liquids, Hazardous Chemicals, and Storing, Handling, and Moving .                                                      12
        8.      Documentation and Forms. ....................................................................................                    13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                   14

Attachment 2—FIRE SAFETY CHECKLIST                                                                                                               17

Attachment 3—FIRE PREVENTION STANDARDS FOR CONTRACTORS                                                                                           18

Attachment 4—CONFINED SPACE REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                         20


1. Prohibitions and Control of Smoking.
     1.1. Prohibitions. All personnel are prohibited from:
        1.1.1. Cooking in dormitories without proper authorization (unless stove and/or
        microwave are provided). Reference AFI 32-6001_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP, Family
        Housing Management.
        1.1.2. Unattended cooking in government facilities is strictly prohibited, to include
        dormitories and base housing.
        1.1.3. Interfering with a senior fire officer or fire crewmember at the scene of an
        emergency.
        1.1.4. Falsely reporting a fire by any means.
        1.1.5. Blocking, obscuring, or tampering with any fire protection system, reporting
        device, or equipment in any facility including sprinkler heads, heat detectors, and smoke
        alarms.
        1.1.6. Setting incendiary fires (arson).
GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013                                                                  3


      1.1.7. Storing material in furnace, mechanical, equipment, or boiler rooms, and in attics
      with the exception of filters. Civil Engineer or Fire Emergency Services (FES) personnel
      are the only personnel authorized to have keys for these rooms.
      1.1.8. Using candles, incense or similar open flame devices, unless as authorized in
      paragraph 4.3.2.
      1.1.9. Blocking fire hydrants, fire department connections or fire lanes by any means.
      1.1.10. Renovating or altering the interior of any facility that will interfere with the
      operation of fire protection equipment or hamper access to the equipment.
      1.1.11. Parking vehicles or placing obstructions within 15 feet of fire hydrants or fire
      department sprinkler and standpipe connections.
      1.1.12. Driving over fire hoses during fire emergencies or training exercises.
   1.2. Smoking and Smoking Materials.
      1.2.1. Smoking is prohibited in all areas of AETC facilities except as authorized by AFI
      40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, which provides smoking areas for Goodfellow
      AFB.
      1.2.2. Facility managers will make sure outside smoking areas are policed and inspected
      periodically each duty day and at the end of each shift. The using organization will
      provide suitable noncombustible ashtrays and butt cans for disposal of smoking materials.
      Other prohibitions concerning smoking and smoking materials:
      1.2.3. Smoking is only allowed in designated areas.
2. Reporting Fires, Fire Drills, Fire Prevention Visits, Fire Extinguishers, and FES
Support.
   2.1. Reporting Fires. Immediately report any fire, regardless of the size or monetary loss, to
   the fire department. Any person discovering a fire or smelling unexplained smoke, odor, or
   fumes must alert all facility occupants and call (or direct someone to call) the FES. If the fire
   is in its early stage, try to extinguish the fire with a fire extinguisher until FES personnel
   arrive.
      2.1.1. Activate a manual fire alarm box (located near most exits), by following the
      directions on the box. Follow up the alarm activation with a telephone call to the
      Emergency Communications Center (ECC).
      2.1.2. Call the ECC at extension 911 or by cell phone emergency number at 654-
      7000/7001. Give the type of fire (building number and area or any other information to
      pinpoint the location of the fire). Give your name, grade (military or civilian personnel),
      and organization. Go to a location where you can meet and direct fire department
      personnel to the fire scene. Notify FES if anyone is still in the facility.
      2.1.3. Fire hydrants will only be used by FES personnel. Any other use must have the
      approval of the senior fire officer on duty. It is the building manager’s responsibility to
      ensure that fire hydrants in their area are free of obstructions. This also applies to military
      family housing. The unit next to the hydrant will be responsible for keeping it clear.
   2.2. Fire Drills.
4                                                 GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


       2.2.1. The facility manager will conduct a fire evacuation drill at least once every quarter
       for buildings of public assembly. National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101, Life
       Safety Code defines public assembly facilities as all buildings or portions of buildings
       used for gatherings of 50 or more persons for such purposes as deliberation, worship,
       entertainment, dining, amusement, or awaiting transportation. Building evacuation is not
       required in public assembly buildings during such drills. See AFI 91-203, Air Force
       Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, paragraph 6.2.15 for specific
       requirements.
       2.2.2. All other facilities require annual fire drills to be conducted.
       2.2.3. Coordinate and schedule all fire drills requiring the use of building fire alarm
       systems with the fire department at least 48 hours before conducting the fire drill. Call
       the Fire Prevention office at 654-5577 or 654-3539 to schedule fire drills.
       2.2.4. No notice fire evacuation drills may be conducted to ensure personnel readiness.
       Drills shall be conducted at various times of the day.
    2.3. Fire Prevention Assessments. Fire prevention visits, identification/documentation of
    fire hazards, and management of documented fire hazards will be conducted and processed
    by the FES as directed in AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program.
    2.4. Fire Extinguishers.
       2.4.1. Fire extinguishers are placed in buildings in compliance with Department of
       Defense, Air Force, and NFPA criteria. The FES oversees the installation extinguisher
       program and is the authority for all matters involving fire extinguishers. Do not remove
       or relocate fire extinguishers (except for servicing) without prior approval from the
       installation fire chief.
       2.4.2. Unit commanders will conduct investigations of repeatedly damaged or misused
       portable fire extinguishers.
       2.4.3. Organizations, through their facility managers, will budget for the maintenance,
       repair, and replacement of facility fire extinguishers. When fire extinguishers are
       removed for servicing, they will need to be replaced with temporary fill-ins until the
       permanent extinguishers are returned. The FES will keep a small supply of spare
       extinguishers on hand for temporary use, as required.
       2.4.4. Facility managers will be responsible to take any extinguisher that has been used,
       discharged, or shows signs of damage to an authorized servicing location for repair.
       2.4.5. After initially being placed in service, fire extinguishers must be serviced at six-
       year intervals as a minimum, and hydrostatically tested at 12-year intervals, by a
       qualified fire extinguisher servicing company. The company will post the service date on
       the extinguisher with either a label or service tag.
       2.4.6. Annually, the facility manager must ensure the absence of rust and dents, confirm
       all labels and instructions are legible, the extinguisher is fully charged, seals and pins are
       in place, nozzle is free of debris, and sufficient extinguishing agent is contained in the
       cylinder (determine by lifting).
GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013                                                                 5


      2.4.7. Facility managers will ensure a visual inspection is performed monthly and
      documented for all fire extinguishers under their control. Tags attached to the fire
      extinguisher documenting monthly checks are available from the Fire Prevention office.
      2.4.8. Fire extinguisher information to be kept on file by the facility manager includes:
          2.4.8.1. Serial number.
          2.4.8.2. Location.
          2.4.8.3. Last date service was performed.
          2.4.8.4. Date servicing is required.
          2.4.8.5. Date hydrostatic testing is required.
          2.4.8.6. Date maintenance is required.
      2.4.9. Refer questions regarding fire extinguishers including the need for size, type, and
      maintenance to the FES (654-3532).
   2.5. Authority to Commandeer. The fire chief (or senior on-scene fire official acting for the
   base fire marshal) may commandeer available military vehicles, equipment, materials, and
   personnel necessary to promptly control and extinguish fires and rescue personnel.
   2.6. Emergency Crews.
      2.6.1. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE), Deputy BCE, or Civil Engineer Unit Control
      Center (UCC) Chief will assign a civil engineer emergency crew to report to the scene of
      an emergency situation when requested by the Incident Commander. The crew will take
      necessary equipment to immediately disconnect electrical services and shut off the gas
      supply and other support actions as directed by the on-scene senior fire officer.
      2.6.2. The Goodfellow Clinic will dispatch the medical response team to any emergency
      situation when requested by the senior on-scene fire official.
      2.6.3. The senior fire officer shall make requests for ambulance support using guidance
      provided by the 17th Medical Group Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Medical
      Director. The civilian ambulance will be escorted to the scene by the 17th Security
      Forces and will contact the senior on-scene fire official for instructions.
   2.7. Traffic Control.
      2.7.1. All personnel and vehicle drivers will yield the right-of-way to firefighting
      equipment responding to an emergency. If you are the driver of a motor vehicle or
      motorcycle and you hear the siren or see flashing lights, move your vehicle to the far
      right side of the road, come to a complete stop, and stay in that position until all
      emergency vehicles have passed. Stop at emergency vehicle access traffic lights on
      Kearney Boulevard and Vance Street until flashing beacon is turned off.
      2.7.2. Upon notification of a fire or other emergency situations, the Security Forces desk
      sergeant will dispatch sufficient patrols to the scene to provide traffic and personnel
      control. The patrol will keep personnel not involved with the emergency back at least
      300 feet (or as directed by the senior on-scene official) from the fire fighting operation.
3. Responsibilities, General Housekeeping, and Privatized Housing.
6                                                GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


    3.1. Responsibilities. To prevent the unnecessary loss of life and property, each organization
    must carry out a continuous fire prevention program. Commanders and supervisors at all
    levels will ensure sound fire prevention procedures are established and practiced in their area
    of responsibility. This will help to eliminate fire hazards and unsafe conditions. All military
    and civilian personnel will actively assist and participate in the fire prevention program.
    Promptly report hazards and deficiencies to the proper authority for corrective action.
       3.1.1. The fire prevention responsibility of civilian contractors and concessionaires are
       the same as for all military and civilian personnel. FES personnel will brief contractors
       on the contents of this instruction (see Attachment 3) before they begin work on
       Goodfellow AFB or on off-base supported sites. When working in confined spaces on
       base or the recreation camp, it is required for contractor, military, and civilian personnel
       to comply with requirements of Attachment 4 prior to starting any job.
       3.1.2. Supervisors at all levels will:
           3.1.2.1. Inform the FES about fire hazards that cannot be corrected by unit personnel.
           3.1.2.2. Immediately inform the FES about any installed fire protection systems
           which may have been damaged (by accident or by contact with handling equipment).
           3.1.2.3. Request FES personnel provide appropriate fire prevention lectures and
           demonstrations. Schedule lectures to obtain the largest audience. NOTE: FES
           assistance is not intended to be the primary source of training, but rather a
           supplemental source of new information.
           3.1.2.4. Ensure all assigned personnel receive a complete fire prevention briefing and
           enforce sound fire prevention practices in their work area within 30 days of
           employment.
           3.1.2.5. Ensure fire prevention inspections are performed in facilities where rooms or
           areas are continuously locked. This is the responsibility of the supervisor maintaining
           the secured room or area. Make sure all areas are accessible for FES personnel to
           perform scheduled fire prevention visits.
           3.1.2.6. Ensure a copy of this regulation is readily accessible to all personnel in work
           areas and dormitories.
    3.2. Fire Prevention Visits/Reports.
       3.2.1. The fire prevention specialist will conduct fire prevention visits. The facility
       manager or an alternate designated by the facility manager at the time of inspection shall
       accompany the fire prevention inspector. If a hazard exists, it will be annotated on AF
       1487 ACES FD generated, Fire Prevention Visit Report.
       3.2.2. Facility managers will manage corrective actions and annotate them on the reverse
       side of AF 1487 ACES FD generated, file a copy of the report, and forward the original
       report to the functional manager.
       3.2.3. The functional manager will review and sign the report and send the finalized
       report to 17 CES/CEFP by the suspense date.
       3.2.4. Fire hazards noted on AF Form 1487, which are not corrected before suspense
       date, shall be reported through command channels to the installation commander.
GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013                                                               7


     3.2.5. All fire hazards that are classified as Risk Assessment Code (RAC) 1, 2, and 3 and
     not corrected within 30 days shall be processed as outlined in AFI 91-202, The US Air
     Force Mishap Prevention Program.
     3.2.6. Fire Safety Deficiencies noted during inspections shall be processed IAW AFI 32-
     10141, Planning and Programming Fire Safety Deficiency Correction Projects.
     3.2.7. Supervisors shall ensure all newly assigned personnel receive training within 30
     days after reporting to work. See AFI 91-301 for specific requirements and
     documentation.
     3.2.8. Facility managers will ensure all personnel assigned to the facility are familiar
     with the contents of this instruction. Also, ensure all assigned personnel know how to
     report a fire, activate and sound the building fire alarm, locate and use fire extinguishers,
     and locate exits.
     3.2.9. Facility managers will ensure each assigned building has a current Emergency
     Action Plan (EAP) in place and that it is posted in an obvious location. It is the facility
     manager’s responsibility to ensure all building tenants are made aware of the EAP. This
     plan shall contain, but is not limited to the following: fire response procedures,
     evacuation routes, and primary and alternate rendezvous points with diagrams.
     Additional information may include items such as: adverse weather response, shelter in
     place, bomb threat procedures, and active shooter response. Contact the Fire Prevention
     office for examples and templates.
  3.3. Managers and Supervisors of Public Assembly and Recreational Facilities.
     3.3.1. Develop a written fire prevention and fire reaction training program for employees
     complying with AFI 91-203. Document quarterly employee fire drills (building
     evacuation not required for patrons only). Use AF IMT 1085, Fire Protection Training,
     or computer-generated product to document and certify all training for employees. Fire
     Prevention will maintain a folder on calibration of deep fat fryers, kitchen hood and duct
     cleaning receipts, and hood chemical system inspection.
     3.3.2. Provide fire extinguisher and fire alarm system training for employees. Ensure
     employees working in the kitchen receive training semiannually on the kitchen hood
     chemical suppression system. The fire prevention section can assist you if required by
     contacting them at the fire department.
     3.3.3. Use decorative materials as specified in paragraph 4.3.
     3.3.4. Designate personnel authorized to conduct fire safety inspections at the close of
     each business day. Prepare a checklist (similar to the one shown in Attachment 2 – AF
     2519, All Purpose Checklist) to use when securing the facility.
  3.4. General Housekeeping.
     3.4.1. Do not place hazardous chemicals or liquids in dumpsters intended for the
     collection of trash.
     3.4.2. Open burning on base is prohibited without permission from FES. If necessary,
     contact the Fire Prevention office at 654-5577 for permission.
 8                                                GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


        3.4.3. Do not use janitorial closets as trash collection points. NOTE: Janitors and
        contract cleaners must keep their closets clean and use them only to store janitorial
        supplies.
        3.4.4. Do not allow trash to be stored or accumulated in buildings. Immediately before
        securing an office, responsible supervisors will make sure all trash and waste containers
        are emptied into outside metal trash receptacles. This does not apply to personnel in
        facilities with janitorial services, unless the trash or waste containers are overflowing.
        Paper or cardboard trash containers are not allowed.
        3.4.5. Do not permit oil rags, clothing, paint rags, or other materials subject to
        spontaneous combustion to accumulate in buildings. Do not place such materials in
        containers with other combustibles. Containers for saturated rags or clothing must have
        metal self-closing lids and be labeled “clean rags” or “dirty rags.”
        3.4.6. Remove sawdust and chips from all woodworking shops at the close of each
        workday.
        3.4.7. Do not allow lint to accumulate around clothes drying units at any time. All gas
        and electrical clothes drying units must be vented to the outside. Clean lint filters on
        clothes dryers after each load.
        3.4.8. Storage is not permitted under floors, above ceiling, or in mechanical rooms.
        Storage is not permitted under stages of clubs, recreation centers, or theaters. Storage is
        not allowed within 18 inches of ceiling or bottom of fire sprinkler head.
        3.4.9. Do not obstruct aisles used for access to exits or fire safety equipment.
        3.4.10. Keep soiled linen, rags, sheets, and tablecloths in closed metal containers or
        approved hampers. During clean up, do not dump ashtrays onto tablecloths. Dispose of
        smoking materials as directed in paragraph 1.2.
        3.4.11. Keep storage of bulk steel wool to a minimum. Store loose portions of steel wool
        in a properly marked metal container with a self-closing lid.
        3.4.12. Keep accumulated packing materials (i.e., Styrofoam packing, excelsior,
        shredded paper) in a metal container with a self-closing lid. Large containers will remain
        covered and equipped with fusible links that automatically close in case of fire. Do not
        store packing materials in such volume the covers will not close properly.
     3.5. Privatized Housing. Privatized housing contractor provides fire safety instructions.
4. Construction and Renovation, Exits, Stairs, and Halls, and Decorative Materials.
     4.1. Construction and Renovation of Base Facilities. The fire chief (or designated
     representative) will review, while in the planning stages, all new construction and alterations
     to existing facilities. The fire chief will determine the adequacy and conformity of
     established fire protection standards. AF 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, will be
     prepared and submitted to 17th Civil Engineer Squadron Customer Service Desk as required
     by AFI 32-1001, Operations Management. The fire protection flight shall be consulted prior
     to any construction, renovation, or self-help project execution.
     4.2. Exit Doors, Stairways, and Hallways.
GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013                                                                9


     4.2.1. Do not lock, bolt, fasten, or obstruct an exit door in any way so that it cannot be
     easily opened from the inside. An exit door shall be easily opened by the use of the
     ordinary door latch, doorknob, or panic hardware release device. Only one locking
     device is authorized per door according to NFPA 101, Life Safety Code.
     4.2.2. In each room where furniture is used (tables/chairs), supervisors must make sure
     personnel always have ready access to each exit. Make sure aisles leading directly to
     exits have at least 44-inch clearances and are never obstructed by any object.
     4.2.3. Do not use stairways, hallways, corridors, vestibules, balconies, or bridges leading
     to a stairway or exit (either interior or exterior) in any way that will obstruct their use as
     exits or cause a hazardous condition.
     4.2.4. Any door approved by letter from the fire prevention office to be blocked must
     have the words “DOOR BLOCKED” in letters not less than 3 inches high and 1 inch
     wide in contrasting colors on both sides of the door.
     4.2.5. Personnel shall not tamper with doors or shutters equipped with fusible links or
     other safety devices, nor obstruct such a door or shutter in any manner that could prevent
     it from closing.
     4.2.6. Keep fire doors, smoke doors, or shutters in good condition. Do not remove them
     or penetrate them without approval from the fire chief.
     4.2.7. Doors designed to be kept normally closed as a means of egress, such as a door to
     a stair enclosure or horizontal exit shall be a self-closing door and shall not at any time be
     secured in the open position. Exception: When provided with automatic door closures
     that comply with NFPA 101.
     4.2.8. Adequate space will be maintained in all storage rooms/areas according to NFPA
     1, Chapter 34, General Storage.
  4.3. Decorative Materials.
     4.3.1. Before buying decorative materials to be used as wall coverings or around exits,
     personnel should first call the fire prevention office for information on the fire safety of
     the materials. For assistance regarding acceptability of decorative materials as it regards
     to fire codes, contact the fire prevention section.
     4.3.2. The use of candles and open flames are only authorized for religious services in
     base chapels. Candles may be used in places of public assembly if they are the safety
     type with globes and holders only after receiving written approval from the fire
     prevention office.
     4.3.3. Do not use combustible decorations such as cardboard boxes, wood products,
     straw, hay, or similar materials for festive decorating. Place all decorations where they
     will not obstruct or block access to exits. All artificial decorations must be listed/labeled
     by a nationally recognized testing agency such as Underwriters Laboratory (UL) or
     Factory Mutual (FM).
     4.3.4. Use all electrical appliances according to manufacturer’s instructions. Refer to
     paragraph 6.3 for proper usage of surge protectors and electrical extension cords.
 10                                             GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


      4.3.5. FES personnel should inspect all public assembly facilities before major social
      events. Facility managers will notify the fire department of major events at which
      temporary decorations or unusual arrangements are involved. The best way to do this is
      by memorandum on a monthly basis.
5. Fireworks, Barbecuing, and Commercial Cooking and Dining Hall Facilities.
   5.1. Fireworks. The term “fireworks” for the purpose of this instruction includes any
   combustible or explosive composition, substance or articles, prepared for the purpose of
   producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation.
   Only personnel authorized by the 17th Mission Support Group Commander (17 MSG/CC)
   may be allowed to use fireworks on base, or at Goodfellow recreational areas. Pyrotechnics
   approved for use in entertainment shows or plays must be in compliance with state/federal
   regulations and coordinated through the fire prevention office.
   5.2. Barbecuing. A responsible adult must constantly and cautiously supervise lighting and
   operation of a charcoal burner, grill, or similar appliance. Do not operate such appliances
   under carports, on balconies, stairs, or in enclosed areas. Keep barbecuing appliances at least
   15 feet away from any facility. CAUTION: Use only approved starting fluid to start
   barbecue fires. Never use gasoline. Do not store charcoal, charcoal lighter fluid, or propane
   canisters in dormitories, on balconies, or under stairwells.
   5.3. Commercial Cooking and Dining Hall Facilities. Managers of commercial cooking
   facilities and dining halls will comply with AFI 91-203 and with NFPA 96, Standard for
   Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations.
      5.3.1. Cooking is not permitted under vapor removal systems without the proper filters
      installed and vapor removal fans turned on.
      5.3.2. Operators must thoroughly clean all installed grease filters, grease catch pans and
      grease exposed surfaces of kitchen hoods daily (or more often if necessary) to prevent
      grease accumulation. Grease filters will be cleaned daily by running them through
      clippers or other hot water cleaning methods. NOTE: Spare filter sets are required in
      kitchens that are operated continuously.
      5.3.3. Deep-fat fryers must be equipped with a primary thermostat of 400 degrees and a
      secondary thermostat. The secondary thermostat must ensure the temperature of the
      liquid does not exceed 475 degrees Fahrenheit (Exception: Electronic controlled
      thermostats only require primary thermostat inspection of 400 degrees). This maximum
      temperature includes the additional rise that occurs for several minutes after the
      secondary thermostat de-energizes the unit. If a unit fails to function within maximum
      temperature of 475 degrees Fahrenheit, immediately remove it from service. NOTE: A
      qualified person must test thermostats annually. A fire inspector must witness the test.
      Documentation will be placed on a metal tag and installed on each unit.
6. Powered Mechanical Equipment, Electrical Systems and Appliances, Welding
and Cutting Operations, and Warehouse and Storage Facilities.
   6.1. Powered Mechanical Equipment.
      6.1.1. Do not store motor vehicles or lawn mowing equipment in buildings/facilities not
      specifically designed for such storage.
GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013                                                                 11


     6.1.2. Do not refuel gasoline-powered mechanical equipment inside any building. Do
     not begin a refueling operation until the engine has been shut down and the ignition
     switch placed in the OFF position. Allow enough time for the engine to cool (about 30
     minutes). If you spill fuel during servicing, do not try to start the engine until all traces of
     fuel have been removed. Fuel should only be transported in approved safety cans. Do
     not store or transport fuel in open containers. Siphoning of fuel is prohibited. Do not fill
     gasoline containers on plastic bed liners of vehicles. Turn off cellular phones when
     filling gasoline containers.
     6.1.3. Store lawn mowers, outboard marine motors, powered garden tools, and other
     gasoline-powered engine equipment of 5 horsepower or less as follows:
         6.1.3.1. Store in a well-ventilated area free of ignition sources and combustible
         materials.
         6.1.3.2. After every use ensure it is clean and free of leaks.
     6.1.4. Do not park vehicles and material-handling equipment inside buildings not
     specifically designed for that purpose. Submit all requests for parking vehicles inside
     facilities to the fire department for approval.
     6.1.5. Installed woodworking machinery must be equipped with a dust removal duct
     system. Use of such machinery without such an exhaust system is prohibited.
  6.2. Electrical Systems and Appliances.
     6.2.1. Electric Projects. Only qualified licensed electrical contractors or civil engineer
     electric shop personnel will perform new installation or remodeling of electrical systems.
     Self-help electrical projects are prohibited unless specifically approved by the base civil
     engineer. Moving fire alarm system components is prohibited unless approved by the fire
     department. A qualified electrician will remove or tag all abandoned electrical wires.
     Contractors will comply with current edition of the National Electric Code (NEC).
     6.2.2. Portable Electric Appliances. All portable electrical appliances must be approved
     by a nationally recognized testing agency:
         6.2.2.1. Only portable heaters that are UL approved with a tip over safety shut-off
         will be allowed in offices to supplement a buildings heating system. The use of
         portable heaters is prohibited in all transient lodging facilities, dormitories, and
         bachelor officer quarters (unless approved by the Base Civil Engineer for temporary
         use during an outage). This includes combination fan/heater devices. Facility
         managers will contact CE customer service to address unsatisfactory climate control
         issues.
         6.2.2.2. As specified in AFI 32-6001_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP, cooking appliances
         are only authorized in dormitories or lodging (1+1 or with Kitchenette).
         6.2.2.3. Facility managers and building occupants will ensure heat producing
         electrical appliances are disconnected from power sources at the end of each workday
         or when not in use.
  6.3. Electrical Extension Cords.     The use of electrical extension cords is restricted as
  follows:
 12                                            GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


      6.3.1. When used, surge protectors and electrical extension cords must not be run under
      rugs, hung over walls, run through doorways or windows, or placed in any manner that
      may subject the wire to physical damage. The maximum amperage rating of extension
      cord must not be less than appliance cord rating and cord must be UL approved.
      6.3.2. The use of extension cords or surge protectors for use with coffee pots,
      microwaves, refrigerators, ice machines, freezers, toaster ovens, and window air
      conditioning units is prohibited. Comply with manufacturer’s instructions when using
      surge protectors.
      6.3.3. Do not use extension cords in place of fixed wiring. Use of extension cords must
      be on a temporary basis and unplugged after each use. Submit AF 332, Base Civil
      Engineer Work Request, to 17 CES if additional outlets are required.
      6.3.4. Keep the use of extension cords to a minimum. Use only one continuous cord
      without splices. Do not piggyback extension cords or surge protectors.
      6.3.5. Frayed or bare wiring will be replaced immediately or put out of service.
   6.4. Light Bulbs.
      6.4.1. Facility managers will ensure exit lights are inspected daily. Replace the bulbs
      immediately if not working. Check battery backup on exit lights monthly. If inoperative,
      contact the 17 CES Customer Service Desk at 654-3436.
      6.4.2. Facility managers will inspect emergency lights monthly and replace fluorescent
      tubes as required. If inoperative, contact the 17 CES Customer Service Desk at 654-
      3436.
   6.5. Circuit Breakers and Fuses.
      6.5.1. A clear space of 30 inches must be maintained to the front and sides of electrical
      panels/circuit breakers boxes. NEC NFPA 70.
      6.5.2. The use of multi-outlet plugs and similar items used in government facilities must
      be fused or supplied with a breaker, not to exceed 15 amps.
   6.6. Welding and Cutting Operations. See AFI 91-203.
   6.7. Warehouse and Storage Facilities. See AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Service Manual (JSM)
   for Storage and Materials Handling, and applicable guidance contained in the National Fire
   Codes.
7. Flammable Liquids, Hazardous Chemicals, and                    Storing,    Handling,    and
Moving Explosives, Munitions, and Hazardous Materials.
   7.1. Flammable Liquids. See AFI 91-203 and the National Fire Codes. The fire prevention
   office must approve all flammable storage containers through memorandum. For specific
   requirements regarding flammable and combustible liquids, see AFI 91-203. Approval
   request memorandum shall include nomenclature and maximum quantities of items stored.
   Memorandums must be renewed annually as a minimum or when there is a change in the
   contents or location of the container.
   7.2. Hazardous Chemicals. Notify the ECC of the movement and location of large quantities
   of hazardous materials to and from storage areas on and off base. Refer to AFJMAN 23-210,
GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013                                                      13


   applicable AFOSH standards; TO 42B-5-1-2, Gas Cylinders, (Storage Type) Use Handling
   and Maintenance, and applicable guidance contained in the National Fire Codes.
   7.3. Storing, Handling, and Moving Explosives, Munitions, and Hazardous Materials. See
   AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards.
8. Documentation and Forms.
   8.1. Documentation. All documentation created or prescribed by this instruction will be
   maintained per AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities.




                                         MARK T. DAMIANO, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 14                                            GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 21 Jun 2012
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, 1 Sep 2005
AFI 32-10141, Planning and Programming Fire Safety Deficiency Correction Projects, 3 Mar
2011
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 Sep 2008
AFI 33-364, Records Distribution, Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 Jul 1994
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 26 Mar 2012
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 Aug 2011
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 Jun 2012
AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Service Manual for Storage and Materials Handling, 12 Apr 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFMAN 34-310, Nonappropriated Fund Personnel Program Management and Administration
Procedures, 28 Sep 2011
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 Jan 2011
CFR 1910.146, Permit-Required Confined Spaces, 27 Jun 1974
DODI 6055.06, Department of Defense Fire and Emergency Services Program, 21 Dec 2006
AFI 32-6001_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP, Family Housing Management, 22 May 2012
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1, Uniform Fire Code, 2012
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire
Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations, 2011
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101, Life Safety Code, 2012
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 70, National Electric Code (NEC), 2011
TO 42B-5-1-2, Gas Cylinders, (Storage Type) Use Handling and Maintenance, 30 Dec 1987
Adopted Forms
AF 3, Hazard Abatement Plan, 1 Oct 1986
AF 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, 1 Jan 1991
AF 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, 4 Sep 2012
AF 1024, Confined Spaces Entry Permit, 4 Sep 2012
AF 1085 (ACES generated), Fire Protection Training, 1 Jun 1987
GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013                                                   15


AF 1487 (ACES generated), Fire Prevention Visit Report, 1 Jan 1999
AF 2519, All Purpose Checklist, 1 Nov 1991

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJMAN—Air Force Joint Service Manual
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CE—Civil Engineer
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
EAP—Emergency Action Plan
ECC—Emergency Communication Center
EMS—Emergency Medical Services
FES—Fire Emergency Services
FM—Factory Mutual
GAFB—Goodfellow Air Force Base
HQUSAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
MFH—Military Family Housing
NEC—National Electrical Code
NFC—National Fire Code
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OPR—Office of primary responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UCC—Unit Control Center
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
 16                            GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


UL—Underwriters Laboratories
GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013                                                                17


                                          Attachment 2
                                 FIRE SAFETY CHECKLIST

(AF IMT 2519, All Purpose Checklist Overprint)

                  ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST                               Page   1        of     1
                                                                      Pages
  TITLE/SUBJECT/ACTIVITY/FUNCTIONAL AREA FIRE                         OPR: 17         DATE
  SAFETY INSPECTION (Facility Manager, Public Assembly)               CES/CEF

                                       ITEM                                           YES NO N/A
  NO.    (Assign a paragraph number to each item. Draw a horizontal line
         between each major paragraph.)
  1. Is all cooking equipment clean and free of grease?
  2. Is all trash removed and placed in approved containers outside the building?

 3. Are all soiled linens stored in noncombustible closed containers?

  4. Are all electrically operated devices not essential to the continuity of
  afterhours status, such as cooking equipment, juke boxes, TVs, etc.,
  disconnected from the power source?

  5. Have all cooking appliances been inspected to ensure they are in the off
  position and free of grease accumulation to include kitchen hood assembly and
  installed grease filter?
  6. Have all rooms (including latrines) been inspected to ensure trash cans, and
  other combustibles debris have been placed in proper noncombustible
  containers? Are they at a safe distance and a designated area outside the
  facility?

  7. Are all mops, brooms, and cleaning materials properly stored with
  storage room door closed?
  8. Has the entire facility been checked to ensure no one is left in the building?

  9. Have all doors and windows been locked?
  10. Was a complete physical inspection completed and the facility left in fire-
  safe condition at the close of business?
 AF 2519, 19911101, V4                 PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE.
 18                                              GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


                                         Attachment 3
               FIRE PREVENTION STANDARDS FOR CONTRACTORS

A3.1. These standards apply to new construction, reconstruction, demolition, rehabilitation,
alteration, repair, and maintenance of facilities. They apply to facilities which will be
constructed with military construction programs, operation and maintenance, or nonappropriated
funds.
A3.2. Depending on the size of the project, either the contractor or person designated by the
contractor is in charge of fire prevention. Responsibilities include making sure fire protection
equipment is readily available and operational; supervising safe usage of portable heating
equipment; and ensuring welding, cutting, and brazing operation are conducted as identified in
paragraph A3.3.12.
A3.3. Contractors will implement the following fire prevention and protection measures:
   A3.3.1. Brief employees on fire reporting procedures.
   A3.3.2. Prohibit smoking except in designated smoking areas.
   A3.3.3. Do not allow rubbish to be stored or accumulated within the building or in the
   immediate vicinity. Do not burn rubbish on the site.
   A3.3.4. Do not store contractor materials and equipment in a location or manner that will
   create a fire exposure to facilities adjacent to the project site.
   A3.3.5. Provide access for use of fire fighting vehicles to the immediate job site at all times.
   Establish vehicle parking control measures.
   A3.3.6. Do not place materials, construction trailers or parked vehicles within 15 feet of
   hydrants or sprinkler connection or between hydrant and the centerline of the street.
   A3.3.7. Make sure scaffolding, materials, or equipment will not block fire escape routes
   during performance of projects in occupied buildings.
   A3.3.8. Store flammable liquids and other hazardous materials (paints, flammable thinners,
   gasoline, asphalt, and tar) in small-detached structures or out in the open and not inside main
   buildings. Use approved safety cans only to handle low flash point liquids that will be used
   inside buildings. Do not mix flammable paints and oils in the buildings. Limit the amount of
   such materials taken inside to the minimum requirements only.
   A3.3.9. Do not locate construction office sheds, vans, or trailers within 30 feet of a building.
   A3.3.10. Do not use makeshift salamanders to heat tar on this base. Use only oil or gas fired
   tar kettles that are Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listed. Do not leave tar kettles unattended
   when in use.
   A3.3.11. Locate asphalt and tar in a safe place outside buildings or on a noncombustible roof
   that will avoid igniting combustible materials. Continuously observe kettles while they are in
   operation and provide metal covers for all kettles to smother flames in case of fire. Provide
   suitable fire extinguishers.
   A3.3.12. Welding, cutting, and brazing operations will be conducted per AFI 91-203. Prior
   to starting welding and cutting activities outside approved shops, the activity supervisor will
GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013                                                   19


  obtain a written permit, AF 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, from the Base Fire Department.
  The contractor must comply with instructions on the reverse side of the permit.
 20                                             GOODFELLOWAFBI32-2001 22 MAY 2013


                                         Attachment 4
                          CONFINED SPACE REQUIREMENTS

A4.1. All personnel working on Goodfellow AFB will comply with OSHA Standards and Code
of Federal Regulations (CFR) 1910.146 as well as AFI 91-203, Confined Spaces, concerning
working in confined spaces. These standards identify a confined space as:
   A4.1.1. A space large enough or configured that an employee can bodily enter and perform
   assigned work.
   A4.1.2. A space within limited or restricted means of entry or exit (i.e., tanks, vaults, and
   pits).
   A4.1.3. An area or space not designed for continuous employee occupancy. A copy of CFR
   1910.146 and AFI 91-203 or information about can be obtained from the Wing Safety Office.
A4.2. After determining that the work is in a confined space, atmospheric testing must take
place prior to entry into the space. If you determine the space requires a permit, an AF 1024,
Confined Spaces Entry Permit, must be filled out prior to entering into the confined space. Also,
the following agencies must be notified.
   A4.2.1. Wing Safety 654-3894.
   A4.2.2. Bio-Environmental 654-3126.
   A4.2.3. Fire Emergency Services 654-3532.
A4.3. If you are unable to determine if you’re working conditions are considered a confined
space or you do not have the appropriate equipment to perform atmospheric testing, notify the
Wing Safety Office before entering.
