BY ORDER OF THE                                            GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
WING COMMANDER GOODFELLOW                                         INSTRUCTION 36-1001
AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               15 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                          CIVILIAN OF THE QUARTER AND
                                                          CIVILIAN OF THE YEAR AWARDS
                                                                             PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 17 FSS/FSMC                                                      Certified by: 17 FSS/FSMC
                                                                        (Ms. Velma G. Elizardo)
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This instruction implements the recognition program for Air Force civilian personnel of the 17th
Training Wing and other Air Force tenant units at Goodfellow Air Force Base. It prescribes the
eligibility, categories, criteria, and format for nominations and procedures for determining the
Civilians of the Quarter and Civilians of the Year. It implements AFPD 36-10, Civilian
Performance Management. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained according to AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force
Records             Disposition            Schedule          (RDS),            located           at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at
any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for
coordination prior to certification and approval. It applies to civilian employees who are
assigned to or under the administrative control of the Goodfellow Civilian Personnel Section.

1. Overview. The awards recognize outstanding duty performance, commitment to work
excellence and dedication to the mission among the appropriated fund civilian workforce. The
programs promote quality performance, serve as an incentive, foster morale and encourage esprit
de corps.
 2                                           GOODFELLOWAFBI36-1001 15 AUGUST 2012


2. Nomination Standards. Nominations emphasize outstanding achievements and
accomplishments in job performance, including contributions to mission effectiveness,
leadership and mentorship in the workplace and professional and career development and
improvement. To a lesser degree, nominations also emphasize contributions, participation and
activities outside of job duties.
3. Eligibility.
     3.1. To be eligible, a nominee must be an Air Force civilian employee assigned to a unit
     serviced by the Civilian Personnel Section of the 17th Force Support Squadron or an Air
     Force tenant unit; must have served with the nominating organization for the full quarter or
     year for which the nomination is submitted; must not have a record of poor performance,
     disciplinary infractions or other considerations that would detract from the honor and prestige
     of the award, and must not be under consideration for supervisory or administrative action
     for poor performance, disciplinary infractions or other events within the timeframe of the
     award for which nominated.
     3.2. To be considered for the annual award, a quarterly winner must be re-nominated–
     consideration is not automatic. Nominees for the annual award do not have to be quarterly
     award winners during the year.
4. Timeframes and Suspense Dates.
     4.1. Civilian of the Quarter.
        4.1.1. Timeframes. The achievements and contributions stated in the nomination must
        be accomplished during the 3 months of each calendar quarter listed below.
            4.1.1.1. First Quarter - 1 January to 31 March.
            4.1.1.2. Second Quarter - 1 April to 30 June.
            4.1.1.3. Third Quarter - 1 July to 30 September.
            4.1.1.4. Fourth Quarter - 1 October to 31 December.
        4.1.2. Suspense Dates. All quarterly packages are due by the suspense date during the
        months of April, July, October and January. The specific date will be determined by the
        date set for the quarterly awards function, allowing sufficient time for the committee to
        rate the nominations and receive approval of the winners.
     4.2. Civilian of the Year.
        4.2.1. Timeframe. The timeframe for Civilian of the Year nominations is the calendar
        year--1 January to 31 December.
        4.2.2. Suspense Date. Generally, the suspense date will be the third Wednesday of
        January. The suspense date for the annual nominations corresponds to both fourth
        quarter awards and the annual awards banquet.
5. Nominating Authorities and Procedures.
     5.1. The vice commander of the 17th Training Wing (consisting of the wing staff offices)
     and the commanders of the 17th Training Group, the 517th Training Group, the 17th Mission
GOODFELLOWAFBI36-1001 15 AUGUST 2012                                                            3


   Support Group and the 17th Medical Group (or designees) are the nominating authorities.
   They may submit one nomination for each award category.
   5.2. The nominating authorities submit the following to 17 FSS/FSMC (Civilian Personnel
   Section) by the suspense date.
       5.2.1. A memorandum confirming nominees meet the eligibility requirements of
       paragraph 3.
       5.2.2. An electronic copy of AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award of each nomination
       submitted on diskette or by e-mail.
       5.2.3. A listing (by category showing name and org/offsym) of the squadron-level
       nominees who were considered or competed for the group-level nomination.
6. Award Categories.
   6.1. GS (includes GG), FWS, and NAF.
       6.1.1. Civilian Category I: GS-01 through 08 (non-supervisory); WG-01 through WG-
       07; WL-01 through WL-05; NF I, NAF II and NF III (non-supervisory), NA-01 through
       NA-07; NL-01 through NL-05; and CC-01 through CC-05.
       6.1.2. Civilian Category II: GS-09 through 13 (non-supervisory); WG-08 through WG-
       15; WL-06 through WL-15; NF IV and NF V (non-supervisory); NA-08 thorough NA-
       15; and NL-06 through NL-15.
       6.1.3. Civilian Supervisory Category I: GS-01 through 08 (supervisory); WS-01 through
       WS-10; NF I, NF II, NF III (supervisory); and NS-01 through NS-10.
       6.1.4. Civilian Supervisory Category II: GS-09 through GS-13 (supervisory); WS-11
       through WS-14; NF IV and NF V (supervisory) and NS-11 through NS-15.
Note: Civilians are considered supervisory only if the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
Classification Standards apply and the nominee is officially coded as a supervisor in the Defense
Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS).
7. Nomination Format.
   7.1. Use AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award.
   7.2. Limit quarterly nominations to 13 lines total--10 lines of bullet statements plus 3
   mandatory headings. Limit annual nominations to 30 lines--27 lines of bullet statements plus
   3 mandatory headings.
       7.2.1. In the Category block, enter the appropriate category from paragraph 6.1.1 or
       6.1.2.
       7.2.2. In the Award Period block, enter the appropriate dates from paragraph 4.1.1 or
       4.2.1.
       7.2.3. In place of "Rank," enter the pay plan and grade of the nominee (e.g., GS-11, WG-
       05, NA-05).
       7.2.4. In place of Duty Air Force Specialty Code (DAFSC), enter the occupational series
       of the nominee (e.g., 1750, 0303, 2005).
 4                                           GOODFELLOWAFBI36-1001 15 AUGUST 2012


     7.3. Headings. Nomination must describe specific accomplishments using bullet statements
     under the three headings listed below. Headings will be in bold print using all capitals
     without further enhancements. Do not include bullet statements on heading lines. Ensure
     statements contain what was done, how it was done and what effect it had. Show time
     references such as starting and/or ending dates. Accomplishments must be within the award
     timeframe to be creditable.
        7.3.1. LEADERSHIP AND JOB PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY DUTY. Describe
        significant leadership accomplishments and how well the member performed assigned
        primary and additional duties. Define the scope and level of responsibilities and the
        impact on the mission and unit. Include any new initiatives or techniques developed by
        the member that positively impact the unit and/or mission. Include results of Air Force,
        MAJCOM, numbered air force-level inspections and/or evaluations.
        7.3.2. SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT. Show how the member developed or
        improved skills related to primary duties; e.g., formal training, on-the-job training, Office
        of Personnel Management courses, local training courses offered by the Civilian
        Personnel Office or local contractors, independent study, non-credit courses. Include
        completion of PME, including awards earned in-residence attendance; e.g., squadron
        officer school. Include off-duty education not directly related to primary duties; e.g.,
        class, course, degree enrollment or completion, grade point average.
        7.3.3. BASE OR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT. Define the scope and impact of the
        member’s positive leadership and involvement in both the military and civilian
        communities. Include leadership, membership or participation in unit advisory councils,
        professional military organizations, associations and events.
     7.4. Nominations must comply with higher-level guidance for performance and awarding
     writing. Avoid "fluff" statements that merely fill the line without adding any real
     support to the nomination. Provide full expansion of acronyms the first time they appear,
     except those common to all (e.g., DoD, AF, AETC, TRW, MSG, MSS). Substitute
     simplified terms for specialized terminology. Avoid the overuse of exclamation marks;
     generally, no more than two per nomination. Endeavor to submit properly formatted
     nominations. Nominations must not contain typographical, grammatical or other errors that
     detract from the performance, contributions and achievements of the nominee.
8. Civilian Awards Committee.
     8.1. The vice commander of the 17th Training Wing serves as chairperson for the committee
     which evaluates the nominations and determines the winners of the Civilian of the Quarter
     and Civilian of the Year awards. The commanders of the 17th Training Group, the 517th
     Training Group, the 17th Mission Support Group and the 17th Medical Group (or, in their
     absence, their designees) serve as selection committee members.
     8.2. A member from 17 FSS/FSMC coordinates the process.
9. Evaluation Process.
     9.1. Nomination packages containing copies of each nomination will be provided to each
     committee member to review and rate.
GOODFELLOWAFBI36-1001 15 AUGUST 2012                                                            5


   9.2. Members rate nominations according to the following criteria on rating sheets provided
   with each package.
      9.2.1. The maximum score is 30 points (whole points only, no fractions) based on the
      whole-person concept and the descriptions of the headings.
   9.3. Committee members should endeavor to score nominations in a manner that
   differentiates among the nominations; however, no particular point or placement system is
   designated. Committee members must consistently apply their own personal standards to all
   nominations to produce fair and equitable scores.
   9.4. Committee members submit their completed rating sheets and return them to the
   committee chair.
      9.4.1. The chairperson will verify and tally the ratings to determine the winners.
      9.4.2. In the event of a tie, the scores will be converted to placements (first, second,
      third, or fourth). Equal scores given by the same committee member will be placed
      equally (i.e., first, first, third, fourth). The nomination with the best placements (lowest
      total value) will become the winner. If this process cannot break the tie, the tied
      nominations will be returned to the members to be reviewed and rated again.
   9.5. The committee chairperson forwards the results to 17 FSS/FSMC where a memorandum
   (including the list of wing-, group-, and squadron-level winners) is prepared for the 17th
   Training Wing Commander’s approval and endorsement of the winning nominees and time-
   off award authorization.
10. Announcement of Winners.
   10.1. Civilians of the Quarter are announced at the quarterly awards function. Civilians of
   the Year are announced at the annual awards function. Other functions or methods deemed
   appropriate may also be used to announce or publicize the winners.
   10.2. 17 FSS/FSMC provides the names and organizations of the nominees and winners in
   all categories to the organizers of the luncheon/banquet for publication in the program and
   inclusion in the script.
11. Award Recognition.
   11.1. Civilians of the Quarter and Civilians of the Year receive plaques (or similar items)
   from the Goodfellow Top Three Council or the Goodfellow First Sergeants Council at the
   quarterly awards function or annual banquet. Civilians of the Year may also receive other
   gifts or mementos as deemed appropriate.
   11.2. Endorsement of the winning nominees by the Wing Commander authorizes 17
   FSS/FSMC to process personnel actions for Individual Time-Off Awards as follows.
      11.2.1. Wing-level Civilians of the Quarter receive 24 hours. Wing-level Civilians of the
      Year receive 32 hours.
      11.2.2. Group-level Civilians of the Quarter who do not win at the Wing level receive 16
      hours. Group-level Civilians of the Year who do not win at the Wing level receive 24
      hours.
6                                      GOODFELLOWAFBI36-1001 15 AUGUST 2012


    11.2.3. Squadron-level nominees who did not win at the group level receive 8 hours in
    quarterly and annual award competitions. To be eligible for a time-off award, a
    squadron-level nomination must be forwarded to the group or wing staff and compete (or
    otherwise be considered) at that level. Squadron-level winners "in name only" will not
    be awarded time off under this program.




                                       MARK T. DAMIANO, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
GOODFELLOWAFBI36-1001 15 AUGUST 2012                                 7


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 36-10, Civilian Performance Management, 31 Oct 2000
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, 1 Jul 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DAFSC—Duty Air Force Specialty Code
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
FWS—Federal Wage Scale
GS—General Schedule
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Non-appropriated Fund
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
WG—Wage Grade
WL—Working Leader
