BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE                                        INSTRUCTION 36-6001

                                                                                7 MARCH 2013

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                    SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND
                                                  RESPONSE OFFICE (SAPRO) STUDENTS
                                                       AGAINST SEXUAL ASSAULT AND
                                                       HARASSMENT (SASH) PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 17 TRW/CVK                                                       Certified by: 17 TRW/CV
                                                                         (Col Thomas Schmidt)
                                                                                        Pages: 8




This instruction implements AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR)
Program, Section 2A, by increasing effective access of SAPRO services to students and by
establishing a standardized policy and procedures for the SASH Program at Goodfellow Air
Force base and the Presidio of Monterey (PoM). This instruction applies to all technical training
courses located at Goodfellow Air Force Base and the PoM. It also applies to Air National
Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) members attending training at
Goodfellow Air Force Base and the PoM. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained according to AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of according to the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication may be supplemented
at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for
coordination prior to certification and approval.


1. Purpose.
 2                                             GOODFELLOWAFBI36-6001 7 MARCH 2013


     1.1. Teal Aiguillettes. AETC installations use aiguillettes to differentiate various leaders
     within the student population as outlined in AETCI 36-2216, Administration of Military
     Standards and Discipline Training. The introduction of the teal aiguillette/rope to the 17
     TRW will identify enlisted Air Force members who have completed additional SAPR
     training and can provide information and connect students with installation SAPR services.
     The teal aiguillette is a visible reminder of the availability of the program to all students
     assigned to the 17 TRW.
2. Introduction.
     2.1. The 17 TRW SASH Program is a commander’s program. The commander’s emphasis
     on the importance of preventing and reporting sexual assaults, both at the wing and unit
     level, drives the level of effort dedicated to a successful SAPR program. The SASH Program
     is managed by the SAPRO, specifically, the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC).
3. Assignment Requirements.
     3.1. All SASH members will participate in a one-hour training session taught by the SARC
     and will report to the SARC when performing the duties of a SASH member. Any SASH
     member who completes the required training and maintains academic and disciplinary
     standards outlined by their Training Group and Attachment 2 will wear the teal
     aiguillette/rope in accordance with AETCI 36-2216.
     3.2. The SASH program is open to enlisted students in the 17 TRW.
     3.3. The teal rope indicates students who are active in the program.
     3.4. Teal ropes will be distributed to SASH members who score a 90% or higher on the
     SASH/SAPRO examination and undergo a four-week probation period. This is to ensure that
     SASH members understand the SAPR mission and can answer questions about the program’s
     policies and services.
4. Wing Commander.
     4.1. The Wing Commander (WG/CC) will support the SASH Program as part of the overall
     implementation of local sexual assault prevention and response programs in accordance with
     AFI 36-6001.
5. Training Group Commanders.
     5.1. The Training Group Commanders will support the SASH Program as part of the overall
     implementation of local sexual assault prevention and response programs in accordance with
     AFI 36-6001.
6. Military Training Leaders (MTL).
     6.1. MTLs will review SASH applications and submit them to SAPRO with
     recommendations or justifications for non-recommendation.
     6.2. Inform SAPRO of academic and disciplinary issues affecting students’ participation int
     eh SASH Program.
7. Unit Commanders.
GOODFELLOWAFBI36-6001 7 MARCH 2013                                                              3


   7.1. Unit/Squadron Commanders will support the SASH Program as part of the overall
   implementation of local sexual assault prevention programs in accordance with AFI 36-6001.
   7.2. Each unit/squadron will have access to a minimum of one SASH member.
8. Sexual Assault Prevention & Response Office (SAPRO).
   8.1. Manages the installation SASH program and is responsible for program operations.
   8.2. Coordinates with Training Groups to monitor SASH members’ academic and
   disciplinary standing.
   8.3. Conducts initial training, coordinates meetings, distributes applications, interviews
   applicants and provides information regarding the program to individuals interested in
   becoming SASH members.
   8.4. Issues and collects teal aiguillettes.
   8.5. Works closely with the Training Groups to provide oversight and leadership of the
   SASH program.
   8.6. Advertises the program to Airmen and distributes applications to interested students.
   8.7. Briefs all students and permanent party personnel during in-processing on the
   designation and purpose of the teal aiguillettes.
9. Program Requirements.
   9.1. SASH members cannot hold a formal leadership position within the unit because
   members of the chain of command may not assist someone n making a confidential restricted
   report to SAPRO.
   9.2. If the SAPRO or Training Group staff is made aware of conduct unbecoming of a SASH
   member, the SARC will counsel the member and take appropriate action, including the
   removal of the individual form the program.
   9.3. SASH members may assist the SAPR staff with various SAPRO-sponsored activities on
   a voluntary basis.
10. SASH Members.
   10.1. All SASH members are required to attend an initial SASH training session, along with
   any other required SASH meetings where additional training may occur. Members are
   required to spend a minimum of 2 hours per month (including monthly meetings)
   participating in various SAPRO trainings, events, or activities.
   10.2. To maintain proficiency in providing liaison services, SASH members are required to
   attend monthly meetings. If a SASH member misses more than three monthly SASH
   meetings without an excused absence, the SARC will counsel the member and take other
   appropriate action, to include removal from the program.
   10.3. SASH members provide students with clear, accurate information on the avenues for
   reporting sexual assault, referring the student to SAPRO if additional information is needed.
   SASH members are not trained or certified counselors. SASH members will provide
   information and referral services only. They must have the hotline number on-hand to obtain
 4                                             GOODFELLOWAFBI36-6001 7 MARCH 2013


     further guidance regarding any situation. SASH members act as a conduit between the
     student population and the SARC.
     10.4. Inform SAPR of their graduation date 30 days in advance of graduation. SASH
     members are responsible for returning the teal aiguillette to their MTL prior to departing
     technical training. The SASH Liaison will collect all aiguillettes and return them to SAPRO.
     10.5. SASH members serve as an example of good ethics/morals in words and actions. They
     should, at all times, conduct themselves in a manner that would maintain a positive
     perception and program integrity. SASH members must exemplify the Air Force Core
     Values: Integrity, Service, and Excellence. As representatives of the SAPRO staff, they
     should uphold the highest standards of professionalism as outlined in this instruction and the
     “Expectations and Guidelines” in Attachment 2. SASH members will maintain professional
     decorum when volunteering in other capacities.
     10.6. SASH members will promote the SAPR program and the benefits it offers to
     individuals who utilize SAPR services.
     10.7. SASH members will brief SAPR prevention topics by the SARC at final formations,
     dorm meetings, etc.
     10.8. SASH members will be supervised by the SAPRO and will assist as needed in various
     program areas and will follow the guidelines delineated in Attachment 2.
     10.9. All SASH members will abide by the SASH privacy pledge delineated in Attachment
     3.
11. Letter of Appreciation.
     11.1. After successful completion of the minimum requirements of the program all Airmen
     will be eligible to receive a certificate and Letter of Appreciation (LOA). The certificate can
     be revoked for substandard duty performance and/or infractions of duty responsibilities while
     on or off duty. If requested, the SARC or designee can provide a recommendation to the
     gaining command’s SAPRO for continuation as a SASH member or application to the Victim
     Advocate program.
12. Volunteer Projects.
     12.1. When opportunities are available, the SAPRO will plan and execute various SAPRO
     and/or Integrated Delivery System events. SASH members volunteering for projects/events
     will be eligible to receive an LOA.
13. Program Efficiency.
     13.1. Overview. The goal of the SASH program is to reduce the stigma associated with
     reporting sexual assault and to help create a training atmosphere free from sexual assault and
     harassment. Personnel working and interacting with the student population have the greatest
     access and are a direct link to the most at-risk population, those in the 18-25 year age group.
     The overall success or failure of the SASH program hinges on Non-Prior Service (NPS)
     students at the unit level.
     13.2. Measurement. On a monthly basis, each SASH member will track the number of
     queries he or she has received and the number of contacts that have resulted in a sexual
GOODFELLOWAFBI36-6001 7 MARCH 2013                                                       5


  assault report. SARC will gather and compile stats to reflect how effectively the SASH
  members are being utilized by the student population.
  13.3. Program Effectiveness. The SARC will inform base leadership of program
  effectiveness. The SARC will provide trend information that may be useful for making
  informed decisions concerning the training environment. Individual questions may be added
  at base level to identify areas needing closer analysis.




                                         MARK T. DAMIANO, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 6                                         GOODFELLOWAFBI36-6001 7 MARCH 2013


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, 14 Oct 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AETCI36-2216, Administration of Military Standards and Discipline Training, 6 Dec 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 1 Aug 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms
LOA—Letter of Appreciation
MTL—Military Training Leaders
NPS—Non-Prior Service
PoM—Presidio of Monterey
SAPR—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
SAPRO—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Office
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SASH—Students Against Sexual Assault and Harassment
GOODFELLOWAFBI36-6001 7 MARCH 2013                                                            7


                                        Attachment 2
                SASH PROGRAM EXPECTATIONS AND GUIDELINES

1. Be a good example in word and deed.
A SASH member represents the SAPRO staff within the Military Training Flight. The position
requires a high level of maturity, and students and Military Training Leaders must be able to
trust their squadron’s SASH member as a link to the SAPRO. Remaining a good example means
examining your actions and words, and making sure your behaviors are congruent with your role
as a SASH member.
2. Attend all regularly scheduled meetings.
This program requires initial training taught by the SAPRO staff. SAPRO will hold regular
meetings and will provide advance notice either via e-mail or by class/MTL. Meetings are
mandatory. If not previously excused from meetings, SAPRO will issue a warning. Any
further infraction will result in the suspension of teal aiguillette.
3. Be a contact for SAPRO concerns.
SASH members are designated by the aiguillette they wear. Whenever an individual approaches
you with a question or concern regarding sexual assault, follow the guidelines set forth in your
training.
4. Find a place to volunteer your time.
Service is a keystone of the SASH program. SASH members actively serve base personnel and
the community by donating the minimum of 2 hours per month participating in various activities.
SASH members can volunteer their time by aiding the SAPRO staff and participating/assisting in
other base or community activities.
5. Know the rules and follow them.
If someone makes sexually offensive remarks or attempts to isolate someone for a potential
assault, SASH members will intervene as a bystander in a safe and non-confrontational manner.
6. Practice the Air Force Core Values and the Four Pillars of Comprehensive Airmen
Fitness.
Display the Air Force Core Values at all times: “Integrity first, Service before self, and
Excellence in all we do,” while promoting resiliency through the Four Pillars of Comprehensive
Airmen Fitness: Mental, Physical, Social, and Spiritual.
7. Wear of teal aiguillette.
While in uniform, SASH members must wear their teal aiguillette. Wear of the aiguillette in
service dress is optional. All SASH members will be in uniform or wear an approved SAPRO t-
shirt when performing volunteer service at a SAPR- or SASH-sponsored event.
8          GOODFELLOWAFBI36-6001 7 MARCH 2013


        Attachment 3
    SASH PRIVACY PLEDGE
