BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 24-201

                                                                                   22 JUNE 2012

                                                                                   Transportation

                                                         REUSABLE CONTAINER PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 17 LRS/LGRD                                                     Certified by: 17 LRS/LGVR
                                                                                (Mr. Paul Adams)
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This instruction implements the Reusable Container Program depicted in AFI 24-203,
Preparation and Movement of Air Force Cargo, and outlines the responsibilities and procedures
for the management and operation of the Reusable Container Program at Goodfellow Air Force
Base TX. The purpose of this program is to ensure availability of reusable containers to be
utilized in redistribution of serviceable and repairable assets to customers and repair facilities.
Reporting requirements identified in this publication are exempt under the provisions of AFI 33-
324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal,
Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, paragraphs 2.11.2 and 2.11.12. This
instruction applies to all unit personnel assigned, attached, and tenanted to the 17th Wing,
utilizing the shipment processes of the Logistics Distribution Division. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained according to
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS), located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.

1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The 17th Logistics Readiness Squadron.
       1.1.1. Trains all Unit Reusable Container Monitors and documents training.
2                                                GOODFELLOWAFBI24-201 22 JUNE 2012


       1.1.2. Tracks reusable container usage and non-usage by squadron.
       1.1.3. Conducts an initial on-site inspection of reusable container storage areas and
       additional inspections when deemed necessary or if a unit does not meet the Wing
       standard.
       1.1.4. Convenes a reusable container working group meeting at least annually. The
       working group will consist of representatives from the major base shipping activities who
       initiate over ten shipments through the Traffic Management Flight each year (or generate
       container replacement requests for stored items), i.e., supply , maintenance and security
       forces. The objective of this working group will be to minimize unnecessary
       expenditures of Department of Defense funds necessary to replace containers.
       1.1.5. Provides staff assistance and training to units upon request from the unit
       commander or Unit Reusable Container Monitor.
       1.1.6. Provides recommendations for the proper disposition of excess reusable containers
       and associated materials.
       1.1.7. Processes and monitors fund recoupment for replacement containers through
       finance.
       1.1.8. Enforces the Wing minimum standard of 90 percent. If the monthly return rate is
       below 90 percent, a letter signed by the Base Reusable Container Manager will be
       forwarded to the applicable unit commander for correction action. This letter will
       summarize data collected from AF Forms 451, Request for Packaging Service, and is
       geared to assist the organization in initiating corrective actions.
    1.2. Unit Commander. For units that initiate over 10 shipments or generate container
    replacement requests for stored items must appoint a primary and alternate Unit Reusable
    Container Monitor (units may have multiple alternatives appointed) to represent the unit on
    all matters pertaining to the Base Reusable Container Program.
    1.3. Unit Reusable Container Monitor.
       1.3.1. Forwards an updated Reusable Container Monitor appointment letter, signed by
       the unit commander, to the 17th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Traffic Management
       Flight (17 LRS/LGRVT), within 10 days of any changes.
       1.3.2. Ensures all cargo received is in the proper container or have this discrepancy
       annotated on the issue documented and maintained with the reusable container.
       1.3.3. Ensures all cargo turned in to base supply is in the proper container or has an AF
       Form 451, Request for Packaging Service (original plus two copies) attached with the
       paper work for the item. The AF Form 451 should be only signed by the Unit Reusable
       Container Monitor, Alternate, or the unit commander, and will contain a chargeable unit
       fund site. If the AF Form 451 is marked “received in wrong container,” the DD Form
       1348-1A, Issues Release/Receipt Document; Standard Asset Tracking System (SATS)
       label; or Supply Discrepancy Report (SDR) will be attached to the AF Form 451.
       1.3.4. Identifies and maintains an active reusable container storage area.
       1.3.5. Reports packaging improvements to the Base Reusable Container Monitor that
       will increase the efficiency of the Base Reusable Container Program.
GOODFELLOWAFBI24-201 22 JUNE 2012                                                                3


      1.3.6. Protects all containers and packaging materials to maintain containers for reuse.
      1.3.7. Provides adequate facilities, equipment, and materials to maintain containers for
      reuse.
      1.3.8. Trains unit personnel on the importance of document training, and reusing
      containers and packaging materials.
      1.3.9. Attends Base Reusable Container Monitor directed reusable container program
      meetings and training sessions.
      1.3.10. Trains and appoints key personnel on use and preparation of AF Forms 451.
      Units should appoint their own personnel to provide this training and develop a training
      plan tailored to the unit’s shipping practices. Training documentation will be maintained
      so that it may be presented to Base Reusable Container Program Monitor(s) upon request.
      1.3.11. Monitors and establishes effective metrics to account for and control reusable
      containers and materials.
      1.3.12. Ensures units requesting Packaging Service without a proper Special Packaging
      Instructions (SPI) or Fast Pack container fill out AF Form 451. Ensures the Unit
      Container Monitor’s (UCM) signature must appear on all requests for Packaging Service.
      1.3.13. Ensures payments for containers are made with AF Form 406, Miscellaneous
      Obligation/ Reimbursement Document; AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA);
      DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request; and Government Purchase
      Card (formerly IMPAC) accounts.
2. Procedures.
   2.1. Base Supply.
      2.1.1. The Receiving Section will make sure items received are not separated from their
      respective containers.
      2.1.2. Storage and Issue will ensure the original container remains with the issued item.
      When property requiring a Special Packaging Instruction (SPI) is issued without the SPI
      container, Supply will annotate the accompanying DD Form 1348-1A, Issue
      Release/Receipt Document or SATS label (or attached SDR), to indicate whether or not
      the property was issued in a reusable container. The using agency will retain the
      annotated DD Form 1348-1A or SATS label to validate future turn-in shipments of
      reparable assets without the proper container.
      2.1.3. The Traffic Management Flight will not accept an item for shipment needing a
      reusable container unless the item is accompanied by an AF Form 451, proof that the
      item was received on base, or issued to the unit without the correct container. Supply
      will attach a copy of the SF 364, Report of Discrepancy (ROD), to the item if it was
      received on base without the proper container or an AF Forms 451 if an item was issued
      without the proper container.
      2.1.4. When an item is received in a contractor-packed container, every effort should be
      made to return that item or its authorized substitute in the original container. Do not
      obliterate any markings on that container or any other container (i.e., ID, serviceable tag,
      packaging labels).
4                                              GOODFELLOWAFBI24-201 22 JUNE 2012


       2.1.5. The Equipment Accountability Office (EAO) will look out for reusable containers
       during their annual organizational visits and provide 17 LRS Freight Section the basic
       description of these reusable container; e.g., type, size, and quantity, along with the
       origination’s name.
    2.2. Other Units.
       2.2.1. On receipt of an item from base supply, make sure the item is in the required
       container. Items received will stay in their containers until such time as required for
       bench stock or inspection.
       2.2.2. When an item is removed from its container and put in use, store the reusable
       container in the storage area along with the documentation identifying what item the
       container is for. Ensure all internal blocking, bracing, and cushioning materials are
       placed in the container.
       2.2.3. When a reusable container is received that is not covered by the Base Reusable
       Container Program, please contact 17 LRS Freight Section for turn-in procedures.




                                           MARK T. DAMIANO, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
GOODFELLOWAFBI24-201 22 JUNE 2012                                                     5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-203, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Cargo, 2 Nov 2010
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 Jun 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document, 1 Jul 1984
AF Form 451, Request for Packaging Service, 1 Feb 2004
AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA), 1 Apr 1989
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist, 1 Nov 1991
DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request, Jun 1972
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document, Jul 1991
SF 364, Report of Discrepancy (ROD), Feb 1980

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
DD—Department of Defense
EAO—Equipment Accountability Office
FCA—Fund Cite Authorization
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROD—Report of Discrepancy
SATS—Standard Asset Tracking System
SDR—Supply Discrepancy Report
SPI—Special Packaging Instruction
UCM—Unit Container Monitor
WRM—War Reserve Materiel
 6                                                GOODFELLOWAFBI24-201 22 JUNE 2012


Terms
Category I Container—Container usually made of metal, plastic, synthetic, or composite
materials fabricated to ensure a minimum of 100 trips.
Category II Container—Container usually made of plywood, wood, or fiberboard. Military
federal specification number can identify it. It is constructed to withstand a minimum of 10 trips.
Discrete Special Packaging Instruction Container (SPI)—This container is a specially
designed reusable container for a particular commodity. A Special Packaging Instruction (SPI)
number will identify this on the exterior of the container.
Fast Pack—A family of standard size reusable containers whose design permits shipment of a
large variety of items within certain limits of size, weight and fragility.
Reusable Container—A specially designed container, which is engineered for repeated use
without impairment of its protective function. The reusable container is intended to be used,
saved and reused as a complete system, excluding the wrap or barrier material. These containers
are marked “Reusable Container…Do Not Destroy.”
Standard Pack—A pack for which the packaging components, including the shipping container,
have been standardized as to material and size. The cushioning in the Standard Pack is not
bonded to the interior container walls.
GOODFELLOWAFBI24-201 22 JUNE 2012                              7


                            Attachment 2
REUSABLE CONTAINER QUARTERLY INSPECTION (AF FORM 2519 OVERPRINT)
