BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOWAIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 41-101

                                                                           19 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                  Health Services

                                                 PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION (PAD)
                                                                          PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 17 MDG/SGH                                                         Certified by: 17 MDG/CC
                                                                               (Col J. Kelly Klein)
                                                                                           Pages: 5
Supersedes:    GOODFELLOWAFBI 41-
               101, 6 December 2011


This instruction implements AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, in the establishment of the
Goodfellow Air Force Base Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Program. The program provides
for Automated External Defibrillators to be placed in strategic locations for use in reviving
personnel during cardiac crises prior to arrival of medical personnel.                It identifies
responsibilities, maintenance, and documentation and quality assurance requirements. This
instruction applies to each activity and individual that has responsibility in support of the
program. Ensure all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained according to AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of
according to the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rim.cfm/. Ensure compliance with the Public
Law 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                        GOODFELLOWAFBI 41-101 19 NOVEMBER 2013


1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. The 17th Training Wing (17 TRW) Commander has the overall responsibility for the
     Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Program and directs the 17th Medical Group (17 MDG)
     Commander to ensure proper medical objectives are maintained for the PAD program.
     1.2. The 17th Medical Group Commander is responsible to the 17 TRW Commander for
     implementing of the PAD program, ensuring all medical objectives are maintained and
     provides professional guidance on program administration, and appointing in writing a
     medical director and program coordinator for the PAD program.
     1.3. Medical Director. Will be a physician, proficient in emergency medical services
     protocols, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), and Automated External Defibrillators
     (AED). Provides oversight for training, emergency medical services coordination, protocols,
     standing orders, and formulation of AED deployment strategies. Also develops quality
     assurance guidelines for use of the AED.
     1.4. Program Coordinator. Will oversee the wing’s AED program and coordinate AED
     training for site coordinators. Will provide a list of all AED locations to the Goodfellow
     AFB Fire Department. Provides recommendations to squadron commanders for individuals
     to serve as site coordinators. Assists the Medical Director, as needed.
     1.5. Site Coordinators. Will receive appropriate training from the 17 MDG and be appointed
     in writing by their respective unit commander. Ensure all AED required inspections and
     maintenance actions are accomplished according to the manufacturer's manual. Accomplish
     weekly maintenance checks (four per month) and document maintenance checks on the
     Weekly Inspection Log (Attachment 2).
2. Documentation.
     2.1. If an AED is used on a victim, the site coordinator will draft a summary of the event and
     forward to the medical director or designee within 48 hours. The medical director or designee
     will notify the legal office as soon as he or she becomes aware of an event. The medical
     director or designee will review all Event Summaries to assess appropriate quality of care.
     Additionally, the Chief of Medical Services, Chief Nurse, pharmacy representative, and a
     family practice physician will be required to review the summary within 5 days of AED use.
     The medical director or designee will notify the legal office of the results of the review.
3. Maintenance.
     3.1. The 17 MDG Biomedical Equipment Technician (BMET) will serve as the point of
     contact for site coordinators and the manufacturer representatives concerning any problems
     with AEDs. Additionally, the BMET will be responsible for completing an annual inspection
     of all AEDs.
4. Establishing/Reviewing AED Placement.
     4.1. The following items should be addressed when establishing or reviewing AED
     placement at any location.
     4.2. Evaluate decision to implement PAD program (risk/benefit evaluation).
     4.3. Review data of previous sudden cardiac arrests to identify at-risk situations.
GOODFELLOWAFBI 41-101 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                    3


  4.4. Consider workforce and visitor demographics (Ex: Older workers and visitors are at
  higher risk for cardiac arrest.).
  4.5. Consider special needs (Ex: strenuous work/exercise, electrical shock risk, and other
  significant physical stress areas are higher risk areas for cardiac arrest).
  4.6. Select area to place and store AED(s) and additional supplies. The location should be
  climate-controlled and have immediate access to a telephone to contact emergency medical
  services (EMS) in the event of a medical emergency.
  4.7. Funding and Purchase of AED(s) and associated supplies.
     4.7.1. Units will need to establish a medical account. Purchase AED(s) and associated
     supplies with Wing funds. All purchases will be made through 17 MDG Medical
     Logistics (17 MDSS/SGSM) Flight.
     4.7.2. Recommended supplies/equipment to be purchased and maintained with AED(s).
         4.7.2.1. Non-latex protective gloves.
         4.7.2.2. CPR face mask/shield.
         4.7.2.3. Disposable razors to dry shave a victim in chest area, if required.
         4.7.2.4. Bandage scissors.
         4.7.2.5. Electrode pads.
         4.7.2.6. Biohazard/medical waste container/bags.
         4.7.2.7. Pad of paper and pens.
         4.7.2.8. Absorbent towel.




                                           KIMBERLEE P. JOOS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                     GOODFELLOWAFBI 41-101 19 NOVEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 41-201, Managing Clinical Engineering Programs, 25 March 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Public Law 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
Public Law 106-505, Public Health Improvement Act of 2000, Title IV, Subtitle A, Cardiac
Arrest Survival Act (CASA); (H.R. 2498), 13 November 2000
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AED—Automated External Defibrillators
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BET—Biomedical Equipment Technician
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
EMS—Emergency Medical Services
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAD—Public Access Defibrillation
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
GOODFELLOWAFBI 41-101 19 NOVEMBER 2013              5


                                     Attachment 2
                            WEEKLY INSPECTION LOG

Table A2.1. Weekly Inspection Log.
