BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 91-200

                                                                                 30 APRIL 2014

                                                                                           Safety

                                                                           WEAPONS SAFETY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 17 TRW/SE                                                          Certified by: 17 TRW/SE
                                                                           (Mr. Samuel Spooner)
                                                                                        Pages: 11


This publication implements and expands weapons/explosives safety standards as found in
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, as well as additional source material (see
paragraph 2.3 and Attachment 1). It provides guidance and procedures on local weapons safety
processes and instructions. It applies to any personnel writing weapons/explosives standards and
using explosives, blanks, and Dye Marking Cartridges (DMC) on Goodfellow AFB. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) listed above for coordination prior to certification and approval.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR listed above using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the
field through the appropriate chain of command. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the
OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. It is the responsibility of each commander, exercise evaluator, and supervisor to ensure
   this standard is followed and implemented. Everyone has a responsibility to comply with
   this instruction.
   1.2. Safety principles outlined are also applicable to off-base evaluation/ training sites when
   not in conflict with host base or state regulations. 17 TRW members and tenant units as
 2                                               GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014


     applicable will coordinate with host base safety personnel to ensure local safety regulations
     are being followed. All personnel who handle, function, and/or transport explosives
     addressed in this instruction must receive explosives safety training.
     1.3. The Weapons Safety Manager (WSM) is the base POC for all things related to weapons
     (explosives) safety.
     1.4. The Weapons Safety Representative (WSR) is the unit POC for weapons (explosives)
     safety.
2. Written instructions.
     2.1. The squadron commander will approve locally written instructions. If an operation
     involving explosives is not specifically detailed under this, base, or Air Force Instruction,
     then a risk assessment needs to be accomplished and submitted to the Weapons Safety
     Manager WSM. The WSM will review any risk assessment regarding explosives or DMC
     prior to the operation. The 17 TRW commander will approve any risk assessment involving
     explosive operations that affect multiple squadrons or the base populace as a whole. Group
     commanders will approve risk assessments that affect multiple squadrons under its
     command. Squadron commanders can approve risk assessments that only affect the
     squadron and no one else.
     2.2. Step-by-step procedures for doing the task will be referred back to a technical order
     (TO) or instruction for applicable portions of the operation.
     2.3. The instructions in Attachment 1 will be used (as applicable) in conjunction with this
     instruction.
     2.4. Close Combat Mission Capability Kit (CCMCK) activities will reference SFOI 31-14,
     as applicable, and include adequate written instructions on the use of modified CCMCK
     weapons and training requirements. If there are no detailed, step by step, procedures for a
     training exercise, a risk assessment will be accomplished and signed by the commander. The
     risk assessment should be given to 17 TRW/SE for a courtesy review prior to the start of the
     training. If explosive operations are included in any Dye Marking Cartridges (DMC)
     exercise, then it will be treated as an explosives training/exercise and be routed through the
     WSM and signed by the appropriate level commander.
     2.5. Anyone handling munitions at a TDY or deployed location must be trained and familiar
     with the applicable written instructions in the temporary duty or deployed location. If no
     training or instructions are available, the personnel will not handle munitions.
3. Designated Disinterested Official.
     3.1. It is the responsibility of all commanders to ensure that live ammunition is not
     introduced into a training environment where live, and DMC or blank ammunition could be
     commingled or mistaken for each other. The commander will designate a disinterested
     official to monitor the process to ensure this doesn’t happen. This person will visually
     inspect all DMC and blank ammunition to verify that no live ammunition has been
     commingled with it.
     3.2. All users are directly responsible for the control and use of ammunition issued to them
     for either real world or exercise purposes. Accountability of assets, to include expenditures,
GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014                                                            3


   will be validated upon the issue and turn- in of the assets, at the beginning and end of each
   shift, exercise, or whenever required to eliminate a discrepancy.
   3.3. 17 SFS will have a dedicated Range Safety Officer (RSO) that will be armed to control
   weapons. The RSO will not be involved in any exercise scenario.
4. Issue, Turn-In, Expenditure, and Controlling Procedures.
   4.1. Issue.
      4.1.1. The procedures for issuing, turn- in, and reporting expenditures are located in the
      Munitions Customer Guides supplied to the customer account representative by the
      Munitions Accountable Supply Officer (MASO).
      4.1.2. All assets will be issued from munitions storage area in proper shipping
      configuration.
      4.1.3. Assets issued to a custody account are the responsibility of that organizational
      commander or account custodian, who in turn will issue to unit personnel or exercise
      participants. The commander or designated representative will ensure munitions issued to
      their organization are not released to unauthorized personnel.
      4.1.4. Once issued to an authorized individual, the ammunition may be distributed to
      those persons requiring munitions for training purposes as long as all persons are
      identified and briefed on safety and accountability.
      4.1.5. Personnel and equipment will be inspected to ensure that no live rounds of
      ammunition are introduced into an exercise/training environment.
      4.1.6. Under no circumstances will live and blank ammo be issued to other than Security
      Forces personnel without the supervision of a Combat Arms Instructor or an individual
      trained and qualified in accordance with this operating instruction and AFMAN 91-201,
      Explosive Safety Standards.
   4.2. Turn in.
      4.2.1. All unexpended rounds will be returned to the point of issue, along with any
      dud/damaged ammunition, upon completion of the exercise.
      4.2.2. All unexpended munitions will be returned to their original containers according to
      lot number. The quantity will be annotated on a piece of tape placed over the original
      quantity.
      4.2.3. Unexpended munitions will not be frivolously expended to avoid the turn in
      process.
      4.2.4. Unit Commanders or their account custodians will visually inspect all munitions
      returned from the training exercise. Inspection will ensure all live and expended
      munitions are segregated and live rounds returned to their original storage containers
      prior to return to the munitions storage area (MSA)/ammunition control point (ACP) or
      Army Connex.
      4.2.5. To the maximum extent possible, all expended brass generated during the training
      exercise will be picked up, inspected, placed in containers and returned to the munitions
      function.
 4                                                  GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014


        4.2.6. The commander or designated representative will ensure an auditable record of all
        issues, expenditures, and turn-ins of munitions is accurate and up-to-date. Report all
        expenditures within five working days, unless directed otherwise, and request assets to
        replenish their stock in a timely manner (custody accounts only).
     4.3. Expenditure and Controlling Procedures.
        4.3.1. Munitions and their residual effects will always be physically secured, tied down
        to non-moving parts of the government owned vehicle (GOV) (as applicable), never left
        out of sight, stored properly, prevented from unnecessary exposure, and accounted for.
        4.3.2. All Army munitions expenditures will be reported following normal Army
        regulations.
        4.3.3. All Air Force munitions expenditures will be submitted to 17 LRS munitions
        personnel within 5-duty days per instructions in AFI 21-201, Paragraph 7.18.
5. Fire extinguishers.
     5.1. Two 2A: 10BC fire extinguishers mounted on any vehicle transporting explosives.
     5.2. At least two water based fire extinguishers will be available at Camp Sentinel.
WARNING - Water will not be used to fight fires involving White/TA smoke grenades. Dry
chemical fire extinguishers must be used as oxygen in water will react with chemicals in this
type of grenade and intensify the fire.
     5.3. The fire department will be notified of any heat producing explosive (ground burst
     simulator (GBS), smokes, etc.) prior to use.
     5.4. All fires starting in the vicinity of ammunitions or explosives will be reported and
     fought immediately with all available means to prevent fire from spreading to munitions. If
     the fire engulfs explosives or is supplying heat to it, or if the fire is so large that it cannot be
     extinguished with the equipment at hand, the personnel involved shall evacuate seeking
     safety and notify the Fire Department. All fires will be reported to the fire department.
6. Safety requirements, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
     6.1. Explosives will not be tumbled, thrown, dropped, or handled in a rough manner.
     6.2. No attempt will be made to disassemble, modify, or alter explosive items; or to use in a
     manner other than their intended purpose.
     6.3. If abnormal conditions relating to the safe configuration of an explosive item are noted,
     no attempts will be made to use or correct the condition. Notify the WSM, the munitions
     personnel, and Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) for assistance as needed.
     6.4. Explosive items will be stored and transported in their approved storage and shipping
     container.
     6.5. Only the quantity of munitions necessary for a specific operation will be drawn from
     storage.
     6.6. A pre-exercise safety briefing will be conducted for all personnel before deployment to
     the exercise site.
GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014                                                            5


  6.7. Individuals armed with live ammunition in accordance with (IAW) AFI 31-117, Arming
  and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel and Army Regulation (AR) 190-14, Carrying
  Firearms and Use of Force for Law Enforcement and Security Duties will not participate in
  the exercise scenario. Weapons will be loaded IAW AFI 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling
  Procedures, at an approved clearing barrel.
  6.8. In the event of an emergency, the exercise scenario will be stopped, all weapons will be
  placed in the safe position, and personnel will await instructions from appropriate
  supervisory personnel.
  6.9. Hand and foot protection will be used when handling, detonating, or moving munitions
  containers, as needed.
  6.10. Blank ammunition will not be fired from any weapon that does not have a blank
  adapter installed. Honor Guard may not use blank adapters for ceremonial purposes. 17 SFS
  K9 uses a 38 revolver for dog training that doesn’t have a blank adapter.
  6.11. Blank firing adapters will NEVER be covered or camouflaged in any way and will
  only be hand tightened.
  6.12. M-16A2 blank ammunition will not be fired at or toward personnel who are within 20
  feet, or IAW applicable owner’s manual and directives. Personnel within the firing limits can
  be acted upon by calling out “Safety Kill.”
  6.13. Weapons will not be fired from inside buildings without a risk assessment being
  accomplished. 17 SFS-only indoor training exercises at do not require a risk assessment if
  there are no explosives being used and exercise procedures have written instructions.
  6.14. Commanders or their designated representatives will monitor the installation/removal
  of blank ammunition from magazines.
  6.15. Live ammo is prohibited in the exercise area unless absolutely necessary.
  6.16. When it is necessary to have live ammo present at an exercise involving blank or DMC
  munitions for real world security; the guard weapon will be loaded prior to, and at a separate
  location from, the weapons used for training. If live ammo needs to be present at a training
  location for any other reason than to serve as a guard weapon, route a risk assessment
  through Wing Safety first.
  6.17. If the guard weapon is an M16/M-4, then the 30 round magazines loaded with live
  ammo will be marked with red tape or paint no less than three inches wide visible on the
  bottom 2/3 of the magazine.
  6.18. Prior to loading a magazine or weapon, visually inspect ammunition to ensure that
  blank ammunition is being used. Load each round individually for 100% accuracy.
  6.19. Visually inspect each magazine to ensure that no ammunition has been accidentally left
  in the magazine during prior usage.
  6.20. In the event that a preloaded magazine is given to you for a blank training exercise,
  carefully examine each individual round to ensure that no live round or projectile is visible.
  6.21. All blank and live ammunition stockpiles will be properly labeled, sealed, and
  physically separated by a distance of no less than 10 feet before, during, and after use.
 6                                                   GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014


     6.22. A first aid kit will be available.
     6.23. Radios will be available (as required).
     6.24. Wheel chocks will be used if applicable.
     6.25. Approved (as a minimum by 17 SFS/CC and 17 TRW/SE) CCMCK PPE will be used
     for DMC exercises. Condition of the PPE will be checked by each user prior to start of the
     exercise.
     6.26. Use wooden dunnage for separation of munitions containers in stacks if needed.
     6.27. Appropriate hand tools for opening/closing munitions containers will be available.
     6.28. Cargo tie-down straps will be use where needed.
     6.29. Applicable Operating Instructions will be immediately available for reference.
     6.30. Wear eye protection (as required).
     6.31. Wear hearing protection (as required).
     6.32. Munitions residue containers will be used as applicable.
7. Emergency Actions.
     7.1. Immediately report any out-of-the-ordinary incidents to the WSM and your supervisor
     or senior member of your team. Refer to AFI 91-204_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP, Safety
     Investigations and Reports, for mishap reporting criteria.
     7.2. A live round of ammunition mixed in with blank ammunition is an emergency situation.
     If found, stop all exercise activities, notify your supervisor, WSM, and 17 LRS munitions
     personnel immediately. Exercise will not continue until authorized personnel can determine
     verification of ammunition.
     7.3. A designated person by the Commander or Exercise Supervisor will have a cellular
     telephone or radio to enable him/her to contact emergency personnel to include the Security
     Forces Control Center in the event of a mishap or abnormal condition.
     7.4. The designated person will obtain a list of emergency numbers to contact from the
     exercise area in the event of a mishap or abnormal condition. Appointed individual will
     ensure Security Forces, MASO, Base Medical Personnel, Fire Department and WSM are
     notified of any mishaps and complete any necessary paperwork.
     7.5. In the event of an injury or emergency situation during an exercise or unusual
     occurrence involving an explosive, the exercise scenario will be stopped, all
     weapons/explosives will be placed in the safe position, and personnel will await instructions
     from appropriate supervisory personnel.
     7.6. Before the start of any training operation, all applicable personnel will be briefed on a
     phrase that will be used to stop operations in the event of a safety incident or emergency.
     Phrases such as “KNOCK IT OFF”, “CEASE FIRE”, or “SAFETY, SAFETY, SAFETY”
     could be used.
8. Notifications.
GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014                                                             7


   8.1. Before the start of any operation involving, explosives, blanks, or DMC, a reasonable
   attempt should be made to notify the WSM.
   8.2. In an emergency, dial 911. Other important contact numbers are listed in Table 8.1.
   (The local area code is 325 or DSN 477 plus 4-digit extension).

Table 8.1. Emergency Contact Numbers.
Wing Safety/WSM                   654-3963, 3894, 3895
Fire Department                   654-3534
Security Forces                   654-3504, 3505, 3530, 5555
Goodfellow Command Post           654-3558
LRS Munitions                     654-4774, 3580, 5199, 1114
Dyess Command Post                696-1921
Dyess EOD                         696-4108
9. Personnel Limits.
   9.1. Personnel limits will vary based on location. Licensed and sited locations limits will be
   specific and documented as required. Personnel limits for training exercise areas will be the
   minimum number of personnel necessary to conduct the training exercise. This number
   should be justifiable in writing.
   9.2. The following definitions apply to personnel limits.
      9.2.1. Supervisor. Supervisors are persons directly in charge of the immediate explosive
      operation taking place (i.e., the senior ranking worker, NCOIC, OIC, etc.). Supervisors
      are responsible for enforcing personnel limits.
      9.2.2. Worker. Workers are part of an explosive operation and have a need to be present.
      9.2.3. Casual. Casuals are persons not normally part of an explosives operation but have
      duties that require their presence (i.e., Wing Safety, medical, Commanders, etc.). Their
      presence could be temporary in nature.
      9.2.4. Visitor. Visitors are non-essential personnel with limited access who are not part
      of the explosive operation. Their presence is usually temporary in nature.          Stop
      operations when visitors are present.
10. Misfire procedures.
   10.1. In the event a blank or DMC round fails to fire, take the appropriate immediate action
   detailed in the weapon’s operator manual.
   10.2. In the event a GBS or smoke fails to ignite, establish a cordon and notify EOD as
   applicable.
   10.3. Notify the WSM of any frequent, abnormal, or unusual incidents regarding misfires,
   duds, or failures to ignite, within five days. An AETC Form 435, Mishap Data Worksheet,
   may be used for notification.
11. Training.
   11.1. Explosives will be handled, transported, and used only by personnel trained in the task
   to be performed. Training of all personnel should be verified prior to start of the exercise.
 8                                                GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014


     11.2. Notify WSM of any routine/recurring weapons safety training at unit level. The WSM
     has a requirement to attend training session periodically.
     11.3. Training plans should be coordinated with the WSM.
     11.4. Units must provide training to emphasize safe handling, weapon operation, use of
     blank and DMC ammunition, and operator maintenance. This training should be documented.
12. Explosive limits.
     12.1. No storage of arms, ammunition and explosives (AA&E) will happen outside
     designated licensed or sited locations.
     12.2. “In-use” explosives must be secured during the duty day and turned in/properly stored
     at the end of the day if not used.
     12.3. Air Force Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI) cannot store more rounds of live
     ammunition in any building IAW AFMAN 91-201, unless a license is requested.
     12.4. 344 MIB cannot store more rounds of blank ammunition in any building than what is
     allowed per their unit MFR titled “Storage of DODIC A080 blank ammo in 344 th storage
     facility…” dated 23 October 2012. Locations outside where their current licensed location is
     should only be used as a last resort for storing blank ammunition. This will be for situations
     that limit the ability to return blank ammo the licensed location or the ACP. The WSM
     should be notified of this if it happens.
     12.5. Explosive limits for licensed locations will be justified in writing by the owning
     agency each time the license is changed. Licenses are not issued for convenience. Limits
     shall not be exceeded.
     12.6. Explosive limits for training exercises will be no more than two (2) GBS, smoke
     grenades, hand grenade simulators, or any like explosive training simulators per event or
     scenario. If more than two of any simulators are used per event, consult with the WSM or
     conduct a risk assessment (see paragraph 2.1.).
13. Exact locations.
     13.1. The following areas are normally used for training, exercises, and expenditures of
     explosives: Camp Sentinel and the Army FTX training area, Lincoln HS, and the Lodge area
     (Building 3070). Blank ammo used by the Honor Guard may be used at multiple locations
     on/off base for training and ceremonial purposes. A request should be made prior to the
     Honor Guard training on base with blanks. Any other location requires the approval and/or
     submittal of a risk assessment routed through the WSM. Any type of exercise within the
     explosive clear zone should be discussed with the WSM and 17 LRS/LGRW.
     13.2. Any site selected must be surveyed for the following.
        13.2.1. Potential fire hazards to vegetation and facilities.
        13.2.2. Availability of firefighting equipment and personnel.
        13.2.3. Accessibility for emergency equipment.
        13.2.4. Ability to control accesses during the exercise.
        13.2.5. Disruption or interference with other installation activities.
GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014                                                            9


     13.2.6. Ease of cleaning and validation of the area at the completion of the exercise.
     13.2.7. Adverse public reaction and safety.




                                           KIMBERLEE P. JOOS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 10                                         GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, 7 Mar 2012
AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 29 June 2012
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, 2 April 2008
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFI 91-204_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP, Safety Investigations and Reports, 28 June 2012
AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Procedures, 12 May 2004
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 1 November 1999
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
MOI 21-1, Munitions Operations and Procedures, 25 January 2012
SFS OI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program, 1 October 2011
SFOI 31-14, Dye marking cartridges, Smoke Grenades, Blank Rounds, Ground Burst Simulators,
22 October 2013
344MIB AA&E SOP, 344th Military Intelligence Battalion Arms, Ammunition and Explosives
Standing Operating Procedures, 24 October 2013
AR 190-14, Carrying Firearms and Use of Force for Law Enforcement and Security Duties
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AETC Form 435, Mishap Data Worksheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AA&E—Arms, Ammunition and Explosives
ACP—Ammunition Control Point
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BFA—Blank Firing Adapters
CATM—Combat Arms Training and Maintenance
CCMCK—Close Combat Mission Capability Kit
DMC—Dye Marking Cartridge
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
GBS—Ground Burst Simulator
GOODFELLOWAFBI91-200 30 APRIL 2014          11


GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
IAW—In Accordance With
MASO—Munitions Accountable Supply Officer
MSA—Munitions Storage Area
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PPE—Personal Protection Equipment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RSO—Range Safety Officer
TO—Technical Order
WSM—Weapons Safety Manager
WSR—Weapons Safety Representative
