BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 48-103

                                                                           19 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                   HAZARD COMMUNICATION (HAZCOM)
                                                                         PROGAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 17 MDOS/SGOJ                                                     Certified by: 17 MDOS/CC
                                                                         (LtCol Regina D. Agee)
                                                                                        Pages: 29




This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, and establishes the
procedures and responsibilities for the 29 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910.1200, Hazard
Communication. This instruction applies to all United States civilian and military employees at
Goodfellow Air Force Base (GAFB) who are routinely exposed to potentially hazardous
materials. This standard requires each work area maintain the following: Hazardous chemical
inventory, Material Safety Data Sheets on all items included in the hazardous materials
inventory, a list of all non-routine tasks involving hazardous materials, and a description of any
contracted services involving the use of hazardous materials. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained according to AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of according to the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.                       Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.
 2                                                    GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


        1.     Program Components. ...........................................................................................     2
        2.     Program Requirements. .........................................................................................     2
        3.     Requests for Additional Information. ....................................................................           4
        4.     After-Hours Procedures. ........................................................................................    5

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                     6

Attachment 2—HAZCOM PROGRAM BINDER CONTENT                                                                                         9

Attachment 3—WORKPLACE SPECIFIC HAZARD COMMUNICATION TRAINING
             TEMPLATE                                                                                                             11


1. Program Components.
     1.1. Each shop requiring a HAZCOM program shall keep HAZCOM information readily
     accessible to all employees in the workplace. While electronic versions are acceptable for
     training, a hard copy is required. (Attachment 2: HAZCOM Program Binder Content).
     Below are the required components of a workplace hazard communication program.
     1.2. Hazardous Chemicals Inventory.
     1.3. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS).
     1.4. Non-routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Material (HAZMAT).
     1.5. Contractor Operations.
     1.6. Employee Information and Training.
     1.7. Labeling of Hazardous Material Containers.
     1.8. ESOH-MIS Chemical/Hazardous Material Request/Authorization(s).
     1.9. Workplace Specific Hazard Communication Training Program detailing workplace
     exposures and prevention plans (Attachment 3: Workplace Specific HAZCOM Training
     Template).
2. Program Requirements.
     2.1. Hazardous Chemicals Inventory.
        2.1.1. Shop supervisors should not store more than a 10- to 15-day supply of hazardous
        materials in the work center area. Installation Civil Engineering/Logistic (CE/LG) may
        approve exceptions on a case-by-case basis. Attempts by work places to maintain “bench
        stock” supplies are highly discouraged and circumvent the intent of the Installation
        Hazardous Materials Program (IHMP).
        2.1.2. Prior to new chemicals being introduced in the workplace, a request must be
        submitted through Enterprise Environmental Safety and Occupational Health-
        Management Information System (EESOH-MIS). The request will then be routed to the
        appropriate base agencies for approval. After approval of the authorization request as
        required by AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Material Management, the chemical will be added
        to the chemical authorization listing in EESOH-MIS.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                         3


  2.2. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS).
     2.2.1. MSDSs will be maintained at each work center and made readily available to all
     workers with potential occupational exposures. Information can be accessed through the
     Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) office or the manufacturer of the chemical.
     Manufacturer proprietary information used by BE for risk assessment will not be
     disclosed to the workers. Electronic versions are acceptable and encouraged, though a
     paper copy shall be maintained as backup. The supervisor must ensure there is an
     adequate backup system for rapid access to hazard information in the event of an
     emergency including power outages, equipment failure, online access delays, etcetera.
         2.2.1.1. Shop supervisors will provide a MSDS on all newly identified chemicals
         when requesting authorization to hazardous materials inventories. If a MSDS is
         unavailable locally, supervisors should contact the manufacturer for that item.
         2.2.1.2. A MSDS will be procured for each manufacturer specific HAZMAT item as
         different manufacturers under the same National Stock Numbers (NSN) and/or
         chemical name do not necessarily contain the same formulation and ingredients.
     2.2.2. Supervisors will notify the BE by utilizing the ESOH-MIS chemical authorization
     process each time a new potentially hazardous chemical or substance is introduced into
     the work area.
     2.2.3. MSDSs inactive or no longer used on the installation shall be maintained for 30
     years or longer where regulatory requirements exist according to paragraph 1.10.7.5.1 in
     AFI 32-7086_AETCSUP.
  2.3. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials.
     2.3.1. The workplace supervisor will be responsible for developing a listing of all tasks
     performed by the shop on a non-routine (less than two times per year) basis. This listing
     will include hazard information associated with performing non-routine tasks as well as
     protective measures required during such tasks.
     2.3.2. BE will review all non-routine task listings upon request by the workplace
     supervisor and during health risk assessment surveys to provide engineering,
     administrative and personal protective equipment (PPE) recommendations.
     2.3.3. The workplace supervisor will include this non-routine task listing in the
     appropriate section in the workplace specific hazard communication training program.
     2.3.4. The workplace will also provide negative documentation in the appropriate section
     in the workplace specific hazard communication training program for workplaces that do
     not perform non-routine tasks.
  2.4. Contractor Operations: At locations where Air Force employees may be exposed to
  chemicals used by contractors, the contractor(s) will report the chemical usage to the hazmart
  and provide the MSDS for these chemicals to any affected workplace supervisor for
  inclusion into their MSDS file for worker review.
     2.4.1. The contract administrator will also inform the contractor about the MSDS
     information available through the BE as requested, for inclusion in the contractor
     HAZCOM program.
 4                                        GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


        2.4.2. The activity quality assurance evaluator will advise the work area supervisors and
        Air Force employees monitoring the performance of contractors of hazardous chemicals
        introduced by the contractor. This will be accomplished during the pre-performance
        conference and subsequently during the contract performance period.
        2.4.3. The contract administrator will ensure the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
        clause 5352.223.9002, "Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data," is
        included in all local procurement contracts for potentially hazardous materials.
        Contractors will provide MSDSs to BE for any new hazardous materials they may need
        to introduce onto the base.
     2.5. Employee Information and Training.
        2.5.1. BE will provide specific information to workplace supervisors during routine or
        special health risk assessment surveys that will include a listing of all hazards associated
        with work in the workplace and measures to protect the workers from those hazards.
            2.5.1.1. BE and Public Health (PH) or a designated representative is the point of
            contact for occupational health education, and provides consultation on training and
            technical matters to work area/shop supervisors (or designated representatives) on the
            AF HAZCOM Program.
            2.5.1.2. PH will assist workplace supervisors by making the appropriate training
            available for use to train workers. The information provided by BE will be
            incorporated into the training program.
        2.5.2. Workplace supervisors, or designated representatives, will conduct HAZCOM
        training for all workers upon initial assignment in the workplace and when new
        chemicals are introduced into the workplace thereafter. Supervisors will ensure the
        appropriate functionals (i.e., PH, BE, base safety office, and fire department) review and
        approve the shop specific hazard communication training program for technical accuracy
        and completeness prior to implementation in the work area/shop. A template for this
        training program is available from BE.
        2.5.3. Documentation of Training: Document training on AF 55, Employee Safety and
        Health Record, or in a computerized information management system designed to
        maintain training records. A cross-reference sheet may be used to show the location of
        employee training documentation.
        2.5.4. Disposition of Training Records: AF 55 will be handled by supervisors according
        to AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and
        Health (AFOSH) Standards, paragraph 7.4.
     2.6. Labeling of Hazardous Materials Containers: All containers of hazardous materials
     must be properly labeled as required by 29 CFR 1910.1200(f), Labels and Other Forms of
     Warning and DoDI 6050.5-H, DoD Hazardous Chemical Warning Labeling System.
3. Requests for Additional Information.
     3.1. Workers desiring MSDS information or clarification may contact BE at extension 654-
     3126 or can review the MSDS at the BE office. BE personnel will review the MSDS with
     the employee and provide an explanation of the information.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                   5


4. After-Hours Procedures.
   4.1. Requests after normal duty hours will be directed to the on-call BE representative
   through the Command Post at extension 654-3558.




                                         KIMBERLEE P. JOOS, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 6                                     GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 Nov 2004
AFI 32-7086_AETCSUP, Hazardous Materials Management, 22 Jun 2007
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 Mar 2005
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 Aug 2011
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 15 Jun 2012
AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 18 Apr 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Federal Standard 313D, Material Safety Data, Transportation Data and Disposal Data from
Hazardous Materials Furnished to Government Activities, 21 Mar 2000
29 CFR 1910, Occupational Safety and Health Standards, 1 Feb 2008
29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication, 20 Mar 2012
DODI 6050.05, Department of Defense Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program, 15 Aug
2006
Adopted Forms
AF 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF 3952, Chemical Hazardous Material Request Authorization Form
DD Form 2861, Cross-Reference

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CE—Civil Engineering
CFR—Code of Federal Regulation
DoD—Department of Defense
ESOH—MIS - Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management Information
System
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                             7


HAZMART—Hazardous Materials Pharmacy
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
IHMP—Installation HAZMAT Management Program
LG—Logistics
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
NSN—National Stock Number
ODS—Ozone Depleting Substances
OHA—Occupational Health Assessments
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PH—Public Health
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment

Terms
Chemical— Any substance or mixture of substances.
ESOH-MIS— An AF approved automated system to store and maintain all information
associated with environment, safety, and occupational health surveillance data and work
area/shop requirements.
Employee— A worker who may be exposed to hazardous chemicals under normal operating
conditions or in foreseeable emergencies. Office workers who encounter hazardous chemicals
only in non-routine, isolated instances are not covered.
Exposure or Exposed— An employee is subjected in the course of employment to a chemical
that is a physical or health hazard, and includes potential (e.g. accidental or possible) exposure.
"Subjected" in terms of health hazards includes any route of entry (e.g. inhalation, ingestion, skin
contact or absorption).
Hazard Warning— Any words, pictures, symbols, or combination thereof appearing on a label
or other appropriate form of warning which convey the specific physical and health hazard(s),
including target organ effects, of the chemical(s) in the container(s).
Hazardous Chemical (HAZMAT)— Any chemical that is a physical or health hazard and
requires an MSDS as defined in AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, and all Class I
and Class II ozone-depleting substances (ODS). Also known as hazardous material or
HAZMAT.
Health Hazard— Includes materials which are carcinogens, toxic or highly toxic agents,
reproductive toxins, irritants, corrosives, sensitizers, hepatotoxins, nephrotoxins, neurotoxins,
agents which act on the hematopoietic system, and agents which damage the lungs, skin, eyes, or
mucous membranes.
 8                                       GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


Immediate Use Materials— Any hazardous chemical that will be under the control of and used
only by the person who transfers it from a labeled container and only within the work shift in
which it is transferred.
Installation— For purposes of the Federal HAZCOM standard and this AFI, an installation is a
single geographic location with one or more work area/shops. The AF does not constitute one
installation and must have programs that address hazards at each installation. Note: 29 CFR
1910.1200 uses the term workplace instead of installation.
Label— An appropriate group of written, printed or graphic information elements concerning a
hazardous chemical that is affixed to, printed on, or attached to the immediate container of a
hazardous chemical, or to the outside packaging.
Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)— Written or printed material concerning a hazardous
chemical that is prepared according to 29 CFR 1910.1200.
Physical Hazard— Includes materials for which there is scientifically valid evidence it is a
combustible liquid, a compressed gas, explosive, flammable, an organic peroxide, an oxidizer,
pyrophoric, unstable (reactive) or water-reactive.
Use— To package, handle, react, emit, extract, generate as a by-product or transfer.
Work Area/Shop— A room or defined space in an installation where hazardous chemicals are
produced or used, and where employees are present. Note: Employees that often work outside
the physically defined work area, such as pest management personnel during pesticide
application or aircraft maintainers that take chemicals to the flightline, will have their hazards
addressed as part of the work area/shop program.
Workplace— An establishment, job site, or project, at one geographical location containing one
or more work areas.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                         9


                                        Attachment 2
                       HAZCOM PROGRAM BINDER CONTENT

HAZCOM Program Binder
A2.1. The binder will have the following program components.
   A2.1.1. Tab A References.      The following references will be found in Tab A of the
   HAZCOM Binder:
   A2.1.2. Tab A1. GOODFELLOWAFBI 48-103, Hazard Communication (HAZCOM)
   Program (referred to electronically or hardcopy) and HAZCOM Supervisors Training
   Certificate (Public Health/Web University).
   A2.1.3. Tab A2.      Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) correspondence including,
   Occupational Health Assessments (OHAs) going back 2 years to include all assessment
   attachments.
   A2.1.4. Tab A3. AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication.
   A2.1.5. Tab A4.       Workplace Specific Hazard Communication Training Program
   (coordinated and approved by BE, PH, Fire Department, and Safety).
A2.2. Tab B MSDS. MSDSs for all chemical used in the workplace or a cross-reference sheet,
detailing the location of all MSDSs so they are readily available within the workplace to all
workplace employees.
A2.3. Tab C Hazardous Material Inventory/Approvals.
   A2.3.1. Tab C1. Hazardous Material Approvals. Copies of all current hazardous material
   approvals (ESOH-MIS electronic equivalent) or place a DD Form 2861, Cross-Reference,
   denoting the location in the work place of the Hazardous Material Approvals.
   A2.3.2. Tab C2. Hazardous Material Inventory. The shop supervisor will keep a listing of
   all hazardous chemicals stored in the workplace. Tab C2 will not be necessary if no
   hazardous materials are kept in the shop.
A2.4. Tab D Employee Training and Information. Documentation of employee HAZCOM
training (AF Form 55 or equivalent). A cross-reference sheet may be used to denote location of
employee training documentation.
   A2.4.1. Tab D1. Workplace Specific Hazard Communication Training Program.
   A2.4.2. Tab D2. OSHA Specific Substance Training Requirements. Exposures to certain
   substances mandate specific training requirements according to OSHA (29 CFR 1910,
   Subpart Z). This tab will delineate how the work place supervisor will accomplish this
   training contain the copies of, or will tell specific where the appropriate lessons plans are
   filed.
A2.5. Tab E Non-Routine Tasks. All tasks identified as non-routine according to paragraph 2.3
will be listed or negative documentation supplied. Any information other than that specified in
this attachment will not be kept with the HAZCOM binder.
 10                                    GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


A2.6. Tab F Spill Plan. A spill plan outlining how workplaces will respond in the case of a
hazardous materials spill is required. This will be outlined in the Workplace Specific Hazard
Communication Training Program so a cross reference may be used to denote the location of the
spill plan.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                       11


                                        Attachment 3
  WORKPLACE SPECIFIC HAZARD COMMUNICATION TRAINING TEMPLATE

                                  WORKPLACE SPECIFIC

                               HAZARD COMMUNICATION
                                 PROGRAM TRAINING

                          (ADOPTED FROM AFI 90-821 para 2.7.2)


                                  This handbook belongs to:


                          ORGANIZATION: XX SQ/Office Symbol

                         SHOP: XXXXXXXXX (ESOH-MIS Code)



Approving Agencies:

Bioenvironmental Engineering_________________________________DATE__________


Public Health_________________________________________________DATE__________


Fire Department_____________________________________________DATE__________


Wing Safety_________________________________________________DATE__________


NOTE: This training plan must be approved by the four agencies listed above IAW AFI 90-821,
Hazard Communication, paragraph 2.7.1. It should be routed as the order dictates above. This
plan may be scanned and/or routed electronically to all four agencies for approval.

1. PURPOSE: This training supplements the “Workplace Hazard Communication Program” by
providing the student (employee) a format for receiving employee information and training. This
workbook is tailored to meet your workcenter’s specific requirements.

2. OBJECTIVES: Enable employees to identify hazardous chemicals used in their respective
work areas and the precautions to take during hazardous chemical use/handling.

3. TABLE OF CONTENTS:
 12                                      GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013



   I. Introduction

   II. Routine Operations/Tasks in Your Workplace Involving Hazardous Chemicals (AFI 90-
     821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.1 and 2.7.2.1.2)

   III. Non-Routine Operations/Tasks with Hazardous Chemicals (AFI 90-821, section 2.9)

   IV. “Workplace Hazard Communication Program Binder” and most recent Bioenvironmental
     Engineering Survey (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.3)

   V. Labeling (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.4)

   VI. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.5)

   VII.       Physical and Health Hazards

   VIII.    Method and Observations to Detect Presence or Release of a Hazardous Material
    in the
      Workplace

   IX. Protective Measures (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.6)

   X. Emergency Procedures (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.7)

   XI. Conclusion

GENERAL ACRONYMS/DEFINITIONS

1. STUDENT’S GUIDANCE: It is conceivable that this workbook contains the most important
information you will ever receive. If retained and applied, this information could maintain your
health and prolong your life.

5. TARGET POPULATION: All personnel who handle or use hazardous chemicals.

I. Introduction

A. Your rights: By law (29 Code of Federal Regulations, 1910.1200); you have the right and
are required to receive information and training regarding the hazardous chemicals that you
handle or work with. This information and training is the “Hazard Communication Program”,
commonly referred to as HAZCOM. You may also hear it referred to as the “Right-to-know”
program. This program deals specifically with your supervisor informing you of the hazardous
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                            13


chemicals within your workplace. It also provides you the training required to safely work with
and around hazardous chemicals. You were first introduced to this program when you received
the “Department of Defense Federal Hazard Communication Training Program”. The training
you are about to receive is a continuation of that program and addresses the hazardous chemicals
you will be exposed to, established protective measures, and how to find the information needed
to protect yourself. You can expect to receive some aspect of this program for as long as you
work with or around hazardous materials.

B. Your Responsibilities: Under AFI 91-202, The U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program,
you have specific responsibilities. You are required to follow the training you are given, comply
with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) requirements, including its use, inspection, care, and
give due consideration to personal safety and the safety of fellow workers.

C. Methods of Recourse: If you feel you have not received information which you need or have
a right to under the Hazard Communication Program, talk to your supervisor. Any hazards
encountered that have not been previously identified or briefed should be brought to your
supervisor’s attention. You may also contact Public Health at extension 654-3123.

II. Routine Operations/Tasks in Your Workplace Involving Hazardous Chemicals. (AFI 90-821,
paragraph 2.7.2.1.1 and 2.7.2.1.2)

The operations/tasks listed below involve working with one or more hazardous chemicals.
Ensure you are trained before attempting to accomplish any task involving hazardous materials.
Refer to (insert reference from Technical Orders (TO), Job Safety Analyses (JSA), BE survey
letters, Operating Instructions (OI) or specific task lists (example below can be used for listing
tasks if not otherwise referenced). The below example can be deleted if not used.

OPERATION/TASK: XXXXXXXXXX

Personnel have potential contact, absorption, ergonomic and ingestion hazards during aircraft
washing. Individuals are detailed to perform B-1B aircraft washing activities. Citri-kleen is
sprayed or brushed onto the aircraft and allowed to set for 20 minutes. Personnel then scrub and
spray down the aircraft with water and rinse it thoroughly. Actual exposure can last up to four
hours for a spot wash or 8 hours for a full wash per day. Personnel use approximately 500
gallons of citri-kleen per month. The aircraft is parked inside of the hangar and washed indoors.
Personnel must be careful to prevent water/soap solution from getting into mouth, eyes and face.
Rubber gloves, rubber apron and face shield are worn to minimize hazards as well as good
personal hygiene is practiced to reduce the risk of ingestion.

  CHEMICALS USED/PRESENT
  6850013907816 Aircraft Wash Soap (MSDS reference Number)

  PPE WORN/REQUIRED
  Nitrile Gloves
  Face Shield and Chemical Splash Proof Goggles
  Butyl Rubber Apron
 14                                      GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013



  HAZARD CATEGORY
  Flammability – Yes
  Carcinogenicity – No

OPERATION/TASK: XXXXXXXXX

Personnel perform overhaul operations to the integrated drive generator on a non-routine basis.
During this process the shop breaks down the generator to troubleshoot if necessary. Personnel
use oil for lubrication during this process.

  CHEMICALS USED/PRESENT
  1) 9150002704057 Oil Std
  2) 9150007822627 Oil Std

  PPE WORN/REQUIRED
  Nitrile or Neoprene Gloves
  Military Issued Coveralls

  HAZARD CATEGORY
  Flammability - Yes
  Carcinogenicity – No

III. Non-Routine Operations/Tasks with Hazardous Materials (AFI 90-821, section 2.9)

Non-routine tasks are tasks that are included within the work center but are performed
infrequently (such as solvent tank change-out every 3 months, changing parts washer solution
every 4 months, semi-annual oil changes on compressors, etc.) or temporary duties outside an
individual’s Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) or job series.

(Choose one)
This work center does not perform non-routine tasks:

OR

The following are the the Non-Routine Tasks performed by this work center. These tasks can be
found in the workcenter HAZCOM Program binder, located in Bldg XXXX / Room XXXX

OPERATION/TASK: XXXXXXXXXX

Personnel have potential contact, absorption, ergonomic and ingestion hazards during aircraft
washing. Individuals are detailed to perform B-1B aircraft washing activities. Citri-kleen is
sprayed or brushed onto the aircraft and allowed to set for 20 minutes. Personnel then scrub and
spray down the aircraft with water and rinse it thoroughly. Actual exposure can last up to four
hours for a spot wash or 8 hours for a full wash per day. Personnel use approximately 500
gallons of citri-kleen per month. The aircraft is parked inside of the hangar and washed indoors.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                         15


Personnel must be careful to prevent water/soap solution from getting into mouth, eyes and face.
Rubber gloves, rubber apron and face shield are worn to minimize hazards as well as good
personal hygiene is practiced to reduce the risk of ingestion.

  FREQUENCY OF OPERATION/TASK: every 3 months, semi-annually, every 3 years, etc.

  CHEMICALS USED/PRESENT
  6850013907816 Aircraft Wash Soap (MSDS reference Number)

  PPE WORN/REQUIRED
  Nitrile Gloves
  Face Shield and Chemical Splash Proof Goggles
  Butyl Rubber Apron

  HAZARD CATEGORY
  Flammability – Yes
  Carcinogenicity – No

OPERATION/TASK: XXXXXXXXX

Personnel perform overhaul operations to the integrated drive generator on a non-routine basis.
During this process the shop breaks down the generator to troubleshoot if necessary. Personnel
use oil for lubrication during this process.

  FREQUENCY OF OPERATION/TASK: every 3 months, semi-annually, every 3years, etc.

  CHEMICALS USED/PRESENT
  1) 9150002704057 Oil Std
  2) 9150007822627 Oil Std

  PPE WORN/REQUIRED
  Nitrile or Neoprene Gloves
  Military Issued Coveralls

  HAZARD CATEGORY
  Flammability - Yes
  Carcinogenicity – No

IV. Workplace Hazard Communication Program Binder and Bioenvironmental Engineering
Survey (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.3)

This training will begin by reviewing our “Workplace Hazard Communication Program Binder”
which contains all areas of our work area/shop specific written HAZCOM program specified in
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication and GOODFELLOWAFBI 48-103, Hazard
Communication (HAZCOM) Program. Our Bioenvironmental Engineering Survey reports will
 16                                       GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


also be reviewed. These two items will provide you with the background information on which
we base today’s training.

Know where these documents are kept for your review.

Workcenter HAZCOM Program Binder:


Most recent BIO survey letter:

      Bldg # XXXXX / Room # XXXX

V. Labeling (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.4)

To ensure employees are aware of all hazardous material within their workplace, OSHA requires
all containers of hazardous materials brought into or used within a workplace to have the
contents labeled, tagged, or marked.

A. The chemical manufacturer, importer, or distributor is required to label, tag, or mark each
container with:

       1. The identity of the hazardous material
       2. Appropriate hazard warnings include target organ if applicable
       3. Name, address, and phone number of the manufacturer, importer, or distributor

These labels, tags, or markings will not be removed, defaced, or changed. If it becomes
necessary to replace a label, tag, or marking due to damage or loss, a DD Form 2521 (8” x 11”)
or DD Form 2522 (4” x 6”), Hazardous Chemical Warning Label, will be used. One of these
forms will also be used to meet the labeling requirements for existing stocks of unlabeled
materials and for transferring, repackaging, or distributing of bulk quantities of hazardous
materials into other containers (breakdown quantities).

B. The supervisor will ensure that each container of hazardous chemicals in the workplace is at a
minimally labeled, tagged, or marked with:

   1. The identity of the hazardous chemical to include the common name
   2. Appropriate hazard warnings.
   3. If the container is used or transported for use outside of the workplace, the name, duty
   section and phone number of the responsible individual will be included.
   4. Mailing address and telephone number for the manufacturer or distributor.

C. Stationary containers may have their contents identified using signs, placards, or other such
written material in place of labels as long as the alternative method identifies the container to
which it is applicable, and maintains the required information listed in this handbook.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                               17


D. Small quantity containers, when filled from a larger container, used, and emptied by one
employee during one shift within the workplace, will be marked, as a minimum, with the name
of the material in use. The source container will have the required OSHA markings.

Warning labels may be formatted with either message or symbol which will identify the
chemical and communicate the hazards of the chemical within the container. Labels may also
address:

First aid - The label may explain what to do if the chemical comes in contact with eyes or skin or
if it is ingested or inhaled.

Fire - The label may list the type of extinguisher to use if the chemical is flammable, and if it
should catch fire.

Spills - Warning labels may contain information on how spills should be handled.

Handling and Storage - The label will provide storage information and may list the type of PPE
required to handle/use the chemical, and conditions such as temperature conditions to avoid.

VI. Material Safety Data Sheets (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.5)

Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) are designed to help you understand how to work safely
with chemicals in your work area. Although MSDSs may vary in appearance and length, most
MSDSs will have approximately 8 to 10 sections which explain the proper ways to handle and
store chemicals in your work area. An MSDS also provides information on health hazards of the
chemical, precautionary measures to follow, and emergency procedures. Some MSDS will list
OSHA Permissible Exposure Limits (PEL) and/or American Conference of Governmental
Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) Threshold Limit Values (TLV). These are limits that below
which personnel should not see any adverse effects after 8 hrs of exposure (typical work day).

       - Know where MSDSs are kept
             MSDS’S are located in Bldg # XXXXX / Room # XXXXX
       - MSDSs must be accessible to all personnel

HAVE AN MSDS AVAILABLE WHEN SEEKING MEDICAL ATTENTION

EXPLANATION OF THE MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET

CHEMICAL IDENTIFICATION
The introductory section of the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) includes the chemical
manufacturer’s name, address and emergency phone number, the chemical name, trade name,
and chemical formula. This section helps you identify the chemical on the MSDS.

HAZARDOUS INGREDIENTS
This section lists any hazardous ingredients to include common names of ingredients found
within the chemical that can be a health hazard to you. In this section you might also see the
 18                                        GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


terms TLV and PEL. Both terms are used to express the airborne concentration levels of a
Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) Number, which will usually be listed in this section the
MSDS. The CAS numbers identify specific chemicals according to information published by the
American Chemical Society.

PHYSICAL DATA
This section lists important physical properties of a chemical such as the boiling point, vapor
density, percent volatile, appearance and odor. This information helps determine the degree of
hazards associated with the chemical in different work environments. For example, vapor
density describes the weight of a vapor relative to an equal volume of air (air=1). If a chemical
has a vapor density greater than 1, the vapor will be heavier than air and tends to fall and hug the
ground.

FIRE AND EXPLOSION DATA
This section helps you determine the chemical flash point, which is the temperature at which a
chemical will release enough flammable vapors to ignite. Chemicals that ignite at or above
100F are classified as flammable. In addition, this section usually lists the chemical’s upper and
lower flammability limits, proper types of extinguishing media required to safety extinguish the
fire (example Co2, water, foam, etc.), special firefighting procedures, and any unusual fire and
explosion hazards associated with the chemical.

HEALTH HAZARD DATA
This section describes health effects including signs and symptoms associated with being
overexposed to the chemical through ingestion, inhalation and skin or eye contact. The
information will include: the acute (immediate) and chronic (long term) effects of overexposure
to the chemical. Whether the chemical is a known carcinogen (cancer-causing agent),
emergency and first aid procedures to follow in case of overexposure, whether overexposures
may arise or require immediate medical attention, and medical conditions that may be aggravated
upon contact with the chemical. If you work in an area where overexposure is possible, safety
equipment may be needed to protect you.

REACTIVITY DATA
The information contained in this section helps you determine if the chemical will react with
other chemical or conditions. Chemicals that are reactive (unstable) may explode, burn, or
release toxic substances under certain conditions. In addition, this section usually tells you if the
chemical is stable or unstable and list any chemicals or substances that might be incompatible
with the chemical.

SPILL OR LEAK PROCEDURES
This section lists the procedures to follow when a chemical is accidentally released or spilled. It
will also cover types of cleanup and protective equipment needed to safely contain or clean up a
spill as well as proper ways to dispose of the chemical.

The spill procedures for this work center: add spill procedures.

SPECIAL PROTECTION INFORMATION
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                            19


This section lists the types of special protective equipment (respirators, gloves, eye protection,
and ventilation) that is recommended to be used when with the chemical. Remember, there are
various types of protective equipment that are specially designed for certain tasks. Consult with
your supervisor to ensure you are using the correct type for the work you are performing.

SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS
The last section usually discusses special precautions to be taken to during handling and storage
of the chemical. Also, this section will usually discuss any other health or safety concerns that
have not already mentioned in another section of the MSDS.

VII. Physical and Health Hazards

The specific chemicals used during a particular operation or task will be addressed during the
training or orientation for that operation or task. This information can also be found:

Consult label and MSDS for information on specific chemicals before handling or use.

VIII. Methods and Observations to Detect Presence or Release of a Hazardous Material in the
Workplace

(1) Continuous Monitoring Devices: Explain-Ex: This shop does not contain any continuous
monitoring devices.

(2) Monitoring Conducted by the Supervisor: Supervisors of any action involving use of or
potential contact with hazardous chemicals shall be knowledgeable of hazards and conditions
required to mitigate hazards. He/she should also be aware of symptoms which may be caused by
the hazardous chemical(s) and observe assigned personnel for signs of exposure.

(3) Visual Appearance: Many chemicals have a distinct color and others, by their lack of color,
could be visually confused with water. Certain colors can be distorted depending upon the
lighting and the color of the material that the chemical is in contact with. For these reasons, be
extremely careful when attempting to identify an unknown spill by color alone.

(4) Odor: Chemicals can also have a distinctive smell, such as an oily or alcohol-like smell.
Unfortunately, some chemicals are nearly odorless. In these cases, remain aware of your or a co-
worker’s physical reactions. Burning eyes, nose or throat, prickly skin, loss of coordination, and
dizziness are a few signs of exposure to a hazardous chemical.

(5) Monitoring by Bioenvironmental Engineering: May be performed as a part of a survey,
when a new process or chemical is introduced into the workplace, or when over-exposure to a
chemical is suspected.

IX. Protective Measures (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.6)
 20                                     GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


Controlling chemical hazards often require a combination of protective measures: administrative
controls, engineering controls, and personal protective equipment. We will examine how these
controls are used.

(1) Administrative Controls

  (a) Information and Training: In order to recognize the need for protection against a hazard,
  you need to be aware that a hazard exists. This information is passed to you through Hazard
  Communication Training, technical data, and on-the-job training (OJT).

  (b) Safe Work Practices: Through information and training, you learn the safe work practices
  to use with chemicals you will use or be exposed to. Common sense also goes a long way.

  (c) Good Housekeeping and Personal Hygiene: The goal of good housekeeping is to contain
  and remove hazards through proper storage, proper cleanup, and the prompt removal and
  correct disposal of chemical wastes. Correct personal hygiene around hazardous chemicals
  involves washing your hands before eating, drinking, smoking, prompt removal of
  contaminated clothing, and cleaning of the clothing before wearing again.

  (d) Environmental, Medical, and Personal Monitoring: In some workplaces, the hazard of a
  chemical used requires the use of machines to monitor the air to warn of possible
  overexposure. Another method is physical exams of the personnel to detect adverse health
  conditions, both before allowing exposure to a chemical and at specific intervals while
  working with a chemical. In all workplaces, monitoring by the workers and the supervisors
  for poor work practices, poor housekeeping, and damaged equipment is the first line of
  defense against unprotected exposure to hazardous chemicals.

(2) Engineering Controls

  (a) Substitution: Finding a less hazardous chemical used within a process, finding a less
  hazardous process, or finding a less hazardous piece of equipment. Submission of an AFTO
  Form 22 and/or AF Form 1000 suggesting new procedures for tasks.

  (b) Isolation: Using barriers or enclosures to separate the employee from the hazard.
  Examples within this work area are: Doors/hatches

  (c) Ventilation: Providing a constant source of fresh air to the work area or removing
  airborne hazards at the source. Examples within this work area are: Ensure crew entry hatch
  is opened while applying sealant within the crew compartment.

(3) Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): Technical data and MSDSs will specify the
protective equipment necessary while using specific chemicals.

Location of PPE: Maintenance Bay, Bldg XXXX / Room XXX
                 XXXXXXX, Bldg XXXX / Room XXX
                 XXXXXXX, Bldg XXXX / Room XXX
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                           21



X. Emergency Procedures (AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2.1.7)

When controls fail or there is an accidental release of a hazardous chemical, emergency actions
to safeguard life and property must be taken. The following are actions established in this
workcenter:

List emergency actions currently in use here as well as reporting procedures, who to contact, and
how PPE should be used.

Location of emergency eye wash station(s): Bldg XXXX / Room XXX or this work center does
not have one.

Location of emergency shower(s): Bldg XXXX / Room XXX or this work center does not have
one.

Location of spill kit(s): Bldg XXXX / Room XXX or this work center does not have one.

As you become familiar with the job, you may be able to suggest ways to improve your
operation. Don’t hesitate to talk these ideas over with your supervisor.

XI. Conclusion

We’ve covered some very important information today, information which will permit you to do
your job safely and avert health problems in later years.

You should now know and understand:

1. Your personal rights and responsibilities under OSHA.

2. HAZCOM requirements that apply to your job and workplace.

3. The chemical hazards of your workplace.

4. PPE that you need, where to get it and how to use it.

5. How to identify and report hazards.

6. Emergency procedures that apply to your job and workplace.

If you have any doubts or questions, ask your supervisor to go over the material again. Don’t
shortchange yourself, your family, or the Air Force.
 22                                       GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


                                                 SHOP SUPERVISOR’S SIGNATURE BLOCK

GENERAL ACRONYMS/DEFINITIONS

Administrative Controls - Use of information, training, shift schedules, work practices,
housekeeping, and monitoring to reduce or eliminate exposures.

Airborne - Word used to describe something that is in the air.

Air-Purifying Respirator - Type of PPE that uses a special filter or chemical cartridge to
remove specific airborne hazards from contaminated air before the wearer inhales it.

Air-Supplied Respirator - Type of PPE that supplies the air that the wearer breathes; includes
self-contained breathing apparatus and hose-type supplied-air units.

APP – Approximately.

Barrier Cream - Protective cream applied to the skin to protect against skin contact/absorption
hazards; often used in addition to gloves.

Boiling Point - Temperature at which a liquid changes into a gas.

Carcinogen - Health hazard that causes cancer in the exposed individual.

Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) Number - Identifies specific chemicals according to
information published by the American Chemical Society.

Chemical Container - Bags, barrels, bottles, boxes, cans, cylinders, drums, reaction vessels,
storage tanks, and other vessels used to hold chemicals.

Chemical Family - Name given to a group of chemicals having related structures of properties
(e.g., aliphatic hydrocarbons).

Chemical Formula - Way of identifying chemical materials by showing the number of each
type of atom contained in one molecule of the chemical.

Chemical Hazard - Any chemical material that can cause health problems, fire, explosion, or
other dangerous situations.

Combustible Liquid - Liquid having a flash point at or above 100F, but below 200F.

Combustion - The process of burning.

Compressed Gas - Gas stored inside a container at a pressure much higher than normal air
pressure; contains a lot of stored energy; a physical hazard due to the potential for sudden release
of the stored energy when the gas expands.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                          23



Condensation - Process by which an airborne vapor becomes a mist or fume.

Corrosive - Health hazard that burns on contact, causing visible damage and/or irreversible
changes to body tissues; also a physical hazard that can burn through inert materials.

Cryogenic - Health hazard that freezes body tissues on contact.

Cubic Meter - A cube measuring 1 meter on each side.

Decomposition Product - Chemical that forms when a material breaks down into simpler
molecules; may be hazardous even if the parent material is not.

Degree of Hazard - Measures of how serious an exposure is based on what can happen as a
result; takes into account the chemical, exposure route, dosage, number and length of exposures,
and individual differences.

Delayed Effect - Health effect that appears slowly over time, rather than right away; can be
associated with either single or repeated exposures.

Dermatitis - Cracked, broken, dry skin caused by exposure to health hazards that remove fat
from the skin; inflammation of the skin caused by direct contact or systemic exposure to
hazardous chemicals.

Dosage - Amount of chemical that enters the body over a specified period of time.

Dust - Airborne particles formed from solids.

Engineering Controls - Use of substitution, isolation, or ventilation to reduce exposure to
chemical hazards and the injury or illness caused by such exposure.

Environmental Monitoring - Type of administrative control that involves collecting,
measuring, and analyzing air or wipe samples of chemical substances to determine whether a
hazard exists, or whether a known hazard is being effectively controlled.

Esophagus - Tube that leads from the throat to the stomach.

Evaporate - Process by which liquids change into the vapor form.

Evaporation Rate - Physical data on the MSDS that describes how fast a liquid evaporates in
comparison to a standard having a rate of 1.

Explosive - Chemical material that can undergo a sudden and violent release of pressure and
heat.
 24                                       GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


Explosive Limits - Data on the MSDS that define the ranges of air-chemical mixtures that can
explode when exposed to an ignition source; see Upper and Lower Explosive Limits.

Exposure Limit - The maximum amount of chemical in a given volume of air to which workers
may be exposed, as averaged over a specified period of time. Most people can be exposed to this
airborne limit for an entire working lifetime without developing health effects.

Exposure Symptom - Health effect produced by exposure to a chemical material, such as
headache or skin irritation.

Extinguishing Medium - Chemical used to put out a fire.

Eye Contact Hazard - Chemical material that damages or irritates the eye on contact or is
systemically absorbed (either with the bulk chemical or its airborne forms), or that can be
absorbed through the eyes; an exposure route.

Fire Hazard - Chemical material that ignites and burns easily, or that cause or supports fire in
other materials; includes pyrophorics, flammables, combustibles, and oxidizers.

Flammable Liquid - A liquid with a flash point below 100F.

Flash Point - Lowest temperature at which a liquid gives off enough vapor to ignite in the
presence of an ignition source.

Fume - Tiny airborne particles that can form when a solid is melted.

Gas - Physical form of a chemical that is easily compressed and expands to fill its container; has
a boiling point below room temperature.

General Ventilation - Type of ventilation system that is used to mix an airborne hazard with
fresh air to dilute it and reduce its concentration to safe levels.

Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program - Written document that describes how an
employer or facility complies with all requirements of the Federal Hazard Communication
Standard (29 CFR 1910. 1200).

Hazard Communication Standard - Federal law developed by OSHA to reduce illness and
injury caused by chemical hazards in the workplace; requires evaluation of chemical hazards and
communication of hazard information to both employers and employees.

Hazard Determination (or Evaluation) - Process of finding out whether a chemical material is
hazardous and what the hazards are.

Hazardous Chemical Inventory - List of all hazardous chemicals known to be present in a
given workplace; identity/name of chemicals used on this list must match the identity/name used
on the warning labels and MSDSs.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                               25



Hazardous Ingredient - Chemical in a mixture that presents either a physical hazard or a health
hazard.

Health Hazard - Any chemical material that can cause illness or injury when a person is
exposed by ingestion, skin or eye contact, skin absorption, or inhalation.

High Toxicity - Description applying to chemicals that can produce either life-threatening or
seriously disabling health effects.

Housekeeping - An administrative control that involves containing and removing chemical
hazards--e.g., vacuuming, proper storage and handling, prompt removal and correct disposal of
chemical wastes.

IDLH - Immediate Danger to Life and Health.

Immediate Effect - Health effect that appears right away-- either during the exposure or shortly
afterwards.

Industrial Hygienist - Expert in the recognition, evaluation, and control of safety and health
hazards.

Ingestion - The way that a chemical enters the body if you swallow it; an exposure route.

Inhalation - The way that a chemical enters the body when you breathe it through your nose or
mouth; an exposure route.

International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) - Agency that evaluates the research
data on substances tested for their carcinogenic potential. IARC publishes information on
carcinogens and potential carcinogens. The IARC listing is one of the references that must be
used to identify cancer-causing chemicals on MSDSs.

Irritant - Health hazard that reacts with body tissues at the point of contact causing reddening,
itching, tearing, irritation, and/or minor inflammation.

Isolation - Engineering control that involves using an enclosure, barrier, or safe distance to
separate workers from exposure hazards.

Liquid - Physical form of a chemical that has no definite shape, but takes the shape of its
container; has a boiling point above room temperature.

Local Exhaust Ventilation - Type of ventilation system that captures an airborne hazard as it is
released at the source and takes it out of the workplace.

Low Toxicity - Description applying to chemicals that produce only minor health effects--effects
that usually go away with or without medical attention when exposure stops.
 26                                       GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013



Lower Explosive Limit (LEL) - Data on the MSDS that defines the minimum amount of
airborne chemical that must be present in an air-chemical mixture to make it explosive.

Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) - Written document that identifies a chemical material;
gives its physical properties; describes known physical hazards, health hazards, and required
controls; and identifies correct procedures for putting out fire, cleaning up a spill or leak,
disposing of waste, and handling/storing the material safety.

Medical Monitoring - Type of administrative control that involves physical examinations and/or
lab tests to establish an individual’s baseline health status and check the effectiveness of other
controls used to protect an individual from health hazards.

Milligrams Per Cubic Meter (mg/m3) - Unit used to express exposure limits; defines the mass
of chemical contaminant (in milligrams) allowed in each cubic meter volume of air.

Mist - Airborne form of a liquid chemical; consists of tiny droplets.

Mixture - A combination or a solution composed of two or more substances in which they do
not react.

Moderate Toxicity - Description applying to chemicals that produce health effects requiring
medical attention; damage may be permanent but is neither life-threatening nor seriously
disabling.

Monitoring - An administrative control that checks the effectiveness of other controls by
analyzing air samples, wipe samples, and personal exposure levels; may involve medical
monitoring.

MSDS - See Material Safety Data Sheet.

Mutagen - Reproductive hazard that causes genetic changes in sperm or egg cells.

N/A - Not applicable.

National Toxicology Program (NTP) - Organization that funds and conducts research on
chemical substances. NTP publishes lists of carcinogens and potential carcinogens; this list is
one of the reference sources that must be used to identify cancer-causing chemicals on MSDSs.

NE - Not established.

ND - Not determined.

Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) - Federal agency within the
Department of Labor that develops and enforces standards for workplace safety and health.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                              27


Oxidizer - Chemical material that supplies the oxygen required to start or support fire. Common
oxidizers include chlorine gas, oxygen and peroxides.

Parts Per Million (ppm) - Unit used to express exposure limits; defines parts of the chemical
allowed in each one million (1,000,000) parts of the air-chemical mixture.

Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL) - Exposure limit set and enforced by OSHA. (See Exposure
Limit).

Personal Monitoring - Type of administrative control that involves the worker’s wearing a
badge or other sampling device to measure exposure to a chemical hazard in the workplace.

Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) - Equipment that protects the individual who wears it by
placing a barrier between that individual and a hazard; includes protective eyewear, face shields
and masks, gloves, boots, clothing, and respirators.

Physical/Chemical Characteristics - Information on the MSDS that describes the appearance,
odor, boiling point, vapor pressure, vapor density, evaporation rate, specific gravity, and water
solubility of a chemical material.

Physical Hazard - Any chemical material that can cause fire, explosion, violent chemical
reactions, or other similarly hazardous situations.

Polymerization Hazard - Unstable chemical that undergoes a violent reaction and release of
energy that produces or releases a hazard when two or more small molecules combine (self-
react) to form large molecules called polymers.

Pyrophoric - Chemical material that spontaneously bursts into flame when exposed to air at
temperatures below 130F; no ignition source is needed.

Reactive Chemical - Material that reacts violently on contact with certain other chemical
materials to produce or release a hazard.

Recommended Exposure Limit (REL) - Exposure limit recommended by the National Institute
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).

Reproductive Hazard - Health hazard that targets the human reproductive system; category that
includes teratogens and mutagens.

RESP - Respirable.

SCBA - Self-contained breathing apparatus.

Sensitizer - Health hazard that produces an allergic-like reaction in some people after repeated
exposure.
 28                                       GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013


Skin Absorption - Way that some chemicals pass through the skin on contact and enter the
bloodstream; an exposure route.

Skin Contact Hazard - Chemical material that damages or irritates the skin on contact; an
exposure route.

Smoke - An airborne mixture of fire, gases, dusts, and fumes.

Solid - Physical form of a chemical that has a definite shape.

Solubility in Water - Physical data element on the MSDS that describes whether or not a
material dissolves in water.

Specific Gravity - Physical data on the MSDS that describes whether a liquid is lighter or
heavier than water.

Substitution - Engineering control that involves replacing a chemical, process, or piece of
equipment with a less hazardous one.

SYN - Synonym.

Synonym - With the same or nearly the same meaning.

Target Organ Chemical - Health hazard that enters the bloodstream and damages specific
internal organs or body systems; effects can be delayed.

Teratogen - Reproductive hazard that damages the fetus during its development.

Threshold Limit Value (TLV) - Exposure limit recommended by the American Conference of
Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH). (See Exposure Limit)

Toxicity - Description of the degree of health hazard associated with exposure to a chemical; see
Low, Moderate, and High Toxicity.

Transfer Container - Chemical container that does not require labels because only one person
handles the container, and it is filled and emptied during the same shift.

Unstable Chemical - Material that violently self-reacts under commonly occurring conditions; a
type of physical hazard.

Upper Explosive Limit (UEL) - The maximum amount of airborne chemical that can be present
in an air-chemical mixture and still have it be explosive.

Vapor - One airborne form of a liquid chemical.
GOODFELLOWAFBI48-103 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                            29


Vapor Density - Physical data that describes whether the vapor formed by a material is lighter or
heavier than air.

Vapor Pressure - Force exerted on the walls of a closed container of liquid by vapor formed
above the liquid surface.

Vaporization - Process by which liquids become airborne.

Ventilation - Engineering control that reduces airborne exposure levels either by mixing the
hazard with fresh air or by removing it as it is released at the source.

Warning Label - Document affixed to chemical containers (or posted by stationary containers)
that identifies the chemical material and all appropriate hazard warnings.

Water-Reactive - Chemical material that reacts with water or moist air to produce or release a
hazard.

Work Practices – Procedures normally used to do the job.
