BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 24-302

                                                                                  18 MARCH 2014

                                                                             Vehicle Management

                                                 MANAGEMENT OF OTHER GOVERNMENT
                                                      MOTOR VEHICLE CONVEYANCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 17 LRS/LGRV                                                          Certified by: 17 LRS/CC
                                                                             (Lt Col Lisa K. Dahl)
Supersedes:    GOODFELLOWAFBI 24-                                                          Pages: 7
               302, 18 Jan 2012


This instruction implements provisions of Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 24-302,
Vehicle Management, 28 February 2013 and establishes procedures for the acquisition,
management, maintenance, and disposal of base-operated Other Government Motor Vehicle
Conveyances (OGMVC), and trailers not classified as a vehicle and non-vehicular equipment.
This ensures that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. It applies to all organizations and
tenant units attached to GOODFELLOW Air Force Base. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to Vehicle Management using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level,
but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised due to changes in reference publications and must
be reviewed in its entirety.
1. General.
   1.1. AF OGMVCs are self-propelled assets providing a basic passenger and/or light cargo
   carrying transportation capability (i.e., golf carts, ATVs, quad-runners, electric stand-up, etc.)
 2                                             GOODFELLOWAFBI24-302 18 MARCH 2014


     that DO NOT meet specifications of 49 CFR Part 571, Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
     Standards, or have been determined as such, by the appropriate Integrated Product Team
     (IPT) Program Manager at WR-ALC, to be an OGMVC by AF definition. Proper
     management and maintenance of OGMVCs ensures both safe operations and full life
     expectancy from AF equipment.         The total number of OGMVC authorized at
     GOODFELLOW AFB is 90. There are 60 authorized for units assigned general-purpose
     vehicles and 30 authorized for units that are not assigned general-purpose vehicles. 17
     LRS Equipment Accountability Element will ensure not to exceed the total ceiling
     authorization of 90 OGMVCs on GOODFELLOW AFB.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 17th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (17 LRS/CC) will establish
     procedures for the procurement, management, maintenance, and disposal of base-operated
     OGMVCs, trailers not classified as a vehicle and non-vehicular equipment for the Wing.
        2.1.1. The Material Management Flight (17 LRS/LGRM) will establish authorizations,
        approve purchases, and ensure all OGMVCs, trailers not classified as a vehicle and non-
        vehicular equipment are added to the owning organization’s CA/CRL. Geographically
        Separated Units (GSU) will establish authorizations, approve purchases, and ensure all
        OGMVCs and trailers not classified as a vehicle and non-vehicular equipment are added
        to their organization’s CA/CRL from the local Base Supply that manage their equipment
        account.
        2.1.2. The Vehicle Management Flight (17 LRS/LGRV) will review all OGMVCs,
        trailers not classified as a vehicle and non-vehicular equipment (i.e., ATVs, mowers, etc.)
        purchases, to ensure the desired asset is an OGMVC or equipment item and not a vehicle.
        Ensure owning organizations have made financial arrangements to maintain assigned
        OGMVCs, trailers not classified as a vehicle and non-vehicular equipment to
        manufacturer specifications through the purchase maintenance agreements or
        Government Purchase Card (GPC). When requested, and approved by VFM/VMS,
        Vehicle Management may assist organizations owning non-vehicular equipment,
        OGMVCs and trailers not classified as a vehicle. All maintenance/parts support for these
        assets will be on a reimbursable basis only.
           2.1.2.1. Owning-organizations will track and schedule Annual Safety Inspections on
           all non-vehicular equipment, OGMVCs and trailers not classified as a vehicle
           assigned to their units. If unit Equipment Custodians refuse or fail to comply with
           scheduled maintenance requirements, the equipment is no longer considered safe to
           operate on base. GSUs assigned to GOODFELLOW AFB may request 17
           LRS/LGRV maintenance of their OGMVC once maintenance agreement for
           reimbursement is established.
     2.2. Wing Safety (17 TRW/SE) will evaluate and approve safety features for each OGMVC
     purchase IAW AFPAM 91-210, Contract Safety, paragraph 7.1.4 to ensure each is suitable
     for operation on base public roads. GSUs must abide by local Base Safety Office
     concerning approved safety feature requirements (EXAMPLE: 517 TRG CA/CRL for
     their OGMVCs are managed at Travis AFB and must contact Travis AFB/Presidio of
     Monterey Base Safety Office for their requirements).
GOODFELLOWAFBI24-302 18 MARCH 2014                                                               3


   2.3. Individual units will maintain documentation, ensure accountability, arrange for
   maintenance, and ensure proper disposal of each OGMVC under their control.
   2.4. Unit commanders will appoint an individual who will.
      2.4.1. Maintain a record jacket file for each OGMVC in their unit. The jacket file will
      contain as a minimum.
          2.4.1.1. A copy of the AF Form 601, Equipment Action Request, and purchase
          documentation.
          2.4.1.2. The manufacturer’s owner manual.
          2.4.1.3. Records of all annual safety inspections and receipts of contracted
          maintenance repairs for the life of the OGMVC asset.
      2.4.2. Ensure the vehicle be placed on the unit’s Custody Account/Custody Receipt
      Listing (CA/CRL) by coordinating with the unit equipment custodian prior to purchase of
      any new OGMVCs.
      2.4.3. Ensure non-vehicular equipment, OGMVCs and trailers not classified as a vehicle
      are placed on the unit’s CA/CRL by coordinating with the LRS Equipment
      Accountability Element prior to purchase of any new OGMVCs.
      2.4.4. Develop and maintain lesson plans to properly train personnel on unit specific
      OGMVC, as applicable. The lesson plan must include where OGMVCs can and cannot
      (e.g., troop walks) be operated. If the vehicle is not equipped with signaling capability,
      proper hand and arm signals must be included. If operated during hours of darkness,
      OGMVCs must be equipped with headlights, turn signals, tail lights, and reflectors.
      Based on AFMAN 31-116_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP, Attach 3, A3.18., personnel are
      required to have a civilian driver’s license and AF 483, Certificate of Competency.
      Document all training/authorized use on AF 483, locally developed log or other
      suitable/verifiable locations. All personnel shall receive training prior to operating one of
      these vehicles. The unit POC will maintain an independent listing of all personnel
      trained and training dates. CoP link for additional information under Vehicle
      Safety/OGMVC                is:                     https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-SE-AE-
      44/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx.
      2.4.5. Prior to operating an OGMVC, always complete a pre-inspection and document
      the inspection on AF IMT 1800 if not already documented for that day. OGMVC
      inspection shall be documented weekly regardless of use.
      2.4.6. Ensure all OGMVCs receive a complete annual safety inspection by a certified
      vendor/source in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications and documentation.
3. Acquisition Procedures.
   3.1. For those LSVs purchased with unit funds prior to June 2006, organizations will manage
   these assets as equipment items on the unit CA/CRL. Procure all OGMVCs IAW the
   applicable acquisition regulation and supplements, related AFIs: AFI 24-302_AFGM1,
   Vehicle Management, and AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System; and manage IAW AFMAN
   23-122, Material Management Procedures, Chapter 5, and AFI 91-207, The US Air Force
   Traffic Safety Program. Operation and Maintenance (O&M) funds will be used to procure
 4                                             GOODFELLOWAFBI24-302 18 MARCH 2014


     and maintain OGMVCs. Non-REMS reportable LSVs will no longer be procured, but
     existing assets will be managed as equipment items. GSUs must procure OGMVCs IAW
     their local supporting LRS Equipment Accountability Element.
     3.2. The unit equipment custodian must prepare an AF Form 601 for each OGMVC and
     trailers not classified as a vehicle. Cite allowance standard 036 and assign prime NSN 2340-
     00585-7495 and include justification of need for the equipment.
     3.3. An AF Form 601 will be routed to Wing/base Ground Safety Office (17 TRW/SE), for
     coordination and evaluation of safety features and determination of suitability for operation
     on base public roads.
     3.4. Route AF Form 601 to the Vehicle Management and Analysis (VM&A) Section, 17
     LRS/LGRVA, for coordination. Units must understand use of OGMVCs may cause a
     reduction in their general-purpose vehicle authorizations.
     3.5. Forward the AF Form 601 to LRS Equipment Accountability Element, 17
     LRS/LGRMCE, for approval of the authorization.
     3.6. Upon approval, units may procure the OGMVCs using the GPC or AF Form 9, Request
     for Purchase, through Base Contracting (coordination).
     3.7. Provide a copy of the receipt to base supply Equipment Accountability Element so the
     asset can be loaded on the unit’s CA/CRL.
4. Maintenance.
     4.1. Non-vehicular equipment, OGMVCs and trailers not classified as a vehicle will be
     maintained IAW manufacturer recommended intervals or standards in TO 36-1-191,
     Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, for a comparative
     asset, and at a minimum will have a complete serviceability inspection, to include all safety
     related systems, at least annually.
     4.2. Owning organizations are responsible for funding maintenance costs. Maintenance can
     be by warranty, service agreement, or GPC request. Organizations will not organically repair
     safety systems (brakes, steering, etc). Organizations must obtain annual safety certification
     (receipt/invoice) from a commercially licensed civilian equipment or automotive
     maintenance firm.
     4.3. All maintenance documentation will be in the OGMVCs and trailers not classified as a
     vehicle jacket file to be maintained by owning organizations.
     4.4. Owning organizations will reimburse O&M expenditures on equipment maintained by
     17 LRS/LGRV, Vehicle Management.
5. Inspections.
     5.1. Use a unit safety checklist or a modified AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide
     and Trouble Report, to document the daily driver checks/inspections. Check lights, brakes,
     turn signals, horn, etc. as required for any AF vehicle. In addition, perform a battery
     inspection weekly.
     5.2. Owning organizations will ensure annual safety inspections are accomplished and
     maintain documentation (receipt/invoice).
GOODFELLOWAFBI24-302 18 MARCH 2014                                                        5


6. Salvage Procedures.
   6.1. Owning units will process OGMVCs and non-vehicular equipment in the same manner,
   as local procedures dictate for disposal of other organizationally owned government
   equipment. Notify Base LGRMCE Equipment Accountability Element if there is a turn-in or
   trade-in to ensure units update their CA/CRL.
   6.2. Using organizations will supply VM&A with disposition documentation to remove asset
   from On-Line Vehicle Integrated Management System (OLVIMS). Units will return
   assigned license plates to VM&A to ensure removal from the OLVIMS database and for
   accountability.
7. Parking and Operations.
   7.1. Units will park OGMVCs in designated parking areas and not on landscaped areas.
   7.2. Parking OGMVCs must comply with restrictions outlined for vehicles according to
   current Force Protection Condition (FPCON) directives.
   7.3. All OGMVCs may operate on base public roads with the exception of Kearney and
   Scherz Blvds.




                                          KIMBERLEE P. JOOS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 6                                          GOODFELLOWAFBI24-302 18 MARCH 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, 07 Dec 2006
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 Jun 2012
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 12 Sep 2013
AFMAN 23-122, Volume II, Part Two, Chapter 22, Equipment Management, 08 Aug 2013
AFMAN 31-116_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 21
Mar 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFPAM 91-210, Contract Safety, 14 Feb 1994
TO 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, 15 Dec
2004
49 CRF Part 571, Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, 1 Oct 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency
AF Form 601, Equipment Action Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Management System
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
CA/CRL—Custody Account/Custody Receipt Listing
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IPT—Integrated Product Team
OGMVC—Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances
OLVIMS—On-Line Vehicle Integrated Management System
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
GOODFELLOWAFBI24-302 18 MARCH 2014                                                             7


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
REMS—Registered Equipment Management System
VEMSO—Vehicle and Equipment Management Support Office
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis

Terms
Air Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS)— A standard system of equipment
management that applies to all AF activities. It enables the AF to determine, authorize, account
for and report the types and quantities of equipment required to accomplish the AF mission. It is
a primary basis for organizational equipment budget and buys programs.
Equipment— In logistics, all nonexpendable items needed to outfit or equip an individual or
organization. See also assembly; component; part; subassembly; supplies in Joint Pub 1-2.
Maintenance— All actions required to keep a vehicle or piece of equipment serviceable. This
includes inspection, testing, servicing, repairing, overhauling, rebuilding, remanufacturing,
cannibalizing and reclaiming parts, accessories and end items.
Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances (OGMVC)— Self-propelled assets providing
a basic transportation capability (i.e. golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, quad-runners, etc.) not
meeting specifications of 49 CFR 571.500 FMVSS are categorized as Other Government Motor
Vehicle Conveyances and assigned prime NSN 2340-00-585-7495 in AFEMS, allowance
standard 036.
Registered Equipment Management System (REMS)— A system of managing the inventory
of AF vehicular equipment.
Requirement— A need or demand for personnel, equipment, supplies, facilities, or services
expressed in specific quantities for specific periods of time.
Serviceability Standard— The standard a vehicle must meet or surpass to be satisfactory for
operation.
