BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE                                        INSTRUCTION 36-2802

                                                                               28 JUNE 2012
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 2 April 2013

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                            SAFETY AWARDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 17 TRW/SE                                                         Certified by: 17 TRW/SE
                                                                       (Mr. Samuel L. Spooner)
                                                                                         Pages: 6


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program and AFI 36-2833,
Safety Awards. It explains the Goodfellow Air Force Base Safety Program Awards and the
purpose, eligibility, selection criteria, and nomination processes for each. It does not apply to
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained according to
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of according to the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises GOODFELLOWAFBI 36-2802 by changing the time frames for
quarterly and annual awards from calendar year to fiscal year. A margin bar (│) indicates newly
revised material.
1. Wing Safety Individual of the Quarter Award.
   1.1. Purpose. This award recognizes outstanding contributions or superior achievements in
   ground and/or weapons safety. It is reserved for individuals whose mishap prevention efforts
   merit recognition above squadron level.
 2                                                GOODFELLOWAFBI36-2802 28 JUNE 2012


     1.2. Submission. The award submission must reach the Safety Office by the fourth duty day
     after the award quarter. Quarterly award submissions (by fiscal year) are: 1 October-31
     December (1st Quarter), 1 January-31 March (2nd Quarter), 1 April-30 June (3rd Quarter),
     and 1 July-30 September (4th Quarter).
     1.3. Description. The award will consist of an appropriate award or prize (usually a plaque)
     that is available at the time.
     1.4. Eligibility. Military and civilian personnel, not assigned as a unit safety representative,
     are eligible for this award. This includes personnel assigned to geographically separated
     units, tenant units, and non-appropriated fund personnel.
     1.5. Nomination. Commanders, unit safety representatives, and supervisors may nominate
     eligible personnel using the AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award. All nominations must be
     routed through the Unit Safety Representative or the Commander prior to coming to the
     Safety Office. The information included in the AF IMT 1206 must be in either bullet or
     narrative format and must be seven lines, to include the safety accomplishment of the
     individual.
     1.6. Selection. The Wing Safety staff will make the final selection and forward the winner
     to the Chief of Safety for approval. The overall winner will be the individual who had the
     greatest impact on safety. Other selection criteria can include, but is not limited to, validity
     and accuracy of information listed on the AF IMT 1206, compliance with standards, etc. If a
     tie occurs, the Chief of Safety will make the final decision.
     1.7. Publicity and Presentations. The Chief of Safety will ensure:
        1.7.1. Award submission period is well publicized.
        1.7.2. Timely notification of winner.
        1.7.3. Timely presentation of award.
2. Unit Safety Representative (USR) of the Quarter Award.
     2.1. Purpose. This award recognizes outstanding contributions and superior achievements in
     ground or weapons/explosives safety by a person assigned as a USR. This award is for
     individuals whose mishap prevention efforts merit recognition above the squadron level.
     2.2. Submission. The award submission must reach the Safety Office by the fourth duty day
     after the award quarter. Quarterly award submissions (by fiscal year) are: 1 October-31
     December (1st Quarter), 1 January-31 March (2nd Quarter), 1 April-30 June (3rd Quarter),
     and 1 July-30 September (4th Quarter).
     2.3. Description. The award will consist of an appropriate award or prize (usually a plaque)
     that is available at the time.
     2.4. Eligibility. Military and civilian personnel assigned as unit safety representatives are
     eligible for this award. This includes personnel assigned to geographically separated units,
     tenant units, and non-appropriated fund personnel.
     2.5. Nomination. Commanders, unit safety representatives, and supervisors may nominate
     eligible personnel using the AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award. All nominations must be
     routed through the Unit Safety Representative or the Commander prior to coming to Wing
GOODFELLOWAFBI36-2802 28 JUNE 2012                                                               3


   Safety. The information included in the AF Form 1206 must be in either bullet or narrative
   format, and must be nine lines, to include the safety accomplishment of the individual.
   2.6. Selection. The Wing Safety staff will make the final selection and forward the winner
   to the Chief of Safety for approval. The winner selected will usually be the individual whose
   accomplishment had the most impact on safety. Other selection criteria can include, but is
   not limited to; validity and accuracy of information listed on the AF IMT 1206, member’s
   contact with the Wing Safety Office, mishap reporting and rates, compliance with standards,
   etc. If a tie occurs, the Chief of Safety will make the final decision.
   2.7. Publicity and Presentations. The Chief of Safety will ensure:
      2.7.1. Award submission period is well publicized.
      2.7.2. Timely notification of winner.
      2.7.3. Timely presentation of award.
3. Wing Safety Individual of the Year Award.
   3.1. Purpose. The award recognizes outstanding contributions, superior achievements, and
   consistent, proactive results in ground or weapons safety.
   3.2. Submission. Annual award submission must reach the Safety Office by the tenth duty
   day after the end of the award year (1 October-30 September).
   3.3. Description. The award will consist of an appropriate award or prize (usually a plaque)
   that is available at the time.
   3.4. Eligibility. Military and civilian personnel not assigned as a unit safety representative
   are eligible for this award. This includes personnel assigned to geographically separated
   units, tenant units, and non-appropriated fund personnel.
   3.5. Nomination. Commanders, unit safety representatives, and supervisors may nominate
   eligible personnel using the AF IMT 1206. All nominations will need to be routed through
   the Unit Safety Representative or the Commander prior to coming to the Wing Safety. The
   information included in the AF IMT 1206 must be in either bullet or narrative format, and
   must be fifteen lines, to include the safety accomplishment of the individual.
   3.6. Selection. The Wing Chief of Safety will make the selection and forward the winner to
   the Vice Commander for approval. The winner selected will be the individual who had the
   greatest impact on safety. Other selection criteria can include, but is not limited to; validity
   and accuracy of information listed on the AF IMT 1206, compliance with standards, etc. If a
   tie occurs, the Chief of Safety will make the final decision.
   3.7. Publicity and Presentations. The Chief of Safety will ensure:
      3.7.1. Award submission period is well publicized.
      3.7.2. Timely notification of winner.
      3.7.3. Timely presentation of award.
4. Unit Safety Representative (USR) of the Year Award.
 4                                                 GOODFELLOWAFBI36-2802 28 JUNE 2012


     4.1. Purpose. This award recognizes outstanding contributions, superior achievements, and
     consistent proactive involvement in the development and implementation of their
     commander’s unit mishap prevention program.
     4.2. Submission. Annual award submission must reach the Safety Office by the tenth duty
     day after the end of the award year (1 October-30 September).
     4.3. Description. The award will consist of an appropriate award or prize (usually a plaque)
     that is available at the time.
     4.4. Eligibility. Personnel assigned as a unit safety representative are eligible for this award.
     4.5. Nomination. Commanders, unit safety representatives, and supervisors may nominate
     eligible personnel using the AF IMT 1206. All nominations will need to be routed through
     the Unit Safety Representative or the Commander prior to coming to the safety office. The
     information included in the AF IMT 1206 must be in either bullet or narrative format, and
     must be twenty lines, to include the safety accomplishment of the individual.
     4.6. Selection. The Wing Chief of Safety will make the selection and forward the winner to
     the Vice Commander for approval. The winner selected will be the individual who had the
     greatest impact on safety. Other selection criteria can include, but is not limited to; validity
     and accuracy of information listed on the AF IMT 1206, member’s contact with the Wing
     Safety Office, mishap reporting and rates, compliance with standards, etc. If a tie occurs, the
     Chief of Safety will make the final decision.
     4.7. Publicity and Presentations. The Chief of Safety will ensure:
        4.7.1. Award submission period is well publicized.
        4.7.2. Timely notification of winner.
        4.7.3. Timely presentation of award.
5. Safety Achievement Award.
     5.1. Purpose. This award is given at the discretion of the Wing Safety Office for one or
     more persons for their involvement in the mishap prevention program. Involvement can be,
     but is not limited to, a single event, action, or specific contribution to the mishap prevention
     program.
     5.2. Description. The award will consist of a safety coin presented by a Safety Professional
     or a printed certificate signed by the Chief of Safety.
     5.3. Eligibility. Any person involved with the 17 TRW can receive this award.
     5.4. Nomination. Nominations will not be accepted for this award.
     5.5. Selection. Selection is non-competitive and will be based on the sole discretion of 17
     TRW/SE personnel. This award can be given at any time.
6. Submissions for Second Air Force, AETC, and Air Force Safety Center level Safety
Awards. All quarterly and annual award winners meeting the requirements below may be
submitted by the Wing Safety Office to Second Air Force and AETC, if requested by the
squadron commander. No more than six or seven concise, pertinent lines describing the main
accomplishments will be used in award submissions to higher headquarters. AETC Ground
GOODFELLOWAFBI36-2802 28 JUNE 2012                                                           5


Safety Individual Award of Distinction (Quarterly): This quarterly award recognizes an
individual for distinctive accomplishments in ground safety. AETC Weapons Safety Individual
Award of Distinction (Quarterly): This quarterly award recognizes an individual for distinctive
accomplishments in weapons safety. AETC Well Done Award for Ground or Weapons Safety
(Quarterly): This award recognizes an individual who makes a significant contribution that
affects the overall mishap prevention activities of ground, or weapons safety, and who, by
exceptional performance beyond that normally expected, prevents a mishap or minimizes the
seriousness of a mishap. The nominee must not have contributed to or caused the situation that
precipitated the event. Ground/Weapons Safety Well Done Award: This award recognizes non-
safety personnel who make a significant contribution that affects overall mishap prevention
activities toward ground/weapons safety. Ground Safety Plaques: These awards recognize
organizations below MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA level for outstanding achievement in, or
contribution to, ground safety.




                                           MARK T. DAMIANO, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                            GOODFELLOWAFBI36-2802 28 JUNE 2012


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

References
AFI 36-2833, Safety Awards, 8 Feb 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 Aug 1997

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, 1 Jul 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IMT—Information Management Tool
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USR—Unit Safety Representative
