BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 24-303

                                                                                  27 JUNE 2012
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 7 MARCH 2013
                                                            Certified Current on 10 October 2013
                                                                                  Transportation

                                                         OFFICIAL USE OF GOVERNMENT
                                                                            VEHICLES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 17 LRS/LGRV                                                         Certified by: 17 LRS/CC
                                                                       ( Lt Col Michael C. Jones)
                                                                                          Pages: 6


This instruction implements AFPD 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation
Vehicles; AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, and AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management. The purpose
of this instruction is to provide guidance necessary to effectively inform personnel of proper use
of government vehicles. It applies to all Goodfellow AFB organizations and detachments that
utilize Air Force motor vehicles. Vehicles financed through non-appropriated funds are exempt
from this instruction. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained according to AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air
Force          Records          Disposition       Schedule         (RDS),        located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at
any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for
coordination prior to certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change removes the provision allowing use of a government vehicle for transporting
distinguished visitors to and from Mathis Municipal Airport.
1. Official Use of Government Owned Vehicles (GOV). All travel is limited to official
purposes, as defined by DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles;
 2                                                  GOODFELLOWAFBI24-303 27 JUNE 2012


AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations; and AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management. The unauthorized or
willful misuse of a GOV may be cause for disciplinary action.
     1.1. Official Usage. Restrict the use of all DoD motor vehicles, including those rented or
     leased, for official purposes only, that is, uses that would further the mission of the Air Force.
     Providing a government vehicle solely or even principally to enhance the comfort or
     convenience of the member is not permitted. Unauthorized use of government vehicles often
     results in unnecessary expenditure of funds and public criticism. Although the major goal of
     the vehicle operations is to provide quality support, commanders and vehicle managers must
     know vehicle use restrictions and ensure the base populace is knowledgeable on what
     constitutes official use. Refer requests not conforming to governing directives to the Vehicle
     Operations Manager (VOM). Factors to consider when making a determination as to
     whether the intended usage is official:
        1.1.1. Will the request create the perception that would reflect unfavorably on the Air
        Force or cause public criticism?
        1.1.2. Does the request impact mission requirements?
        1.1.3. Is commercial or DoD transportation available? In most instances the Air Force
        does not provide transportation support that competes with commercial services.
     1.2. Unofficial Usage. Examples of unofficial usage:
        1.2.1. Personal business or pleasure.
        1.2.2. Transportation between domicile and duty; dormitories, military housing and off-
        base private residences, unless the vehicle has been designated a command and control
        vehicle by the Secretary of the Air Force.
        1.2.3. Travel outside the established permissible operating distance (POD) without prior
        approval or authorization from the Vehicle Operations Manager (VOM). The POD is
        that distance from the installation that GMVs can travel without competing with
        commercial carriers (Ref. DOD Directive 4500.09E).
        1.2.4. Transportation to, or parking at, the commissary, base exchange (including all
        concessions), bowling center, officer and enlisted clubs, Class VI (package store), Burger
        King, main base mini-mall, post office, credit union, bank, ATMs, fitness center,
        recreational sports fields, golf course, marina, or beach areas. Exceptions are authorized
        for personnel performing official government duties at these locations. Emergency and
        rapid response vehicles may be driven to any dining hall if the occupant(s) are subject to
        emergency response. On-base eating establishments will only be utilized when dining
        halls are closed. Emergency and rapid response vehicles are defined as 17 SFS (Security
        Forces), 17 CES (Fire Department), 17 SE (Safety) as approved, in writing, by the
        installation commander.
2. Government Vehicle Authorization and Usage.
     2.1. Command and Control Vehicle (CACV).
        2.1.1. Commanders with overall responsibility of operations or installation security and
        who have a 24-hour emergency communications and response requirement are designated
GOODFELLOWAFBI24-303 27 JUNE 2012                                                              3


     and authorized command and control vehicles. The position of 17 TRW/CC is authorized
     a command and control vehicle.
     2.1.2. Designations for these vehicles are strictly limited to key command positions,
     especially in light of statutory restrictions on the use of government vehicles for
     “domicile-to-duty” transportation (31 U.S.C. 1344). Command and control falls under
     the purview of official use. Vehicles for government Command and control vehicles may
     be driven to fitness centers, eating establishments, the post office, cleaners, bank, etc in
     order to facilitate immediate response.
  2.2. Government Motor Vehicles (GMVs). Personnel conducting official business off base
  are authorized to drive GMVs to off- base eating establishments within the immediate
  vicinity of the off-base work site. Meals may not be taken at personnel residence or in close
  proximity of the installation. Any deviation may be construed as vehicle misuse.
  2.3. DOD-Owned, Rented or Leased Vehicles. May be used by TDY personnel for
  transportation between duty station and lodging, eating establishments, barbershops, fitness
  centers, places of worship, and other facilities required for the sustenance of the member.
  Use of DOD-owned, rented or leased vehicles off base is restricted to reputable eating
  establishments in reasonable proximity to the installation.
  2.4. Goodfellow AFB Military Taxi Service. The taxi service operates 0600-1630, Monday
  through Friday only. This service is authorized for active duty, DOD personnel on official
  government business and is limited to Goodfellow AFB, except for medical appointments.
  The military taxi provides a quick-response, point-to-point service to requesters requiring
  official transportation. Services may be obtained by calling the Vehicle Dispatch Operations
  at 654-5744. Taxi services cover:
     2.4.1. On- and Off-Base Personnel on TDY Orders.
         2.4.1.1. Government Contract Quarters or Commercial Lodging. Transportation may
         be permitted to off-base government contract quarters or commercial lodging.
         Passengers must have confirmed reservations at such lodging. Transportation for the
         purpose of looking for vacancies is not authorized.
         2.4.1.2. Commercial Terminals.
             2.4.1.2.1. DELETED.
             2.4.1.2.2. Group transportation shuttle bus service for deploying personnel (12
             passengers or more) to and from local Mathis Field, Dallas-Fort Worth Airport,
             and San Antonio International Airport are authorized on an as needed basis for
             transport of weapons and excess luggage.
             2.4.1.2.3. All departures and arrivals will originate from/to Goodfellow AFB.
             Military taxi service will not be provided for pickup at private on- or off-base
             residences.
             2.4.1.2.4. Airmen in Training may be transported to the airport during emergency
             leave situations.
             2.4.1.2.5. Commercial transportation should be used for all other requirements.
  2.5. U-Drive-It (UDI).
4                                             GOODFELLOWAFBI24-303 27 JUNE 2012


    2.5.1. Services.
       2.5.1.1. UDI services are authorized for active duty and DOD personnel performing
       official government business who are permanently assigned. UDI vehicles are not
       provided to personnel on TDY orders. Limited UDI resources are available to
       support organizations that do not have assigned vehicles and to augment units with
       assigned vehicles for short-term use when their mission requirement their assigned
       vehicle capabilities. To ensure effective planning, scheduling and dispatching for
       fair-share usage, requestors and operators must pick up vehicles not earlier than time
       requested and return vehicles not later than the termination time for the period of
       requested use.
       2.5.1.2. All UDI requests will be coordinated through Vehicle Dispatch Operations.
       The preferred method of requesting a UDI is for the squadron’s vehicle control
       personnel to submit their request to Base Vehicle Support by e-mail to
       basevehicle.support@goodfellow.af.mil; however, short-notice requests may be
       made by telephone followed by e-mail request. To ensure effective planning and
       scheduling of UDI resources and all other vehicle supports, the request should be
       submitted as soon as possible. The request must contain:
           2.5.1.2.1. Date of request.
           2.5.1.2.2. Name, rank, office symbol and duty phone of requester.
           2.5.1.2.3. Purpose of requirement.
           2.5.1.2.4. Destination. (NOTE: If destination is outside the POD, approval or
           authorization must be obtained prior to commencement of travel.)
           2.5.1.2.5. Date and time vehicle is to be picked up.
           2.5.1.2.6. Date and time vehicle is to be returned.
           2.5.1.2.7. Name, rank, office symbol and duty telephone number of designated
           vehicle operator.
    2.5.2. Operator. Acceptance of a UDI vehicle is with a clear understanding that the
    operator acknowledges receipt for U.S. Air Force or government-owned vehicle and will
    be held responsible for its safeguarding and proper use. Understands, as operator, may be
    held financially liable for damage caused to the vehicle through gross negligence or
    willful misconduct and may face disciplinary action for negligent operation or improper
    use. UDI users will:
       2.5.2.1. Perform operator safety and serviceability checks if the vehicle is in their
       possession for more than 1 business day. Prior to acceptance, the fuel level should be
       3/4 full, or more, and the exterior and interior should be clean. Report discrepancies
       immediately to the on-duty dispatcher.
       2.5.2.2. Return vehicles in the same fueled, clean, and serviceable condition as when
       accepted.
       2.5.2.3. If malfunctions (i.e., lights inoperative, engine noise) are discovered prior to
       vehicle being returned, refer to the instructions on vehicle forms or notify duty
       dispatcher.
GOODFELLOWAFBI24-303 27 JUNE 2012                                                           5


        2.5.2.4. Pick up vehicle within 1 hour of requested time.       The request will be
        canceled, unless prior arrangements have been made.
        2.5.2.5. Remember all UDI dispatched vehicles are subject to recall in support of
        contingency plans, exercises, or higher priority mission requirements.
     2.5.3. UDI Request for Distinguished Visitor (DV) and Invited Guest (06 and
     Above/NAF, AETC Commanders) Support.
        2.5.3.1. All requests for invited DV and guest of 17 TRW commander, UDI support
        must originate from the 17 TRW Protocol and/or Public Affairs Office.
        2.5.3.2. DV and invited guest may use DOD owned, rented or leased vehicles for
        transportation between obligated commitments and lodging, eating establishments,
        barbershops, fitness centers, places of worship, and other facilities required for the
        sustenance of the member.
        2.5.3.3. Use of DOD owned, rented or leased vehicles off base is restricted to
        reputable eating establishments in reasonable proximity to the installation.




                                         MARK T. DAMIANO, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 6                                            GOODFELLOWAFBI24-303 27 JUNE 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 Oct 2007
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 Nov 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation Vehicles, 7 Jul 2010
DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 16 Mar 2007
DOD Directive 4500.09E, Transportation and Traffic Management, 11 Sep 2007
31 USC 1344, Passenger Carrier Use, 7 Jan 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CACV—Command and Control Vehicle
DOD—Department of Defense
DV—Distinguished Visitor
GMV—Government Motor Vehicles
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
POD—Permissible Operating Distance
TDY—Temporary Duty
UDI—U-Drive-It
VOM—Vehicle Operations Manager
