BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE                                        INSTRUCTION 33-303

                                                                        25 NOVEMBER 2014

                                                            Communications and Information

                                                             ENTERPRISE INFORMATION
                                                                        MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 17 CS/SCOK                                                         Certified by: 17 CS/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Ryan J. Vetter)
                                                                                       Pages: 7




This instruction implements and extends the guidance of AETCI33-303, Command Enterprise
Information Management SharePoint, 28 February 2012. It establishes policy and procedures
for creation, administration and management of information deployed on SharePoint and the Air
Force Portal. It outlines procedures for the command enterprise information management
SharePoint process for the 17th Training Wing. It applies to all Air Force personnel (military,
civilian and contractors) within the 17th Training Wing. This publication applies to Air Force
Reserve Command and Air National Guard (ANG) if the units are utilizing AETC provided
Enterprise Information Management (EIM)-SharePoint environment. Submit suggested changes
to this instruction to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                           GOODFELLOWAFBI33-303 25 November 2014


1. Mission Statement.
     1.1. The primary mission of 17th Communications Squadron Knowledge Management
     Center (17 CS/SCOK) is to provide electronic information management support and services
     for all Goodfellow AFB websites, including Microsoft SharePoint and AF Portal.
     1.2. The determination of whether or not a squadron has a SharePoint site will be decided by
     the assigned unit commander.
     1.3. The appointment letter (See Attachment 2) will be reviewed annually and each time a
     new unit commander is appointed. The updated copy will be provided to 17 CS/SCOK.
2. Responsibilities of 17 CS/SCOK.
     2.1. The 17 CS/SCOK is the Site Owner for Goodfellow AFB SharePoint site and the
     Content Manager for the Goodfellow AF Portal site. The 17 CS/SCOK office will provide
     classroom training for all appointed SharePoint Site Managers and AF Portal Content
     Publishers on a monthly basis.
     2.2. The 17 CS/SCOK is the Wing Inspection Team (WIT) Program Manager for SharePoint
     and AF Portal and is responsible for oversight of assignment and completion of MICT
     checklists.
        2.2.1. Must provide a current Wing Inspection Schedule to the 17 TRW/IG.
        2.2.2. Must provide the Group Self-Assessment Monitors (GSAMs) the MICT checklists
        and names of individuals responsible for completing them.
3. SharePoint Site Managers.
     3.1. Site Permissions.
        3.1.1. Only Site Managers identified on signed appointment letters will be placed in the
        Site SharePoint group. Any changes in personnel will require a new appointment letter.
        See Attachment 2 for the memorandum template.
        3.1.2. Permissions must be assigned to groups, not individuals. Assigning individual
        permissions creates a permissions environment that is difficult to manage. Group
        permissions support a role-based permissions environment which allows a departing
        individual to be replaced by a new individual easily – the new individual inherits all of
        the correct permissions for the role.
        3.1.3. Exceptions to site permissions must be approved by the unit commander.
        3.1.4. The standard SharePoint security group naming convention must always begin
        with the site name (i.e., 17CS_Members).
        3.1.5. Keep specialized groups to a minimum (i.e., 17CS_Sec_Chiefs).
        3.1.6. Document library restricted permissions. Libraries will have an (R) appended to
        the end of the document library name to notate a document library with restricted
        permissions. The description field will contain notice as to why it is restricted and to
        what groups it is restricted for future reference.
GOODFELLOWAFBI33-303 25 November 2014                                                         3


      3.1.7. Mark all information requiring restricted permissions. Documents uploaded to
      restricted areas will be marked appropriately for the types of data they contain (i.e.
      (FOUO)(PA) Example Document Name.doc).
      3.1.8. Unique Permissions. Do not create unique permissions for items below the
      container (subsite/list/library) level unless absolutely necessary (e.g. alert rosters,
      timecards, finance/GPC, other PII-driven processes).
   3.2. Training.
      3.2.1. Initial SharePoint training class with the base Site Owner and the four CBTS
      located in the AF e-learning are a one-time requirement.
      3.2.2. Annual refresher training will be provided in class by 17 CS/SCOK.
   3.3. Responsibilities.
      3.3.1. Manage the content, administration of permissions to their site(s) and updates of
      their page/ site(s).
      3.3.2. Will ensure appropriate permission assignment is given to document libraries
      containing folders/documents with For Official Use Only (FOUO), Privacy Act (PA)
      /Personally Identifiable Information (PII), Foreign Disclosure, and any data driven by law
      or regulation.
      3.3.3. Leadership information will be updated on unit website(s) immediately following
      Changes of Command.
      3.3.4. Complete the Site Content Review checklist every 180 days. It is imperative this
      checklist is accomplished to ensure all Goodfellow SharePoint sites are up-to-date,
      consistent, and have proper permission structures in place. See Attachment 3 for the Site
      Content Review checklist.
      3.3.5. Must respond (in writing) to all deficiencies within 30 days upon receipt of an
      inspection report from the Wing Inspection Team.
      3.3.6. Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds are permitted with prior approval from 17
      CS/SCOK who will screen to ensure they meet Air Force standards.
      3.3.7. Site Managers will create a document library titled “Site Manager Documents”
      and keep the following documents there: Site Manager and Content Manager
      appointment letters, training certificates, and content review checklists.
4. Air Force Portal Content Publishers.
   4.1. Site Permissions.
      4.1.1. Only Content Publishers identified on signed appointment letters will be placed in
      the User Administration. Any changes in personnel will require a new appointment
      letter. See Attachment 2 for the memorandum template.
   4.2. Training.
      4.2.1. Initial and annual required training is found in ADLS. There is one course
      required for Content Publishers: AFJQSi3DXXX-225P, Air Force Portal Content
 4                                           GOODFELLOWAFBI33-303 25 November 2014


        Management. Air Force Portal Site Publishers manage their respective unit’s AF Portal
        page.
     4.3. Responsibilities.
        4.3.1. All responsibilities of the Air Force Portal Content Publishers are consistent with
        the SharePoint Site Managers’ in paragraph 3 above, with exception of the training
        requirement on AF e-Learning.
5. Evaluation Management System (EMS) Managers.
     5.1. Site permissions.
        5.1.1. Each unit has an EMS Managers security group in Active Directory. Only EMS
        Managers appointed by their commander are authorized to be members of this security
        group. Contact your IAO or 17 CS/SCOK to be added to your EMS security group.
     5.2. Training.
        5.2.1. Classroom EMS Manager training is provided by 17 FSS and 17 CS/SCOK in the
        recurring Commander Support Staff training.
        5.2.2. Additional training is available on the Commander Support Staff Collaboration
        SharePoint site.
     5.3. Responsibilities.
        5.3.1. EMS Managers are given full control to the unit’s EMS site in accordance with the
        EIM Tools Professionals Appointment Letter in Attachment 2.
        5.3.2. EMS Managers are appointed to create and manage all EMS sites for the unit.
        5.3.3. Site permissions to individual sites are managed by the unit EMS Manager.
        5.3.4. EMS Managers will contact 17 CS/SCOK or 17 FSS/Force Management for
        training within 90 days of being appointed.




                                             KIMBERLEE P. JOOS, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
GOODFELLOWAFBI33-303 25 November 2014                                             5


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AETCI 33-303, Command Enterprise Information Management SharePoint, 28 Feb 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
EIM—Enterprise Information Management
EMS—Evaluation Management System
FOUO—For Official Use Only
GSAM—Group Self-Assessment Monitors
IRP—Internet Release Package
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
PA—Privacy Act
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
RSS—Really Simple Syndication
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
WIT—Wing Inspection Team
6                         GOODFELLOWAFBI33-303 25 November 2014


                        Attachment 2
ENTERPRISE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (EIM) TOOLS PROFESSIONALS
                    APPOINTMENT LETTER
GOODFELLOWAFBI33-303 25 November 2014             7


                             Attachment 3
                  SITE CONTENT REVIEW CHECKLIST
