BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
OF GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                      INSTRUCTION 23-302

                                                                          27 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                         VEHICLE ACCIDENT AND ABUSE
                                                                           PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability instructions to this publication

OPR: 319 LRS/LGRV                                                     Certified by: 319 LRS/CC
                                                                    (Maj Reynaldo Gonzalez Jr.)
Supersedes:   GRANDFORKSAFBI24-100,                                                    Pages: 13
              6 October 2003


This instruction implements AFI 23-302. It outlines definitions, responsibilities, and procedures
for an effective vehicle accident and abuse program with emphasis at the unit level and under the
direct control of the unit commander. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: AFI changed from 24-302 to 23-302; Inclusion of GSA vehicles.
1. General:
   1.1. This instruction is applicable to all persons operating government owned or leased
   vehicles and equipment assigned to Grand Forks Air Force Base loaded in the On-Line
   Vehicle Interactive Management System (OLVIMS).
 2                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011


2. Definitions:
     2.1. Fair wear and tear: The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle/equipment based on
     its age, usage, and life expectancy.
     2.2. Vehicle accident: Any incident where a government owned or leased vehicle/equipment
     strikes or is struck by other government owned or leased vehicle/equipment, non-government
     owned or leased vehicle/equipment and/or an object, structure, or animal where action by any
     participative vehicle operator could have prevented the outcome.
     2.3. Vehicle incident: Any situation where government owned or leased vehicle/equipment
     sustains damage where the actions of any participative vehicle operator could not have
     prevented the outcome or any damage that occurred despite all reasonable precautions having
     been taken (i.e., act of nature).
     2.4. Vehicle Abuse: An act or omission that has caused, or may cause, damage that cannot
     be attributed to fair wear and tear, accident, or incident. Some examples of vehicle abuse are
     listed in Attachment 1.
3. Reimbursement Policy:
     3.1. Because LGRV does not get budgeted for accident and abuse repairs, reimbursement
     will come from an established wing account or, if a wing account is not available, the using
     organization will coordinate reimbursement with LGRV using organizational funds, GPC, or
     a Form 9 (Request for Purchase). In all cases, reimbursement will be made to LGRV within
     30 days of determination of liability.
     3.2. The Vehicle Management Flight Chief, Vehicle Fleet Manager (VFM), or Vehicle
     Management Superintendent (VMS) will provide a written analysis of whether the vehicle
     damage was caused by accident, abuse, or incident. They will then forward the
     recommendation to the 319 LRS/CC or designated representative, who will make the final
     decision on classifying the vehicle damage as accident, abuse, or incident.
     3.3. If a government-owned or rented vehicle/equipment is involved in an accident with a
     privately owned vehicle (POV) and the POV is the negligent party, Vehicle Management and
     Analysis (VM&A) will coordinate with 319 ABW/JA to have the liable party’s insurance
     company make direct payment to the repairing contractor. If the operator of the POV is
     uninsured, the Vehicle Management Flight will repair the government-owned
     vehicle/equipment and be reimbursed from the established wing account and 319 ABW/JA
     will pursue reimbursement from the POV owner.
     3.4. If a government leased vehicle is involved in an accident with a privately owned vehicle
     (POV) and the POV is the negligent party, LGRV will coordinate with the Government
     Service Agency (GSA) Accident Control Center (ACC) for repairs to the leased vehicle. The
     GSA ACC will contact the negligent party for payment.
     3.5. If a government owned or leased vehicle/equipment is involved in an accident with a
     POV and the government owned or leased vehicle/equipment operator is the negligent party,
     the established wing account or (if a wing account is not available) the using organization is
     responsible for reimbursement of repair costs. 319 ABW/JA will determine/resolve the POV
     legal liability issue if a claim is filed.
GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                           3


   3.6. Accident/Abuse letters of release will be completed by the owning organizations within
   a 5-day period, unless the owning organization, in coordination with VFM/VMS, determines
   more time is needed for investigative purposes. Maintenance repairs will commence after the
   5th day of the vehicle being reported to vehicle maintenance unless more time is granted.
   Accidents/Abuses to GSA-leased assets require repair approval through the GSA ACC in
   coordination with the Vehicle Management Flight Chief, VFM/VMS.
4. Accident/Abuse Procedures:
   4.1. 319 LRS/LGRV will:
      4.1.1. Notify the 319 LRS/CC or designated representative, who will in turn notify the
      owning/using organization commanders or designated representative by letter
      (Attachment 2) with a copy of the repair estimate work order and digital photographs.
      4.1.2. Repair the vehicle upon receipt of the Letter of Release/Acceptance of Financial
      Responsibility (Attachment 3) from responsible unit (not necessarily the assigned
      organization).
      4.1.3. Perform vehicle repairs using the most economical means.
      4.1.4. Maintain accident/abuse case files for at least one year to track quantity and repair
      cost data.
      4.1.5. Provide the AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement, when
      requested by the owning/using organization.
      4.1.6. Track and provide costs to be reimbursed to the 319th Comptroller Squadron,
      Accounting and Finance Flight (319 CPTS/FMA) monthly.
      4.1.7. Provide an annual end of fiscal year report identifying accidents and abuses by
      cost and number for each organization to the 319 ABW/CC and all group and squadron
      commanders by 1 November of each year.
   4.2. Using/Owning organizations will:
      4.2.1. Reimburse LGRV for all vehicle parts and/or contract repair costs of vehicles
      damaged by personnel assigned to their unit or, if possible, pay for all accident/abuse
      repair costs by transfer of funds, GPC, or a Form 9.
      4.2.2. Ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of the unit’s safety
      program. Safe driving guidelines for an effective vehicle accident prevention program
      are provided (Attachment 4).
      4.2.3. Ensure vehicle accident/abuse cases are properly investigated within the unit.
      4.2.4. Report all vehicle damage to LGRV within 24 hours.
      4.2.5. Initiate report of survey, as required, IAW AFI 23-220.
      4.2.6. Forward a copy of the Letter of Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility
      when vehicle is no longer needed for investigation (within 5 days).
   4.3. 319 CPTS/FMA will:
      4.3.1. Provide LGRV with the funding of historical abuse/accident cost (approximately
      $56,000 a year). LGRV will determine the maximum dollar amount per incident that will
4                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011


       be charged to this funding. Anything above that cost will be charged to the using
       organization. In addition, damage due to negligence, unauthorized use, etc, as
       determined through the ROS process, will be charged to the using organization. In those
       situations, the using organization will pay the full cost (in-house repair to include parts
       only and/or off-base labor/parts).
    4.4. 319 ABW/JA will:
       4.4.1. Contact the liable party’s insurance company and arrange direct payment to the
       repairing contractor when the POV operator is the negligent party in an accident with a
       government owned or leased vehicle and equipment. If the operator of the POV is
       uninsured, 319 ABW/JA will pursue reimbursement.
    4.5. 319 MSG/CC will:
       4.5.1. Resolve all conflicts concerning the vehicle accident and abuse program and serve
       as the final decision authority. If an organization commander thinks the government
       owned vehicle or equipment accident/abuse case is not justified, written justification must
       be forwarded to the 319 LRS/CC. If the 319 LRS/CC agrees, the case will be dropped.
       If the 319 LRS/CC does not agree, the case will be forwarded to the 319 MSG/CC for
       final decision.




                                            TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                          5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Prescribed Forms
Prescribed Forms/IMT’s: No Forms or IMT’s prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
Adopted Forms/IMT’s: AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
Dated 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—- Air Force
AFB—- Air Force Base
AMC—- Air Mobility Command
AMCI—- Air Mobility Command Instruction
IMT—- Information Management Tool
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
 6                                          GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011


                                            Attachment 2
                               EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

A1.1. Vehicle abuse reimbursement action will be initiated for vehicle/equipment damage or
failure resulting from:
     A1.1.1. Tampering with governors or distributors.
     A1.1.2. Operating vehicles with insufficient oil or coolants because of failure to check levels
     according to established requirements or failure to monitor dash instrumentation.
     A1.1.3. Operating vehicle with applied/dragging parking brakes.
     A1.1.4. Improper distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo area of vehicle or
     not following established loading/unloading procedures.
     A1.1.5. Using a vehicle for a purpose other than it’s intended or designed for (e.g., 6K
     forklift used to transport a 10K lb. pallet).
     A1.1.6. Failure to clean/maintain vehicle’s interior/exterior to meet corrosion control and
     appearance requirements.
     A1.1.7. Unauthorized wiring, marking, modification, or adding special equipment in or on
     vehicles.
     A1.1.8. Operating a vehicle with improperly inflated tires that are not in accordance with
     manufacturer’s recommendation.
     A1.1.9. Vehicle being operated by an unqualified/untrained operator.
     A1.1.10. Tires worn beyond re-capable limits (i.e., cord exposed).
     A1.1.11. The intentional destruction/disfigurement of a vehicle interior/exterior.
     A1.1.12. Operation of a vehicle/equipment in conflict with a published Department of
     Defense, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health, Occupational Safety and Health
     Administration, Air Force Regulations/Instructions/Manuals/Technical Orders, or North
     Dakota law concerning vehicle safety.
     A1.1.13. Failure to retract or protect hydraulic cylinder rams from pitting/corroding when
     not being used.
     A1.1.14. Servicing the fuel tank, hydraulic, or other fluid reservoirs with incorrect fluid.
     A1.1.15. Any damage resulting from the operator or passenger failing to secure doors while
     opening or closing them in windy conditions.
A1.2. Other situations where vehicle abuse action may be initiated:
     A1.2.1. Failure to report malfunctions/defects or damage to vehicle maintenance within 24
     hours. A pre-approved delay of this action to satisfy immediate mission needs may be
     authorized by the Vehicle Fleet Manager or Vehicle Management Superintendent.
     A1.2.2. Failure to bring a vehicle/equipment to vehicle maintenance for scheduled
     preventive maintenance before an overdue condition exists.
     A1.2.3. Corrosion or oxidation caused by insufficient waxing or operator care.
GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                      7


  A1.2.4. Failure to purge fluids from piping/hoses prior to the ambient temperature falling
  below the freezing point.
  A1.2.5. Failure to plug in vehicles during cold weather when the vehicle is equipped with a
  block heater or arctic winterization kit.
 8                                        GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011


                                         Attachment 3
                        SAMPLE ABUSE NOTIFICATION LETTER



DD MMM YYYY

MEMORANDUM FOR 319 XXX/CC

FROM: 319 LRS/LGRV

SUBJECT: Vehicle Abuse, Registration Number (reg # or GSA)

1. On dd mmm yyyy, subject vehicle was turned into vehicle maintenance with (explain
damage). It has been determined that this is not the result of fair wear and tear. You should
consider this damage an abuse. The actual repair cost consists of 0.0 hours labor at 0.00 per hour
and $0.00 in materials for a total cost of $0.00.

2. (Explain how damage occurred)

3. Our records indicate this vehicle was assigned to your organization at the time the damage
occurred. If you find there is evidence of gross negligence, willful misconduct, or deliberate
unauthorized use, a report of survey is required.

4. If you have any questions, contact Vehicle Management at 747-3764.




                                                   MATTHEW P. LAIR, MSGT, USAF
                                                   Vehicle Fleet Manager



Two Attachments

1. VCNCO Statement and Release

2. Three Pictures
GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                              9


                                          Attachment 4
                     SAMPLE ACCIDENT NOTIFICATION LETTER



DD MMM YYYY

MEMORANDUM FOR 319 XXX/CC

FROM: 319 LRS/LGRV

SUBJECT: Vehicle Accident, Registration Number (reg # or GSA)

1. On dd mmm yyyy, subject vehicle was turned into vehicle maintenance with (explain
damage). It has been determined that this is not the result of fair wear and tear. You should
consider this damage an accident. The actual repair cost consists of 0.0 hours labor at 0.00 per
hour and $0.00 in materials for a total cost of $0.00.

2. (Explain how damage occurred)

3. Our records indicate this vehicle was assigned to your organization at the time the damage
occurred. If you find there is evidence of gross negligence, willful misconduct, or deliberate
unauthorized use, a report of survey is required.

4. If you have any questions, contact Vehicle Management at 747-3764.




                                                   MATTHEW P. LAIR, MSGT, USAF
                                                   Vehicle Fleet Manager



Two Attachments:

1. VCNCO Statement and Release

2. Three Pictures
 10                                       GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011


                                         Attachment 5
SAMPLE LETTER OF RELEASE/ACCEPTANCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY



                                                                              DD MMM YYYY

MEMORANDUM FOR 319 LRS/LGRVM
               319 CPTS/FMA

FROM: (Assigned/Using Organization)

SUBJECT: Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility

1. Vehicle (Registration Number) assigned to our organization/used by our organization was
involved in an (accident/abuse). Our investigation is now complete and the vehicle is released to
vehicle maintenance for repairs.

2. I understand that all contract repair costs associated with these repairs will be paid by
Government Purchase Card (GPC) from our unit directly to the contractor. If GPC cannot be
used, contract repair costs will be reimbursed to 319th Logistics Readiness Squadron by
transferring funds from our unit’s Operation and Maintenance (O&M) account to the 319th
Logistics Readiness Squadron O&M account (RC/CC: 234249, EEIC: 61925).




                                                  Signature Block
                                                  Unit Commander
GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                          11


                                         Attachment 6
                               SAFE DRIVING GUIDELINES


The goal of a vehicle accident prevention program is to reduce the number and severity of
vehicle accidents. All units should ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of
the unit’s safety program. One way to accomplish this is by incorporating driver safety into your
weekly safety briefings. There are six main areas that should be stressed:

1. Regular vehicle inspections (at least weekly, or more frequently, as needed).

    Tires (check tire pressure and visually check for damage/abnormalities).

    Lights (visually check for proper operation).

    Leaks (visually check for fuel/brake/oil/coolant leaks).

    Engine oil and coolant (visually check levels).

    Battery (visually check fluid level if capable, cleanliness, security of hold-down).

    Drive belts (visually check for fraying or cracking).

    Safety devices (functionally check operation of seat belts, headrests, and warning lights).

    Instruments, horn and windshield wipers (functionally check for operation).

    Brake and steering (functionally check responsiveness and effectiveness).

    Note any unusual occurrences such as noise, odor, or erratic instrument/operation.

2. Safe driving cushion between vehicles.

    Use the 2-second rule during normal driving conditions, increase distance during
      inclement weather.

    Never over-drive the distance lit by your headlights.

    Signal your intentions at least 100 feet ahead of intersections. Not signaling your
      intentions well in advance causes other drivers to make last minute/panic decisions.

    Exercise caution anytime you are backing a vehicle; use spotters when necessary.

    Use mirrors to monitor your surroundings. If you cannot see, use a spotter.
 12                                       GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011



    Ensure you have adequate clearance around vehicles, especially when operating over-
      sized vehicles or towing equipment. Larger vehicles need a larger area to maneuver.

3. Expecting the unexpected.

    Be constantly aware of surroundings and watch for other vehicles. You not only have to
      deal with decisions that you make, but the decisions of other drivers as well.

    Be attentive to situations that may come up while driving. You are not the only driver on
      the road.

    Always drive defensively and expect other drivers to do something unexpected.

    Be extra cautious when approaching major roadways, intersections, and areas where
      vehicles are entering and exiting the roadway. High traffic areas pose a greater risk to all
      drivers.

    Do not become complacent in familiar areas. Most accidents happen within 50 miles of
      your home; knowing the area is not an excuse for not paying attention to your
      surroundings.

4. Weather and road conditions.

    Changing weather conditions can degrade road conditions in a matter of seconds.

    Road surfaces may have damaged areas; be prepared for them.

5. Rules of the road.

    Pay attention to traffic signs and obey them. Traffic signs give drivers information to
     prepare for situations on the road ahead.
    Follow posted speed limits. Speed limits are set for a reason.
    Follow directional arrows in parking lots. Arrows are used in parking lots to control the
     flow of traffic and to make things safer for everyone.

6. Use of seat belts.

    Seat belt use is MANDATORY for all military and civilians driving on Grand Forks
     AFB.

7. Cell Phones.

   - Cell phones are not allowed on Grand Forks AFB while operating motor vehicles or
equipment.
GRANDFORKSAFBI23-302 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                             13



Following these tips will greatly reduce the likelihood of being involved in an accident. Also,
remember that fatigued drivers are more likely to be involved in an accident. Get the rest that
you need. Driving tired has the same effect as driving under the influence of alcohol; your
reaction times decrease making it more difficult to cope with incidents on the road.
