BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 91-102

                                                                                     2 MAY 2013

                                                                                           Safety

                                                               MOVEMENT OF EXPLOSIVES




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 ABW/SEW                                                      Certified by: 319 ABW/SE
                                                                (Lt Col Jonathan M. Castellanos)
Supersedes:    GRANDFORKSAFBI91-102,                                                     Pages: 9
               22 October 2008


This instruction implements AF Policy Directive 91-2, Safety Programs, AFI 91-202, The US
Air Force Mishap Prevention Program and AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards. It
establishes responsibilities and procedures for the movement of explosives by motor vehicle on
Grand Forks Air Force Base (GFAFB). It applies to all organizations and contractors involved in
the movement of explosives. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: all references to 319 ARW and 319th Air Refueling Wing have been changed to 319
ABW and 319th Air Base Wing respectively.
 2                                                   GRANDFORKSAFBI91-102 2 MAY 2013


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. GFAFB personnel and organizations responsible for receiving, shipping and on-base
     transportation of explosives cargo will comply with this regulation. Additional guidance
     governing the movement of explosives can be found in references listed in Attachment 1.
     1.2. When contractual work to be performed requires explosives, GFAFB organizations
     utilizing authorized or designated contractors will notify the 319 ABW Weapons Safety
     Office. Notification will include the contractor’s qualifications to transport explosives on
     GFAFB and the duration of the contractual obligations. POC for the contractors and the
     responsible contracting agencies will also be provided.
     1.3. Organizations that receive or ship explosives will notify their carriers of the provisions
     of this instruction
     1.4. DOD organizations will inspect military vehicles used for transport of all explosives.
     Vehicles used to move explosives internally will be inspected according to AFMAN 91-201,
     Chapter 8. Military vehicles used to move explosives off base will be inspected using DD
     Form 626. The fire department shall be notified when explosives arrive and will be in-transit
     on the installation.
     1.5. The 319 ABW/CP will:
        1.5.1. For Department of Energy (DOE) shipments, obtain team commander’s name, ID,
        time of arrival and nature of the problem.
        1.5.2. Notify 319 ABW/CC, MSG/CC and the Base Defense Operation Center (BDOC)
        of all DOE shipments arriving on Grand Forks AFB.
        1.5.3. Monitor weather conditions for lightning at any time an explosive laden vehicle is
        being processed through the South Gate Search Barn. If lightning is within 5 nautical
        miles of base, notify the driver to evacuate the area to a minimum of 750 feet and seek
        shelter.
     1.6. The 319th Security Forces Squadron (SFS) will:
        1.6.1. Ensure Quick Response Checklists (QRCs) comply with this instruction and the
        Integrated Defense Plan (IDP 2010), and the BDOC.
     1.7. The 319th Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) will:
        1.7.1. Inspect all commercial vehicles used to transport shipments of HC/D 1.1, 1.2, 1.3
        and over 1,000 rounds of 1.4 small arms ammunition/explosives consigned to or shipped
        by DOD agencies.
        1.7.2. Inspect all arriving commercial explosive laden vehicles for DOD organizations or
        vehicles requesting SAFE HAVEN/REFUGE for safe loads prior to proceeding to off-
        load destination or parking in one of the SAFE HAVEN/REFUGE locations.
        1.7.3. Inspect all DOD outbound explosives commercial shipments to ensure shipment
        meets DOT requirements.
        1.7.4. Coordinate on SAFE HAVEN/REFUGE parking areas and with the MSA for
        temporary storage structures.
GRANDFORKSAFBI91-102 2 MAY 2013                                                              3


         1.7.4.1. Ensure proper fire symbols are displayed for the HC/D of explosives at the
         parking areas/storage structure. Use DOT placards on vehicles as outlined in Subpart
         F of Title 49, CFR, and Part 172.
         1.7.4.2. Ensure the 319 CES Fire Alarm Communication Center (FACC) is notified
         of changes to fire symbols at the parking areas/storage locations.
2. Procedures for Inbound and Outbound Explosives Shipments during Duty Hours:
   2.1. Inbound Commercial Vehicles.
      2.1.1. Drivers transporting explosives cargo HC/D 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, and 1.4 for DOD
      agencies onto GFAFB will enter through the South Gate. Use of the main gate to
      transport explosives will require prior coordination/approval by 319 SFS/S3 Operations
      Branch and the 319 ABW Weapons Safety Office.
      2.1.2. Commercial vehicles will be inspected at the Commercial Visitor Control Center
      (CVCC), at ext 747-5177, outside the South Gate. The 319 SFS entry controller will
      notify 319 LRS by telephone and advise of the arrival, consignee, HC/D and Net
      Explosive Weight (NEW) of the explosives cargo.
      2.1.3. Using DD Form 626, 319 LRS will conduct an incoming inspection of the vehicle
      for safe passage prior to its delivery destination or to the appropriate SAFE
      HAVEN/REFUGE parking area.
      2.1.4. 319 LRS will call the FACC and provide the HC/D of explosives carried by the
      vehicle and its location when placed in SAFE HAVEN/REFUGE.
      2.1.5. 319 LRS will escort the driver to the destination of the consignee or the approved
      SAFE HAVEN/REFUGE parking area. The explosive cargo will be off-loaded as
      required.
   2.2. Outbound Commercial Vehicles.
      2.2.1. All explosive shipments from DOD activities will be tendered only to motor
      carriers authorized to transport explosives and who comply with DOT and other safety
      regulations regarding the transportation of explosives.
      2.2.2. 319 LRS will inform the BDOC and the FACC of HC/D of the vehicle contents.
      2.2.3. The vehicle will be inspected by 319 LRS personnel for compliance with safety
      regulations before loading the explosives. DD Form 626 will be used to document the
      required inspection.
      2.2.4. When the vehicle is loaded with HC/D 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 explosives and ready to
      proceed off base, 319 LRS will provide an escort through the South Gate.
   2.3. DOE Explosive Shipments.
      2.3.1. Drivers of DOE vehicles loaded with explosives will enter GFAFB only through
      the .
      2.3.2. All shipments of explosive cargo for DOE will be loaded only on approved DOE
      vehicles.
 4                                                     GRANDFORKSAFBI91-102 2 MAY 2013


        2.3.3. Inspections of the vehicle and instructions pertaining to the explosive cargo for the
        vehicle driver will be according to procedures established by DOE.
        2.3.4. Drivers will depart the base through the South Gate.
3. Procedures for Explosives Shipments Arriving After Normal Duty Hours:
     3.1. If vehicles with explosive cargo arrive outside normal duty hours (Monday through
     Friday 0700-1600), weekends or holidays, the Security Forces Squadron Installation Entry
     Controller on duty will tell the driver that:
     3.2. Formal receipt of the material cannot be accomplished unless prior arrangements have
     been made with 319 LRS for DOD shipments (see IDP 2010 for further action). 319 LRS
     will notify 319 SFS of after duty hours delivery arrangements.
4. In-Transit Commercial Shipments:
     4.1. There is an agreement between the US Commerce Department and DOD that when a
     mechanical problem or bad weather occurs, military bases will provide temporary parking for
     commercial vehicles laden with government explosives within the base’s capability.
     4.2. If such help is requested during duty hours, the following procedures will be followed:
        4.2.1. Commercial vehicle drivers needing help will enter the base through the South
        Gate.
        4.2.2. The vehicle will be inspected in the Commercial Visitor Control Center ext 747-
        5177 at the South Gate, prior to entry, and escorted to the Vehicle Holding Area inside
        the MSA to be parked until the driver and cargo can safely continue on to their
        destination. The Vehicle Holding Area will not be used for driver convenience at any
        time. The vehicle driver will notify the SFS Entry Controller of the problem and request
        permission for temporary storage of the vehicle and explosive cargo. The driver will
        provide the controller the HC/D of the explosives and the NEW.
        4.2.3. The controller will relay the above information to the Command Post. The
        controller will then call the FACC dispatcher and provide the HC/D of the explosives, the
        NEW, and the destination.
        4.2.4. The Command Post will activate the SAFE HAVEN/REFUGE checklist.
        Command Post personnel must ensure they receive sufficient information to determine
        required assistance prior to requesting permission from the 319 ABW/CC or CV.
     4.3. 319 LRS will ensure trucks and loads can safely travel to the SAFE HAVEN or refuge
     parking areas. Commercial vehicles requesting SAFE HAVEN will be parked inside the
     Munitions Storage Area. At all times, the carrier maintains liability of his load until arrival at
     the shipment destination.
     4.4. If SAFE HAVEN/REFUGE is provided to commercial carriers and a download is
     necessary to accomplish repairs, 319 LRS will escort the vehicle to a storage structure
     determined by Munitions Storage Area (MSA) personnel. MSA personnel will assist the
     carrier in off-loading and storing explosives if required. Upon completion of repairs, the
     carrier will upload from the storage structure and 319 LRS will perform an inspection of the
     load.
GRANDFORKSAFBI91-102 2 MAY 2013                                                                5


   4.5. MSA personnel will be responsible to make the appropriate notifications to the 319 CES
   FACC when fire symbols are changed.
5. Transportation of Explosives within GFAFB:
   5.1. Vehicles used by DOD organizations and their designated contractors will be inspected
   according to AFMAN 91-201, Chapter 8, before use.
   5.2. Vehicles used by DOE and its designated contractors will be inspected according to
   DOE orders before use.
   5.3. Vehicles transporting HC/D 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, or 1.4 within the Munitions Storage Area or to
   and from licensed storage facilities are not restricted to designated routes. Such movements
   will avoid built-up areas and key, mission-oriented facilities and equipment to the maximum
   extent possible.
6. DOT Placard and Fire Symbol Requirements:
   6.1. All commercial, DOD, and designated contractor vehicles transporting explosives will
   display applicable DOT placards according to AFMAN 91-201, Chapter 8, and DOT Title
   49, CFR.
   6.2. When vehicles are parked at the SAFE HAVEN/REFUGE parking areas, the approved
   fire symbols will be posted and the FACC will be notified of HC/D at the location.
   6.3. DOE vehicles involved in the courier shipment or transportation of explosives, Safe
   Secure Trailers (SSTs) and escort vehicles are exempt from placarding requirements.
7. Vehicle Requirements for Munitions Transportation:
   7.1. Prior to use, inspect motor vehicles used to transport explosives to determine that:
      7.1.1. Fire extinguishers are filled and are in good working order. A minimum of two
      (2) portable 2A:10BC or greater fire extinguishers are required for each vehicle
      transporting explosives.
      7.1.2. Electric wiring is in good condition and properly attached.
      7.1.3. Chassis, motor, pan, and underside of body is reasonably free of oil, grease, and
      fuel.
      7.1.4. Fuel tank and feed lines are secure and not leaking.
      7.1.5. Brakes, steering, lights, horn and windshield wipers are functioning properly.
      7.1.6. Tires are properly inflated and free of defects.
   7.2. Chock explosives loaded vehicles and trailers parked on any grade or ramp steep
   enough to cause vehicle to roll.
   7.3. Refuel vehicles before loading explosives.
   7.4. Do not operate vehicles containing explosives until the cargo is checked to ensure safe
   transportation. For on-base movements, explosives containers must be restrained, blocked,
   braced, tied down or otherwise secured to the vehicle to prevent movement and must not
   damage explosives or containers. Restraining devices may include chains and binders, cargo
   nets and straps.
6                                              GRANDFORKSAFBI91-102 2 MAY 2013


    7.5. Do not leave explosives-laden vehicles unattended unless they are in a properly
    designated area, such as the Munitions Storage Area.




                                        TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI91-102 2 MAY 2013                                                                7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 8 October 2009
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
Bureau of Explosives Tariff, BOE-6000-N
Defense Logistics Agency Directive (DLAD) 4145.41, Packaging of Hazardous Material
GFAFBI 91-201, Explosives Safety Program, 4 June 2008
GFAFB IDP 2010, Integrated Defense Plan
Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Transportation
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms: None
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 626, Motor Vehicle Inspection (Transporting Hazardous Material)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
DOE—Department of Energy
DOT—Department of Transportation
FACC—Fire Alarm Communications Center
HC/D—Hazard Class and Division
MSA—Munitions Storage Area
POC—Point of Contact
SFCC—Security Forces Control Center

Terms
Accountable Forms— Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
 8                                                  GRANDFORKSAFBI91-102 2 MAY 2013


Administrative Change— Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority— Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication— Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
Driver— Any person authorized and qualified to operate vehicles loaded with explosives.
Explosives— All ammunition, munitions fillers, demolition material, solid rocket motors, liquid
propellants, cartridges, pyrotechnics, mines, bombs, grenades, warheads of all types, explosive
elements of ejection and aircrew egress systems, air-launched missiles and those explosive
components of missile systems and space systems and assembled kits and devices containing
explosive materials. Explosives, explosive weight, net weight, and other like terms also refer to
the fillers of an explosive item. Fillers may be explosive mixtures, propellants, pyrotechnics,
chemical agents and other toxic substances.
Explosives Hazard Classification— Identifies the hazardous characteristics of explosive items
by their assignment of established hazard categories governing storage and transportation. These
categories are United Nations Organization (UNO) hazard class and division and Department of
Transportation (DOT) class. Explosives are classified by their predominant hazard. Explosives
classified as other than Hazard Class 1 will be treated as and stored as explosives except when
the net explosive weight (NEW) is zero. Explosives used by USAF organizations must have a
hazard classification assigned (interim or final). Final hazard classifications for explosives are
listed in, to include predominant hazard classifications.
Hazard Class and Division:—Class 1 Division 1 (1.1) Mass-detonating explosives - Items in
this division are principally blast hazards and may be expected to detonate when a small portion
is initiated by any means. Examples: bulk explosives (TNT and C-4), bombs, demolition
charges, and detonating cord).
Class 1 Division 2 (1.2) Non-mass detonating fragment producing explosives— Items in this
division are principally fragmentation and blast hazards. The hazards may be either individual or
in combination but do not mass detonate. Examples: 20mm high explosive incendiary
cartridges, bomb fuses and 40mm high explosive cartridges. The effects produced by the
functioning of Hazard Class/Division (HC/D) 1.2 items vary with the size and weight of the
item. HC/D 1.2 is separated into three sub-divisions for purposes of setting quantity-distance
criteria. This is based on the quantity of explosives expected to explode at one time when a stack
of these items is involved in a fire.
Subdivision 1.2.1 are the most hazardous items in this subdivision— These items have a net
explosives weight for quantity distance (NEWQD) greater than or equal to 1.60 lbs per item.
Subdivision 1.2.2— Items having an NEWQD less than or equal to 1.60 lbs per item.
GRANDFORKSAFBI91-102 2 MAY 2013                                                                   9


Subdivision 1.2.3— These munitions do not exhibit any sympathetic detonation response in the
stack test or any reaction more severe than burning in external fire test, bullet impact test, or
slow cook-off test.
Class 1 Division 3 (1.3) Mass fire explosives— Items in this division burn vigorously and are
principally a mass fire hazard. Examples: most rocket motors, pyrotechnic flares and signals.
Class 1 Division 4 (1.4) Moderate fire-no blast explosives— Items in this division present a
minor fire hazard but no blast hazard. There is virtually no fragmentation or toxic hazard beyond
the fire hazard clearance zone required for high-risk items. Examples: small arms ammunition
without explosive projectiles, riot-control munitions, colored smoke grenades and most impulse
cartridges.
Class 1 Division 5 (1.5) Very insensitive explosives— Items in this division, although mass
detonating, are so insensitive that there is negligible probability of initiation or transition from
burning to detonation in storage.
Class 1 Division 6 (1.6) extremely insensitive detonating substance (EIDS)— Items in this
division have demonstrated, through test results that the mass and confinement effects of the
ammunition case are negligible on the probability of initiation or transition from burning to
detonation of the EIDS in transport or storage. Such ammunition, when intentionally initiated,
will be incapable of transferring detonation to another.
Explosives Holding Area— A specific area used to accommodate explosives laden vehicles
before movement to an explosive storage area or to their next destination.
Munitions Storage Area (MSA)— A designated area of facilities containing explosives used
for the storage or warehousing of the unit’s explosives stocks. Facilities include igloos,
magazines, operating buildings, modules, revetments, and outdoor storage sites.
Net Explosive Weight (NEW)— The total quantity, expressed in pounds (lbs) of explosive
material or high explosives equivalency in each item or round, used when applying quantity-
distance criteria or other explosive safety standards. For example, the total NEW for an
explosives laden vehicle is the sum total of the explosive content of all items loaded on the
vehicle.
Net Explosives Weight for Quantity Distance (NEWQD)— The total quantity expressed in
pounds of high explosives equivalency in each item or round to be used when applying quantity-
distance (Q-D) criteria or other standards. The NEWQD is equal to the NEW unless testing has
shown that a lower weight is appropriate for Q-D purposes. If the NEWQD is less than the
NEW, the reason is usually that propellant or other substances do not contribute as much to the
blast effect as the same amount of high explosives would.
Safe Haven— Designated areas to which noncombatants of the US Government’s responsibility,
and commercial vehicles and material, may be evacuated during a domestic or other valid
emergency.
Vehicle Inspection Station— Designated area where all motor vehicles carrying ammunition
and explosives will be inspected by an authorized inspector prior to entry of the installation.
