BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                         INSTRUCTION 51-100

                                                                              23 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                           LAW

                                                           OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT AND
                                                         OFF-DUTY BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 319 ABW/JAC                                                      Certified by: 319 ABW/JA
                                                                          (Lt Col Brandon Hart)
Supersedes:   GRANDFORKSAFBI51-100,                                                      Pages: 5
              21 October 2008


This instruction implements DOD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), Sections 2-206a and
3-303a, and DOD Directive 5500.7, Standards of Conduct. It establishes internal agency
procedures for processing requests for approval of off-duty employment required to be submitted
by sections 2-206a and 3-306e of the JER, and as authorized by DOD Directive 5500.7. This
instruction also delegates to commanders and supervisors the authority expressly granted by
sections 2-303 and 3-306e of the JER to require DOD employees under their jurisdiction to
report any off-duty employment prior to engaging in such employment. All military and civilian
personnel assigned to the 319th Air Base Wing who seek to engage in off-duty employment are
required to submit an AF Form 3902, Application and Approval for Off-Duty Employment.
Grand Forks AFB Instruction 51-100 is a punitive instruction; military and civilian personnel
who fail to comply with this instruction subject themselves to criminal liability and/or
disciplinary action. This instruction also applies to members of the Air Force Reserve while they
are on active duty orders in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW
with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                              GRANDFORKSAFBI51-100 23 AUGUST 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Previous editions of this publication indicated JA review is not required unless
requested by the applicant’s immediate supervisor or commander. Paragraph 3.4 now requires:
“JA review on all off-duty employment applications.”
1. Policies.
     1.1. 319 ABW personnel, both military and civilian, shall not engage in off-duty
     employment that:
        1.1.1. Is prohibited by statute or regulation;
        1.1.2. Interferes with or is incompatible with performing government duties;
        1.1.3. Would reasonably be expected to bring discredit upon the armed forces;
        1.1.4. Would tend to create a conflict of interest;
        1.1.5. Would detract from readiness; or
        1.1.6. Would pose a security risk.
     1.2. Explanation of Terms.
        1.2.1. The term “off-duty employment” means employment outside of DOD, with or
        without compensation, as well as off-duty business activity, including self-employment.
        1.2.2. The term “off-duty business activity” includes self-employment, and means the
        offering of goods and/or services to the general public for a fee or commission. It
        includes providing services to or conducting financial or real estate transactions on behalf
        of paying clients. It includes the sale of insurance, stocks, mutual funds, real estate,
        cosmetics, household supplies, vitamins, telephone service, pre-paid legal services, and
        other goods or services. The term “off-duty business activity” does not include the
        investment of personal funds in stocks or real estate, garage sales, or occasional
        babysitting for friends or relatives. Outside employment does include off-duty medical
        studies as noted in Section 2 of this document.
        1.2.3. The term “readiness” includes the ability of the United States Air Force to perform
        its mission in the manner and at the time and place required, and the ability of a military
        member or civilian employee to perform his or her government duties in the manner and
        at the time and place required.
     1.3. All civilian and military personnel who intend to perform off-duty employment,
     including employment while on terminal leave, shall submit an AF Form 3902 to their first-
     level supervisor at least 2 weeks before beginning employment. Final approval must be
     obtained prior to starting off-duty employment.
     1.4. Medical service personnel must comply with the requirements regarding off-duty
     employment in AFI 44-102, Community Health Management, in addition to the requirements
     of this instruction.
GRANDFORKSAFBI51-100 23 AUGUST 2012                                                               3


   1.5. Judge advocates and civilian attorneys assigned within The Judge Advocate General’s
   Corps must comply with the requirements regarding off-duty employment in TJAG Policy
   Memorandum TJS-7, Off-Duty Employment of Judge Advocates and Civilian Attorneys.
   1.6. An AF Form 3902 is submitted whenever the type of employment or the employer
   changes, the individual’s Air Force duties change significantly, or the number of regularly-
   scheduled off-duty hours increases. Occasional increases in hours due to situations such as
   the availability of overtime work, or the need to fill in for an absent co-worker, do not require
   resubmission of the AF Form 3902. However, at no time may off-duty employment conflict
   with government duties. Previously denied requests may be resubmitted after a change in the
   individual’s Air Force duties.
   1.7. Military personnel who fail to comply with the filing requirements of this instruction
   violate a lawful order which may result in appropriate disciplinary action or criminal liability
   under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. United States Air Force civilian
   employees who violate this instruction by failing to comply with its filing requirements are
   subject to appropriate disciplinary action without regard to criminal liability.
2. Off-Duty Medical Research Studies.
   2.1. Military aircrew members, air traffic controllers, and members on personnel reliability
   program status are subject to special medical restrictions and are ineligible to participate in
   off-duty medical research studies.
   2.2. Military members scheduled to deploy within 90 days and military members assigned to
   an AEF rotation scheduled to occur within 90 days are ineligible to participate in off-duty
   medical research studies.
   2.3. Military members participating in off-duty medical research studies must inform the
   organization conducting the study that they are a military member and will have to
   immediately cease participation once they are within 90 days of a deployment or AEF
   rotation.
   2.4. Prior to completing the AF Form 3902, Application and Approval for Off-Duty
   Employment, military members seeking to participate in off-duty medical research studies
   must coordinate with their primary care manager (PCM) at the 319th Medical Group. The
   PCM will evaluate the study to determine if any medical or occupational concerns exist and
   recommend either approval or disapproval. The PCM recommendation will be documented
   in the applicant’s outpatient medical records. A written recommendation provided to the
   applicant and must accompany the AF Form 3902 during all stages of the application and
   approval process.
3. Procedures for Completing AF Form 3902.
   3.1. The applicant completes Section I.
   3.2. The applicant’s supervisor completes Section II.
   3.3. JA review is required on all off-duty applications.
   3.4. Section IV is completed by the first person in the applicant’s chain of command or
   supervision who is a commissioned military officer or a civilian GS-12 or above, and who is
   above the applicant’s immediate supervisor. However, if the applicant’s immediate
 4                                             GRANDFORKSAFBI51-100 23 AUGUST 2012


     supervisor is the 319 ABW/CC, then the immediate supervisor also completes Section IV.
     The individuals specified in this paragraph who are authorized to complete Section IV of the
     AF Form 3902 (other than Unit Commanders) are considered to be Delegates of Unit
     Commanders, for purposes of completing Section IV of the AF Form 3902.
4. Filing AF Form 3902.
     4.1. The requestor’s unit is responsible for maintaining the AF 3902 as long as the individual
     is assigned to their unit.
     4.2. In cases where the applicant is required to file a SF 278, Public Financial Disclosure
     Report, or an OGE Form 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, a copy of the
     completed AF Form 3902 will be sent to the Legal Office, which will maintain the form as
     required by the Joint Ethics Regulation, DOD 5500.7-R.




                                              TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI51-100 23 AUGUST 2012                                                            5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—- Air Force
AFB—- Air Force Base
AMC—- Air Mobility Command
AMCI—- Air Mobility Command Instruction
IMT—- Information Management Tool
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
