BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                         INSTRUCTION 36-2502

                                                                              14 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                      GRAND FORKS AFB SENIOR AIRMAN
                                                       BELOW-THE-ZONE (BTZ) PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 ABW/CCC                                                       Certified by: 319 ABW/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Paul E. Bauman)
Supersedes:    GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502,                                                    Pages: 13
               28 March 2012


This instruction supplements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion
Program. It establishes the 319th Air Base Wing Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-Zone (BTZ)
Promotion Program. It applies to all units, including tenant organizations, and is for active duty
personnel only. In addition, this instruction requires collecting and maintaining information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013,
System of Records notice F033 AF CIC C, Privacy Act Request File, applies. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes the releasability requirements from “Access to this publication is
restricted: this publication is For Official Use Only (FOUO); requests for accessibility must be
approved by the OPR” to “There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.” There is no
need for releasability restrictions on this publication. This change also changes forms used by the
Central Base Board (CBB) and the scoring procedures for in-person and package reviews.
 2                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014


1. Program Overview
     1.1. The purpose of this instruction is to provide direction concerning SrA BTZ. SrA BTZ is
     a one-time consideration for exceptionally well-qualified A1Cs to be promoted 6 months
     prior to their normal promotion to SrA. The objective of the SrA BTZ program is to select
     only truly outstanding Airmen.
2. Responsibilities
     2.1. Military Personnel Section (MPS) Enlisted Promotions will:
        2.1.1. Determine quotas (based solely on time in grade (TIG) and time in service (TIS),
        regardless of other eligibility or ineligibility factors) and obtain MPS Chief’s approval
        before distributing quotas. Quotas are distributed quarterly to large units and to the CBB
        (which considers BTZ eligibles for small units) NOTE: Airmen must be “considered”
        by the losing unit if their RNLTD is the 1st day of the first processing month or
        later. Wing SrA BTZ quotas are based on 15 percent of the eligible population.
        Computation is completed by the following example (fractions of 0.5 or more are
        rounded up): “13 eligible x 0.15 = 1.95 (or) 2 BTZ quotas”
            2.1.1.1. The following quota application applies:

Figure 1. Quota Application




        2.1.2. Identify eligibles and forward SrA BTZ Memorandum (outlines quotas for large
        units or instructions for small units to nominate members to CBB), Eligibility Roster, and
        GFAFB Supplement to AFI 36-2502 to each unit.
        2.1.3. Schedule a meeting with the 319 ABW/CCCE to discuss CBB procedures (i.e.,
        board member appointees, timelines, etc.).
        2.1.4. Prepare CBB nominee selection folders to include AF 1206, computerized BTZ
        report on individual person (RIP), decoration citations, and any Enlisted Performance
        Reports (EPRs) on record. Provide nomination packages to each board member 48 hours
        prior to the CBB.
        2.1.5. Convene the CBB.
        2.1.6. Prepare a board proceedings letter consisting of a list of CBB members, a list of
        nominees by merit; and those identified as selects, and alternates.
        2.1.7. Prepare a staff summary sheet recommending wing commander approval of board
        proceedings. The 319 ABW/CC approves entire BTZ selection package for both large
        unit selections and selections made by the CBB.
        2.1.8. Notify group commanders and group chief enlisted managers (CEM) of their
        selects/non-selects, who in turn notify units.
GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014                                                                3


      2.1.9. Notify selected nominees who have PCS’d by message and forward BTZ Board
      Results memorandum to member’s gaining MPS.
      2.1.10. Manually projects promotions in the Personnel Data System for each BTZ
      selectee.
   2.2. Unit commanders will:
      2.2.1. Ensure a quality indicator review on each part of the SrA BTZ Unit Listing. Part I
      identifies eligibles and reflects Airmen most qualified based on “zero” negative quality
      force indicators. Part II identifies questionable eligibles, and Part III identifies ineligibles.
      Parts II and III lists those members with quality force indicators.
      2.2.2. Route CBB BTZ nominations through their respective group commander. Group
      commanders will provide MPS Enlisted Promotions with nominations AF 1206
      (Attachment 2) for each Airman recommended for BTZ consideration.
      2.2.3. Prepare and conduct a large unit board if the number of unit eligibles warrants a
      large unit board.
      2.2.4. Approve the large unit board order of merit, and forward a copy of the board
      proceedings to MPS Enlisted Promotions.
3. Selection Requirements
   3.1. To ensure fair, equitable, and timely BTZ consideration, units will consider all
   individuals meeting TIG and TIS requirements regardless if a member is on temporary duty
   (TDY), on leave, or has departed due to permanent change of station (PCS) during or
   subsequent to the processing months for that quarter’s selections.
      3.1.1. All individuals appearing on the eligibility roster must be considered. This does
      not mean all eligible personnel will be nominated to the board.
      3.1.2. Commanders will review member’s personnel records, PIF, current fitness test
      score, any EPRs on record and discuss the consideration with the supervisor, CEM, and
      First Sergeant to ensure members are exceptionally well qualified before making a
      decision to nominate or not to nominate. Any fitness test failures will disqualify an
      Airman from consideration.
   3.2. Nominee packages will consist of an AF 1206 (Attachment 2), decoration citations (if
   any), a SrA Below-the-Zone RIP (produced by the MPS), and any EPRs on record.
   3.3. Alternates are selected in the event a selectee is removed by the commander prior to the
   effective date of promotion. Alternates will receive the original BTZ date of rank and the
   effective date will be the date of commander approval. MPS will assist the member with
   applying for a retroactive promotion effective date to Headquarters Air Force Personnel
   Center Enlisted Promotions in accordance with AFI 36-2502.
   3.4. When a commander has promotion authority over two or more units, the eligible
   members are combined and the commander complies with established large or small unit
   procedures.
   3.5. The names of BTZ selects will not be released until the 319 ABW/CC approves all
   small and large unit selects.
 4                                          GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014


4. Large Unit Selection Procedures
     4.1. Large units are identified as having seven or more eligibles, and are therefore given
     their own quota(s). Large units may nominate individuals for consideration by the CBB with
     the concurrence of the 319 ABW/CC. If this option is chosen, large units relinquish selection
     authority and all quotas to the CBB.
     4.2. Commanders will utilize the eligibility listing provided by MPS Enlisted Promotions to
     determine nominees.
     4.3. Each large unit will use the same scoring method and nomination package as used by
     the CBB, to include AF 1206, computerized BTZ report on individual person (RIP),
     decoration citations, and any EPRs on record.
     4.4. Large units conduct their local BTZ board, select nominees, and turn in selection
     package to the MPS no later than (NLT) the last day of the month (Feb, May, Aug, and Nov).
     The selection package will consist of a memorandum depicting BTZ selectee(s) and one
     alternate. The board must consist of at least three voting members. Each member must be in
     the grade of MSgt or above with the board president being a CMSgt or CMSgt select. The
     recorder must be a SrA or above to ensure fair and equitable consideration.
     4.5. The board president must ensure fair and equitable consideration of each nominee.
     Should the situation arise where the board may have been prejudiced in any way, the board
     president will immediately halt the board proceedings and report the incident to the unit
     commander and the 319 ABW/CCC. Based upon the information provided, the unit
     commander with concurrence of the 319 ABW/CCC will determine whether the board may
     be continued or reconvened with new members.
     4.6. After completion of the board, the president will send the large unit memorandum to the
     unit commander, including all nominees listed in order of merit, the Master Board Score
     Sheet (Attachment 3) and the Board Member Score Sheet (Attachment 4).
     4.7. Unit commanders must approve the board’s order of merit, and forward a copy of the
     board proceedings to MPS Enlisted Promotions. Upon completion of the board proceedings,
     properly destroy all board related documents.
     4.8. In the event the unit commander or 319 ABW/CC disapproves the board’s proceedings,
     a new board will be convened with new board members.
5. Central Base Board
     5.1. Small units are identified as having six or less eligibles. Small units may nominate only
     exceptionally well qualified nominees for consideration by the CBB. Note: Units may
     submit as many Airmen as there are stripes available at the CBB, but ensure that only
     exceptionally well qualified Airmen are nominated. The quota for selects does not change
     if additional nominees meet the board.
     5.2. Small units conduct their local BTZ review, select their nominee(s) to meet the CBB, and
     turn in nominee package(s) to the MPS NLT the 15th of the month (Feb, May, Aug, and Nov).
     5.3. The CBB is held as close to the 1st of the month as possible (Mar, Jun, Sep, Dec). The
     319 ABW/CCC serves as the Board President (or appoints a board president in his/her
     absence). The CCC also appoints three or more board members to form the CBB during the
GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014                                                         5


  third month of the quarter of SrA BTZ processing. A recorder (SrA or above) will be
  appointed by the MPS Chief.
     5.3.1. MPS Enlisted Promotions prepares CBB nominee selection folders to include AF
     1206, computerized BTZ report on individual person (RIP), decoration citations, and any
     EPRs on record.
     5.3.2. MPS Enlisted Promotions schedules a meeting with the ABW/CCCE to discuss
     CBB procedures (i.e., board member appointees, timelines, etc.). MPS Enlisted
     Promotions convenes the CBB.
     5.3.3. Prior to CBB scoring, the MPS Chief will administer the oath to the Board
     President and board members; the Board President will administer the oath to the
     recorder. The Board President is responsible for ensuring fair and equitable consideration
     of each nominee. Should the situation arise where the board may have been prejudiced in
     any way, the Board President will immediately halt the board proceedings and determine
     whether the board may be continued or reconvened with new members.
     5.3.4. After each board member reviews all nomination packages, each board member
     will rank order all nominees (one being the highest ranking). Each board member should
     consider the whole person concept and consider all information provided to them in
     determination of the best package.
     5.3.5. After each board member ranks nomination packages and in-person reviews, the
     board rankings will be totaled and divided by two to obtain the sub-total board points. For
     eligibles that are exempt (as defined by chapter 6) from the in-person review, the
     nomination package will be the sub-total board points without dividing the rank order.
        5.3.5.1. Points are based on rank ordering by the board members. These points are
        meant for reference only to determine the final rank order of BTZ eligibles.
     5.3.6. If board member rankings for nominees differ by more than two places, the Board
     President must lead an open discussion to resolve the difference.
     5.3.7. The recorder will then combine all board members’ nominee rankings to
     determine the selectees and one alternate. The Board President’s rankings will not be
     included in this rank order. However, in the event of a tie between two or more records
     for the last promotion quota, the Board President will determine which nominee is
     awarded the final quota.
     5.3.8. The board will also identify one alternate to fill a quota should selected nominees
     subsequently become ineligible.
     5.3.9. MPS Enlisted Promotions will prepare a board proceedings letter (Attachment 5)
     consisting of a list of CBB members, a list of nominees by merit, containing those
     identified as selects and alternates.
     5.3.10. MPS Enlisted Promotions will then prepare a staff summary sheet recommending
     wing commander’s approval of board proceedings. The 319 ABW/CC approves entire BTZ
     selection package (for both large unit selections and selections made by the CBB). Once the
     wing commander approves selectees, MPS Enlisted Promotions will notify group
     commanders and group CEMs of their selects/non-selects, who in turn notify units. MPS
     Enlisted Promotions will notify selected nominees who have PCS’d by message and forward
 6                                            GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014


        BTZ Board Results memorandum to member’s gaining MPS. Finally, MPS Enlisted
        Promotions will manually project promotions in MilPDS for each BTZ selectee.
     5.4. The 319 ABW/CC has authorized tenant units to compete in the 319 ABW CBB when
     the tenant unit has less than seven eligibles for the cycle.
6. In-Person (face-to-face) Board Procedures
     6.1. The CBB and large units will conduct face-to-face boards.
     6.2. All nominees will wear service dress uniform per AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal
     Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
     6.3. Board members should consider nominees dress and appearance, military bearing and
     responses to questions asked from AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide (PDG).
     General knowledge areas such as enlisted history, standards of conduct, and military customs and
     courtesies, should be the nominee’s focus in preparation for the board.
     6.4. After all BTZ eligibles have completed the face-to-face review, each board member will
     rank order all nominees (1 being the highest ranking). Note: BTZ eligibles not able to attend
     the face-to-face review board, due to extenuating circumstances, will be exempt from this
     scoring category.
        6.4.1. Extenuating circumstances include but are not limited to: PCS, emergency or
        convalescent leave, TDY, or deployments.
        6.4.2. Unless one of the above mentioned circumstances apply, units will ensure all
        nominees are available.
7. Removal from Select List
     7.1. If a commander determines that a selected nominee should not be promoted, he or she must
     notify the MPS Promotions office immediately (prior to the effective date).
     7.2. If a select is removed from the promotion list, the first alternate will be moved up to become
     a select. A package will be submitted to 319 ABW/CC for approval; the Airman will not be
     notified of select status until wing approval.
8. Supplemental Consideration
     8.1. If an Airman was not considered for BTZ during the quarter that he/she was eligible, the
     unit commander may submit a supplemental consideration (by memorandum to the MPS
     outlining the circumstances). MPS Enlisted Promotions faxes unit’s request to HQ AFPC/
     DPPPWM to request supplemental consideration. If approved, the Airman meets the next
     quarterly BTZ CBB. The member’s records are prepared in such a way as to reflect only the
     data that would have been contained in the BTZ package as of the quarter he/she would have
     normally been considered. If selected, the individual’s Date of Rank (DOR) and effective
     date would be back-dated to match the original date the member would have been promoted.




                                                PAUL E. BAUMAN, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014                                              7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, 21 June 1993
AFMAN 33-363_USAFESUP, Management of Records, 25 November 2008
Military Personnel Flight Manual 06-57, 18 August 2006
Air Force Computer Systems Manuals 36-699, Volume I, 19 October 2009
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program, 31 December 2009
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2 August 2006
AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide, 1 July 2009
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms/IMT’s: No Forms or IMT’s prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms/IMT’s: AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award; AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
A1C—Airman First Class
BTZ—Below-the-Zone
CBB—Central Base Board
CEM—Chief Enlisted Manager
CMSgt—Chief Master Sergeant
DOR—Date of Rank
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
FOUO—For Official Use Only
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IAW—In Accordance With
MPS—Military Personnel Section
MSgt—Master Sergeant
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PAFSC—Primary Air Force Specialty Code
 8                                        GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014


PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PIF—Personal Information File
RIP—Report on Individual Person
SrA—Senior Airman
TIS—Time-in-Service
TIG—Time-in-Grade
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014                       9


                            Attachment 2
        319 ABW SRA BELOW-THE-ZONE NOMINATION AF IMT 1206
10                     GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014


                      Attachment 3
     319 ABW SRA BELOW-THE-ZONE MASTER SCORE SHEET
GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014                      11


                            Attachment 4
     319 ABW SRA BELOW-THE-ZONE BOARD MEMBER SCORE SHEET
12           GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014


            Attachment 5
     BOARD PROCEEDINGS LETTER
GRANDFORKSAFBI36-2502 14 OCTOBER 2014   13
