BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                        INSTRUCTION 32-4004

                                                                                29 APRIL 2013

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                                               BOW HUNTING




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 CES/CEAN                                                     Certified by: 319 CES/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Sara B. Deaver)
Supersedes:   GRANDFORKSAFBI32-                                                        Pages: 10
              4004, 27 September 2010


This instruction establishes procedures for control of hunting on Grand Forks AFB, ND. This
instruction applies to all organizations and individuals on Grand Forks AFB. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records     Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)     located   at   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised. Major changes include: 1) addition of a
mandatory hunter’s safety course, 2) doe-first policy is removed and all permits issued shall be
identified for either antlerless or any deer as recommended by 319 CES annually, 3) crossbow
use is authorized for limited use only and 4) multi-use trail and north horse pastures will close
from November 1st through the first part of January to allow bow-hunting activity.
 2                                                 GRANDFORKSAFBI32-4004 29 APRIL 2013


1. Responsibilities. The primary purpose of this instruction is to implement a hunting program
on Grand Forks AFB. 16 U.S.C. 670 The Sikes Act, DoDI 4715.03, and AFI 32-7064 set forth
policies and procedures for the management of base natural resources, including use of outdoor
recreational hunting.
2. Policies.
     2.1. Individual hunters are responsible for strict compliance with this instruction and laws.
     Each hunter shall report all game violations set forth in this regulation and laws to the North
     Dakota State Game Warden.
     2.2. The Base Civil Engineer, 319th Civil Engineer Squadron (319 CES/CC) will be
     responsible for all aspects of the management of fish and wildlife on Grand Forks AFB and
     the development the Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan (INRMP) which
     includes management of fish and wildlife. The Base Natural Resource Manager (319
     CES/CEAN) will carry out the day-to-day activities at the direction of 319 CES/CC.
     2.3. 319 CES/CEAN is responsible for taking permit applications, collecting fees and issuing
     applicable permission permits for hunting within the confines of Grand Forks AFB. One
     week prior to opening of the deer archery season, a lottery will be held to determine which
     hunters are assigned to each area. After the lottery is held, permits will be issued on a first-
     come first-served basis. Permits issued shall be specifically identified for either antlerless or
     any deer. Permit type and number issued shall be recommended annually by 319 CES
     depending on resource condition of base deer herd health and population. The 319
     CES/CEAN is responsible to monitor natural resource conditions per the INRMP (AFI 32-
     7064). Hunting privileges shall be revoked on base, if a hunter is found not abiding permit
     rules. 319 CES/CEAN does not issue state deer tags. North Dakota Game and Fish rules
     always apply, and each hunter must have all appropriate tags for each deer taken. In years
     where harvest is restricted to antlerless deer first and a hunter desires take of an antlered deer,
     hunters should purchase a subsequent doe tag for the base area (Zone 2C) from an approved
     vendor or online at the North Dakota Game and Fish Website. Only wildlife for which a
     permit is issued may the permittee harvest under this program.
     2.4. The Base Staff Judge Advocate (319 ABW/JA) ensures this instruction is in compliance
     with DoD, federal, state, and local laws.
     2.5. 319th Security Forces Squadron (319 SFS) will enforce this instruction within the
     confines of Grand Forks AFB and will maintain a liaison with state and federal conservation
     enforcement agencies. In the event Security Forces witnesses a violation, they will detain the
     violator for local law enforcement personnel.
     2.6. Hunter Safety Program. It is mandated that all participating hunters possess a safety
     certification from an approved bowhunter safety course. The base safety office (319
     ABW/SE) is responsible to offer and direct the base approved bow hunter safety course for
     all eligible hunters listed in section 5.2. Other state bowhunter safety programs are also
     accepted to meet this requirement. To enroll in classes, contact the base safety office at 747-
     4114. The safety program instructor must have certification credentials to teach the course,
     and materials must be coordinated with 319 CES/CEAN prior to class instruction.
     Attachment 2 details the base hunter safety program.
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-4004 29 APRIL 2013                                                               3


3. Removal and Disposition of Injured Wildlife.
   3.1. Notification to 319 CES/CEAN and 319 SFS of injured and diseased wildlife is
   required. 319 SFS and 319 CES/CEOIE will, when necessary and in conjunction with the
   base veterinarian, destroy animals as authorized.
   3.2. The base veterinarian will, on a case-by-case basis, determine the extent of involvement
   needed by their office. Should base veterinarian services be unavailable the local game
   warden shall be contacted to assist as needed.
4. Permit Fees. Fees shall be reviewed annually by 319 CES/CEAN, with recommended
changes forwarded to the 319th Mission Support Group Commander (319 MSG/CC) as
necessary. Fees shall be collected by 319 CES/CEAN from the sale of base hunting permits.
The collection of fees is required by the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670) and is to be deposited to the
DoD fish and wildlife fund for future use on Grand Forks AFB for the protection, conservation
and management of fish and wildlife. The fee is set at $10 per permit, payable at the time of
issuance by cash or money order.
5. Deer Hunting and Permit Procedures.
   5.1. A deer archery season is authorized annually that coincides with the State of North
   Dakota deer archery season, in accordance with state law on Grand Forks AFB. The specific
   dates of the deer hunt within the confines of Grand Forks AFB are the same as the state of
   North Dakota. Public notice will be given by 319 CES/CEAN annually through the public
   affairs office, electronic bulletin board and e-mail, where appropriate, approximately 1 month
   before hunting season.
   5.2. All active-duty military, DoD civilians, retirees and dependents, who can legally hunt in
   the State of North Dakota, are eligible to apply for permits and participate in hunting activity.
   Eligible hunters are restricted due to security concerns.
   5.3. The actual number of permits issued is based on land area available for safe hunting on
   Grand Forks AFB per season. Permits will be issued firstly through a lottery system, and
   subsequently on a first-come first-serve basis where each hunter is solely assigned a specific
   time and area. Applications for permits will be taken throughout the season or until all
   available permits have been sold. Permits may be more restrictive than the hunting season.
   The applications will be received and permits issued by 319 CES/CEAN.
   5.4. All persons who participate in archery deer season on Grand Forks AFB must have in
   their possession the following:
       5.4.1. A state of North Dakota hunting license with a valid deer bow hunting license.
       5.4.2. A Grand Forks AFB hunting permission permit.
       5.4.3. A valid archery hunter’s safety certificate issued from Grand Forks AFB or an
       approved state program (see Attachment 2).
   5.5. A firearm deer hunting season is not authorized in conjunction with this instruction.
   5.6. All deer killed or wounded will be reported to 319 CES/CEAN at (701) 747-4774. All
   State of deer registration and reporting procedures are and will remain the responsibility of
   the individual hunter.
4                                                GRANDFORKSAFBI32-4004 29 APRIL 2013


    5.7. Locations of the hunting areas are the unimproved areas on the northwest corner of the
    base commonly referred to as CE Park, located outside of the base perimeter fence, a large
    area to the southwest of the airfield inside the installation perimeter fence, shelterbelt north
    of prairie view nature preserve, golf course, horse pastures, area north of 10th Ave, a segment
    of the multiuse trail and the lagoons/sunflake area east of county road B3 outside of
    perimeter fence (see figure attachment 3). Hunting will not be allowed within 200 feet of
    any building or dwelling located within the authorized hunting area. Hunting will cease in
    areas where training or other activities are occurring. Hunters shall be notified of any
    blackout dates for training by 319 CES/CEAN. Maps showing the designated hunting area
    will be distributed with permits.
       5.7.1. Each hunter must make a notification of intent to hunt prior to entering each of the
       following detailed areas: 1) For all hunting zones inside the base perimeter fence, call the
       Security Forces Control Center 747-5351/5352, 2) Call outdoor recreation , 747-3659 for
       hunting in the horse pastures, and 3) call the golf course staff, 747-4279 for hunting on
       the golf course. On November 1st of each year the north horse pasture, golf course and
       multi-use trail areas will be closed and opened for bow-hunting purposes only through
       the end of the season. The bow-hunting season typically lasts through the first of
       January. All other hunting areas will continue to be available as noted in section 5.1.
    5.8. During periods when hunters are in the field, temporary signs will be erected by the 319
    CES warning others entering the area that hunting is taking place. Specifically on November
    1st, the multi-use trail will be posted with appropriate signs to indicate the area is closed to
    runners and other users and open only for bow-hunting at the 7th avenue trail entrance,
    redwood trail openings, and by family camping (see figure attachment 4). In addition, base
    residents will be notified of the trail closure by email, marquee, base TV and any other tools
    available. The trail closure signs will be clearly marked and visible to all passersby. The
    MSA fields hunting area that borders the restriction zone shall be flagged to notify hunters of
    the restricted boundary.
       5.8.1. Should a wounded/shot deer enter the MSA restricted area where the hunter needs
       to track down the deer, they must call the security forces LE desk (747-5351) to request
       escort into that area.
    5.9. Hunting may be done from above-ground tree stands. Ground-level hunting is also
    permitted. All stands used must be nonpermanent in nature. All tree-stands will have the
    name and phone number of the owner either stenciled on or affixed to the stand. At no time
    will nails, screws or other foreign matter be put in trees for the purpose of erecting a stand or
    climbing a tree, with the exception of commercially-designed, screw-in steps. All tree-stand
    material will be removed from the hunting grounds at the end of the hunters authorized
    period. If a hunter fails to mark or remove their equipment promptly, it may be confiscated
    by Security Forces.
    5.10. All State laws will apply in accordance with the Deer Hunting Guide published by the
    North Dakota Game and Fish Department.
    5.11. Parking is limited to established roads, trails, and parking lots. No vehicle off-roading
    is allowed. Some areas may not be drive-in accessible, and the hunter is required to hike in
    their equipment.
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-4004 29 APRIL 2013                                                         5


6. Feeding of Deer. Feeding of deer on the installation is prohibited.
7. Cross-bows. Cross-bow use is authorized to only those individuals demonstrating a handicap
as outlined by ND State law and to areas west of the airfield and those areas outside the main
installation chain-link boundary (CE Park, Sunflake-Dakota parcel and the lagoons). Cross-bow
use is not allowed near housing or other urban areas.




                                             TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
 6                                             GRANDFORKSAFBI32-4004 29 APRIL 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resource Management, 17 September 2004
DoD Instruction 4715.03, Natural Resources Conservation Program, 18 March 2011
16 USC 670, The Sikes Act
Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
Prescribed Forms: There are no forms prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AMC—Air Mobility Command
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
IMT—Information Management Tool
INRMP—Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan
JA—Judge Advocate
MSA—Munitions Storage Area
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DoD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.)
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-4004 29 APRIL 2013                                                              7


                                         Attachment 2
       319TH AIR BASE WING BOWHUNTER EDUCATION PROGRAM (BEP)

A2.1. All personnel wishing to engage in archery hunting on GFAFB must have attended an
archery-specific training course prior to hunting. The specific requirements are listed below.
   A2.1.1. Training Requirements.
   A2.1.2. Upon application for base hunting privileges with the Base Natural Resource
   Manager (319 CES/CEAN), personnel MUST present one of the following items to be
   authorized to hunt on GFAFB:
   A2.1.3. International Hunter Education Association (IHEA) approved archery training
   certificate/card.
   A2.1.4. Official state-sponsored Department of Natural Resources archery training program
   certificate/card.
   A2.1.5. 319 ABW Bowhunter Education Program (BEP) training card.
A2.2. BEP Course Overview.
   A2.2.1. The 319 ABW Safety Office (319 ABW/SE) is the designated BEP course manager.
   A2.2.2. BEP instructors may be volunteers from the local community.
   A2.2.3. Instructors must meet the minimum requirements for the base archery program.
   A2.2.4. Instructors will receive specific training from 319 ABW/SE prior to teaching class.
A2.3. BEP Course Curriculum will include, but is not limited to, the following interest areas:
   A2.3.1. Tree stand and hunting blind safety, to include:
       A2.3.1.1. Safety Harness requirements; a safety harness at ALL times when hunting
       from an elevated tree stand. NOTE: If a hunter is discovered to not be using a harness,
       their privileges to hunt on GFAFB may be revoked until they attend the next BEP course.
       A2.3.1.2. Appropriate tree selection to ensure safe anchoring and proper stand
       positioning.
       A2.3.1.3. Proper stand anchoring/securing methods.
       A2.3.1.4. Ground blind site selection; emphasis on visibility/shooting lane safety.
   A2.3.2. Shooting lane considerations; emphasis will be on evaluating the considerations a
   hunter must evaluate PRIOR to releasing an arrow/bolt. Specific elevated risk areas in base
   hunting areas will be discussed.
   A2.3.3. Basic deer anatomy; emphasis on ethical shooting and understanding of kill zones.
   A2.3.4. Bowhunting rule/regulations; key state and base-specific rules will be reviewed.
   A2.3.5. Shooting safety; overview of proper techniques, safeguards, and archery equipment
   inspection techniques to improve shooting safety.
   A2.3.6. Archery Proficiency Test.
8                                               GRANDFORKSAFBI32-4004 29 APRIL 2013


       A2.3.6.1. All archers will be required to pass a field proficiency test.
       A2.3.6.2. The field test will include the following:
          A2.3.6.2.1. Archery equipment inspection; safety emphasis
          A2.3.6.2.2. Practical; students will shoot 4 targets, placed at unmarked distances
          (maximum of 30 yards); passing grade will be a total of 5 of 8 arrows in the “kill
          zone.”
          A2.3.6.2.3. Students failing to pass the practical will be required to retest at a later
          date; instructor may offer assistance and retest individually if desired.
    A2.3.7. The instructor will issue 319 ABW BEP completion cards and attendees will be
    added to a roster maintained by 319 ABW/SE upon successful completion of the classroom
    training and field test curriculum.
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-4004 29 APRIL 2013                 9


                             Attachment 3
              APPROVED DEER ARCHERY HUNTING AREAS
10                 GRANDFORKSAFBI32-4004 29 APRIL 2013


              Attachment 4
     TRAIL CLOSURE SIGN LOCATIONS
