BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 32-109

                                                                              26 FEBRUARY 2009
                                                               Certified Current on 14 April 2013
                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                                  GARAGE AND YARD SALES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and form s are available on the e-P ublishing website at
                       www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 319 CES/CEH                  Certified by: 319 MSG/CC (Col Carla H. Gammon)
Supersedes: GRANDFORKSAFBI32-109,                                         Pages: 3
            1 January 2005

This instruction presents the policy governing the conduct of garage and yard sales in the
military family housing areas of Grand Forks AFB. This instruction applies to all personnel
residing in the Grand Forks AFB military family housing.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Add attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information

1. Garage Sales: The 319th Mission Support Group Commander recognizes the need, on
occasion, for military families to dispose of their excess personal goods. This instruction
provides for that need and ensures that the resulting garage and yard sales are conducted in an
orderly manner and do not disrupt the day-to-day life of residents.

2. Limitation on Garage Sales: Garage and yard sales, for the purpose of this instruction, are
defined as the sale of personal goods of the military members residing in military family
housing. Such sales are limited to three consecutive days, during daylight hours. Military family
2                                           GRANDFORKSAFBI32-109 26 FEBRUARY 2009

housing residents are restricted from purchasing goods at other such sales or any other source
strictly for resale at a garage or yard sale to be held on the base. These sales are not to become a
commercial venture. Two sales of unwanted personal possessions are permitted per family per
calendar year, with one additional sale allowed if clearing quarters, going PCS, retiring,
separating, etc.

3. Advertising Garage Sales: Advertising of these sales is permitted, but must meet the
following guidelines:
3.1. The number of signs posted is limited to three.
3.2. Signs: The sign should state "Garage Sale" and be no more than 18" in overall height, on a
freestanding wooden stake. (Must be affixed to a wood stake firmly enough to resist the winds
common to the base).
3.2.1. Must contain the location and dates of the sale.
3.2.2. Two signs may be placed on a freestanding wooden stake in the ground and placed at the
end of your block. A third sign may be placed on a wooden stake placed in the ground and
located in your own yard. Do not place in common areas.
3.2.3. Cannot be posted on base fences, gates, trees, buildings or power poles or street sign
poles.
3.2.4. Must present a neat appearance; for example, straight cut edges and easily read from
vehicle.
3.2.5. Cannot be posted more than 24 hours prior to the date of the sale.
3.2.6. All signs must be removed within 24 hours after the date of sale and disposed of properly.
3.2.7. All signs in violation will be removed without notice.

4. Displaying Goods for Sale: Goods displayed for sale must be arranged so as to present a
neat appearance. This will avoid detracting from the appearance of the neighborhood and the
base.

5. Responsible Party: The military sponsor of garage or yard sales is responsible to ensure that
the sale does not impede traffic and the base traffic and parking instructions are not violated due
to the sale.




                                                                DIANE R. HULL, Colonel, USAF
                                                                319 ARW Commander




                                          Attachment 1
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-109 26 FEBRUARY 2009                                  3



        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008



Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
