BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 32-102

                                                                          28 SEPTEMBER 2010
                                                               Certified Current on 14 April 2013
                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                    CARE OF MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING
                                                           AREA/EXTERIOR STANDARDS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 319 CES/CEAC                                                      Certified by: 319 MSG/CC
Supersedes:    GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102,                                     (Colonel Joseph Douez)
               26 February 2009                                                          Pages: 11


This instruction establishes responsibilities and standards to be maintained for personnel residing
in Military Family Housing (MFH). Additionally, it provides guidance on procedures for the
proper construction/placement of various outdoor structures to include sheds, dog houses, fences
etc. and recreational equipment/vehicles. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Management Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Policy on exterior holiday lights and decorations, updated guidelines for storage sheds
authorized in MFH, inclusion of the MFH Energy Conservation program wing policy letter dated
20 Oct 2006, and incorporates the 11 Jun 2001 Wing Policy Memorandum 01-07; Care of Base
Housing.


1. Overview: Housing residents share in the responsibilities that come with the privilege of
living in MFH. Not only is each resident expected to advise housing maintenance of problems,
 2                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010


but everyone is expected to maintain the standards of your residence and outdoor adjacent areas.
The standards you maintain at your home affect you, your neighbors, and the reputation of the
base in our community. Residents who desire to construct fences, patios, dog houses, sheds,
playhouses, or extensive yard decorations must obtain approval on an AF Form 332, Base Civil
Engineer (BCE) Work Request, prior to initiation of construction. The AF Form 332,
accompanied by an AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Work Clearance Request (digging
permit) and liability statement, if applicable will be initiated at the Housing Maintenance Self-
Help Store, Building 411, and processed through the Housing Management Office (HMO), 514
Louisiana, for approval. Fences will conform to the types depicted in Attachment 2 and
Attachment 4. AF Form 332 and a Release of Liability form are required for swimming pools
over 18” in height and trampolines.
2. Resident Responsibility for Grounds Care:
     2.1. Occupants assigned area of responsibility is 50 feet on each side, 50 feet to the rear, and
     to the street in the front of your unit. If there is not 50 feet between two units each occupant
     will split the area equally. Yards will be kept mowed, trimmed, and edged. At no time will
     the grass exceed four inches nor should the grass be cut shorter than two inches. All
     sidewalks, driveways, and patio areas will be edged and free of grass/vegetation between
     cracks and joints. Grass will be trimmed around and/or under all structures, trees, power
     poles, fire hydrates, and fences within the assigned yard area. Yards and flowerbeds will be
     kept free of weeds, leaves, grass clippings and debris. Children’s toys must be put away each
     day to present a neat appearance.
     2.2. Trees and shrubs will be trimmed and maintained by each resident. If pruning or
     trimming is required at a height above 8 feet, contact Maintenance Engineering (319 CES) at
     Commercial: 701-747-6644 / DSN: 362-6644 for assistance. Attaching anything to trees in
     MFH is not allowed without an approved AF Form 332.
     2.3. Yard damage caused by pets, personal vehicles, or toys will be repaired by the resident.
     Repairs may include seeding, sod, and/or fill dirt. Residents are expected to maintain yards
     in a proper state of repair within 50 feet of their homes. Grass seed, fertilizer, and other yard
     products are available at the self- help store and topsoil is available southwest of the water
     tower on Redwood Drive.
     2.4. You must ensure the cleanliness of your pet’s area. Pet debris must be picked up daily.
     2.5. During the winter months, snow and ice must be cleared from sidewalks and driveways
     within 24 hours of snowfall. All concrete areas must be free of ice and snow. Clearing of
     snow from mailboxes in order for each resident to receive their mail is the responsibility of
     the resident. You must also clear access areas to garbage/recycle bins, furnace air
     intake/exhaust pipes, and natural gas regulator vents.
     2.6. The front of housing units will not be used for permanent storage of toys, swing sets,
     playhouses, grills, trash/recycle bins, mowers, or yard tools. Nothing should be stored in the
     front of housing units unless it is neat, well maintained, painted/stained, compatible with
     housing décor, and approved by the HMO.
     2.7. Field dressing of wildlife is not allowed in base housing area. Curing/aging is allowed
     and will be done inside a personal garage area with the garage door closed. Clean up will be
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                          3


   done promptly and neatly as not to offend your neighbors. All remains and parts will be
   double bagged for refuse and disposed of within 24 hours.
   2.8. Window wells must be kept clean of debris. Do not store items on top of egress window
   covers.
   2.9. Leave or Extended Temporary Duty (TDY): If you will be absent from your quarters
   more than one day in winter months or three days in summer months, you must make
   arrangements for maintenance, care and upkeep of your assigned housing area to ensure that
   standards are maintained. HMO must be notified with the name of responsible person and
   pick up a winter watchman to protect from freeze up during winter months.
3. Yard Inspection:
   3.1. While the housing office inspectors conduct the inspection portion and serve as the
   informing agency, the enforcement of the policy is with the First Sergeants and Commanders
   of Grand Forks Air Force Base. Each neighborhood will be inspected weekly. Schedules
   will be handed out at the time of signing for your home.
   3.2. The housing inspection notice (Yard Ticket) is used for a couple of reasons. It is used to
   notify a resident they are considered for the “Yard of the Month” program. It is also the
   primary means to notify residents the outside of their quarters has been inspected with
   discrepancies noted and clarifies how the Pass/Fail System works.
   3.3. Under a PASS or FAIL Inspection system, residents receiving 5 or more points during
   their inspection day will automatically fail. Please correct all discrepancies within 72 hours.
   Consecutive repeat discrepancies will result in a failure. The first failure is sent to the
   squadron First Sergeant for info/action. The second failure is sent to the Squadron
   Commander for action. The third failure in 12 months is sent to the 319 MSG/CC for
   determination on whether or not to permit continued residence in MFH. The appeal authority
   for the decision is the 319 ARW/CC.
   3.4. If you failed the Inspection, contact your supervisor immediately. Your supervisor will
   conduct a follow-up Inspection within 24 hours. You and your supervisor must bring this
   notice to your First Sergeant when the re-Inspection is completed. If you feel the
   discrepancy is not your responsibility or if you have any questions before the re-inspection,
   contact the Housing Office or your squadron First Sergeant. (See Attachment 5.)
4. Energy Conservation:
   4.1. Ensure exterior lights are turned off during daylight hours. Turn off interior lights
   during daylight hours and maximize the use of natural light. Maximize the use of energy-
   efficient fluorescent bulbs inside the home. Replace all higher wattage bulbs with bulbs
   rated 60 watts or less to save energy.
   4.2. Set air conditioning temperatures no lower than 75 degrees and heating temperatures no
   higher than 68 degrees.
   4.3. Ensure furniture or other items do not obstruct ventilation/heating ducts.
   4.4. During unoccupied hours, set heating temperatures to a minimum level of 55 degrees to
   keep pipes from freezing and turn off air conditioning. Ensure windows and doors are closed
   during heating and cooling periods.
 4                                          GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010


     4.5. Do not leave garage doors open during heating season.
     4.6. Use block heaters no longer than 2 hours prior to starting a vehicle.
     4.7. Ensure all home electronics are turned off when not in use.
5. All fences:
     5.1. Will be in the backyard.
        5.1.1. Homes without an exit to the backyard may be authorized to install fences near the
        side exit of their home. Requests must be submitted through Self Help on an AF Form
        332 prior to installation. Placement must be approved by the HMO.
     5.2. Will have a minimum of one securable gate at least three feet wide. In some cases, two
     gates may be needed.
     5.3. Will not cross common use sidewalks.
     5.4. Will not have pointed tops.
     5.5. Will not be attached to the quarters, existing yard dividers, or any government property.
     Exception: Variations may be approved by the HMO.
     5.6. Will not extend more than 50’ from the rear of the building and will not be wider than
     the width of the building, including the garage. Exception: Variations may be approved by
     the HMO.
     5.7. The area to be enclosed must be approved by the HMO.
6. Chain link fences:
     6.1. Will be 48” high.
     6.2. Posts will be set at least 24” into the ground.
     6.3. Posts will be spaced a minimum of 6’ and a maximum of 10’ apart.
     6.4. A top rail must be used on all chain link fences.
     6.5. Corner and gateposts must be larger than intermediate posts, a minimum of 2.5” outside
     diameter.
     6.6. Chain link fabric must be no lighter than 12 gauge (the larger the number, the smaller
     the wire).
     6.7. All posts must have end caps installed. End caps must not be pointed.
     6.8. The sharp points at the top of the chain link fencing must be removed by placing the
     knuckled selvage edge up and sharp points down. (See Attachment 3.)
     6.9. All fence fabric must be pulled tight.
     6.10. Colored chain link fabric must be galvanized, brown, green, or white in color.
     6.11. Privacy slats, when used, must be brown, green or white and maintained to keep a neat
     appearance.
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                          5


7. Wood privacy fence fences: (Must be all one color) solid-stained brown, redwood, or
painted white. Green-treated wood must be stained brown. (See privacy fence section sketch for
allowed size and shape, Attachment 4).
   7.1. Will be 72” high only. The tops of the vertical boards will be cut flat.
   7.2. All posts will be 4” x 4” and will be set at least 24” into the ground. Posts will be on
   72” centers. Horizontal rails for the vertical fencing will be 2” x 4” laid on end. The 4” x 4”
   posts can be notched so rails or metal hangers can be used. The bottom rail will be 1.5” up
   from the ground and the top rail will be 4” down from the top of the post. Vertical face
   boards will be made of 1” x 6” stock only. The top of boards will be placed even with the
   top of the posts. Vertical face boards must be placed evenly, a maximum spacing of 6” apart
   and a minimum of 5” apart (a piece of 1” x 6” stock can be used as a spacing guide and will
   position the boards approximately 5.5" apart). Vertical face boards must be placed in an
   alternating pattern on both sides of the horizontal rail. (See top view of privacy fence
   sections sketch, Attachment 4).
8. Snow fences:
   8.1. Will only be installed due to extreme drifting, and requires an approved AF Form 332
   and AF Form 103 before any snow fence is put up.
   8.2. Will be 48” high only.
   8.3. Will be black, brown, or subdued green.
   8.4. Will only be attached to steel T-type posts.
   8.5. Will not deter performance of other snow fences installed by 319 CES.
   8.6. If preferred placement is in another family housing occupant’s yard for optimum
   effectiveness, written approval from the neighbor must be included with the fence request.
   8.7. Placement of the snow fence will be determined by HMO after review of the request.
   8.8. Will be removed by 15 May
9. Small decorative yard/flowerbed fences:
   9.1. May be placed around flowerbeds and along sidewalks next to the house, but not in
   common areas.
   9.2. Must be kept neat in appearance.
   9.3. Cannot be a safety hazard, no sharp points.
   9.4. Three foot maximum height is allowed.
   9.5. If built of wood, must be solid-stained brown, redwood, or painted white.
   9.6. Cannot be placed along common use driveways or common sidewalks.
   9.7. Must be removed when terminating quarters unless accepted by incoming occupant.
10. Yard decorations/landscape items:
   10.1. Any change in landscaping must be submitted on AF Form 332.
   10.2. May be placed in the yard, along sidewalks, around flowerbeds, trees or shrubs.
 6                                        GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010


     10.3. Must be kept neat in appearance.
     10.4. Cannot be a safety hazard.
     10.5. If made of wood, must be solid-stained brown, redwood, or painted white.
     10.6. Cannot be attached to any government structure.
     10.7. Cannot be placed along common use driveways or common sidewalks.
     10.8. Examples: Freestanding poles, posts for various items, landscaping timbers, rocks,
     bricks, lattice work, etc.
11. Patios: Patio extensions and location must be approved on an AF Form 332 prior to
installation. They will be assessed on a case by case basis. Ground area under and around patio
must be returned to original condition when patio is removed, or prior to occupants Permanent
Change of Station (PCS) or relocation, unless accepted by government. Patio cannot be placed
over window-well cover.
12. Dog pens:
     12.1. Must be kept within occupant’s backyard.
     12.2. Only chain link fencing can be used. Color must be galvanized, brown, green, or white
     in color.
     12.3. Tarps used for roof/shelter or sides to distract dogs must be brown, green, or white in
     color except cover that comes with kit.
     12.4. Must be moveable and no larger than 12’ x 12’ and patios should not be used for dog
     pen floor.
     12.5. Ground area must be returned to original condition upon termination of quarters.
13. Doghouses:
     13.1. Must be constructed of wood, a flat-sloped roof is preferred, or the pre-made
     polyurethane igloo type.
     13.2. Must be no larger than 4’ x 4’ x 3’ high.
     13.3. Must be solid stained-brown, redwood, painted white, or the same color as the
     quarters.
     13.4. Must be movable.
     13.5. Must be kept within occupant's back yard limits.
     13.6. Ground area under and around doghouse must be returned to original condition when
     doghouse is moved, removed, or when terminating quarters.
14. Sheds:
     14.1. An approved AF Form 332 must be on file at the housing office before a shed can be
     installed in MFH.
     14.2. Sheds must be maintenance free (plastic or rubber-maid material) and neutral in color.
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                         7


   14.3. Sheds cannot be larger than 10 ft high, 10 ft wide, and 10 ft long. Sheds may be
   smaller but still need an approved AF Form 332 before installation.
   14.4. Sheds must be installed in the backyard only directly behind your unit and within your
   50 foot area of responsibility.
   14.5. Ground area under and around shed must be returned to original condition when shed
   is moved, removed, or when terminating quarters.
15. Fences, yard decorations, patios, doghouses, sheds, and playhouses:
   15.1. At all times will be maintained in a neat, attractive, and safe manner. Any item that is
   not maintained shall be repaired or removed within 30 days of notification.
16. Privately owned fences, yard decorations, and patios:
   16.1. Privately owned items will be removed prior to termination of quarters. Exceptions:
   this will be made if they meet existing government standards, provided the new housing
   occupant signs a waiver for the requirement, and thus must assume responsibility for
   maintaining the privately owned items and for removing it/them when terminating the
   quarters, or the items are accepted by the government. Fences not meeting existing
   government standards cannot be left. They must be removed upon termination. Chain
   link/wood privacy fences in good condition, meeting existing government standards, may be
   donated to the government at the discretion of the government.
   16.2. Any exceptions to the requirements of this supplement must be made in writing prior
   to the purchase and/or installation of the item. Examples: fences, patios, doghouses, and
   sheds, yard decorations, playhouses/equipment, pools, etc.
17. Play sets/Swing sets/Grills/Mowers/Yard Tools:
   17.1. Must be kept within occupant's back yard limits.
   17.2. Swings must not be attached to trees without an approved AF Form 332. Contact the
   Housing Office at Commercial: 701-747-3035 / DSN: 362-3035 for swing guidelines.
   17.3. Ground area under and around these items must be returned to original condition
   before terminating quarters.
18. Flag displays:
   18.1. Flags will not be attached to the building except for homes in Lewis & Clark Trail,
   Dakota Skies, Northern Lights, Whitetail Range and Roughrider Way neighborhoods when
   front entryway post is available with an approved AF Form 332. Any bracket installed must
   not be removed upon termination of quarters to prevent damage to the post.
   18.2. Mounting brackets must be secured 5ft up column from ground level.
   18.3. Single mount brackets are available at Self Help and must not be removed upon
   termination of quarters to prevent damage to the post.
   18.4. Residents that do not have front entryway posts or whom are not in the above
   neighborhoods may use a 4x4 post to display flags. An approved AF Form 332 and AF Form
   103 is required prior to installation.
       18.4.1. Post must be within 3ft of front of house or in back yard only.
 8                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010


     18.5. U.S. flags will be nylon all purpose/weather flats (3x5), using a five foot wooden or
     aluminum pole.
     18.6. U.S. flags will be flown in accordance with proper flag etiquette.
     18.7. Decorative/theme flags must be in good taste.          No flags that are offensive or
     derogatory in nature are allowed.
     18.8. U.S. flags that are unserviceable must be replaced and disposed of properly.
19. Swimming pools/water features:
     19.1. Only above ground pools are authorized with a maximum size of 8 feet in diameter,
     18” deep and no more than 100 gallon capacity.
     19.2. Pools are restricted to backyards only.
     19.3. Must be emptied when not supervised unless the yard is enclosed with a fence.
     19.4. Deviations from the maximum size require an AF Form 332 and a release of liability
     letter submitted for approval before installation.
     19.5. Lawns will be restored to original condition when pool is removed prior to termination
     of quarters.
     19.6. Must be drained and disassembled by 15 October for winter storage.
     19.7. According to Wing Safety ponds and other water features must be treated as swimming
     pools for safety purposes.
20. Trampolines:
     20.1. Must be placed in backyards only on a level surface.
     20.2. Minimum of 24 feet of overhead clearance is required.
     20.3. Horizontal clearance of at least 10 feet all around must be maintained from objects and
     possible hazards including electric power wiring, tree limbs, recreation structures and fences.
     This may be waived by HMO if a safety net is in place.
     20.4. A release of liability letter is required for trampolines. A copy of this letter may be
     obtained at the Housing Office or at the Self-Help Store.
     20.5. Must be disassembled by 15 Oct for winter storage. Depending on weather conditions
     this date may be extended.
21. Satellite Receiver Installation:
     21.1. Dish size must not exceed 24" in diameter.
     21.2. Receiver must be installed in back yard with a maximum distance from any home of
     50’.
     21.3. Dish/receiver will not be attached to the quarters, existing yard dividers, or any
     government property. Exception: The Housing Management Office may approve
     variations.
     21.4. Receiver must be supported by a single pipe, a minimum of 1-1/4” inside diameter.
     Schedule 40 galvanized steel pipe (1-1/2” measured outside diameter) or a 4” x 4” wooden
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           9


   post (treated or cedar) set a minimum of 36” deep in an 8” diameter hole (See Attachment
   4). The housing occupant must remove pipe and ensure the yard is repaired when the
   receiver is removed.
      21.4.1. Above ground stands are also authorized for satellite dishes, as long as they are
      secure and the cable is buried. AF Form 332 must be approved before installation.
   21.5. Receiver cable to the house shall be installed a minimum of 2” underground. Entrance
   of wire into the housing unit must be through the house sill plate. The sill plate must be
   repaired when the wire is removed. Any other methods must be pre-approved by the HMO.
   21.6. The receiver must be approved on an AF Form 332 prior to installation. The occupant
   will attach to the AF Form 332, a drawing of the proposed location, and any rules or
   directives that the antenna manufacturer may have. The satellite dish must be installed
   within 30 days from approval date.
   21.7. The occupant/installer will assume all responsibility for the installation, operation, and
   removal of the antenna.
   21.8. The occupant will assume all responsibility for potential damage.
22. Recreational Vehicle (RV) Policy:
   22.1. Recreational vehicles, boats, trailers, snowmobiles, are not allowed to be parked within
   your assigned housing area of responsibility (driveway or yard). They are only allowed for
   24 hours prior to use for loading and 24 hours after use for unloading.
      22.2. Major repairs to vehicles or boats will not be allowed in the housing areas. The
      only authorized location for major self-help work is the Auto Skills Development Center.
23. Vegetable Gardens:
   23.1. Gardens no larger than 10 X 15 feet, at least 30 feet back (due to wet basements)
   within your own backyard limits only, require an approved AF Form 332 (BCE Work
   Request) through Self-help. Occupants will be required to replace the gardens with sod prior
   to termination of the unit, unless the next occupant signs an acceptance release.
   23.2. For a larger garden contact Outdoor Recreation Commercial: 701-747-3688 / DSN
   362 3688 for a garden plot. The garden plots are located toward the end of Redwood
   between Hawaii Street and the horse stables.
   23.3. Vegetable gardens must be cleared of dead vegetation in the fall.
24. Exterior Holiday Lights and Decorations In MFH:
   24.1. Holiday lights and decorations may be put up after 1 October but cannot be illuminated
   until four weeks before the holiday. This refers only to lights and decorations attached to the
   house not yard decorations. Yard decorations may only be displayed four weeks before the
   holiday. Weather conditions may make it dangerous or difficult to remove exterior lights
   between 15 October and 1 March, therefore lights displayed during this time should safely be
   removed as soon as weather conditions permit. Yard decorations and decorations attached to
   the house that may be reached safely without a ladder must be removed no later than two
   weeks after the holiday.
 10                                     GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010


   24.2. Lights and powered decorations may only be illuminated from dusk until 11 p.m. to
   conserve energy.
   24.3. All decorations must be tasteful and in good condition.
   24.4. Plastic clip-on hooks may be used to attach lighting. Attaching anything to the siding
   of your unit with staples, nails, screws or other mechanical fasteners is prohibited.
   24.5. Lighting must be Underwriters Laboratories (UL) approved, factory-listed for outside
   use and must be “GFI” (Ground Fault Interrupter) protected. Running electric cords through
   windows and doors is not permitted.
25. Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
   25.1. Prescribed Forms: No Forms or IMT’s prescribed by this publication.
   25.2. Adopted Forms: AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Work Clearance Request,
   AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Work Clearance Request, AF Form 847,
   Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            DONALD L. SHAFFER, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 319th Air Refueling Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-102 28 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                        11


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
HMO—Housing Management Office
MFH—Military Family Housing
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RV—Recreational Vehicle
TDY—Temporary Duty
UL—Underwriters Laboratories

Term
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
