BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                             INSTRUCTION 21-110

                                                                                   6 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                          Maintenance

                                                             COMPOSITE TOOL KIT (CTK) AND
                                                                EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 OSS/OSAG                                                           Certified by: 319 OSS/CC
                                                                            (Lt Col Bradley S. Baugh)
                                                                                             Pages: 13



This instruction implements AFI 21-101 dated 26 July 2010, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management and AFI 21-101 AMC SUP 1 dated 14 Febuary 2011, Aerospace
Equipment Maintenance Management, and establishes the minimum control and accountability
requirements for all military, civilian, and contractor personnel assigned and/or attached to the
319th Air Base Wing (319 ABW) working in, on, around or traveling through industrial aircraft
areas. This instruction explains responsibilities pertaining to the use of dispatched tools,
equipment and CTKs to perform maintenance in and around the flight line and industrial aircraft
maintenance areas. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Serviceable, standardized, dependable tools and test equipment are essential to the success
   of the 319th Air Base Wing. The objective of the CTK and Equipment Management program is
   to prevent Foreign Object Damage (FOD) to aircraft, engines, training, and support equipment
   and to reduce tool costs through positive controls. Positive tool control is the responsibility of all
   personnel. All newly assigned personnel must read and understand the Tool and Equipment
 2                                              GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014


     Management provisions in AFI 21-101 AMCSUP 1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance
     Management, and this instruction as part of their initial work center briefing.
     1.2. Any missing unit issued item, equipment or tool will be declared a lost tool/item and
     reporting/search procedures will be accomplished In Accordance With (IAW) this
     instruction. Each operations squadron will ensure there is a group or squadron-level written
     procedure for issue and accountability of these items.
     1.3. Depot Teams, Factory Representatives, and Contract Field Teams will account for and
     control all tools and equipment. Tools and equipment will be inventoried at the beginning
     and the end of each job and shift. Production superintendents will ensure Depot Teams,
     Factory Representatives, Contract Field Teams, and Temporay Duty (TDY) personnel read
     and understand the Tool and Equipment Management provisions in AFI 21-101, Aircraft
     Equipment Maintenance Management, and this instruction before performing work in any
     aircraft industrial maintenance work area.
     1.4. The section chief responsible for each individual tool room will maintain a list of
     personnel authorized unescorted access. Personnel not on the unescorted access list must be
     escorted by someone on the list whenever in the tool room.
     1.5. Section chiefs with the assistance of their respective lead technicians will perform an
     annual review to determine if any changes are required to the makeup of CTKs.
     1.6. Unit-issued personal protective equipment items (e.g. ear protectors, reflective belts,
     headsets, etc.) will be properly marked IAW AFI 21-101 AMC SUP prior to use in any
     aircraft maintenance area. Marking is the responsibility of the user and may be applied by
     etching, all weather label, or permanent marker. Any missing unit issued personal item will
     be declared a lost tool/item and reporting/search procedures will be accomplished IAW this
     instruction.
2. Marking and Tool Identification:
     2.1. For implementation of the USAF Tool Accountability System (TAS), all CTKs, tools
     and test equipment will be etched with a 9-digit Equipment Identification Designator (EID)
     as stated in AFI 21-101.
     2.2. The EID will consist of nine characters (numbers/letters) of which the first four
     characters will be a unique World Wide Identification (WWID) code. Note: The intent is for
     the four characters of the WWID to identify the base (first and second character), unit (third
     character), and shop (fourth character) in order to leave the remaining five characters
     available for tool/CTK equipment numbering.
3. Tool Accountability, Control, and Inventory:
     3.1. When an individual checks out a CTK, an individual tool with attachments, or a piece of
     test equipment, he/she must perform a comprehensive inventory to ensure accountability for
     all items on the MIL. If any discrepancies exist, the kit must be refused and not checked out
     until the discrepancy is resolved. Once the individual accepts the CTK, tool or test equipment,
     he/she assumes full custodial responsibility for all items associated with the CTK, tool, or test
     equipment to include all bits and pieces associated with the kit and listed on the MIL.
     3.2. The MIL will give an accurate description of each item in the CTK so the user can
     ensure the contents of the CTK match the MIL. The nomenclature will be as descriptive as
GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014                                                              3


  posible with the specific size of each tool (i.e., 6" common screwdriver (measured by length
  of shaft), 3/8" x 1/4" drive, deep 6-pt socket, 3/8 x 5/8 spline socket, etc). Sets of tools in a
  case located in a CTK will be listed with the quantities of pieces and case included in the
  description. (i.e. Allen Wrench Set, 15 pieces with the case) The total quantity of items on
  the MIL will include all tools and sets of tools in a CTK. (The quantity of sets of tools listed
  on the MIL will equal the number of sets, if 2 identical sets of Allen wrenches, drill bits, etc.
  are included in a CTK the quantity on the MIL will be 2). All MILs will be maintained and
  extracted from TAS. Removed tools will be documented on CTK copy with date removed
  and employee number.
  3.3. Each dispatchable CTK will have a padlock to enable the CTK to be secured. The
  padlock will be attached to the box by use of a chain or cable to prevent losing the lock. The
  key will have a streamer (Similar to a remove before flight streamer) between 6 and 12
  inches long attached by the use of a split ring to enable easy visual location of the key if
  dropped or lost. The key, ring, and lock will be listed separately on the CTK inventory (each
  item counted as one for a total of three items), and the key will be etched with the CTK
  designation number. Combination locks will not be used for securing CTKs.
  3.4. Dispatchable CTKs will be locked if left unattended. Tool kits located within the
  restricted access area on the aircraft parking area will be locked but are not required to be
  secured to an immobile object. Tool kits may be secured inside the aircraft as needed, but
  will never be locked to an aircraft so as to interfere with aircraft operation.
  3.5. A small FOD container will be part of the CTK. FOD containers will be marked with
  the CTK number and listed on the MIL. Contents of the container will be properly disposed
  of prior to turning in the CTK to the tool room.
  3.6. Non-dispatchable tool kits may be left open for multiple personnel to use during a shift
  provided a single person performs the inventory and is responsible for the tool kit. Each tool
  in a shop CTK has an assigned location.
  3.7. Flight/section chiefs will ensure their respective special support/test equipment items are
  inspected and AFTO Forms 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record are completed and
  correctly documented IAW TO 00-20-1.
  3.8. CTKs and test equipment are not normally passed from one individual to another at the
  job site. However, the production superintendent (pro-super), expediter, or flight/section
  chief may determine there is a valid mission requirement to turn over CTKs or test
  equipment without returning them to the tool room for inventory. Extra care must be
  exercised to ensure tool accountability and control is maintained when this type of transfer
  occurs between the individuals. As a minimum the following will be accomplished:
     3.8.1. Both individuals involved in the transfer will accomplish an inventory and
     document the inspection on the Inspection/Inventory Log section of the MIL before the
     relieved person leaves the job site.
     3.8.2. The pro-super, expediter, or flight/section chief will authorize the job site transfer
     with CTK personnel and CTK personnel will update the tool control database to reflect
     the turn over. In addition, the pro-super will authorize distribution of CTKs or particular
     test equipment to decentralized locations.
 4                                              GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014


     3.9. If it is necessary to sign out a CTK when tool room personnel are not available, such as
     during weekend standby, at no time will a technician be authorized to both sign open and
     then close the same CTK, thus eliminating the requirement for an additional inspection to
     verify accountability. In addition to the user, either the pro-super or expediter is required to
     inventory the kit when it comes back to the tool room and both personnel will document the
     inventory in the Inspection/Inventory Log section of the MIL.
     3.10. Tool rooms may establish a program for secure sealing of low-use items. Items are
     considered low use if signed out less frequently than every 45 days. This method involves
     identifying items that ordinarily require counting during tool room shift inventories and
     sealing with a physical indicator to speed turnover by avoiding unnecessary counting.
     Examples are drill bit kits, hex key sets, tap and die sets, files, etc. Any tool kit or equipment
     item having multiple pieces, and capable of being enclosed in a pouch, box, or container, is
     worth including in a low-use sealing program, if they meet the above definition. Any items
     placed in the low-use status with exception to the crash recovery equipment will not require
     an inspection unless the items are being removed from low-use .
     3.11. Engine blade blending blue dye will be controlled as a tool item and will be marked
     and controlled by the tool room IAW para 2. of this instruction.
     3.12. Rags and soak up pads will be controlled in the same way as tools or test equipment.
     Rags and soak up pads will be accounted for and checked out in bundles of five. “Also
     account for the number of rags going to and fron a contractor for cleaning”. Only the Spare
     Tool Monitor and alternate may sign for rags when delivered from the contractor and will
     store them in a secure location to prevent pilferage. Used rags will be stored in a metal fire-
     safe container. The Spare Tool Monitor will account for the total number of rags that are
     dirty or clean. Soak up pads laden with fluids will be wrung out in the proper collection
     container by the user and properly disposed of. Soak up pads that are part of emergency
     response kits are not to be used for aircraft maintenance but should still be closely accounted
     for in TAS and tamper sealed by the user.
     3.13. Procedures for control of crash recovery equipment permanently stored/located in the
     crash recovery trailer will be inspected IAW Paragraph 3.10 of this instruction.
     3.14. Aircraft maintenance special equipment (e.g. boom sling or rudder lock) will be
     accounted for at each shift change. The pro-super or expediter is the approval authority for
     transferring special equipment already installed on the aircraft from one individual to the
     next and is responsible to ensure this transaction occurs successfully (Pararaph 3.8).
     3.15. Technicians will return all pieces of broken tools, if posible, and accomplish a missing
     tool report IAW (Paragraph 10) of this instruction if not fully recovered.
4. Chit System:
     4.1. Metal chits will not be used in/on any dispatchable items/tools because they present a
     FOD hazard.
     4.2. A chit system is authorized to be used in tool rooms and non-dispatchable CTKs to
     streamline tool room inventory at the discretion of the section chief. If utilized, this system
     will only be used to identify missing tools or CTKs which have been documented on the
     applicable inventories.
GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014                                                                  5


   4.3. Chits will be identified by a letter (representing the squadron) and a second letter
   (representing the flight) followed by a two or three digit number, sequentially starting with
   the number one and continuing to as many chits as is deemed necessary. In addition, a chit
   control log will be maintained to list the chit color, chit number, location, and the tool it
   represents. Chit color and designation will be standardized as follows:
      4.3.1. Use a RED chit to identify removed broken tools.
      4.3.2. Use a YELLOW/ORANGE chit to identify tools that have been routed to PMEL
      for calibration.
      4.3.3. Use a WHITE chit to identify tools that have been issued for long-term use, or
      TDY on an AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt.
5. CTK Periodic Inspections:
   5.1. The CTK Custodian will ensure implementation of inspection process for all CTKs. A
   periodic inspection interval between 30 days and 180 days (unless governed by specific
   technical order guidance) will be implemented for all CTKs based on each work center’s
   requirement. Periodic inspections are required to ensure tool serviceability and proper
   markings, to identify broken tools or the presence of rust, and to eliminate FOD. Inspections
   will be accomplished in accordance with TO 1-1A-15 unless specific TO guidance applies.
   5.2. The periodic inspection will be documented on the Inspection/Inventory Log on the
   MIL and/or electronically tracked. Exception: CTKs stored as part of War Readiness
   Material (WRM) equipment and not available for daily use are exempt from the periodic
   inspection requirement, but must still be inspected annually.
      5.2.1. Lead technicians and supervisors will ensure career field-specific equipment is
      inspected IAW (Paragraph 5.1) of this instruction.
      5.2.2. A lead technician/supervisor’s review will be accomplished every 6 months on the
      AFTO Form 244. A review will be considered overdue on the last day of the month the
      review was due. Lead technician and/or supervisor’s review is required when a new
      AFTO Form 244 is initiated or replaced.
6. Spare Tool Replacement Procedures:
   6.1. Spare tools are high pilferage items and pose a significant potential for fraud, waste, abuse
   and unauthorized use. Section Chiefs will limit the number of Spare Tool Monitor alternates to
   the absolute minimum based on the size of their section. The Spare Tool Monitor(s) will
   maintain sole access to the spare tools and will document transactions on a MIL (may be
   automated). Spare tool storage cabinets/areas will be secured at all times. The section chief of
   each tool room will appoint in writing a primary and alternate Spare Tool Monitor(s) responsible
   for the control and procurement of all spare tools within the respective tool room. It is the option
   of the section chief whether these individuals are the same individuals as the CTK custodians.
   Only spare tool monitor(s) will have procurement and issue rights. CTK personnel that are not
   Spare Tool Monitors or alternates will not have access to spare tools.
   6.2. Limit the quantities of on-hand replacement tools to a 90-day supply.
   6.3. Accomplish an inventory of spare tools at least semi-annually. This inventory will be
   documented in the Spare Tools Continuity Book, automated system, or similar document.
 6                                               GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014


     6.4. Do not issue replacement tools without a turn-in of the unserviceable tool or documentation
     indicating the tool is lost and reported IAW with lost tool procedures. Mark replacement tools
     with the CTK number prior to issue.
     6.5. If used tools are reused as replacement tools, completely de-etch any old markings. When a
     tool is removed from service, etchings will be removed prior to disposition.
     6.6. Spare tool sets (such as drill bits, allen wrenches, or Swiss files) are not required to be
     complete sets. When one item of a set is unserviceable, it will be removed and processed as a
     broken or unserviceable tool.
     6.7. Warranted tool management and the procurement of tools will be limited to the Spare
     Tool Monitor(s) in each work section. These individuals are responsible for contacting the
     company, monitoring tool warranties and are the only personnel authorized to procure tools.
7. Locally Manufactured, Modified, or Developed Tools/Equipment Procedures:
     7.1. All requests for locally manufactured tools and equipment will be routed in written
     memorandum format through the owning work center’s flight supervision, maintenance
     supervision, and OSS/QAE to the OSS/CC or designated representative for approval.
     7.2. Quality Assurance will maintain a locally manufactured tools and equipment continuity
     book and will maintain a copy of the authorization for each locally approved manufactured tool.
     7.3. All locally manufactured or modified tools and equipment will be maintained IAW this
     instruction and all other technical data regarding the maintenance management of tools and
     equipment.
8. Flightline use of Metallic Shoe Cleats:
     8.1. The only flightline authorized metallic shoe cleats will be obtained from individual issue
     (Envision). During icing conditions on the ramp individuals may wear the ice cleats. Particular
     emphasis will be paid to the grip surface, and after flightline use. Each individual’s cleats will be
     marked IAW AFI 21-101.
     8.2. Cleats will not be worn: in any government facility; inside or on surface of aircraft; within
     fueling/defueling safety zone; during fuel cell repair type operations; or while conducting
     operations using flammable solvents, paints, gaseous oxygen, etc. CAUTION: Vehicles with
     metal flooring may be slippery.
     8.3. Particular care will be taken when entering or exiting vehicles while wearing cleats.
     8.4. Pre and post use inspections of the footwear will be conducted in the same manner as
     dispatchable CTKs.
9. Lost and Unaccounted for Tool Procedures:
     9.1. A lost tool/object is defined as a lost tool/item or a portion of a broken tool/item, rag,
     technical order, line replaceable unit, piece of hardware, or soak-up pad. A lost object may also
     be a personal item to include a line badge, pair of ear defenders, reflective belt, whistle, writing
     utensil, or any other item carried into an aircraft or an aircraft industrial maintenance work area
     that does not belong there.
     9.2. If a tool/object is suspected to be missing or lost in or around an aircraft or maintenance
     work area, the following procedures apply:
GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014                                                                  7


      9.2.1. The individual discovering the lost tool/object will immediately contact the owning
      tool room and production super/section chief. The production super/section chief will notify
      Quality Assurance (QA), (not to exceed 1 hour), to initiate a lost tool/object report. After QA
      notification, production super/section chief will conduct/continue to search for the missing
      item.
      9.2.2. The owning units QA will assign a lost tool/object report control number for each
      report and will maintain all completed lost tool/object reports. Lost tools/objects will be
      documented by using 319 OSS OF-1 (Attachment 2) or equivalant. The completed
      worksheet must be submitted to QA NLT 24 hours after initiation of the report. Exception:
      During weekends or holidays, completed lost tool/object reports will be due to QA NLT
      close of business on the first normal duty day after the weekend/holiday.
      9.2.3. When a tool/object is suspected lost on or near an aircraft, a red “X” is entered into the
      AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, for all affected aircraft.
      Include a description of the item and the suspected area where it was lost. Conduct a
      thorough search with available personnel.
      9.2.4. If the item is found, any individual authorized to clear red "X" conditions will sign off
      the aircraft forms to state the item was recovered. The production super/section chief will
      then notify QA.
      9.2.5. If the tool/object is not found after a thorough initial search, and could potentially be
      on an aircraft, authority to clear a lost tool red "X" entry rests with the respective group or
      squadron commander.
      9.2.6. Upon notification of a suspected lost tool/object on an aircraft after taxi or takeoff,
      QA will contact the group or squadron commander. If the group or squadron commander
      directs the aircraft to be recalled, They will then notify the command post to run their
      checklist to coordinate the aircraft’s return to base.
      9.2.7. Tools/objects located after completing a lost tool report will be reported as “found” to
      the unit or squadron QA office. Include the original lost tool control number when reporting
      found tools.
   9.3. When a tool/object is discovered in any maintenance area and the item cannot be tracked to
   a previous lost tool report, or if the item is unmarked, the individual discovering the item will
   initiate a lost/found tool report. The production super/section chief will notify OSS/QAE. All
   efforts will be made to determine where the tool/object came from.
10. Environmental Impact Analysis Process:
   10.1. Whenever there is a large change in wing operations, the squadron involved should contact
   the environmental flight for a Environmental Impact Analysis Process assessment. Examples of
   changes in wing operations are addition or transfer of like Mission Design Series (MDS) aircraft
   or introduction of a new MDS aircraft.




                                              TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
 8                                           GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 21-101 AMCSUP 1, MAF Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 14 Feb 2011
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and
Procedures, 15 June 2013
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms: There are no forms prescribed for this publication.
Adopted Forms: AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, AFTO 244, Industrial/Support
Equipment Record, AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CTK—Composite Tool Kit
EID—Equipment Identification Designator
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
MDS—Mission design Series
MIL—Master Inventory List
MOC—Maintenanace Operations Center
QAE—Quality Assurance
TAS—Tool Accountability System
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014                                                            9


Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
10                            GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014


                           Attachment 2
     319 ABW EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION DESIGNATOR (EID) LIST
 GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014           11


                            Attachment 3
                     LOST TOOL/OBJECT REPORT




319 OSS OF-1
12                 GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014


                Attachment 4
     CTK PERIODIC INSPECTION CHECKLIST
GRANDFORKSAFBI21-110 6 OCTOBER 2014   13
