BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                       GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                                               INSTRUCTION 33-108
                                                                                                         15 AUGUST 2008

                                                                                    Communications and Information

                                                                                  NETWORK MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                                           SECURITY POLICY

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 CS/SCB                                                  Certified by: 319 CS/CC (Lt Col Daniel Liggins)
Supersedes GRANDFORKSAFBI 33-108,                                                                     Pages: 25
           1 August 2000

This instruction establishes policy and procedures to meet operational and security requirements for the
319th Air Refueling Wing Metropolitan Area Network (319 ARW MAN). It applies to all organizations,
including tenant units that administer and use the 319 ARW MAN. This instruction implements policy
established in AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS); AFI 33-115V2, Licensing Network Users
and Certifying Network Professionals; AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging; AFI 33-129, Web Management
and Internet Use; AFI 33-204, Information Assurance(IA) Awareness Program and AFI 33-202V1, Net-
work and Computer Security.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accor-
dance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publica-
tion; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The roles and responsi-
bilities of the Designated Approval Authority (DAA) has been updated, and added Attachment 1, Glos-
sary of References and Supporting Information.
      1.     ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES .........................................................................          3
      2.     ACCESS PROCEDURES .........................................................................................   5
      3.     SOFTWARE MANAGEMENT ................................................................................          7
      4.     CERTIFICATION AND ACCREDITATION (C&A) ..............................................                          8
2                                                             GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


    5.   NETWORK OPERATIONS SECURITY CENTER (NOSC) NOTICE TO
         AIRMEN (NOTAM) MANAGEMENT ...................................................................                         9
    6.   VIRUS SCANNING AND INCIDENT PROCEDURES .........................................                                     10
    7.   SECURITY REQUIREMENTS ................................................................................               10
    8.   MAINTENANCE ......................................................................................................   13
    9.   WIRELESS PDAs (Blackberry, etc.) ........................................................................            13

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                               15

Attachment 2— CATEGORIES OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION                                                                             21

Attachment 3— AMC BUSINESS RULES                                                                                              22

Attachment 4— EXAMPLE E-MAIL SIGNATURE BLOCKS                                                                                 24
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                      3


1. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
  1.1. Designated Approval Authority (DAA). The DAA is the official who assumes responsibility for
  operating the Air Mobility Command (AMC) Enterprise Network. The DAA determines the accept-
  able level of risk at which the system will operate, and has the authority to allocate resources to
  achieve an acceptable level of security. It is the DAA’s responsibility to provide authorization for con-
  nection of systems and networks to the AMC Enterprise Network. The DAA is the only person who
  has the authority to accredit the system. The DAA for the 319 ARW MAN is the HQ AMC/A6.
     1.1.1. Designated Approval Authority Representative (DAAR). The DAAR is the official who
     assumes local decision making authority to reduce the time required to get routine actions com-
     pleted. The 319 CS/CC is the DAAR. The delegated responsibilities of the DAAR are:
         1.1.1.1. Authorize US citizens (including contractors, summer hires) access to the NIPRNET
         and SIRPNET provided requirements of AFSSI-5027, Network Security Policy; AFI 31-501,
         Personnel Security Program Management; and other applicable security directives are met.
         1.1.1.2. Withdraw access to networks identified in 1.1.1.1. should circumstances dictate.
         1.1.1.3. Approval authority for all low-risk applications software and all software on network
         Windows-based workstations, after the following steps have been completed.
             1.1.1.3.1. Verify the software does not impact or implement server or remote access func-
             tionality.
             1.1.1.3.2. Verify the software does not have an Air Force or Air Mobility Command mor-
             atorium or sundown clause on its use.
             1.1.1.3.3. Check the AMC approved list of software. If the product is not listed, then it
             should not be approved. If the software does not fit in one of the current categories, then
             approval is left to the DAAR.
             1.1.1.3.4. If the software meets the above conditions and is still eligible for approval, have
             the base Network Control Center load the software on a stand-alone computer and run an
             Internet Security Scanner (ISS) scan to ensure the new software does not introduce a vul-
             nerability (e.g. virus, worm, etc.) to the network. Evaluate and mitigate any Medium and
             High vulnerabilities.
             1.1.1.3.5. Approve for use and appropriately document when all of the above require-
             ments are met.
  1.2. Commanders. Each commander has overall responsibility for proper management of the 319
  ARW MAN resources under their control as outlined in this instruction. Commanders ensure imple-
  mentation of security procedures, compliance with Air Force Computer Emergency Response Team
  (AFCERT), HQ AMC, and AMC MAJCOM/COMAFFOR C2/C4 Coordination Center (AMC M/
  ACCC) messages to meet Air Force level security requirements and completion of all accreditation
  requirements. Commanders are also responsible for ensuring proper accountability is maintained on
  all hardware IAW AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management and software
  IAW AFI 33-114, Software Management under their control.
  1.3. The Network Control Center (NCC). The Network Control Center is the central focal point on
  base for the operation, maintenance, and management of all aspects of the base network to include
  wireless LANs. The NCC provides an on-site technical capability to implement physical network
4                                                    GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


    changes and modifications and restoration of faulty network transmission equipment and circuits
    when directed by the AMC M/ACCC or AFNOSC. Using network administration, network manage-
    ment, and information protection tools, the NCC technicians provide core services to functional sys-
    tem administrators and users. When responding to Remedy tickets received from customers, NCC
    technicians have the following time frames to respond to the applicable priority as follows: HIGH – 4
    hours; MEDIUM – 3 calendar days; LOW – 8 calendar days. NCC technicians are trained and certi-
    fied according to the Network Crew Position that meets their position requirements or as outlined in
    their contract.
       1.3.1. Network Management (NM). Network Management monitors and controls the network,
       available bandwidth, hardware and overall configuration management. NM responds to network
       faults (errors) and user reported outages. Their area of responsibility is from the base service
       delivery point to the user’s network wall jack. This includes all base backbone infrastructure com-
       ponents, inside and outside the firewall.
       1.3.2. Information Protection. Information Protection installs, monitors and directs proactive and
       reactive information protection defensive measures to ensure the availability, integrity and confi-
       dentiality of base networked information resources. The AMC M/ACCC and Information Protec-
       tion are the only agencies authorized by the DAA to install and use intrusive software applications
       on the 319 ARW MAN. They manage the base firewall system, to include firewall configuration
       to support base computer systems. They respond to all network security incidents. Additionally,
       Information Protection is the focal point for obtaining access to web sites and opening firewall
       ports. Web site and port access are requested by completing an IMT Form 1186, Engineering
       Change Request/Authorization.
       1.3.3. Network Administration (NA). Network Administration provides oversight and manage-
       ment of the 319 ARW MAN server systems. NA duties include configuration management of the
       servers. NA also provides core-messaging services such as Automated Message Handling System
       (AMHS) and e-mail, Windows Domain Management, and Remote Access to base customers.
       They set network and messaging operational policy. Network administrators are responsible for
       implementing security procedures on all local network servers, including requirements dissemi-
       nated by AMC M/ACCC security messages.
       1.3.4. Call Center. The Call Center is the focal point for user issues and the creation of trouble
       tickets. The Call Center can be reached at DSN 362-2666 / Commercial 701-747-2666 option 1.
       The call center operates 24/7 in place during duty hours and on stand-by phone after duty hours.
       After duty hour trouble tickets due to mission outage will result in on-call personnel response.
       Non mission outage trouble tickets will be addressed on the next duty day.
       1.3.5. Client Support Administration (CSA). The CSA office resolves the day-to-day administra-
       tive and technical system problems users experience. CSAs typically perform duties at the compo-
       nent (workstation) level. CSAs provide oversight and management of user accounts. They work
       directly with individual users from initial set up through final disposition of each account.
    1.4. Functional System Administrator (FSA). The FSAs are responsible for the administration, con-
    figuration and licensing of functional systems under their control. They will possess an appropriate
    level of training and experience and thoroughly understand the customer's mission. Their area of
    responsibility is from the user's terminal to the server, but does not include the network backbone
    infrastructure. FSAs are not normally assigned to the NCC, but are a logical extension of NCC func-
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                    5


  tionality. FSAs take direction from the NCC. FSAs are trained and certified according to the appropri-
  ate crew position in regards to their duties or as outlined in their contract.
  1.5. Unit Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO). The ISSO establishes unit standardization
  and reporting controls as specified by the Wing IA office. The ISSO, along with unit FSAs, will serve
  as the unit point of contact for the Wing IA office. The ISSO will perform duties in accordance with
  NCC and IA direction. Normal duties include Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Pro-
  gram (TMAP), IA Awareness, and Computer Security (COMPUSEC). The ISSO normally resides in
  the group Knowledge Operations office. Complete ISSO duties are listed in AFI 33-202V1, section
  2.17.
  1.6. All Users. All network users must have a favorable background investigation and be trained and
  licensed in accordance with AFI 33-115V2, section 5. Each customer of the 319 ARW MAN is
  responsible for following established security directives and procedures. Customers must safeguard
  sensitive information (Attachment 2) and critical resources, and mark output products appropriately
  (i.e., FOUO, Privacy Act, etc.). Customers will report security problems or incidents to their ISSO or
  the NCC as soon as possible after detection. Customers are also required to notify their chain of com-
  mand.

2. ACCESS PROCEDURES
  2.1. NIPRNET Unclassified User Accounts. The NIPRNET account creation process is as follows:
     2.1.1. The member’s supervisor initiates the DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access
     Request (SAAR). After completing the SAAR, the supervisor digitally signs the SAAR and for-
     wards it to the Unit Security Manager for clearance verification and background check.
     2.1.2. The Unit Security Manager verifies the security clearance and background check, digitally
     signs the SAAR and forwards it to the member’s respective ISSO at the Group Knowledge Oper-
     ations office.
     2.1.3. The ISSO reviews the information, and if the clearance and background check is favorable,
     forwards the SAAR to the NCC CSA office. If the clearance and background check are not favor-
     able, the user is notified and the account is not created.
     2.1.4. The CSA office creates the user account and then notifies the ISSO.
     2.1.5. The ISSO contacts the user and requests they report to the Group Knowledge Operations
     office at which time the user will sign the SAAR and will be issued an account. The user must
     complete the mandatory Information Protection computer based training. Once completed, the
     user will turn in the training completion certificate to the ISSO. If training is not completed, the
     account will be administratively locked.
     2.1.6. The Information Protection computer based training via Advanced Distributed Learning
     Service is valid for 1 year and completion is an annual requirement to retain network access.
  2.2. SIPRNET User Accounts. The SIPRNET account creation process is as follows:
     2.2.1. The member initiates the DD Form 2875, SAAR, digitally signs it and forwards to their
     supervisor.
     2.2.2. The supervisor completes their portion of the SAAR, digitally signs it, and forwards the
     request to the Unit Security Manager.
6                                                     GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


       2.2.3. The Unit Security Manager verifies the security clearance and background check, digitally
       signs the SAAR and forwards it the member’s respective ISSO at the Group Knowledge Opera-
       tions office.
       2.2.4. The ISSO reviews the information. If the clearance and background check is favorable and
       the member’s training is current, the ISSO forwards the SAAR to the NCC CSA office. If the
       clearance and background check or training is not favorable, the user is notified and the account is
       not created.
       2.2.5. The CSA office creates the user account and notifies the Group Knowledge Operations
       office.
       2.2.6. The Group Knowledge Operations office contacts the user and requests they report to the
       CSA office. Upon arrival and identification card verification, the user account is issued.
    2.3. New Network Connections. All new network connection requests, including multi-port devices
    used to extend network service (i.e. switches and wireless access points), will be coordinated through
    a Project Workflow Requirements Resource (PWRR) request via 319 CS/SCX Plans and Programs
    Flight. For new SIPRNET connections, the requests must include an Emission Security (EMSEC)
    assessment conducted by the Wing EMSEC monitor located in the 319 CS Information Assurance
    Office. If not already appointed, the requesting unit must designate an EMSEC monitor. The EMSEC
    monitor must receive appropriate training from the IA office.
    2.4. Shared Network Connections. Shared network connections are prohibited. Printers or scanners
    will not be shared through workstation network connections; all devices will have a dedicated net-
    work connection.
    2.5. External Network Connections. All external connections to the network will only be accom-
    plished within the immediate control of the NCC. Organizations that do not comply with this policy
    will be disconnected from the base infrastructure.
    2.6. Firewall Exception Request. Outside agencies may require access through the base firewall to
    Grand Forks AFB resources in order to conduct their mission requirements. Submit all requests by
    completing an IMT Form 1186, Engineering Change Request/Authorization for access to the 319
    ARW MAN.
    2.7. Access by off-base contractors. Access by off-base contractors will be granted to the unclassified
    and classified networks for system maintenance and will be suspended when not in use.
    2.8. Internet Protocol (IP) Addresses. The 319th Communications Squadron will control and issue all
    IP address segments for the 319 ARW MAN. Users are not allowed to assign an IP address to any
    computer system without the coordination of the ISSOs and approval by the NCC.
    2.9. Modem Connections. Any modem connections to the 319 ARW MAN are strictly prohibited.
    The 319th Communications Squadron will confiscate unauthorized modems immediately.
    2.10. Base E-mail. Per AMC Business Rules, Tier III standard organization and user accounts are lim-
    ited to 50MB/75MB send/receive limits. Tier I and Tier II support is defined in Reference
    A6-2004-03, AMC Business Rules, for MAJCOM, Wing, and Squadron leadership (see Attachment
    3). Each user is required to archive/back-up their e-mail to a local personal folder or other storage
    device as needed. E-mail personal folders are not authorized to be stored on network file storage
    devices. Users will be notified when their server mailbox has reached maximum capacity. When
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                     7


  capacity is exceeded, the server mailbox may not accept incoming mail and sending privileges will be
  revoked.

3. SOFTWARE MANAGEMENT
  3.1. Enterprise Software. Enterprise software loaded on the 319 ARW MAN is known as the Standard
  Desktop Configuration (SDC). The SDC consists of a software baseline including the Microsoft oper-
  ating system and office production applications.
  3.2. User Required Software. Any software required by users not included with the SDC fall into two
  categories: Program Management Office (PMO) or user specific. PMO software is handled through
  the specific program office unique to the application. Examples of PMO software are Theater Battle
  Management Core Systems, GeoBase, Global Command and Control System. User specific software
  would be any other software title not PMO or SDC. Examples of user specific software are Microsoft
  Visio, Adobe Photoshop Creative Suite, and ActiveState Perl Development Kit.
  3.3. Software Management Process. In order to maintain accountability and licensing of software, the
  following process details the approval, acquisition, loading and accounting of user specific software
  loaded on the 319 ARW MAN.
     3.3.1. User Responsibilities:
         3.3.1.1. Users will not load or attempt to load software on systems.
         3.3.1.2. Users will submit a PWRR request to the 319 CS/SCX flight. The request will list the
         specific software to include version number along with justification. If the request is approved,
         the user will contact the NCC Call Center at DSN 362-2666 / Commercial 701-747-2666 to
         open a trouble ticket to have the software loaded. The user must provide the PWRR request
         number and proof of software license.
     3.3.2. 319 CS Responsibilities:
         3.3.2.1. The 319 CS/SCX flight will receive, track, and route PWRR requests through com-
         pletion in addition to maintaining a history of software PWRR requests.
         3.3.2.2. The Information Assurance work center will review PWRR requests and verify if the
         requested software is approved by AMC. If approved, the PWRR request will be routed back
         to the 319 CS/SCX flight. If not approved, Information Assurance will contact the user on spe-
         cific requirements to submit the software for AMC approval.
         3.3.2.3. The NCC and CSA office will respond to trouble tickets requiring software installa-
         tion. The CSA office will contact the user to obtain the software along with proof of license.
         The CSA office will validate software licensing compliance and will then load the software on
         the requested system after proper virus scanning is completed. During the software loading
         process, the CSA office will register the software to the appropriate organizational unit. The
         CSA office will track each software title, version, system name, and unit ownership. On all
         systems turned into the Base Automatic Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) office that are
         identified for reuse on the 319 ARW MAN, the CSA office will completely wipe and reload
         the system to ensure software licenses are not inadvertently duplicated. The CSA office will
         maintain a software library containing all user specific software and licensing documentation.
8                                                       GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


           3.3.2.4. The NCC Network Administration office will complete System Management Server
           scans to generate system software reports for annual inventories.
           3.3.2.5. The base ADPE office will provide a list of systems turned in for reuse or destined for
           the Defense Reutilization Management Office to the CSA office for software tracking update
           purposes.
           3.3.2.6. During the month of March each year, the 319 CS will initiate a base wide software
           inventory verification. Units will be notified of unlicensed software detected and must provide
           proof of license or the software will be uninstalled.

4. CERTIFICATION AND ACCREDITATION (C&A)
    4.1. Purpose of C&A Process. The C&A process enforces the standardization of all software, hard-
    ware, networked and stand alone systems (including wireless devices) encompassed under the 319
    ARW MAN. Certification is a comprehensive evaluation of the technical and non-technical security
    features of an information system and other safeguards made in support of the accreditation process,
    to establish the extent to which a particular design and implementation meets a set of specified secu-
    rity requirements. Accreditation is the formal declaration by a DAA that an information system is
    approved to operate in a particular security mode using a prescribed set of safeguards at an acceptable
    level of risk. AMC policy dictates that all networked and stand-alone systems will be certified and
    accredited.
    4.2. Roles and Responsibilities. Key roles and responsibilities in the C&A process include the DAA,
    Certifier, Program Manager and the User Representative. These key roles are explained in Chapter 8
    of DOD 8510.1-M, DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP).
    There are numerous other personnel and agencies that support the C&A tasks. The number of partic-
    ipants will differ between programs based on the guidance set forth by the DAA and local security
    requirements, as well as the sensitivity and criticality of the system. It is equally important to identify
    responsible agencies to obtain the needed information for your System Security Authorization Agree-
    ment (SSAA).
    4.3. System Security Authorization Agreement. The SSAA is the depository of evidence document-
    ing that the system meets Air Force and local security policies. SSAA documents should consist of
    configuration of the system to meet security requirements, a checklist that all certification tasks are
    properly completed, that the system is approved to operate and a plan for maintaining the accredita-
    tion exists.
    4.4. Accreditation of Network and Stand Alone Systems.
       4.4.1. Software. Software requires a platform (hardware) in order to operate. Certify the environ-
       ment in which the software is operating. The software and hardware are accredited together as a
       system.
       4.4.2. Network Systems. When accrediting a network system, you must have a completed SSAA
       and AMC Certificate to Operate (CTO) on hand prior to connecting to the 319 ARW MAN. This
       is to ensure that proper installation and configuration is done at the time of connection. The SSAA
       will outline vulnerabilities that may need to be assessed prior to connection. The CTO is your doc-
       umentation that shows Air Force or MAJCOM approval for this system to operate. Once any vul-
       nerabilities are eliminated or deemed within acceptable levels of risk (IAW the SSAA
       documentation) then, and only then, can the connectivity process begin.
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                       9


     4.4.3. Stand Alone Systems. For this purpose, a stand alone system can be defined as an informa-
     tion system that is used for a specific task with specific software and the system is not physically
     connected into the 319 ARW MAN. A stand-alone system can be as small as a workstation or as
     large as a complete network, with servers, router, hubs, workstations, etc. The accreditation for a
     stand-alone is provided by the program manager and a completed SSAA and CTO letter should be
     on station prior to operation of the system.
  4.5. Accreditation Procedures. The IA office serves as the focal point for all C&A requirements. The
  IA office provides guidance on the procedures needed to accredit the 319 ARW MAN and information
  systems connected to the 319 ARW MAN. The IA office will review all documentation to ensure
  physical, personnel, and information security requirements are met. The NCC will conduct vulnera-
  bility testing of all systems to ensure hardware and software security requirements are met. The IA
  office will present the DAA with all documentation and recommend approval/disapproval for final
  accreditation. Failure to satisfactorily complete all security requirements will result in disapproval of
  the accreditation request.
  4.6. Accreditation Documentation Policy. The IA office will protect certification and accreditation
  information from disclosure to unauthorized persons. Disclosure could cause the information to be
  exploited and may impact the function of the system or allow security features to be bypassed. Certi-
  fication and accreditation information must be marked, handled, and controlled consistently with the
  sensitivity of the information it contains.
  4.7. Re-accreditation Policy. The IA Office will evaluate changes to system architecture on a continu-
  ing basis to maintain system accreditation and ensure system modifications do not create new vulner-
  abilities to existing threats that would create more risk. The IA Office will reinitiate the accreditation
  process whenever system modification warrants re-accreditation or when 3 years have passed since
  the last accreditation.

5. NETWORK OPERATIONS SECURITY CENTER (NOSC) NOTICE TO AIRMEN (NOTAM)
MANAGEMENT
  5.1. NOSC NOTAM Management. Compliance with NOSC NOTAMs is mandatory. The NOSC
  NOTAM process is used to inform responsible agencies of network and system vulnerabilities and to
  track implementation of countermeasures. NOSC NOTAMs contain acknowledgment, dissemination,
  implementation, tracking, and compliance reporting instructions for network/system personnel. Each
  Air Force network enterprise, organization, and professional performs a subset of procedures to gen-
  erate, disseminate, acknowledge, implement, track, and report on NOSC NOTAMs.
  5.2. NOTAM Process Responsibilities.
     5.2.1. NCC. The NCC will receive, track, and disseminate all NOTAMs downward directed from
     the AMC M/ACCC.
     5.2.2. FSA. FSAs will take direction from, and comply with guidance and directives received
     from the NCC. Compliance will be reported to the NCC as directed.
     5.2.3. Users. Users will take direction from their ISSO/FSA when required to satisfy the NOTAM
     guidance.
10                                                     GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


     5.3. Non-compliance with NOTAM Messages. Vulnerabilities identified in NOSC NOTAM mes-
     sages pose a serious security risk to the network. Failure to complete actions specified in NOSC
     NOTAM messages will result in disconnection of the affected workstations from the network.

6. VIRUS SCANNING AND INCIDENT PROCEDURES
     6.1. Virus Scanning. The NCC and FSAs will run a continuous virus-scanning program on each sys-
     tem server and workstation to check for known viruses. Users will perform a virus scan of ALL
     removable storage media (to include USB Memory devices—i.e. thumb/flash drives) or files down-
     loaded from the Internet prior to use on any workstation.
     6.2. Incident Reporting. 319 ARW MAN users will immediately report vulnerabilities, security inci-
     dents, or unauthorized access to a computer system to the ISSO, unit security manager, and
     supervisors. Unit personnel are responsible for notifying their chain of command. The ISSO will
     immediately consult with the NCC prior to taking any actions. The NCC is responsible for additional
     reporting requirements to outside agencies and notifying Wing IA. Formal reporting of security inci-
     dents is accomplished in accordance with AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification
     and Tracking.

7. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
     7.1. Security Requirements. It is the responsibility of all personnel to know and ensure the personnel
     under their control are knowledgeable of the security requirements described in this document. Use all
     resources available, to include technical and administrative resources, to enforce this policy.
        7.1.1. Notice and Consent for Telecommunications Monitoring. All systems, stand alone or con-
        nected to the 319 ARW MAN, are subject to monitoring. By accessing the AMC Enterprise Net-
        work, all users are consenting to monitoring of all network related activities. In the event of fraud,
        misuse, or "malicious intent,” Security Forces or the Office of Special Investigations (OSI)
        reserve the right to inspect a user’s account within the guidelines of the Legal Rules of Engage-
        ment (ROE) policy. Warning banners are required in accordance with AFI 33-219, Telecommuni-
        cations Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP), on all telecommunication and automated
        information systems.
        7.1.2. Internet Policy. 319 ARW MAN users are permitted access to the Internet in performance
        of official duties. Using the Internet for unofficial purposes is unauthorized and may result in
        administrative, non-judicial, or judicial punishment. Commanders and supervisors are responsible
        for ensuring that assigned personnel use government equipment and services for official or autho-
        rized purposes only. Follow provisions outlined in AFI 33-129.
        7.1.3. Personally Owned Computing Devices. Computers personally owned by Air Force mem-
        bers, government employees, or contractor personnel cannot be used to process classified
        information. Personally owned computers will never be directly connected to the 319 ARW
        MAN. Personally-owned personal digital assistants (PDAs - including wireless PDAs [Black-
        berry, etc.]) and similar devices may not be directly connected to any government computer.
     7.2. Personnel Security. Access to the 319 ARW MAN is based on the key concepts of "authoriza-
     tion” and “need-to-know." Authorization is validated via the SAAR. Authorization will be granted
     IAW the requirements in AFI 33-115V2. Each user is responsible for determining a person's
     need-to-know before disclosing information under his or her control.
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                     11


     7.2.1. Privileged Access. Privileged access is granted via rights, passwords, or administrative
     accounts that give a user control over the 319 ARW MAN’s hardware or software. All users with
     privileged access will be a Certified Network Professional (CNP) as directed in AFI 33-115V2.
     Users can not be granted privileged access to the 319 ARW MAN without the proper training and
     certification.
     7.2.2. Government Contractors. Units request approval for contractor access through the appro-
     priate contracting officer when required to satisfy the terms of the contract. The contracting office
     is responsible for obtaining appropriate nondisclosure agreements and ensuring requirements of
     the Privacy Act of 1974 are enforced.
  7.3. Physical Security. Physical security involves protection of equipment from unauthorized local
  access.
     7.3.1. Resource Protection. The first line of defense for protecting valuable assets is resource
     protection. All personnel are responsible for positive identification of persons attempting to
     access 319 ARW MAN assets. They will verify the status of the individual and challenge any indi-
     viduals they cannot positively identify.
     7.3.2. Unattended Terminals. Do not leave terminals logged into the 319 ARW MAN unattended.
     Users must pull their Common Access Card (CAC) from the reader when stepping away from
     their terminal. If the terminal does not automatically lock, the user must log off or lock the termi-
     nal.
     7.3.3. Hardware Inventory. Each unit Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) custodian
     will ensure all network hardware assets (i.e., workstations, printers, etc.) assigned to their account
     are listed in the ADPE tracking database as directed in AFI 33-112. All ADPE assets will be
     tracked under this database.
     7.3.4. Software Inventory. Each unit ISSO will be responsible for ensuring that each program
     loaded on a computer is licensed and each license is available as directed in AFI 33-114, Software
     Management.
  7.4. Software Security. Users are to follow guidelines for software security as dictated in AFI 33-112.
  Additionally, access to programs and utilities that perform maintenance of the network and secu-
  rity-related software will be restricted to use by authorized NCC personnel.
     7.4.1. Software Certification. All software purchase requests will be routed through 319 CS/SCX
     Plans and Programs Flight utilizing PWRR.
     7.4.2. Unauthorized Software. Only government or DAA approved software is authorized on the
     319 ARW MAN.
  7.5. Remanence Security. Remanence security is the control of residual information that remains on
  magnetic computer storage media after erasure by standard program utilities. Unclassified systems/
  media turned in as excess or for vendor maintenance must be DoD wiped or degaussed by the Wing
  ADPE office. ISSOs and FSAs will comply with local/MAJCOM instructions regarding sanitizing of
  media. Contact the Wing IA Office or call the base COMSEC Office for information regarding the
  handling of classified media.
  7.6. Authentication. The use of a CAC is required to authenticate all AMC Enterprise Network user
  login attempts.
12                                                    GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


        7.6.1. Password Protection. Individual users are responsible for maintaining the integrity of their
        CAC PIN and/or password. DO NOT WRITE YOUR PIN or PASSWORD DOWN. Do not dis-
        close or share them with other personnel, regardless of rank or position of the requester. If a PIN
        or password is compromised, report the disclosure to your Group Knowledge Operations office
        immediately and have your PIN and/or password changed.
        7.6.2. Password Generation. Users will select their CAC PIN when the CAC card is issued or
        updated at the 319 FSS. A system administrator generates the initial password for a new user.
        Users will then generate their own passwords after the initial password assignment.
     7.7. Account Management.
        7.7.1. Two Accounts for Personnel with Administrator Privileges. Each person (FSA, network
        administrator, etc.) who has an AMC Enterprise Network account with administrator privileges
        assigned to the account will have a second account without administrator privileges. Personnel
        will log in with administrator privileges ONLY when performing administrative tasks. At all other
        times, personnel must log in as a regular AMC user.
        7.7.2. Local Administration of Windows Workstations. Neither users nor Administrators will be
        part of the local administrators group on the machine. All administrative rights will be granted by
        the NCC and authenticated through the AMC Active Directory.
        7.7.3. Closing User Accounts. All accounts are deleted 60 days after departure. All users are
        required to notify the Group Knowledge Operations office per the base out-processing checklist.
        The Group Knowledge Operations offices report the departure date to the CSA office. The CSA
        office loads the deletion date into e-mail account management and deletes the account at the
        60-day point.
     7.8. Marking/Labeling Magnetic Media.
        7.8.1. Labeling Removable Storage Media. Apply labels to all removable storage media (floppy
        diskettes, tapes, CDs, hard drives, and USB Memory devices—i.e. thumb/flash drives). Utilize
        Standard Form 711, ADP Media Data Descriptor Label, for this purpose. Additionally, all media
        must be labeled to indicate appropriate level of classification. Use the Standard Form 701 (green
        label) for unclassified and Standard Form 707 (red label) for secret.
        7.8.2. Marking/Labeling System Output Products. Mark/label sensitive but unclassified output
        products (such as FOUO, Privacy Act Information, or Source Selection Sensitive Information) in
        accordance with the appropriate governing directives. Anything attached to the SIPRNET must be
        labeled by using SF 707. Consult the Base Records Management office if further guidance is
        required.
     7.9. Inadvertent Entry of Classified Information (Incident Reporting). Any classified information
     introduced into the AMC Enterprise Network requires immediate reporting through secure means to
     your unit security manager, ISSO, or NCC. The security manager will report the incident to security
     forces and open an investigation. The ISSO is responsible for providing the necessary information to
     the NCC and work with the NCC to sanitize affected systems. The ISSO will work with the NCC to
     document all findings in accordance with AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification
     and Tracking. Unit personnel are responsible for notifying their chain of command.
     7.10. Electronic Messaging. Transmission of base wide e-mail is limited to only the 319 ARW/PA
     function and wing leadership. Blanketing of electronic messages to a large number of recipients may
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                   13


   delay other traffic and overload the electronic messaging system. Electronic messaging will be limited
   to only the minimum addresses required.
      7.10.1. Each office will designate an individual to monitor the organization’s mailbox regularly to
      ensure messages requiring action are promptly acted upon. Documents should be placed on file
      servers or public folders whenever possible. Hyperlinks will be used to indicate where the docu-
      ments can be accessed on the network in lieu of large attachments whenever possible/feasible. AFI
      33-119 details these requirements.
      7.10.2. Senders will include a signature block on all official electronic messaging in accordance
      with AFI 33-119 paragraph 4.2. Examples provided in Attachment 8.
   7.11. Commercial Web-based E-mail Services. All web based commercial email services, such as
   HOTMAIL, YAHOO, and EXCITE will not be accessed via the AMC Enterprise Domain. https://
   www.gimail.af.mil/login.asp can be use for personal mail.
   7.12. Subscriptions to Newsgroups. Use of newsgroups will be limited to official use only.

8. MAINTENANCE
   8.1. Hardware Maintenance.
      8.1.1. Infrastructure Maintenance. Only Network Infrastructure technicians will perform mainte-
      nance on 319 ARW MAN equipment. Systems covered under maintenance contract will be main-
      tained according to the contract specifications.
      8.1.2. Workstation/Server Maintenance. All workstation/server maintenance must be done in
      accordance with applicable warranties. Under no circumstances should personnel perform work-
      station/server maintenance without prior approval from the ADPE office. Additionally, do not
      give vendor maintenance personnel unrestricted access to sensitive but unclassified storage media
      or products at any time. The ADPE office is authorized to perform the cannibalization of unser-
      viceable computer systems for spare parts as required when cost analysis clearly determines it is
      economically feasible to use the parts.
   8.2. Software Maintenance.
      8.2.1. Archiving (Backup) of File Servers. Network Administrators (including FSAs) will make a
      daily incremental tape backup and weekly full backup of the files on each of their respective file
      servers.
      8.2.2. Archiving (Backup) of User Files. Users are required to backup any personal files they
      deem critical to longevity or mission accomplishment. Workstations are NOT encompassed under
      any NCC backup processes.

9. WIRELESS PDAs (Blackberry, etc.)
   9.1. Responsibilities.
      9.1.1. Information System Security Officers.
          9.1.1.1. Ensure C&A is completed as well as the PDA Certification Checklist. Contact the
          Wing IA office for documents and questions.
14                                                   GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


            9.1.1.2. Ensure users sign a wireless PDA User Agreement from Base Radio and maintain a
            copy of the user agreement.
            9.1.1.3. Contact 319 CS/SCBS IA for wiping/sanitizing wireless PDAs.
        9.1.2. NCCs.
            9.1.2.1. Be the first-level help for PDA e-mail problems.
            9.1.2.2. Install PDA software on user's desktop.
            9.1.2.3. If unable to resolve wireless PDA problem, contact AMC M/ACCC help desk and
            open a trouble ticket.
     9.2. Use While Operating a Motor Vehicle. DOD policy prohibits the use of cell phones while driving
     unless used with a hands-free device. Personnel using hybrid PDAs may only use wired headsets (sin-
     gle earphone only).
     9.3. Prescribed Forms/IMT’s: No Forms or IMT’s prescribed by this publication.
     9.4. Adopted Forms/IMT’s: AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                               JOHN E. MICHEL, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 319th Air Refueling Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                       15


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Management Program
AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management
AFI 33-114, Software Management
AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS)
AFI 33-115V2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use
AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification and Tracking
AFI 33-202V1, Network and Computer Security
AFI 33-204, Information Assurance (IA) Awareness Program
AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP)
AFMAN 33-270, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems Security Glossary
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
A6-2004-03, 24 May 04, AMC Data Storage Management Policy (AMC Business Rules)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
319 ARW MAN—319th Air Refueling Wing Metropolitan Area Network
319 CS/SCX—319 CS/SCX Plans and Programs Flight
319 FSS—319 Force Support Squadron
618 TACC—618 Tanker Airlift Control Center
ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment
ADPE—Automatic Data Processing Equipment
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFCERT—Air Force Computer Emergency Response Team
AFNOSC—Air Force Network Operations Security Center
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
16                                             GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


AMHS—Automated Message Handling System
C & A—Certification and Accreditation
CNP—Certified Network Professional
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
CSA—Client Support Administration
CTO—Certificate to Operate
DAA—Designated Approval Authority
DAAR—Designated Approval Authority Representative
DIACAP—DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process
EMSEC—Emission Security
FOUO—For Official Use Only
FSA—Functional System Administrator
IA—Information Assurance
IMT—Information Management Tool
IP—Internet Protocol
ISS—Internet Security Scanner
ISSO—Information Systems Security Officer
LAN—Local Area Network
M/ACCC—MAJCOM/COMAFFOR C2/C4 Coordination Center
MAJCOM—Major Command
NA—Network Administration
NCC—Network Control Center
NM—Network Management
NOSC—Network Operations Security Center
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen Management
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSI—Office of Special Investigations
PDA—Personal Digital Assistant
PMO—Program Management Office
PWRR—Project Workflow Requirements Resource
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROE—Rules of Engagement
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                        17


SAAR—System Authorization Access Request
SDC—Standard Desktop Configuration
SSAA—System Security Authorization Agreement
TMAP—Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program
USB—Universal Serial Bus

Terms
Access—1. (COMSEC) Capability and opportunity to gain knowledge or alter information or material. 2.
(AIS) Ability and means to communicate with (input to or receive output from), or otherwise make use of
any information, resource, or component in an Automated Information System (AIS). NOTE: An
individual does not have “access” if the proper authority or a physical, technical, or procedural measure
prevents them from obtaining knowledge or having an opportunity to alter information, material,
resources, or components.
Access Control—Process of limiting access to the resources of an AIS only to authorized users,
programs, processes, or other systems.
Accreditation—Formal declaration by a DAA that an AIS is approved to operate in a particular security
mode using a prescribed set of safeguards. See “Approval to Operate” and “Interim Approval to Operate.”
Application Software—Mission support or mission-specific software programs designed by, or for,
system users and customers. By using available computer system equipment and operating system
software, application software completes specific, mission-oriented tasks, jobs, or functions. It can be
either general-purpose packages, such as demand deposit accounting, payroll, machine tool control, or
specific application programs tailored to complete a single or limited number of user functions.
Assurance—Measure of confidence that the security features and architecture of an AIS accurately
mediate and enforce the security policy.
Audit—Independent review and examination of records and activities to assess the adequacy of system
controls, to ensure compliance with established policies and operational procedures, and to recommend
necessary changes in controls, policies, or procedures.
Authentication—Security measure designed to establish the validity of a transmission, message, or
originator, or a means of verifying an individual’s eligibility to receive specific categories of information.
Automated Information System (AIS)—Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystems of
equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement,
control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data and includes software,
firmware, and hardware. NOTE: Included are computers, word processing systems, networks, or other
electronic information handling systems, and associated equipment. See “Network.”
Availability—The property of being accessible and usable upon demand by an authorized entity.
Certification—Comprehensive evaluation of the technical and non-technical security features of an AIS
and other safeguards, made in support of the accreditation process, to establish the extent to which a
particular design and implementation meets a set of specified security requirements.
18                                                    GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


Certification and Accreditation Program—Program designed to ensure critical decisions regarding the
adequacy of AIS security safeguards are made by authorized managers using reliable technical
information.
Classified Information—National security information that has been classified pursuant to Executive
Order 12356.
Component—Hardware device with its required firmware or software that performs a specific AIS
function. Components include modems, printers, communications controllers, tape drives, message
switches, computers, gateways, peripheral controllers, et cetera.
Computer—See “Automated Information System.”
Computer Network—See “Network.”
Computer Security (INFORMATION ASSURANCE)—M e a s u r e s a n d c o n t r o l s t h a t e n s u r e
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information processed and sorted by a computer.
Configuration Control—Process of controlling modifications to a telecommunications or automated
information system’s hardware, firmware, software, and documentation to ensure the system is protected
against improper modifications prior to, during, and after system implementation. See “Configuration
Management.”
Configuration Management—Management of features and assurances through control of changes made
to hardware, software, firmware, documentation, test, test fixtures, and test documentation of an AIS,
throughout the development and operational life of a system.
Data—Representation of facts, concepts, or instructions in a manner suitable for communication and
interpretation. Data provides the building blocks for information processing. See “Information.”
Designated Approving Authority—(DAA)-Official with the authority to formally assume responsibility
for operating an AIS or network at an acceptable level of risk.
EMSEC—Short name referring to the investigation, study, and control of compromising emanations
from telecommunications and automated information systems equipment.
File Security—Means by which access to computer files is limited to authorized users only.
Functional System Administrator (FSA)—System administrators, other than NCC personnel, that
maintain functional servers such as leave web.
Hardware—Electric, electronic, and mechanical devices that make up a computer system.
Identification—Process that enables recognition of an entity by an AIS. NOTE: This is generally
accomplished by the use of unique machine-readable user names.
Information—Knowledge such as facts, data, or opinions, including numerical, graphic, or narrative
forms, whether oral or maintained in media. See “Data.”
Integrity—Computer security characteristic ensuring computer resources operate correctly and data in
the system is accurate. This characteristic is applicable to hardware, software, firmware, and the databases
used by the computer system. See also “Integrity” and “System Integrity.”
Internet—An informal collection of government, military, commercial, and educational computer
networks using the transmission control protocol/internet protocol (TCP/IP) to transmit information. The
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                   19


global collection of interconnected local, mid-level and wide-area networks that use IP as the network
layer protocol.
Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO)—Individual formally appointed by the commander to
ensure the provisions of all applicable directives are implemented throughout the life cycle of an
automated information system network.
Local Area Network—Computer network that services a small area. LANs typically have a diameter of
not more than a few miles and are owned by a single organization. See “Network” and “Metropolitan
Area Network.”
Logoff/Log Off—Procedure used to terminate connections.
Logon/Log On—Procedure used to establish the identity of the user, and the levels of authorization and
access permitted.
Metropolitan Area Network (MAN)—Computer network that services a large area. MANs typically
span large areas (states, countries, continents) and are owned by multiple organizations. See “Local Area
Network” and “Network.”
MODEM (Modulator/Demodulator)—In the computer world, modems are primarily used for
converting digital signals into quasi-analog signals for transmission and reconverting back to digital
signals at the destination.
Network—An interconnected collection of autonomous computers.
Network Security—Protection of networks and their services from unauthorized modification,
destruction, or disclosure, and provision of assurance that the network performs its critical functions
correctly and there are no harmful side effects. NOTE: Network security includes providing for data
integrity.
Password—Protected or private character string used to authenticate an identity or to authorize access to
data.
Personnel Security—Procedures established to ensure all personnel who have access to sensitive
information have the required authority, as well as appropriate clearances, and the need-to-know for the
information.
Physical Security—1. (COMSEC) Component of COMSEC that results from all physical measures
necessary to safeguard classified equipment, material, and information from access or observation by
unauthorized persons. 2. (AIS) Use of physical barriers and control procedures as preventive measures or
countermeasures against threats to resources and sensitive information.
Residual Risk—.-Portion of risk that remains after security measures have been applied.
Risk—Probability that a particular threat will exploit a particular vulnerability of the system.
Risk Assessment—Process of analyzing threats to and vulnerabilities of an information system, and the
potential impact that the loss of information or capabilities of a system would have on national security
and using the analysis as a basis for identifying appropriate and cost-effective measures.
Security Features—Security-relevant functions, mechanisms, and characteristics of system hardware
and software. Security features are a subset of system security safeguards.
20                                                    GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


Security Directive—Set of laws, rules, and practices that regulate how an organization manages,
protects, and distributes sensitive information.
Security Requirements—Types and levels of protection necessary for equipment, data, information,
applications, and facilities to meet security policy.
System—See “Automated Information System.”
Telecommunications—Preparation, transmission, communications, or related processing of information
(writing, images, sounds, or other data) by electrical, electromagnetic, electromechanical, electro-optical,
or electronic means.
Threat—Capabilities, intentions, and attack methods of adversaries to exploit, or any circumstance or
event with the potential to cause harm to information or an information system.
Unclassified—Information that has not been determined, pursuant to E.O. 12356 or any predecessor
order, to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is not designated as classified.
User—Person or process accessing an AIS by direct connections (via terminals) or indirect connections.
NOTE: “Indirect connection” relates to persons who prepare input data or receive output data that is not
reviewed for content or classification by a responsible individual.
Vulnerability—Weakness in an information system, or cryptographic system, or components (system
security procedures, hardware design, internal controls) that could be exploited.
Wing Information Assurance (IA) Office—Office charged with the responsibility for managing and
executing the IA program for a base or wing. The office reports to the MAJCOM IA and provides security
guidance to organization IP security offices or appropriate unit officials.
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                      21


                                              Attachment 2

                          CATEGORIES OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION

A2.1. Sensitive Information. Sensitive but unclassified is the highest data sensitivity level authorized
for processing on the 319 ARW MAN. As defined by AFMAN 33-270, Command, Control, Communica-
tions, and Computer (C4) Systems Security Glossary, dated 1 August 1994, sensitive information is infor-
mation that "the loss, misuse, unauthorized access to, or modification of could adversely affect the
national interest, the conduct of federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under 5
U.S.C. Section 552a (the Privacy Act), but has not been specifically authorized under the criteria estab-
lished by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or
foreign policy."

A2.2. Privacy Act Data. Examples of Privacy Act data are medical records, individual financial infor-
mation, recall rosters, manpower and personnel records, training records, marital status, number and sex
of dependents, gross salary of military personnel, civilian educational degrees and major areas of study,
school and year of graduation, home of record, home address, home phone number, age and date of birth,
present or future assignments for overseas or for routinely deployable or sensitive units, and office and
unit address and duty phone for overseas or for routinely deployable or sensitive units.

A2.3. Privileged Data. Examples of privileged data are chaplain records, staff judge advocate records,
safety records, and internal organizational management records (such as quality assurance data or creden-
tials committee records).

A2.4. Proprietary Data. Examples of proprietary data are copyright material and patented material and
information.

A2.5. Other Types of Sensitive But Unclassified Information. Other types of sensitive but unclassi-
fied information are logistics records, procurement data, financial data, source selection sensitive data,
investigative data, automated decision-making aids, maintenance records, audit records, essential ele-
ments of friendly information, for official use only (FOUO) data, critical technology data, scientific and
technical data (which has national security related implications), unit mobility or deployment informa-
tion, and war reserve materiel data.

A2.6. Aggregated Data. Information that would individually be unclassified may require protection as
sensitive information when combined or associated with other unclassified information. Users of the 319
ARW MAN are cautioned and required to take appropriate steps to minimize the potential for aggregated
information. The functional manager will determine when aggregated data exists in or is being processed
by the 319 ARW MAN. The potential for creating classified information from aggregated data stored
within the network is low. In no case will aggregated data in excess of sensitive but unclassified be autho-
rized on the 319 ARW MAN.
22                                                    GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


                                              Attachment 3

                                        AMC BUSINESS RULES
Tier I: VIPs
Organizational Tier I
Limits: No Storage Limit
Organizational mailboxes in group: MAJCOM/NAF Directors (2 Letter Directors), HQ Staff Agency
Lead (2 Letter) to include the Director of Staff (DS), the Inspector General (IG), the Surgeon General
(SG), etc and Wing Commanders, Vice Wing Commanders, Group Commanders, Deputy Group Com-
manders, Executive Officer organizational boxes for the Commanders listed above, Command Chief
Master Sergeant organizational accounts.
Examples: AMC/CC, AMC/CV, AMC CG/CC, AMC/IG, AMC/PA, 375 AW/CC, 375 AW/CV, 375 AW/
CCE, 375 AW/CCM, AMC/A4, AMC/A6, AMC/A6E, AMC/A7E, AFCA/CC, AFCA/EV, AFCA/EA,
AFCA/CCE
Personal Tier I
Limits: No Storage Limit
Personal mailboxes in group: All O-6 and above, MAJCOM/NAF Directors (2 Letter Directors), HQ Staff
Agency Lead (2 Letter) to include the Director of Staff the Inspector General (IG), the Surgeon General
(SG), etc and, Wing Commanders, Vice Wing Commanders, Group Commanders, Deputy Group Com-
manders, All Chief Master Sergeants
NOTE: This does NOT include personal mailboxes for secretaries, execs and superintendents that fall
under the front office staff. Their personal email accounts will be classified as “Standard Users.”
Tier II: Power Users & Power Organizational Accounts
Organizational Tier II
Limits: 250MB send / 300MB receive
Organizational mailboxes in group: MAJCOM/NAF 3-letters, Squadron Commanders, Squadron First
Sergeants, Squadron Executive Officers, Wing Staff Agency Lead (2 letter) to include the Director of
Staff (DS), the Inspector General (IG), the Comptroller (FM), the Staff Judge Advocate (JA), the Chief of
Wing Plans (XP), etc and 24x7 Mission Critical Organizational mailboxes (Command Post, Help desk,
618 TACC, etc), Organizational mailboxes monitored 24x7 by on-call personnel
Examples: 868 CS/CC, 375 CE/CC, 375 AW/CP, 375 AW/JA, 375 AW/CCP, AMC/A67, AMC/A44,
AMC/A3R, AMC/A43E, AFCA/EAC, AFCA/EVP
Personal Tier II
Limits: 250MB send / 300MB receive
Personal mailboxes in group: MAJCOM/NAF 3-letters, Squadron Commanders, Squadron First Ser-
geants, Wing Staff Agency Lead (2 letter) to include the Director of Staff (DS), the Inspector General
(IG), the Comptroller (FM), the Staff Judge Advocate (JA), the Chief of Wing Plans (XP), etc.
NOTE: This does NOT include personal mailboxes for secretaries, executive officers and superinten-
dents that fall under the front office staff. This does not include personal mailboxes for personnel who are
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008                                                                    23


the primary owners of organizational mailboxes listed in the power user category. Their personal email
accounts will be classified as “Standard Users.”
Tier III: Standard Users & Standard Organizational Accounts
Limits: 50MB send / 75MB receive
Users in group: All organizational and personal mailboxes not listed in the VIP or Power User categories.
Examples: Scott Conf Rm 868 CS 859, 6 MDG/RMO Conference Room, 22 OG/CONFRM, 41 AS/Con-
ference Room Bldg 753 Room 122, 868 CS/SCBN Scheduling, Calendar CSS AB 5 MSS/CSS
24                                            GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008


                                        Attachment 4

                              EXAMPLE E-MAIL SIGNATURE BLOCKS
Active Duty:
//SIGNED//
RAINY DAYS, Maj, USAF
Branch Chief, Messaging Services
DSN 555-5555 Comm (555)555-5555


Military Reservist:
//SIGNED//
Robert Osprey, Lt Col, USAFR
Branch Chief, Employee Services
DSN 555-5555 Comm (555)555-5555


National Guard:
//SIGNED//
Joseph A. Chinook, SMSgt, NG
Superintendent, Life Skills
DSN 555-5555 Comm (555)555-5555


Active Duty Coast Guard:
//SIGNED//
Harold S. Skywarrior, CWO, CG
OIC, Transportation Flight
DSN 555-5555 Comm (555)555-5555


DoD Civilian Signature Block:
//SIGNED//
Raptor Dominance, GS-12, DAF
Branch Chief, Field Support
DSN 555-5555 Comm (555)555-5555
GRANDFORKSAFBI33-108 15 AUGUST 2008    25


Contractor Signature Block:
//SIGNED//
Kitty Hawk, Contractor, HQ AFCA/ECFP
DSN 555-5555 Comm (555)555-5555
