BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                         INSTRUCTION 34-223

                                                                            14 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                        Services

                                                 FUND-RAISING FOR ALL GRAND FORKS
                                                   AFB PRIVATE ORGANIZATIONS AND
                                                             UNOFFICIAL ACTIVITIES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 FSS/FSR                                                       Certified by: 319 FSS/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Regina D Castro)
                                                                                         Pages: 4
Supersedes:   GRANDFORKSAFBI34-223,
              01 January 2004


This instruction establishes procedures for private organizations in organizing and executing
fund-raising events for Grand Forks AFB. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Deleted all references to Services and replaced with Force Support. Clarified customer
responsibilities in regards to requesting approval, organizing, and executing fund-raising events
on Grand Forks AFB. AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program, remains the
prescribing directive for Private Organization fund- raising activities.
 2                                            GRANDFORKSAFBI34-223 14 OCTOBER 2014


1. Responsibilities
     1.1. The primary purpose of this instruction is to implement guidance for organizing and
     executing fund-raising events for Private Organizations on Grand Forks AFB. The Air Force
     Private Organization Guide, HQ AFSVA, 2007 and AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO)
     Program, 8 March 2007 set forth policies and procedures for the management of all Private
     Organization’s activities.
2. Policies.
     2.1. The installation Commander designates the MSG/CC as the approving official for fund-
     raising events held on Grand Forks AFB. Fund-raising events must be requested on a fund-
     raising request form.
3. General Provisions.
     3.1. Fund-raising events must be requested on a fund-raising request form located on the
     Grand Forks AFB Force Support website. Your request will be routed through the
     appropriate coordination prior to submission to the 319 MSG and 319 FSS Commanders.
     Fund-raiser requests need to be submitted at least two (2) weeks prior to the proposed fund-
     raising event. Private organizations and unofficial activities may not begin fund-raising
     efforts (including advertisement) until you have written approval from the 319 MSG/CC.
     3.2. Coordination for fund-raising events depend on the type of activity proposed. Military
     Public Health must coordinate on all events involving food. The Security Forces Squadron
     will coordinate on all events affecting traffic or security. The facility manager of location of
     event must coordinate to ensure knowledge of the event. Coordination with state government
     agencies may be required for certain type of activities such as raffles or games of chance. All
     coordination must be complete prior to submission to the 319 MSG and 319 FSS
     commanders.
     3.3. Private organizations and unofficial activities are prohibited from soliciting donations
     from any off-base business, firm, or corporation without prior approval from 319 FSS
     Marketing or 319 ABW/CCC. Private organizations and unofficial activities must not under
     any circumstances present themselves as representatives of the US Air Force or Grand Forks
     AFB. Private organizations and unofficial activities are prohibited from requesting or
     soliciting donations on base, to include squadron Christmas parties.
4. Procedures For Resale Activities.
     4.1. Sales must be limited to infrequent occasions. Any request for frequent or continuous
     sales of merchandise requires an AF- level waiver.
     4.2. The Installation Commander or designated representative may approve the occasional
     sale of merchandise for fund-raising; however, the merchandise must not be listed in AFI 34-
     211(I), Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Army and Air Force Exchange Service Operations.
     4.3. Private organizations, unofficial activities and/or any non Force Support Squadron or
     AAFES activity may not conduct fund-raising activities in Non-Appropriated Fund
     Instrumentality (NAFI) facility unless coordinated with or, under contract to that activity.
     The hosting activity must be receiving benefit or reimbursement (financial or otherwise) for
     the use of the facility or services being provided.
GRANDFORKSAFBI34-223 14 OCTOBER 2014                                                           3


      4.3.1. Private organizations, unofficial activities, and/or any non Force Support Squadron
      or AAFES activities are categorized into three groups for this purpose:
          4.3.1.1. Favored support: Activity manager determines that the event or activity will
          support or enhance the facility’s mission. NAF cost will be recovered through the
          details of the event, i.e. food or bar sales
          4.3.1.2. Complimentary support: Activity manager determines that the event
          compliments the operation or mission, and assess an “at cost fee” for the use of the
          NAF services provided.
          4.3.1.3. Private enterprise support: Activity manager determines that the event is not
          necessarily favored or complimentary and is in fact mostly beneficial to the event
          owner and not the public. Manager will assess a fee commensurate with expected
          event revenue generation, i.e., 20% of receipts.
5. Procedures For Other Fund-Raising Activities.
   5.1. Any food sales must be coordinated through the Military Public Health office. When
   other than pre-packaged food is served, all food servers and preparers must have food
   handlers training. All food purchased for resale must be purchased from an approved source.
   Proper food preparation and storage requirements must be maintained IAW applicable
   regulations.
   5.2. Private organizations and unofficial activities using the commissary to purchase items to
   be resold during fund-raising events must ensure that all customers are authorized
   commissary use. Commissary items may not be purchased with the “intent” to resell to
   unauthorized users, to include sales at squadron funded snack bars to civilians.
      5.2.1. Private organizations and unofficial activities are encouraged to register with the
      IRS for tax purposes. Private organizations and unofficial activities should request to be
      issued a ‘tax exempt’ number which would allow organizations to purchase resale items
      from commercial sources without having to pay sales tax. The Mission Support Group
      and Force Support Squadron sometimes contracts officially registered organizations to
      conduct operations for services at carnivals and air shows. All organizations must report
      earnings in accordance with the US Federal tax code. The tax ID number would allow the
      organizations to be compensated with the resulting IRS Form 1099 being assigned to the
      organization and not to an individual’s income statement.




                                            PAUL E. BAUMAN, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
 4                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI34-223 14 OCTOBER 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program, 8 March 2007
Air Force Private Organization Guide, HQ AFSVA, 2007
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms: No Forms prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army Air Force Exchange Service
AF—- Air Force
AFB—- Air Force Base
AMC—- Air Mobility Command
AMCI—- Air Mobility Command Instruction
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
