BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR BASE WING                                          INSTRUCTION 34-101

                                                                               22 MARCH 2012

                                                                                        Services

                                                                      VEHICLE SALES AREA


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 FSS/FSCO                                                     Certified by: 319 FSS/CC
                                                                     (Major Robert L. Reinhard)
Supersedes:   GRANDFORKSAFBI34-                                                         Pages: 3
              101, 17 October 1994


This instruction implements AFPD 34-1. It establishes procedures to assist Grand Forks AFB
(GFAFB) personnel in selling motor and recreational vehicles (boats, trailers, motorcycles,
RV’s, etc.), and to make GFAFB more attractive. This instruction applies to all personnel who
attempt to sell privately owned vehicles on GFAFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force
Records        Information       Management       System      (AFRIMS)           located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
Changed Services Squadron to Force Support Squadron
1. General. The Force Support vehicle sales area will be located in the last row of the parking
lot north of Building 409. The lot will be open year round.
 2                                             GRANDFORKSAFBI34-101 22 MARCH 2012


2. Responsibilities. This instruction implements AFPD 34-1. It establishes procedures to assist
Grand Forks AFB (GFAFB) personnel in selling motor and recreational vehicles (boats, trailers,
motorcycles, RV’s, etc.), and to make GFAFB more attractive. This instruction applies to all
personnel who attempt to sell privately owned vehicles on GFAFB.
     2.1. Owners of all items for sale will place the items on display at their own risk and are
     solely responsible for any damage to their items.
     2.2. Owners of automobiles should maintain private insurance on the vehicle for theft and
     vandalism.
     2.3. In exchange for the privilege of registering and using government facilities for the
     display and sale of their items, each and every owner waives and releases all claims against
     or through the United States Government.
     2.4. Owners agree to hold the United States Government harmless for any and all claims for
     property damage to their items for sale arising through the use of the GFAFB Sales Area,
     whether such claims arise from theft, vandalism, negligence, or any other cause.
3. REGISTRAION PROCEDURES.
     3.1. Prior to parking a vehicle in the MWR Sales area, owners must fill out a registration
     form at the Outdoor Recreation office, Bldg. 621. The form will be dated and a copy kept on
     file in the Outdoor recreation office.
     3.2. All registrants will be charged a $10 nominal fee to meet administrative costs. All
     registrants will execute a “hold harmless” agreement in favor of the United States
     Government. A copy will be attached to the registration form.
     3.3. Parking assignments will be valid for fourteen (14) days. At the end of the 14 days, a
     request for an extension may be granted by Outdoor Recreation at an additional charge.
     Property left longer than the authorized time will be disposed of as abandoned property in
     accordance with AFM 67-1, Vol. 6.




                                             TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI34-101 22 MARCH 2012                                                             3


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFM 67-1, Vol. 6, Excess and Surplus Personal Property; and AFR 4-20, Vol. 2, Disposition of
Air Force Records-Records Disposition Schedule.
Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
Prescribed Forms: There are no forms prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms: AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AMC—Air Mobility Command
JA—Judge Advocate
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
