BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                      INSTRUCTION 24-301

                                                                      28 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                              Transportation

                                                      OFFICIAL USE OF GOVERNMENT
                                                                    MOTOR VEHICLE


            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 319 LRS/LGRDDO                                               Certified by: 319 LRS/CC
                                                                 (Major Reynaldo Gonzalez)
                                                                                    Pages: 7


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations. This
document addresses the authorized and unauthorized uses of government motor vehicles
(GMVs) and establishes the installation’s vehicle misuse program. It applies to all USAF
personnel assigned to Grand Forks AFB to include tenant and temporary duty (TDY) units that
utilize USAF GMVs. The law provides penalties for the willful use or authorization of any
government-owned, government-leased or government-rented motor vehicle for other than
official purposes. Civilian employees who misuse GMVs will have action taken in accordance
with the Civilian Personnel Manual. Penalties for military personnel are prescribed in the
Uniform Code of Military Justice. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

1. Responsibilities. The primary purpose of this instruction is to implement official use of
government motor vehicles for the installation.
 2                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI24-301 28 DECEMBER 2011


2. Policies.
     2.1. Permissible Operating Distance (POD). The POD is that distance from the
     installation that UDI and owning unit GMVs travel before competing with commercial
     carriers conducting scheduled transportation (Ref. DoD Directive 4500.9).
     2.2. The POD for GFAFB is approved to encompass a 75 mile radius around the base to
     include travel to Fargo, Devils Lake, and Pembina in North Dakota. The POD will also
     encompass travel to Moorhead and Fosston Minnesota. Government vehicle operators will
     utilize major highways to the maximum extent possible. Operators will use secondary roads
     only when absolutely necessary.
     2.3. Vehicle Dispatch will forward all requests that exceed the POD to the Vehicle
     Operations Superintendent. Approval authority to exceed the POD has been delegated by the
     Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander to the Vehicle Operations Superintendent.
     Approval must be normally obtained 48 hours prior to departure.
3. Official Use of GMVs. The same statute that restricts the use of Military Air (MilAir)
resources for official use (Title 31 U.S.C. Section 1344, Passenger Carrier Use) also restricts the
use of GMVs. Just as MilAir assets are carefully controlled because of their high value,
government vehicles are closely controlled because of their easy accessibility, high visibility, and
potential for misuse. Statutory law (Title 40 U.S.C. Subchapter VI - Motor Vehicle Pools and
Transportation Systems) prescribes that DOD establish an effective means of limiting the use of
GMVs to official governmental purposes (DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use
of Motor Vehicles). Unauthorized use of GMVs often results in unnecessary expenditure of
funds and public criticism. Transportation by a DOD motor vehicle shall not be provided when
the justification is based solely on reasons of rank, position, prestige, or personal convenience.
Although the major goal of Vehicle Operations is to provide quality support, commanders,
vehicle operators, and the base populace must know vehicle use restrictions and what constitutes
official use. Restrict use of all DOD motor vehicles, including those rented or leased, for official
purposes only; that is, uses that would further the mission of the Air Force. Providing a
government vehicle solely or principally to enhance the comfort or convenience of member(s) is
not permitted. Refer requests which appear to conflict with governing directives to the Vehicle
Operations Supervisor for evaluation; this element is staffed with trained experts capable of
making an official use determination.
4. Terminal Transportation.
     4.1. Reference DOD 4500.36-R, Para C2.5.10. Transportation by a DOD motor vehicle
     shall not be provided when the justification is based solely on reasons of rank, position,
     prestige or personal convenience (i.e., generic policies allowing support to wing or group
     commanders and command chiefs, or individuals of a certain rank/pay grade such as O-6 and
     above). The Head of the DOD Component concerned exercises authority over civilian
     personnel. Violations should be reported to the authorizing individual’s superior or the IG.
     4.2. TDY Transportation Entitlements: The provisions of the Joint Federal Travel
     Regulations entitle military/DoD employees to be reimbursed for transportation services
     when in TDY status. GMVs should only be used to support TDY personnel when
     commercial means are not feasible.
GRANDFORKSAFBI24-301 28 DECEMBER 2011                                                           3


5. Vehicle Misuse Investigation. All personnel have a responsibility to report fraud, waste, and
abuse which encompasses GMV misuse. The report can be taken anonymously or you can leave
your name and number in case additional questions arise. Forward information listed at
paragraph 3.3.1. below to the Operators Records and Licensing (OR&L) office at 747-3976. 319
LRS/OR&L will initiate their investigation within one (1) duty-day of notification.
   5.1. Information required to initiate misuse case:
       5.1.1. Date/time.
       5.1.2. Specific location (BX parking lot, Dormitory, Post Office, etc…).
       5.1.3. Vehicle registration (plate number).
       5.1.4. Name and rank of all vehicle occupants if possible.
       5.1.5. Action of vehicle occupants if known (buying lunch, dropping off personnel,
       etc…).
   5.2. Common GFAFB misuses:
       5.2.1. Private Organization use (i.e.; Booster Clubs, Top 3, Network 5/6, sq fundraisers).
   5.2.2. Unit events (i.e.; Holiday Parties, Physical Fitness, Hail/Farewell, Luncheons, etc…).
       5.2.3. Procuring DeCA/AAFES items for unit snack bar sales.
       5.2.4. Unit commanders shall: Provide evidence to refute the LRS commander's finding
       or acknowledge the validity of the case with actions that will be taken to prevent further
       infractions within 15 calendar-days of receipt.
       5.2.5. Vehicle Control Officer/NCO (VCO/VCNCO) shall: Take appropriate measures
       to educate assigned personnel on official use of GMVs to include misuse policies and
       prevention. Unauthorized or willful misuse of GMVs by military and civilian personnel
       may be cause for disciplinary action. Refer to AFI 24-301 for further clarification on
       misuse of GMVs.
6. Temporary Duty. The following local policies, concerning TDY personnel have been
implemented to minimize GMV misuse, better ensure efficient support and help expedite misuse
investigations.
   6.1. The TDY status of an individual does not necessarily justify the use of a U-Drive-It
   (UDI) vehicle. Justification will always be predicated on need, distance involved and other
   mission-related conditions.
   6.2. When adequate DOD or commercial bus system is available, the use of any individual
   motor vehicle or commercial rental car is prohibited. When authorized a GMV may be
   operated:
   6.3. Between places where the member’s presence is required for official business, or
   between such places and temporary lodging.
   6.4. Between places of business or lodging and eating establishments, drugstores, barber
   shops, places of worship, laundry cleaning establishments, and similar places required for
   sustenance of the member.
 4                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI24-301 28 DECEMBER 2011


     6.5. If used off base, restrict the use of these vehicles to reputable eating establishments in
     reasonable proximity to the instillation. Reasonable proximity is Grand Forks ND. Reputable
     is defined as an establishment whose primary purpose is food service and not providing
     alcohol (establishments with “Bar” in the name will be avoided). GMVs will not be taken to
     adult oriented establishments.
     6.6. Between places of business or lodging and installation bowling centers, officer and
     enlisted clubs, gymnasiums or any on-base NAF activity (e.g., golf courses, rod & gun clubs)
     facilities required for the comfort or health of the member. Use of motor vehicles for
     transportation to or from off-base entertainment or recreational facilities is prohibited.
     6.7. TDY Personnel are allowed to use a GMV to and from on-base NAF locations for the
     comfort and health of the member. However, this does not include using a GMV for
     transport to non-NAF recreation activities such as sightseeing, fishing, hunting, skiing,
     hiking, driving, snorkeling or similar activities of a personal nature regardless of the
     proximity to the installation.
7. Permanent Party. Use of GMVs for personnel assigned to GFAFB will be for official use
only and limited to mission accomplishment.
     7.1. Examples of unauthorized use of GMVs for permanently assigned personnel are:
        7.1.1. Personal business or pleasure to include on-base eating establishments.
        7.1.2. Transportation between domicile and duty to include dormitories, military
        housing, temporary lodging facilities and off-base private residences.
        7.1.3. GMVs will not be used to transport member's pets, Furnishings Management
        Office procured furniture or used in conjunction with permissive TDY house hunting.
        7.1.4. Parking GMVs or picking up passengers in a GMV at a non-duty location to
        enable partial home to work transportation.
        7.1.5. Open alcohol containers will not be allowed inside a GMV. Vehicle Operators
        will notify the on-duty dispatcher when any individual is creating a safety concern in
        connection with the operation of the vehicle. Dispatch will contact security forces or
        local law enforcement personnel to request assistance in removing personnel causing a
        disturbance.
        7.1.6. GMV support will not be provided to activities or agencies such as Airmen
        Against Drunk Drivers and other “Drunk Bus” proposals. These types of activities are
        self-supporting and/or a personal responsibility of individuals which does not warrant
        appropriated funded GMV support.
        7.1.7. No policy can cover every possible situation that could arise. When official use of
        a GMV is in doubt, contact 319 LRS/VOCC, 747-3971 for clarification.
8. Event Participation. Units may provide transportation to military and civilian personnel
officially taking part in public ceremonies, parades, and military field demonstrations (specific
examples of “officially taking part” in a ceremony include, but are not limited to, Master of
Ceremonies, Guest Speaker, Proffer, etc.). This is not to be interpreted as authority to transport a
member’s relatives or personal friends invited to attend activities such as retirements,
promotions, awards ceremonies, dedications, funerals, or any other similar type functions.
GRANDFORKSAFBI24-301 28 DECEMBER 2011                                                           5


Determinations regarding any question of authorized support for such activities will be resolved
in favor of strict compliance with rules outlined in this instruction to preclude any negative
public perception.
   8.1. After hours functions: All transportation to official after-hours functions will begin and
   end at the individuals normal place of duty, not at a residence.
   8.2. Appointed Commanders (not including Wing Commanders) will use their assigned or
   U-Drive-it GMV for official travel off-installation. Use of dedicated Vehicle Operations
   personnel for permanent party members based on personal convenience and prestige is not
   authorized. Intentional actions to increase the size of the GMV to accommodate space-A
   travelers, i.e. spouses, dependants, etc. is strictly prohibited.




                                            TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
 6                                        GRANDFORKSAFBI24-301 28 DECEMBER 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD Directive 4500.9E, Transportation and Traffic Management, 11 September 2007
DoD Directive 4500.36R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 3 August 2004
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms
There are no forms prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—-Army Air Force Exchange Service
ARW—-Air Refueling Wing
DeCA—-Defense Commissary Agency
DV—-Distinguished Visitor
GMV—-Government Motor Vehicle
IG—-Inspector General
LRS—-Logistics Readiness Squadron
OR&L—-Operators Records and Licensing
POD—-Permissible Operating Distance
UDI—-U-Drive-It
TDY—-Temporary Duty
VCO—-Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—-Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VOCC—-Vehicle Operations Control Center

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
GRANDFORKSAFBI24-301 28 DECEMBER 2011                                                          7


Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
