BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   GRANDFORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRANDFORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 32-106
                                                                            24 FEBRUARY 2009

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                      FACILITY MANAGERS PROCEDURES
                                                                AND RESPONSIBILITIES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 319 CES/CEOEC                           Certified by: 319 CES/CC (Col Patrick F. Fogarty)
Supersedes: GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106                                                    Pages: 12
            1 June 1999


This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. This instruction
establishes administration and accountability for Air Force Real and Installed Property (RPIE) at
Grand Forks Air Force Base (GFAFB), North Dakota. It applies to all Wing, Group, Squadron,
and Tenant Units’ personnel, to all Squadron/Group Commanders, and to all personnel
designated as Facility Managers.

Privacy Act of 1974. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected
by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code Section 8013, Secretary of
the Air Force: Powers and Duties; Delegation by, and E.O. 397 Systems of records notice F011
AF A, Locator, Registration and Postal Directory Files apply. Information collected and
maintained must be protected IAW DoD 5400.11R/AFI33-332. Documents generated, as a result
of this publication, will contain a Privacy Act Statement.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
2                                          GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Duplications of
instructions have been removed and wording, terminology, and instructions have been revised to
allow a better understanding of the instructions in this document. Also, this document was
revised to follow current publication format guidelines.

1. Managerial Assignment: The commander of the organization using a facility will designate
a primary and alternate facility manager for each facility assigned to their organization. The
commander will also designate a change of facility manager and alternate in the case of current
manager PCS, PCA or separation of service. Designating a primary and alternate facility
manager is done by form letter (Attachment 2) addressed to the 319th Civil Engineer Squadron
(CES) Customer Service Section (CEOEC).
1.1. If two or more organizations use a facility, the user occupying the greatest square footage
will be responsible for the facility and represent the interests of all using organizations. If equal
space is assigned to several organizations, the ranking commander will be responsible for
designating the facility manager(s).
1.2. In military family housing, the Housing Flight Chief will be the facility manager. The
Housing Flight Chief will be responsible for the proper utilization of all family housing facilities
and has overall responsibility for all unaccompanied housing (e.g. dormitories).
1.2.1. Facility Managers for dormitories will be appointed by the 319 CES.
1.2.1.1. The 319 CES will be responsible for the facility, all equipment for the facility, and the
Facility Manager.
1.2.1.2. Personnel living in the dormitories will be the responsibility of the individual’s First
Sergeant.
1.3. The 319th Services Squadron Commander will be responsible for the Visiting Officer
Quarters (VOQ) and the Transient Lodging Facility (TLF).
1.4. Facility Managers will be an officer, Non commissioned Officer (NCO), Senior Airman
(SrA), or civilian equivalent, with a minimum of 18 months time left on-station.
1.4.1 When possible, the primary and alternate facility manager should work in the same facility
as they manage.
1.5. Organization commanders will notify, in writing (Attachment 2), the 319 CES/CEOEC of
facility manager personnel changes 45 days in advance of the change.
1.5.1. During the change, the following must occur:
1.5.1.1. All keys and locks must be inventoried and documented.
1.5.1.2. All facility manager binders, folders, and/or electronic media must be turned over,
which should include the following:
1.5.1.2.1. GRANDFORKSAFBI 32-106, Building Managers Procedures and Responsibilities,
and all attached documents.
1.5.1.2.2. GRANDFORKSAFBI32-107 Utilization and Conservation of Utilities.
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009                                                            3

1.5.1.2.3. Facility Manager Discrepancy Log (Use Attachment 3 or locally generated form, e.g.
Excel or Access database)
1.5.1.2.4. Facility Manager’s Handbook (Fire Prevention)
1.5.1.2.5. Facility Manager’s Handbook (Energy Conservation)
1.5.1.2.6. Facility Manager’s Key Log (Use a locally generated form, e.g. Excel or Access
Database, or Notebook)
1.5.1.3. New Facility Managers will be briefed by the outgoing Facility Manager on locations
and operation of electrical distribution panels, fire alarm systems and boxes, main water valves,
heating valves, etc.
1.6. New Facility Managers will acknowledge responsibility for their facility(s) by signing the
form letter of appointment/release for the primary and/or alternate facility manager (Attachment
2).
1.7. Facility Manager Training is conducted by the 319th CES/CEOEC (CE Customer Service)
on a monthly and/or quarterly basis. One-on-one training may be conducted on the
determination of the 319 CES/CEOEC.
1.7.1 New Facility Managers and their alternate(s) will make arrangements with 319
CES/CEOEC for mandatory, facility manager orientation training, no later than 30 days after
appointment.
1.7.2. Refresher training is required every year. CE Customer Service will notify Facility
Manager when each one is due. This is done on a monthly basis.
1.7.3. Failure to attend this required class will result in a “No Show” letter to your commander.
1.8. Outgoing Facility Managers, those that are being relieved of Facility Manager
Responsibilities (e.g. due to a Permanent Change of Station (PCS), Permanent Change of
Assignment (PCA), or routine change), must clear the 319 CES/CEOEC 30 days prior to
departure or relief of facility manager duties.
1.8.1. To accomplish this, provide Change of Facility Manager Documentation (Attachment 2),
releasing the outgoing Facility Manager and appointing a new facility manager in their place to
the 319 CES/CEOEC, and accomplish all items in paragraphs 1.5.1. though 1.5.1.3.
2. Facility Managers Responsibilities. Primary and alternate facility managers are responsible
for the maintenance, care, and security of the assigned property as well as for the conservation of
utilities and energy. The facility manager will initiate action required to correct damages to the
building and/or installed equipment. Facility managers are responsible for the following:
2.1. Facility Security: Facility security is the responsibility of everyone, but the facility
manager is held accountable. Establish procedures for ensuring your facility is secure from
illegal entry at all times. Double check all doors and windows during the closing procedure and
be sure all locking devices are in good order. Security Forces law enforcement patrols conduct
random security checks of base facilities in accordance with AFI 31-101. If your facility is
found to be improperly secured, you will be required to report to that facility to correct the
situation. Impress the importance of building security upon all personnel. The cooperation of all
facility occupants will make your job as facility manager easier. The facility manager must
4                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009

respond regardless of who was responsible for violations of facility security. For any questions
concerning facility security, contact the 319th Security Forces Control Center at COM 701-747-
5351/5352 or DSN 362-5351/5352, or the 319th Security Forces Resources Protection Section at
COM 701-747-3597/DSN 362-3597.
2.1.1. Locks and Keys: Facility managers are required to ensure continuity of key
accountability from the previous manager. Maintain accountability for all keys to the facility,
(e.g. building, fences, and gates), on a document. Ensure keys are issued to authorized personnel
only and retrieve keys when personnel PCS or retire. The facility manager is the only person
who is authorized to request additional keys and locks for a facility. To acquire additional keys
submit an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request (Attachment 2) and turn the form
into CE Customer Service Section (319 CES/CEOEC). In case of a lockout, the facility manager
will be contacted to open the door. If the lockout is in the dorm, the First Sergeant for that dorm
is to be contacted to open the door. CE does not maintain spare keys.
2.1.2. Liability: Loss of key control is the facility manager’s responsibility and they may be
held accountable. When it is determined that a facility or section must be re-cored due to
damaged lock or lost keys, a Report of Survey may be initiated and if it is determined the loss
resulted from abuse or negligence, the facility manager or individual who caused the loss may be
required to reimburse the government. If it is determined that reimbursement is in order, a DD
Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, validated by Accounting and Finance upon payment of the
charge, will accompany the AF Form 332 when requesting key replacement/re-core of lock.
2.2. Military Family Housing (MFH): 319 CES/CEH (CE Housing Flight) will function as the
manager for all keys issued to family housing occupants. Personnel that lose a key may be
required to reimburse the government for new keys or locks if that loss is due to abuse or
negligence. All requests for MFH keys must be submitted through Housing Maintenance.
2.3. Energy Conservation: Encourage utility conservation. Establish procedures to ensure
interior and exterior lights are extinguished and that heating temperatures are set at 55 degrees
Fahrenheit, when the facility is unoccupied. Minimize the number of appliances used throughout
the facility. Reference GRANDFORKSAFBI 32-107 for further instruction.
2.4. Fire and Safety Hazards: The base Fire Department makes yearly visits to each facility to
identify potential fire hazards. It is the Facility Manager’s responsibility to make all areas of the
facility available to the inspector, to escort the inspector through the facility and to report
potential fire hazards to CE Customer Service.
2.5. Space Assignment: Ensure assigned space is used as approved by the Facility Board.
Report all vacant space to 319 CES/CER. If you plan to relocate or expand your functions,
submit a written request through your Group Commander with justification to CE Real Estate
(319 CES/CER, 701-747-4804) for presentation to the Facility Board. Most people who review
and approve changes (AMC, USAF, and DOD) are not fully conversant with the space utilization
situation at Grand Forks Air Force Base. Therefore, if the change in use is really needed, take
the time to prepare a factual justification. Ensure you keep your counterparts at HQ AMC aware
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009                                                            5

of your need so they can intelligently discuss your space request at the Command Facilities
Board.
2.6. Facility Surveys & Inspections:
2.6.1. Participate in real property inventories of your facility IAW AFI 32-9005. Real Estate
(319 CES/CER) will notify facility managers prior to an inventory.
2.6.2. Make joint inspections with the Facilities Inspection Shop to identify minor maintenance
work to be accomplished by Civil Engineers. To avoid duplication of maintenance write-ups and
time, utilize AF Form 1219 , BCE Multi-craft Job Order, in between maintenance inspections.
Provide the form to the Facilities Inspection prior to the inspection. During the winter months,
facility managers should check their facility/facilities at least twice a week and during the
summer months, at least once a week. Items to be checked, include exterior security, windows
and doors, heat, lights, cleanliness inside and out, all equipment that is unplugged, signs of
rodents, all doorways are clean and clear of snow and/or debris, and potential plumbing
problems.
2.7. Work Requests: There are two types of Work Requests, Direct Scheduled Work (DSW’s)
and Work Orders.
2.7.1. Direct Scheduled Work: Direct Scheduled Work is work that is called in directly to the
319 CES Customer Service office. DSW’s are prioritized as Routine, Urgent, and Emergency,
and requires very little planning, (e.g. lock on door won’t unlock or lock, no heat, no A/C, lights
not working (after attempting to replace the light bulb). Routine and Urgent work can only be
called in by a facility manager, Emergencies can be called in by anyone. 319 CES Customer
Service will determine the priority of the work (Routine, Urgent, and Emergency) when the work
is called in. The person calling in the work cannot classify the priority of the work being called
in; however, they can be as precise as possible so the correct priority can be placed on the job.
2.7.1.1. Routine Work: Work with this priority has very little impact on the mission or facility.
Routine work is LOW priority. Work with this priority has 30 days to be completed.
2.7.1.2. Urgent Work: Work with this priority can affect mission or safety, but does not need
to be corrected right away or can be worked around temporarily. Urgent work is MEDIUM
priority. Work with this priority has 7 days to be completed.
2.7.1.3 Emergency Work: Work with this priority, directly affects the mission, safety of
personnel, or severe damage to the facility, and must be corrected as soon as possible.
Emergency work is high priority. Work with this priority has 24 hours to be completed.
2.7.2 . Work Orders: A Work Order is made when the work requires detailed planning, will
take more time or funding than can be accomplished on a DSW, changes real property equipment
for a facility, or alters the interior or exterior of the facility.
2.7.2.1. Requesting a Work Order: Work Orders are accomplished by filling out AF Form
332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request. AF Form 332 can be found on the Base Intranet or the
AF Publications Website.
2.7.2.1.1. Completely fill out Blocks 1-11, and attach any drawings or sketches to assist CE in
understanding what you would like completed. If the work request will cause a physical change
6                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009

to the facility, your Squadron Command must be the requester and fill out Blocks 11-13, and
you, as the POC, will be in Block 5.
2.7.2.1.2. Do Not fill out Blocks 15-30, as these are for CE use only (Block 27, Remarks, may
be used by those in coordination).
2.7.2.1.3. Review and coordinate on all work requests (AF Form 332, block 14). Which, at a
minimum, are the 319 CES Environmental Office, 319 CES Fire Department, 319 MDG Bio-
Environmental Office, and the 319 ARW Safety Office. If the Squadron Commander is not the
requester (Blocks 11-13), they will also be coordinated through in Block 14. If any of those
coordinators have remarks, they are to be filled out in Block 27.
2.7.2.1.4. After coordinations are completed, ensure your Squadron Work Order Monitor
coordinates on the request prior to submitting it to your Group Work Order Monitor.
2.7.2.1.5. You or your Group Work Order Monitor should submit the request to CE Customer
Service.
2.8. Electrical Systems: Ensure facility occupants do not tamper with, replace or repair
installed electrical equipment (electrical wiring, exhaust fans, etc) except those items considered
occupant’s responsibility, e.g. light bulbs under 10 feet high, fuse elements up to 25 amps,
resetting circuit breakers, labeling circuit breaker panels. The facility manager is responsible for
replacing light bulbs in fixtures less than 10 feet high or lights that can be reached by ladder. CE
craftsman are responsible for replacing bulbs in fixtures over 10 feet high, including exit lights
unless they are LED. Procurement of all bulbs is the facility manager’s responsibility, and for
fixtures over 10 feet high, must be on hand before CE craftsman respond. Building managers can
procure light bulbs through Envision store on base or through a local source downtown. High
voltage systems (600 volts or higher) requiring special equipment or outside lighting systems,
such as poles, fire light, signs, street and security lighting will be maintained solely by the BCE.
2.9. Self Help Work: Ensure facility occupants do not move or remove permanent walls,
heating, lighting, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, fire sprinkler heads/systems or related
fixtures or other installed equipment or property without proper approval. Facility occupants
will not accomplish self-help work unless it is first submitted and approved on an AF Form 332.
Self-help is a good resource for improving facility standard and design and is highly encouraged
throughout the wing. Self-help is also a good resource for facility managers to procure small
repair items such as paint, brushes, caulking, washers, and hinges, etc. Self-help does not carry
light bulbs for any base facility.
2.10. Work Clearance Request, AF Form 103: A Work Clearance Request (commonly called
digging permits in CE) is required for any disturbance of earth surfaces anywhere on base,
including all housing areas. Digging permits can save infrastructure assets by preventing
accidents causing disruptions to electrical, gas, telephone, water and/or sewage systems.
2.10.1. Digging permits (AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request)and
instructions for housing occupants can be obtained at building 418 in the Self-Help Store. For all
other digging permits, i.e. in-house work, contract, and others can be obtained at CE Planning
section. Once the AF Form 103 and all coordination’s have been obtained, return the form to the
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009                                                             7

CE Planning section, building 418 south end of facility. Approval must be given prior to any
digging. Any questions concerning digging permits should be directed to Planning, 701-747-
4022.
2.11. Emergencies: Prior to notifying CE Customer Service of any emergency situation, ensure
you notify the proper agency for the situation, Fire Department, Security Police, Medical
Ambulance, etc. Describe the situation and what steps are being taken to minimize damage and
property loss. Upon notification to CE, Customer Service will dispatch the appropriate
craftsman.
2.12. Supplies: Bathroom supplies, soap, toilet paper, paper towels, light bulbs, etc., will be
provided by the facility manager and made available to the custodial service employees. If there
is no janitorial service to the facility, the facility manager will establish policies through their
chain of command that is conducive to their organization.
2.13. Mechanical Rooms: CE will be the sole source of keys for all mechanical rooms. Under
no conditions will mechanical rooms be used for storage. Door and door swing area are to be
kept clear of snow and ice for Fire Dept. safety.
2.14. Occupancy Termination: When your organization vacates the facility, ensure your
facility is completely emptied and cleaned, inside and outside. The facility should be turned in to
CE Real Estate within two weeks of vacating. If the facility is to be occupied by another
organization, both organizations will arrange an inspection and turnover together, through CE
Real Estate. The facility should not be used for storage. To request the turnover inspection,
notify CE Real Estate, 701-747-4803/4804 for an appointment for turn over.
2.15. Building Checks: During winter months, building managers must check the facility at
least twice weekly, once weekly during summer months. Some items to be checked are external
security (windows and doors), heat, lights, all unused equipment is unplugged, cleanliness
(empty of all garbage), signs of rodents, all doorways and door swings (including mechanical
room doors and door swings) are kept clean and clear (snow, ice, or stored items), and plumbing
(leaks, stop ups, or breaks).
2.16. Snow removal: It is the facility manager and/or users responsibility to clear snow from
aprons, driveways, sidewalks, steps, and stoops immediately around their facility. Keep all
hangar doors, overhead doors, and personnel doors free and clear of all snow and ice build up
that might impede door operation and door closing. Keep snow clear of all intake and exhaust
vents and from around fire plugs on the side of the facility.
3. Maintenance Engineering: Service contracts are one way of accomplishing work in and
around your facility. Types of service contracts include: custodial services, grounds maintenance,
refuse and recycling, interior and exterior painting, oil and water separator services, furnishings,
and floor coverings. Maintenance engineering (319 CES/CEOES) is responsible for all service
contracts. CE quality assurance personnel (QAP) are responsible for monitoring and inspecting
service contracts. They are the points of contact for those contracts and any problems you may
encounter. If you require a service that is not currently being provided, contact the QAP section
at 701-747-5819 for guidance on how to obtain contract services.
8                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009

3.1. Custodial Services: For facilities that receive custodial services, there are two types of
cleaning. Type 1 cleaning which is five days a week and Type 2 which consists of alternate
cleaning five times in two weeks, 3-days the first week, and 2-days the second week. All
restroom cleaning is twice weekly. To request carpet cleaning, or if you have any questions or
concerns regarding your custodial service, contact QAP at 701-747-4194.
3.2. Grounds Maintenance: Maintenance of the grounds around your facility is accomplished
by the Grounds Maintenance contract. The contract includes mowing, edging, trimming, pruning
of trees and shrubs, tilling of common gardens, seasonal leaf and snow removal. Snow removal
from sidewalks around facilities is prioritized per mission requirements. All sidewalks will be
cleared within 24 hours of snow end. Snow removal around all fire hydrants is the responsibility
of the grounds maintenance contractor. The grounds contractor is not responsible for: snow
removal from roofs, all entrances including mechanical room doorways, walkways in front of the
facility to the common sidewalk, weeding and general maintenance of planting beds along the
sides of the facility. These areas are the responsibility of the facility manager. Questions should
be directed to the Grounds QAP at 747-5821.
3.3. Refuse & Recycling: Refuse and recycling services are provided for the dorms, base
industrial areas and housing. The contractor will not empty trash dumpsters containing
recyclable materials, and will not empty recycle containers containing trash. Ensure all facility
occupants have the means to properly recycle. If your facility has a contract cleaning service,
ensure specialized containers are made available for trash and recyclable materials, and the
proper items are placed in the containers. For refuse or recycling questions, contact QAP at 701-
747-4021.
3.4. Snow Removal: Streets and parking lots are cleared by the snow removal contractor. Snow
removal is prioritized by mission requirements. Priority 1 streets are to be completed within 3
hours of last ¼” of snowfall. Priority 2 streets are to be completed within 24 hours of last ¼” of
snowfall with a 2 lane driving path within 12 hours. Priority 3 streets are to be completed within
72 hours and parking lots are to be cleared within 96 hours. Any questions should be directed to
the Snow Removal QAP at 701-747-5821.
3.5. Paint: Submit all paint requests with the proper coordinations, signatures and pertinent
information on AF Form 332 to Customer Service. Direct any questions to QAP at 701-747-
6644.
3.6. Oil & Water Separator and Grit Chambers: For pumping and cleaning maintenance of
these devices, contact QAP at 701-747-6644.
3.7. Furnishings Management Office (FMO): FMO provides washers, dryers, and furniture
for the dormitories and unaccompanied living quarters. FMO also maintains an annual inventory
for furnishings control. Direct any questions to QAP at 701-747-4369.
3.8. Floor Coverings: This contract includes: removal and installation of carpeting, padding,
vinyl flooring, carpet tile, and installation of cove base. It does not include vinyl floor tile,
ceramic floor tile, rubber stair treads. For more information contact CE Planning (319
CES/CEOEP) at 701-747-4020.
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009                                              9


4. Adopted Forms.
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request
AF Form 1219, BCE Multi-craft Job Order

5. Prescribed Forms.
No forms are prescribed by this publication.




                                                      JOHN E. MICHAEL, Colonel, USAF
                                                     319 ARW Commander
10                                       GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMC – Air Mobility Command
ARW – Air Refueling Wing
BCE – Base Civil Engineer
CE – Civil Engineering
CEH – Civil Engineering Housing Flight
CEOEC – Civil Engineering Customer Service
CER – Civil Engineering Resources Flight
CERR – Civil Engineering Resources Real Estate
CES – Civil Engineering Squadron
DOD – Department of Defense
DSW – Direct Scheduled Work
IAW – In Accordance With
MDG – Medical Group
NCO – Non commissioned Officer (NCO
PCA – Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS – Permanent Change of Station
SrA – Senior Airman
TLF – Transient Lodging Facility
USAF – United States Air Force
VOQ – Visiting Officer Quarters
GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009                    11


                            Attachment 2

                CHANGE OF FACILITY MANAGER FORM FIGURE
Figure A2.1. Change of Facility Manager Form
12                                    GRANDFORKSAFBI32-106 24 FEBRUARY 2009


                                     Attachment 3

                 SAMPLE FACILITY DISCREPANCY LOG TABLE

Table A3.1. Sample Facility Discrepancy Log
   Date         Work Description       Date Called In To   Job Order   Date
 Reported                                    CE             Number     Fixed
