BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 51-910

                                                                                   31 JULY 2012

                                                                                             Law

                                                    DEPENDENT MISCONDUCT PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 ABW/JA                                                       Certified by: 319 ABW/JA
                                                                       (Lt Col Brandon L. Hart)
                                                                                        Pages: 12



The purpose of this instruction is to establish policies, responsibilities, and procedures for the
administrative disposition of misconduct committed by military dependents on Grand Forks Air
Force Base (GFAFB) and to formally establish the GFAFB Dependent Misconduct Program
(DMP) and Dependent Misconduct Board (DMB). This instruction applies to all military
sponsors; dependents visiting or residing on GFAFB; and all commanders of units and
organizations assigned, attached, or tenants on GFAFB; as well as military dependents who
reside off base and engage in misconduct on GFAFB. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

1. Purpose:
   1.1. The primary purpose of this instruction is to establish policies, responsibilities, and
   procedures for the administrative disposition of misconduct committed by military
   dependents on Grand Forks Air Force Base (GFAFB) and to formally establish the GFAFB
   Dependent Misconduct Program (DMP) and Dependent Misconduct Board (DMB). This
 2                                                 GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012


     instruction is to be construed to secure the good order and safety of all persons and property
     located on GFAFB and shall be liberally applied to achieve those ends.
     1.2. Under current Air Force regulations and the United States law, the commander has
     limited options when confronted with dependent misconduct occurring on a military
     installation. Barment action or suspension of certain privileges (such as patronage of the
     Base Exchange) are permissible options but provide limited flexibility. Further, as the Air
     Force only has proprietary jurisdiction on GFAFB, only the state of North Dakota has the
     jurisdiction to criminally prosecute dependent misconduct committed on base. The DMP,
     with the cooperation and consent of the parents, is designed to provide additional options
     with the ultimate goals of rehabilitation of the dependent offender and preventing future
     instances of misconduct. Through the DMP, the installation commander and his/her
     designees have at their disposal a number of administrative options in cases of dependent
     misconduct.
2. Scope:
     2.1. Not every instance of dependent misconduct will be handled under the DMP. The
     319th Mission Support Group Deputy Commander (MSG/CD), with the advice of the Staff
     Judge Advocate, will decide which cases will be handled by the DMP. Unit commanders
     may refer cases to the MSG/CD for consideration.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. Installation Commander.
        3.1.1. The installation commander is charged with the responsibility of enforcing the law
        and maintaining good order and discipline on the base, per DoDI 5200.08, para 1.2 and
        AFI 31-101, para 2.3.4. The DMP assists to achieve this objective.
        3.1.2. The 319 ABW/CC has delegated the primary authority to convene the DMB and
        manage the DMP to the 319 MSG/CD. The installation commander may appoint an
        alternate DMB President as needed by separate memorandum.
        3.1.3. The installation commander is responsible for action taken in addressing
        dependent misconduct cases at GFAFB. With the exception of barments, authority for all
        other administrative actions taken pursuant to this instruction is hereby delegated to the
        319 MSG/CD.
     3.2. Mission Support Group Deputy Commander.
        3.2.1. The MSG/CD shall, after receiving a report of alleged dependent misconduct,
        select one of the following courses of action: (1) no action; (2) deferral of DMB action
        (no action at present time with possible action after further investigation or additional
        misconduct); (3) convene an informal DMB; or (4) convene a formal DMB. The
        MSG/CD will ensure the unit commander is informed of the planned course of action and
        final disposition of dependent misconduct cases.
        3.2.2. The MSG/CD will serve as the DMB President, presiding over hearings of all
        misconduct cases referred to a Board. The MSG/CD may, at his/her discretion, convene
        either a formal or an informal DMB, taking into consideration the seriousness of the
        offense and the dependent’s past record of misconduct.
GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012                                                            3


     3.2.3. The MSG/CD will coordinate with 319 ABW/JA and 319 SFS when referral to
     local law enforcement or non-military juvenile correction is appropriate.
  3.3. Unit Commanders, First Sergeants, and Supervisors.
     3.3.1. Unit commanders shall require the participation of the military sponsor in the
     DMB process and the sponsor’s attendance, when requested, at DMB hearings.
     However, the participation of military dependents in the DMB process is voluntary.
     3.3.2. The unit commander and first sergeant shall attend the DMB hearing and decide
     whether to require that the military sponsor’s supervisor also attend the hearing. In the
     event that the unit commander and/or first sergeant is unable to attend, he/she will
     appoint an alternate.
     3.3.3. Unit commanders, first sergeants, and supervisors may counsel a military sponsor
     for inadequately responding to family member misconduct.
     3.3.4. First sergeants and supervisors shall report all instances of dependent misconduct
     to their unit commanders. Unit commanders may, in turn, refer the misconduct to the
     MSG/CD for action under the DMP.
  3.4. Military Sponsors and their Dependents.
     3.4.1. The military sponsor is ultimately responsible for the actions of his or her family
     member(s) and guest(s). The sponsor is also responsible for ensuring that both adult and
     minor family members are aware of the standards of conduct they are expected to
     maintain. The sponsor is responsible for cooperating fully with the DMP in an effort to
     promote good order and discipline in the community. The success of the DMP as a
     rehabilitative tool ultimately rests on the willingness of dependent offenders and their
     military sponsors to participate in the program. These efforts include participation in
     rehabilitative measures and compliance with administrative sanctions when directed by
     the DMB (e.g., supervision of base beautification detail). A military sponsor’s response
     to a family member’s misconduct can be considered in determining the appropriate
     disposition of the dependent’s case.
     3.4.2. When a minor is involved in the DMP, the consent of the minor’s parent or
     guardian is required. The consequences of non-participation or non-cooperation may
     result in barment from base or revocation of certain base privileges.
     3.4.3. When a dependent receives notification that a DMB will be convened, the military
     sponsor is required to attend and shall encourage their dependent to attend the DMB
     hearing.
  3.5. Law Enforcement Authorities.
     3.5.1. A representative from 319 SFS will attend all formal DMB hearings.
     3.5.2. 319 SFS and AFOSI, as the primary law enforcement agencies at GFAFB, will
     investigate alleged instances of dependent misconduct as appropriate and coordinate with
     Grand Forks County officials as needed.          In addition to existing notification
     requirements, 319 SFS and/or AFOSI Det 320 will notify 319 MSG/CD of alleged
     dependent misconduct and forward resulting reports, if available. These agencies will
     also be prepared to clarify or expand on reported misconduct when requested. 319
 4                                                  GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012


        SFS/S5R will maintain the records for dependent misconduct incidents when the incident
        occurs on the installation and a report is generated.
        3.5.3. 319 SFS will comply with procedures outlined in SFI 31-201, paragraph 2.6.3.1,
        when responding to a reported incident of dependent misconduct.
     3.6. Staff Judge Advocate.
        3.6.1. A representative of 319 ABW/JA will attend all formal DMB hearings.
        3.6.2. 319 ABW/JA will provide legal reviews or opinions to assist the DMB regarding
        civilian and family misconduct. The legal reviews are for official use only (FOUO) and
        will not be released to those who have been involved in misconduct or to their sponsors.
        3.6.3. 319 ABW/JA will coordinate/support investigation of dependent misconduct with
        319 SFS, AFOSI, and/or local law enforcement agencies.
        3.6.4. 319 ABW/JA will communicate to 319 SFS/S3 any corrective actions imposed on
        a dependent offender which require enforcement by 319 SFS (e.g., curfews, base
        restrictions, barment).
     3.7. Command Chief.
        3.7.1. 319 ABW/CCC may provide counsel to the DMB in an advisory role, drawing
        upon his/her experience and insight as a senior enlisted member.
     3.8. Family Advocacy Program Representative.
        3.8.1. A representative from the Family Advocacy Program (FAP) will attend all formal
        DMB hearings in an advisory capacity when requested by the MSG/CD.
        3.8.2. When appropriate, the FAP will liaison with local law enfocement or juvenile
        corrections points of contact.
     3.9. Security Forces.
        3.9.1. 319 SFS will, to the greatest extent possible, enforce any corrective actions, such
        as base restrictions or curfews, which are placed on a dependent offender by the DMB
        and communicated to 319 SFS/S3 by 319 ABW/JA.
4. Dependent Misconduct Board Hearings:
     4.1. Not every instance of dependent misconduct will be handled by a DMB. Generally,
     only those cases that reflect a pattern of antisocial behavior or are serious enough to warrant
     command interest should be considered. The MSG/CD is delegated the initial disposition
     authority to decide which cases will be acted upon by a DMB. The 319 ABW/CC, CV, and
     MSG/CC may also direct that cases be referred to a DMB.
     4.2. After being informed of dependent misconduct, the 319 MSG/CD will determine
     whether a board is appropriate and, if so, whether to proceed initially with a formal or
     informal hearing.
        4.2.1. Informal DMB. The informal DMB will consist of the DMB President, the
        dependent offender, the offender’s sponsor/parents, and the sponsor’s first sergeant. The
        sponsor’s commander and sponsor’s supervisor may attend at the DMB President’s
GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012                                                                 5


      discretion. The DMB President may hold the board in his/her office or a comparable
      space.
      4.2.2. Formal DMB. The formal DMB will consist of the DMB President, the
      dependent offender, the offender’s sponsor/parents, the sponsor’s commander, the
      sponsor’s first sergeant, the sponsor’s supervisor, and a DMB advisory panel. The formal
      DMB shall be held in the GFAFB courtroom.
          4.2.2.1. The formal DMB advisory panel may consist of representatives from any of
          the following agencies, at the DMB President’s discretion: 319 ABW/JA, 319
          ABW/CCC; 319 SFS or AFOSI, GFAFB Family Advocacy, and any other
          professionals deemed appropriate.
   4.3. Standard of Proof. The standard of proof necessary to find that the dependent
   committed the misconduct in question is a preponderance of the evidence. This standard is
   met when the credible evidence, taken as a whole, shows that it is more probable than not
   that the fact sought to be proved (i.e., that the depedent committed the act) actually occurred.
   4.4. DMB Hearing Notification.
      4.4.1. If the MSG/CD determines that a DMB is appropriate, dependent offenders shall
      receive a notification letter (Sample Letter at Attachment 2) via the military sponsor’s
      email or the dependent’s home address. A delivery and/or read receipt should be utilized.
      This letter will provide official notice of the alleged offense and information on the date,
      time, and location of the hearing. Additionally, it will inform the dependent and sponsor
      that failure to appear and to satisfy all of the DMB’s orders (to include any penalties
      imposed) may result in a recommendation to the 319 ABW/CC that the dependent be
      barred from GFAFB due to his/her unwillingness to participate in the DMP.
   4.5. The DMB may request the appearance of any witness(es) it deems necessary for the
   resolution of the case. The Military Rules of Evidence do not apply to DMBs, and the DMB may
   rely solely on hearsay evidence (to include law enforcement reports) in arriving at its decision.
   4.6. Upon request of the DMB President, the dependent and/or sponsor will be provided a
   reasonable opportunity to present matters in rebuttal, extenuation, or mitigation in the form of
   oral or written statements by the dependent or sponsor and documentary or tangible evidence.
   4.7. At the discretion of the DMB President, the dependent and/or sponsor may present
   relevant witness testimony. The dependent offender has no right to have military legal
   counsel or a civilian attorney represent him/her during the hearing, nor does he/she have the
   right to cross-examine the witness(es) called by the DMB.
   4.8. Following the dependent’s and/or sponsor’s presentation(s), the DMB President will
   consider the case presented and determine if the alleged misconduct was committed.
5. Corrective Action:
   5.1. Consistent with any findings of misconduct, the DMB, with the advice of the DMB
   advisory panel and any other representatives the DMB President deems appropriate,
   determines the corrective action. The DMB may impose any of the following actions on the
   offender and/or his military sponsor. The following list is not exhaustive.
      5.1.1. No action.
 6                                                  GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012


        5.1.2. Verbal counseling or admonishment by the DMB President.
        5.1.3. A formal letter of admonishment or warning issued by the DMB President or the
        sponsor’s commander.
        5.1.4. Refer the offender and/or sponsor to an off-base agency for counseling or
        rehabilitation.
        5.1.5. Refer the offender to a county or city shoplifter’s education program.
        5.1.6. Place certain areas or base functions off-limits to the offender.
        5.1.7. Impose a curfew.
        5.1.8. Suspend or revoke certain privileges including but not limited to access to the base
        exchange or commissary, on-base driving, and entering certain buildings or accessing
        certain areas of the base.
        5.1.9. Terminate military family housing for the offender and/or family with the
        concurrence of the 319 ABW/CC.
        5.1.10. Require that the offender perform specified community service for a required
        number of hours, providing that adequate supervision is provided. Examples include
        refuse collection or grounds maintenance, pulling weeds, filling sandbags, or other
        similar activities.
        5.1.11. Refer the offender to an off-base community service program (e.g., the Salvation
        Army, Goodwill, or other similar organization).
        5.1.12. Require that the offender submit a formal apology to the party or parties
        offended, or an essay reflecting on his or her offense. The DMB should inform the
        offender that an unsigned version of the essay could be published in the base paper or
        public affairs newsletter to deter other would-be offenders.
        5.1.13. Order restitution be paid and/or made by the offender.
        5.1.14. Recommend barment of the offender to the 319 ABW/CC.
     5.2. The dependent’s sponsor will bear the cost of any corrective actions imposed upon the
     dependent. The sponsor is also responsible for ensuring the dependent’s compliance with or
     participation in any actions imposed.
6. Effective Date:
     6.1. This program is effective immediately. Questions regarding the Dependent Misconduct
     Program can be directed to 319 ABW/JA or 319 MSG/CD.




                                               TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012                                                              7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009
DoDI 5200.08, Security of DoD Installations and Resources, 10 December 2005
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms/IMT’s: No Forms or IMT’s prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms/IMT’s: AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
DMB—Dependent Misconduct Board
DMP—Dependent Misconduct Program
GFAFB—Grand Forks Air Force Base
IAW—In accordance with
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility

Terms
Dependent—For the purposes of this instruction, dependent includes any person entitled to a
dependent identification card or sponsored onto the base by a military member. This definition
is much broader than the typical definition of “dependent” because it can include, for example,
significant others who are not a spouse as well as family members or friends temporarily residing
with or visiting the military member on the installation.
Minor—Any person under the age of 18 years.
Misconduct—Any violation of federal, state or local statute, Air Force Instruction, base
regulation, or any other activity which is prejudicial to good order and discipline on GFAFB or
otherwise breaches the peace on GFAFB. The DMB shall have discretion to intervene in all
appropriate cases, but such intervention does not abrogate the installation’s responsibility to
report cases of criminal dependent misconduct to the local authorities.
Preponderance of the Evidence—The standard of proof necessary to find that the dependent
committed the misconduct in question is a preponderance of the evidence. This standard is met
 8                                               GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012


when the evidence as a whole shows that it is more probable than not that the facts sought to be
proved (i.e. that the dependent committed the act) actually occurred. In other words, if the
evidence shows a greater than fifty percent probability that the dependent committed the
misconduct, the Board should find the dependent committed the misconduct.
Sponsor—An adult who is the parent or guardian of a juvenile alleged to have committed
misconduct on GFAFB. A sponsor includes a host of a guest from off-base or who has
responsibility for the conduct of dependents in his or her charge.
GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012                                                               9


                                          Attachment 2
                               SAMPLE LETTER TO APPEAR

319 MSG/CD
502 H Street
Grand Forks AFB, ND 58205

MSgt John Doe
1234 Shady Lane Grove
Grand Forks AFB, ND 58205
Via e-mail address: John.Doe@us.af.mil

The Grand Forks Air Force Base Dependent Misconduct Board has directed that you and your
dependent, Dependent Doe, attend a hearing addressing the event during which Dependent Doe
[briefly describe the misconduct], which occurred on XX February 2012. This hearing will be
held on 15 March 2012 [provide at least two weeks’ notice] at 1400 hours in the Courtroom
located on the first floor of the Wing Headquarters Building, 460 Steen Blvd, Grand Forks
Air Force Base, North Dakota.

During the course of the hearing, the Board will review any evidence and call any witnesses that
it deems necessary. The Board President will offer you and your dependent an opportunity to
make a statement, either orally or in writing. You may offer any other evidence, so long as the
Board President finds that it is relevant to the case.

Should the Board determine that your dependent committed the offense, an appropriate
punishment will be determined. Punishments may include one or more of the following:

   a.   Verbal counseling;
   b.   Issuance of a formal letter of admonishment or warning;
   c.   Order to prepare a written essay;
   d.   Order to prepare and deliver an oral presentation;
   e.   Order to write or orally deliver a formal apology to the victim and/or sponsor;
   f.   Referral to an appropriate agency for counseling;
   g.   Imposition of a curfew;
   h.   Restriction to on-base residence, except for travel to-from work/school;
   i.   Referral to a base community service program;
   j.   Referral to an off-base community service program;
   k.   Order to provide restitution for stolen, damaged, or destroyed property;
   l.   Recommendation that base privileges be suspended or revoked;
   m.   Barment from base;
   n.   Referral to civilian juvenile/criminal authorities;
   o.   Termination of base housing;
   p.   Any other action deemed appropriate under the circumstances.

The Dependent Misconduct Board is not meant to take the place of nor do away with your part in
disciplining your child or ensuring appropriate conduct of your dependent, but instead it provides
 10                                                GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012


a more formal rehabilitative tool to help you and your dependent. Since it is a rehabilitative
program, community service is the preferred form of disciplinary action. Your active
involvement in the program can have a positive impact on the Board’s decisions.

It is recommended that prior to the day of the hearing, you help your dependent examine his/her
actions that resulted in this incident and prepare your dependent to discuss the alleged acts of
misconduct in a mature, truthful fashion.

Please acknowledge receipt of this memorandum no later than 1400 hours on XX March 2012
by responding via e-mail or by telephone at (701) 747-xxxx. Should you have any further
questions or concerns involving this matter, please contact me.


                                                     Sincerely,

                                                     /Signed letter on file/

                                                     JANE F. DOE, Lt Col, USAF
                                                     Dependent Misconduct Board President
GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012                                                                11


                                          Attachment 3
         SAMPLE LETTER TO SPONSOR’S FIRST SERGEANT/COMMANDER

319 MSG/CD
502 H Street
Grand Forks AFB ND 58205

MSgt Joseph P. Smith
319 Squadron/CC and CCF
Via e-mail address: joseph.smith@us.af.mil

MSgt Smith,

The Grand Forks Air Force Base Dependent Misconduct Board requests your attendance at our
Board hearing being held on XX March 2012. MSgt John Doe of your organization and his/her
dependent, Dependent Doe, have been notified as well and are urged to attend in response to a
matter which occurred on XX February 2012. This hearing will be held on XX March 2012 at
1400 hours in the Courtroom, located on the first floor of the Wing Headquarters Building, 460
Steen Blvd, Grand Forks Air Force Base, North Dakota.

During the course of the hearing, the Board President will review any evidence and call any
witnesses that he/she deems necessary. The President will offer requested attendees an
opportunity to make a statement and present material, either orally or in writing, relevant to the
matter.

Should the Board determine that the dependent committed the offense, an appropriate
punishment will be determined. Punishments may include one or more of the following:

   a.   Verbal counseling;
   b.   Issuance of a formal letter of admonishment or warning;
   c.   Order to prepare a written essay;
   d.   Order to prepare and deliver an oral presentation;
   e.   Order to write or orally deliver a formal apology to the victim and/or sponsor;
   f.   Referral to an appropriate agency for counseling;
   g.   Imposition of a curfew;
   h.   Restriction to on-base residence, except for travel to-from work/school;
   i.   Referral to a base community service program;
   j.   Referral to an off-base community service program;
   k.   Order to provide restitution for stolen, damaged, or destroyed property;
   l.   Recommendation that base privileges be suspended or revoked;
   m.   Barment from base;
   n.   Referral to civilian juvenile/criminal authorities;
   o.   Termination of base housing;
   p.   Any other action deemed appropriate under the circumstances.

The Dependent Misconduct Program is not meant to replace of nor do away with maintaining
 12                                                GRANDFORKSAFBI51-910 31 JULY 2012


healthy relationships, parental roles in disciplining their child(ren), or ensuring appropriate
conduct of dependents, but instead to provide a more formal rehabilitative tool to assist military
sponsors as needed.

Please ensure that MSgt John Doe is available and attends the scheduled forum. Should you
have any further questions or concerns involving this matter, please contact me via e-mail or by
calling 747-xxxx.


                                                     /Signed letter on file/

                                                     JANE F. DOE, Lt Col, USAF
                                                     Dependent Misconduct Board President
