BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                         INSTRUCTION 44-150

                                                                         17 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                        Medical

                                                   PARTICIPATION IN MEDICAL STUDIES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication

OPR: 319 MDSS/SGST                                                   Certified by: 319 MDG/CC
                                                                            (Col Jane G. Denton)
Supersedes:   GRANDFORKSAFBI44-150,                                                      Pages: 3
              1 May 2005


This Grand Forks AFB Instruction establishes and outlines the requirements for participation in
medical studies by active duty military personnel. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Review of this Instruction was accomplished with only minor AFI and grammatical changes
throughout the document.
1. General:
   1.1. At least one company, PRACS Institute, Ltd. actively recruits study participants in the
   Grand Forks, East Grand Forks and Fargo areas.
   1.2. There are no military regulations that forbid such study participation by active duty
   members; however, there is off-duty employment, reporting and medical documentation
   requirements. This instruction applies to all active duty military persons participating in
   medical studies.
 2                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI44-150 17 SEPTEMBER 2012


2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Prior to participation in any medical study involving the taking of medications or the
     provision of any other medical treatment, Air Force members must notify the 319th Medical
     Group and schedule an appointment with their primary care manager (PCM). The PCM will
     evaluate the study to determine if any medical or occupational concerns exist, and either
     approve or disapprove participation. This information will be documented in the member’s
     medical record.
     2.2. A written approval or disapproval of participation, with the PCM’s signature, will be
     given to the active duty member and should be presented to the member’s supervisor and unit
     commander when accomplishing the AF IMT 3902, Application and Approval for Off-duty
     Employment.
     2.3. All active duty aircrew members, air traffic controllers, members on personnel
     reliability program status, and special operators subject to restricted duty for medical reasons
     (i.e., duty not to include flying or duty not to include controlling status), including use of
     medications, are ineligible to participate in off-duty medical research studies.
     2.4. If prescription medications are detected during random or command-directed urinalysis
     testing and there is no documentation in the member’s medical records for those medications,
     they may be subject to administrative action. This applies to any active duty member, not
     just those participating in a medical study.
3. Procedures:
     3.1. IAW AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions, paragraph 3.9, active duty Air Force
     members must notify their servicing medical treatment facility within 3 days of receiving
     treatment when receiving medical care at their own expense. Since these medical studies
     generally involve a regimen of taking prescription medications, this constitutes treatment.
     3.2. IAW AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral
     Research, paragraph 3.2.1., active duty personnel may receive financial compensation for
     participation as a subject of research, as long as DoD funds are not used for payment and off-
     duty employment is authorized.
     3.3. Off-duty employment is authorized using AF IMT 3902. Blocks 27, 30, and 34 must be
     completed by the immediate supervisor, Judge Advocate, and unit commander prior to study
     participation.
     3.4. Active duty members may not participate in any PRACS or other medical studies
     program if they are expecting to deploy within 90 days or are assigned to an AEF rotation
     scheduled to occur within 90 days.
     3.5. Active duty members participating in drug or treatment studies must inform the
     company conducting the trial that they are military members.




                                               TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 319th Air Base Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI44-150 17 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                         3


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions, 29 November 2010
AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, 5 May 2005
Prescribed Forms
Prescribed Forms: There are no forms prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
DoD—Department of Defense
IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—Information Management Tool
PCM—Primary Care Manger

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DoD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Administrative Change—Change that does not affect the subject matter content, authority,
purpose, application, and/or implementation of the publication (e.g., changing the POC name,
office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.).
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
