BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 10-104
                                                                       22 OCTOBER 2008
                                                                              Operations

                                                      ALERT/RECALL PROCEDURES AND
                                                                 STANDBY PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 ARW/CP                           Certified by: 319 ARW/CV (Colonel John J. Scorsone)
Supersedes:GRANDFORKSAFBI10-                                                         Pages: 9
            104,1 October 2001

This instruction establishes procedures for alerting and recalling personnel in the event of
national emergencies or other contingencies as directed by command authorities. Recalls may be
necessary to support war plans, periods of increased readiness, emergencies, or disaster
situations. This instruction ensures the capability of the 319th Air Refueling Wing Commander
(319 ARW/CC), the Crisis Action Team (CAT), and unit commanders to quickly disseminate
information and instructions to all assigned, attached or tenant unit personnel. Additionally, this
instruction establishes procedures for the base standby and on-call program. Chapter 1
(Notification and Recall Procedures) of this instruction applies to all military and key civilian
personnel in units assigned, attached to and tenants of Grand Forks Air Force Base (GFAFB).
Chapter 2 (Standby Program) applies to all individuals/agencies supporting or requesting
support from Grand Forks AFB resources required to be notified by one of the base’s continuous
shift work centers.
Privacy Act of 1974. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected
by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code Section 8013, Secretary of
the Air Force: Powers and Duties; Delegation by, and E.O. 9397 Systems of records notice F011
AF A, Locator, Registration and Postal Directory Files apply. Information collected and
maintained must be protected IAW DoD 5400.11R/AFI33-332. Documents generated as a result
of this publication will contain a Privacy Act Statement.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
2                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI10-104 22 OCTOBER 2008


SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Required format
changes and paragraph renumbering have been made. Notification and Recall Procedures
(Chapter 1) have been reorganized for convenience purposes. This is a reposting of the 31 May
2006 version of GRANDFORKSAFBI10-104.
1. Responsibilities:
1.1. Command Post. The 319th Air Refueling Wing Command Post (CP) is responsible for the
overall operation of the notification and alert/recall system.
1.2. Unit Commanders/Staff Agency Chiefs:
1.2.1. Will devise unit recall plans/rosters in support of this instruction.
1.2.2. Will ensure the CP is in receipt of all updated unit rosters NLT the first duty day of the
month. All rosters will be dated to show when it was last updated or reviewed. Rosters will be
E-mailed to GF ALL COMMAND POST USERS.
1.2.3. Will ensure all assigned military and key civilian personnel maintain a current copy of
their unit recall roster.
1.2.4. Will, at their discretion, alert/recall key civilian employees. Consideration should be
given to civilian labor contracts, union rules, memorandums of agreement, and overtime pay.
1.2.5. Will determine appropriate procedures for recalling shift workers and personnel on leave
or TDY.
1.2.6. Are responsible for releasing personnel (once recalled and accounted for).
1.2.7. Are responsible for devising plans/policies for runners to use in communication outage
situations.
1.2.8. Will immediately notify the appropriate CAT/CSC representative (or CP if CAT is not
activated) through unit and group control centers whenever a problem has been discovered that
could hinder an effective recall.
1.2.9. Personnel listed in Table 1. and living on base will notify Security Forces Control Center
(SFCC) with changes to home addresses. Reference paragraph 3.2.1.

Table 1. CAT/Base Alert/Recall Notification Requirements.
For CAT Recall the CP will notify:     For Wing Alert/Recall the CP will notify:

Vice Wing Commander                       Vice Wing Commander

Operations Group Commander                Operations Group Commander

Maintenance Group Commander               Maintenance Group Commander

Mission Support Group Commander           Mission Support Group Commander

Medical Group Commander                   Medical Group Commander

Director of Staff                         Director of Staff

Inspector General                         Command Chief CMSgt

CAT Director                              Inspector General
GRANDFORKSAFBI10-104 22 OCTOBER 2008                                                              3


Command Chief CMSgt                          Chief, Command and Control

Chief, Command and Control

Security Forces Commander


1.2.10. Units utilizing the ANS are responsible for updating/maintaining unit personnel
alert/recall information on the ANS server.
1.3. Public Affairs. The Public Affairs Office (PAO) is responsible for notifying local media of
alert/recall notification messages. PAO will issue press releases only as directed for covert
alerts/recalls.
1.4 Contingency Plans. The Installation Deployment Officer (IDO) will notify Unit
Deployment Managers (UDM) of mobility requirements (e.g. mobility bags required to be issued
to personnel).
1.5 Communications Squadron. The Communications Squadron will post overt recall/alerts on
the commander’s channel. The Communications Squadron will not send “All Exchange User”
e-mails or post covert alert/recall information on the commander’s channel.

2. Activation.
2.1. When directed by the 319th Air Refueling Wing Commander or designated representative,
the CP will activate this program by notifying key personnel listed in Table 1. Key personnel
will subsequently activate their alert/recall plans. Once contacted, each individual is responsible
for contacting the next person in their respective chain until all affected personnel have been
notified. Each individual is also responsible for relaying the message verbatim as received. If an
individual cannot be contacted, note it, and continue with the next individual. Pass on all
noncontacts to the next person notified. The last individual(s) in the notification process will
contact the unit commander’s office, staff agency chief’s office, or UCC with the completion
time and all names of personnel not contacted. Units will continue to attempt to notify personnel
not contacted until notification is complete.
2.1.1. Leaving messages on answering machines, voice mail, personal e-mails, etc., are not
considered contact. In these cases the next individual in the chain will be notified. Do leave
messages for these individuals to contact their unit for instructions.
2.1.2. Alert/Recall Test. All personnel notified will continue the test by calling the next person
in line on their recall roster until all personnel are notified. Personnel will not report to their duty
sections. Personnel on leave or TDY will not be notified. The last individual(s) in the
notification chain will contact the unit commander’s or the staff agency chief’s office with the
completion time.
2.1.3. The CP will relay the Wing Commander’s or designated representative’s message using
the following phrases with additional information as necessary.
2.1.3.1 This is a covert wing/group/squadron recall. Option red/white. Continue notifications
and report to duty section immediately.
2.1.3.2. This is a covert wing alert. Continue notifications and remain on telephone standby
until further notice / ________________L.
2.1.3.3. This is a Crisis Action Team recall. Report to primary/alternate area immediately/at
_________________L.
4                                          GRANDFORKSAFBI10-104 22 OCTOBER 2008

2.1.3.4. This is a test of the wing/group/squadron notification system. Recall not required.
Continue notifications.
2.1.4. Group Commanders or equivalents are responsible for additional notifications to
subordinate individuals/agencies required to be present when the CAT has been activated.
2.1.5. The notification message from the CP should state either primary or alternate CAT
location. If primary or alternate CAT location is not specified, assume primary.
2.1.6. Unit developed alert/recall systems will be tested and documented at least annually
(calendar year).
2.1.7. Disaster Control Group (DCG) personnel will be recalled in accordance with 319th Air
Refueling Wing Full Spectrum Threat Response Plan 10-2 (FSTR 10-2).
2.1.8. Assembly area. Unless otherwise directed, when recalled, personnel will report to their
duty section immediately without compromising safety and remain there until released by their
unit commander. Do not delay the recall process by eating, showering, shaving, etc. Wear
utility uniforms (ABUs, BDUs, flight suits, etc.) unless this would cause a significant delay.
Personnel in transition training will report to unit of assignment, not unit of training. Personnel
not permanently assigned to a GFAFB unit but administratively attached or on-loan to a GFAFB
unit will report to their temporary unit’s CSS.

3. Notification Methods.
3.1. The telephone system is the primary means for notification; however, any communication
system can be used to notify personnel by the fastest means available. Individuals on leave or
TDY that have been identified as critical and need to be recalled must receive direct notification.
Second party telephone notifications and/or answering machine messages are not acceptable.
3.1.1. The Wing Commander may direct security forces to initiate public address system
announcements in base housing areas and common areas such as the gym, ballparks, pavilions,
etc. Additionally, public announcements may be made over Giant Voice, cable TV override,
and/ or the base commander’s channel.
3.1.2. Units should consider designing their alert/recall systems using the geographic location of
their personnel as a primary factor (i.e. separating personnel living on Grand Forks AFB and
those living off-base). This method will allow selected communities to be notified and also
expedites the process when communication systems are inoperative. To facilitate a rapid and
orderly alert/recall, rosters should be organized in a logical sequence with key personnel notified
first, including those individuals who collect and report alert/recall status information.
3.2. Communications outage: Unit Commanders/Staff Agency Chiefs will ensure procedures
are developed to achieve 100 percent contact of unit personnel during communication outage
situations. This will normally be a “runner” system. Units should produce maps to identify the
exact location of living quarters of each unit member.
3.2.1. The CP will contact the SFCC for door-to-door notification of key personnel living on
base. The SFCC will maintain a current list of key personnel addresses living on base (see
Table 1. for list).
3.2.2. Unit developed communication outage systems will be documented and tested at least
annually (calendar year).

4. Operations Security. Protecting information is crucial during any alert/recall. Do not use
terms such as A-Hour, C-Day, L-Hour, ORI, Crisis Look, or reference times over non-secure
GRANDFORKSAFBI10-104 22 OCTOBER 2008                                                           5

means. Agencies/personnel requiring reference times will develop procedures to obtain them
from their respective CAT/CSC representative via secure means (STU-III, STE, runner, etc.).

5. Personnel Strength Reports.
5.1. This report is used for all wing alerts/recalls beginning at alert/recall time plus 1 hour, and
will continue until 100% of wing personnel are accounted for. Unit Control Centers (UCC) are
responsible for recording and reporting personnel strength to their Group Control Center (GCC),
if applicable. Each GCC is responsible for reporting personnel strength to their respective
CAT/CSC representative. If a GCC is not used, then UCCs or designated locations will pass
information directly to CAT/CSC representatives. The following information will be included in
each report submission:

Table 2. Strength Report Requirements.
Unit Designation
Number Assigned
Number Accounted For
Number Available
Number of Personnel Not Available

5.2. Update strength reports when personnel are removed from the “Personnel Not Available”
category as a result of a return to duty status.

6. Recall Option.
6.1. Red. Personnel must report to their duty section immediately with required mobility
items/bags with the respective mandatory items and personal items/bags. Additionally,
personnel will bring all mobility paperwork (deployment folder). A list of required mobility,
personal, and mobility paperwork items to bring will be specified by each unit.
6.2. White. Personnel must report to their duty section immediately. It is not mandatory for
personnel to take issued mobility items or personal items with them to the duty section.
NOTE: If no recall option is given in the recall message from CP, assume recall option white.

7. Standby/On-Call Program:
7.1. Purpose. The wing standby/on-call program is for all individuals/agencies supporting
Grand Forks AFB resources during non-duty hours and requires notification by one of the base’s
24 hour work centers.
7.2. Units/Agencies:
7.2.1. Must initially coordinate their standby requirements with the applicable continuous shift
work center supervisor prior to sending any standby letter to them.
7.2.1.1. Should try to consolidate all their sections/flights/offices onto one letter. When this is
not practical, then separate letters are acceptable.
7.2.1.2. Should include as much information as possible on their standby letters for successful
notifications.
7.2.1.3. Must ensure their letters are always current and will contact the continuous shift work
center(s) immediately if changes occur to their standby status.
6                                          GRANDFORKSAFBI10-104 22 OCTOBER 2008

7.2.1.4. Must ensure their letters are received by the continuous shift work center(s) in a timely
manner, prior to any previous letter expiring. Letters to the CP will be turned in NLT 5 days
prior to expiration.
7.3. Continuous shift work centers:
7.3.1. Will make a reasonable attempt to contact individuals on standby/on-call.
7.3.2. Will not be responsible for out-of-date standby letters or for contacting units/agencies
when their letters have expired.
7.4. Standby/On-call Letter Requirements.
7.4.1. Minimum letter requirements:
7.4.1.2. Current date
7.4.1.3. Full name/rank of individual(s) on standby
7.4.1.4. Telephone numbers (include cell, home, and duty phone numbers, pagers, and indicate
city and state if long distance)
7.4.1.5. Dates for which the letter is valid and/or inclusive dates/times when the individual(s)
will actually assume standby/on-call duties
7.4.1.6. Signature of commander, agency chief or designated representative
7.4.1.7. Subject line will include: <Agency Name> (no unit number designations or office
symbols) and “standby letter” or “on-call letter”
7.4.1.8. The reason that a 24-hour notification capability is required
7.4.1.9. Any special instructions/conditions for notification
7.4.1.10. Supersession requirements of letter(s) already on file (include the date of previous
letter)
7.4.1.11. Point of contact for the letter, to include name, contact numbers, and e-mail address.
7.4.1.12. Letters faxed to continuous shift work center(s) are acceptable, provided they comply
with the minimum letter requirements stated above.
7.4.1.13. A signed hard copy of the standby/on-call letter must be delivered to the appropriate
continuous shift work center. E-mailed letters and/or copies of unit/agency recall rosters will not
be accepted in support of a request for standby/on-call requirements.
7.4.1.14. Standby or on-call letters (static and changing) are valid for 90 days only. A new letter
must be signed and received by the 24-hour work center 5 days prior to the previous letter’s
expiration date.


JOHN E. MICHEL, Colonel, USAF
Commander, 319th Air Refueling Wing
GRANDFORKSAFBI10-104 22 OCTOBER 2008                                                   7


                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 5, United States Code, Section 552a, as amended, The Privacy Act of 1974
Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013 Secretary of the Air Force
Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Person
32 Code of Federal Regulations 806b, Air Force Privacy Act Program
DOD Directive 5400.11, Department of Defense Privacy Program
DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program
AFI 33-329, Base and Unit Personnel Locators
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program
AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records
AMCI 10-202 Volume 2, Command And Control (C2) Responsibilities And Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
319 ARW/CC -- 319th Air Refueling Wing Commander
ABU – Airman Battle Uniform
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN -- Air Force Manual
AFRIMS -- Air Force Records Information Management System
ANS—Automated Notification System
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
AWOL—Absent Without Leave
BDU—Battle Dress Uniform
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CP—Command Post or Wing Operations Center
CSC – CAT Support Center
CSS—Commander’s Support Section
DD—Defense Department
DOD—Department of Defense
GCC—Group Control Center
GF—Grand Forks
GFAFB—Grand Forks Air Force Base
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IAW -- In Accordance With
IDO – Installation Deployment Officer
LES—Leave and Earning Statement
OPR -- Office of Primary Responsibility
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
PAO—Public Affairs Office
SFCC—Security Forces Control Center
STU-III—Secure Telephone Unit model three series
TDY—Temporary Duty
8                                         GRANDFORKSAFBI10-104 22 OCTOBER 2008

UCC—Unit Control Center, commander’s support section or other commander designated like
term
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager

Terms
Accounted For—All personnel who have been notified of the alert/recall. Include personnel
temporarily assigned (TDY) to the unit for manning assistance or contingencies. It is at the
discretion of the Group Commander or equivalent as to how they want to account for personnel
strength (i.e. contacted by phone, present for duty, available for duty, etc.).
Alert Time—The time the alert (telephone standby) was directed (given as day, hour and minute
DDHHMM).
Assigned Personnel—All personnel that actively work for the respective commander.
Available Personnel—All members who are notified of the alert/recall and are prepared to
assume duties. This includes personnel at their duty stations, awaiting their shift, or otherwise
awaiting their tasking.
Automated Notification System—Telecommunications computer for making mass notifications
to base personnel. This computer will be used in place of manual alert/recall systems.
CAT Composition—The Wing Commander, Vice Wing Commander, Group Commanders,
Director of Staff, Command Post, Security Forces Commander, and the Chief of Plans and
Programs. Other attendees are dictated by the situation.
CAT Recall—All primary CAT members or their designated alternates will report to the CAT
location along with CSC members and UCCs until notified to stand down.
Changing letter—Standby letters that assign individuals to specific dates/times for standby/on-
call duty.
Continuous shift work centers—Duty sections supporting the wing mission around the clock
(24/7/365) or offices having to notify individuals/agencies for contingencies/emergencies. Some
examples are: command post, security forces control center, fire department, ambulance services,
maintenance aircraft coordination center, civil engineering job control, base operators and
communications job control.
Covert alert/recall—Personnel respond as quickly as possible without giving public notice and
minimizing actions which might alarm the general public.
Crisis Look—Nickname for a local exercise.
Giant Voice—Grand Forks Air Force Base public address system.
Manual alert/recall systems—Paper rosters used as a back up to the wing automated
notification system.
Overt alert/recall—Initiate unit plans using the fastest means available for emergency
notification without regard to public notice.
Personnel Not Available—Members who are TDY, on leave, hospitalized, AWOL, crew rest,
confined, or otherwise not ready for duty.
Recall Time—The time the recall was directed (given as day, hour and minute DDHHMM).
Static letter—Standby letters that do not assign individuals to specific days/times for
standby/on-call duty.
Strength Report—A personnel accountability report submitted hourly by units to CAT/CSC
representatives until all personnel are accounted for.
GRANDFORKSAFBI10-104 22 OCTOBER 2008                                                        9

Telephone Standby Personnel must be near a published telephone number in case of emergency
notification. Personnel must keep the phone free from lengthy phone calls (including “surfing the
net”).
Test—A practice activation of the alert/recall notification system.
Units/Agencies—Organizations requesting assistance from a continuous shift work center for
emergency or after-duty hour notifications.
Wing Alert—All personnel contacted will remain on telephone standby. CAT/CSC members
will report to the CAT/CSC location immediately.
Wing Recall—All personnel (including tenant and attached units) assigned to Grand Forks AFB
will report to their duty section immediately.
