BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 48-102

                                                                          27 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                      OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 319 MDOS/SGOL                                                    Certified by: 319 MDG/CC
                                                                             (Col Jane G. Denton)
Supersedes:    GRANDFORKSAFBI48-102,                                                      Pages: 7
               1 December 1997


This instruction establishes responsibilities and procedures for conducting the Air Force
Occupational Health Program at Grand Forks Air Force Base. It applies to all units, assigned,
attached, or tenant to this installation where military or civilian personnel are exposed to
potential occupational health hazards. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. General. Public Health (PH), Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE), Flight Medicine, Civilian
Personnel Office (CPO), Unit and Organizational Commanders and supervisors work in a
coordinated effort to make sure individuals’ work environments are as safe as possible and to
provide early identification of evidence indicating possible hazards or ill effects of exposure to
hazardous work environments.
 2                                       GRANDFORKSAFBI48-102 27 SEPTEMBER 2012


2. Procedures and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Installation Commander will provide a safe and healthful work center for all Air
     Force military and civilian workers.
     2.2. 319th Medical Group will:
        2.2.1. Provide early detection of pregnancy through testing (ideally before the second
        missed menstrual cycle) for active duty women whose jobs involve exposure to
        potentially hazardous chemicals or physical agents. Provide medical officer consultation
        with private physicians caring for pregnant civilian employees.
        2.2.2. Provide technical assistance or consultation (through PH and BE) to units
        developing occupational health training programs.
        2.2.3. Determine, through the Occupational and Environmental Health Working Group
        (OEHWG), what occupational health examinations are required for personnel working in
        each worksite where the potential for health hazards exists.
        2.2.4. Provide medical treatment of military and civilian employees with occupational
        health injuries and illnesses as permitted by law.
     2.3. BE will:
        2.3.1. Conducts Occupational and Environmental Health (OEH) risk assessments and
        assigns workplace categories IAW AFI 48-101, Occupational and Environmental Health
        Program.
        2.3.2. Executes all BE-related tasks required to complete an Occupational &
        Environmental Health Site Assessments (OEHSA). All OEH risks identified will be
        incorporated on the AF Form 55, SEG Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure
        Data (OEHED) Summary.
        2.3.3. Provide a schedule of routine health risk assessments (HRAs) due the next
        calendar year to the OEHWG by 1 Nov of each year.
        2.3.4. Provides a copy of the routine HRA letter, OEHED and personnel roster to PH
        upon completion. OEHEDs will be reviewed at least one week in advance to the
        scheduled OEHWG to ensure correct data.
        2.3.5. Work with CPO when requested to review each case that has environmental
        differential pay (EDP). Evaluate the worksites and send results of findings to CPO to
        help them judge if an EDP is valid.
        2.3.6. Evaluate and make recommendations on work area procedures when adverse
        health trends or occupational illnesses are identified.
     2.4. Flight Medicine will:
        2.4.1. Schedule and perform occupational health examinations as required for those
        working in a Category 1 work center.
        2.4.2. Schedule military newcomers requiring pre-placement examinations.
        2.4.3. Forward notification of worker’s exam clearance letter to individuals who have
        received an occupational health examination, to their supervisors and to PH.
GRANDFORKSAFBI48-102 27 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                       3


     2.4.4. Provide pregnant active duty members and their supervisors an AF Form 469,
     Duty Limiting Condition Report, detailing duty restrictions.
     2.4.5. Provide results of an occupational health examination at time of PCM visit.
  2.5. PH will:
     2.5.1. Be responsible for maintaining and updating military and civilian occupational
     health examination data in the Preventative Health Assessment Individual Medical
     Readiness/Aeromedical Services Information Management System database.
     2.5.2. At least annually, provide notification to organizations indicating what workplaces
     have individuals requiring occupational health examinations.
     2.5.3. Act as a resource for occupational health educational material for supervisors and
     assist them in developing training programs when requested. Provide guidance related to
     occupational health training when conducting shop visits with BE.
     2.5.4. Identify occupational exams needed by the member and provide Flight Medicine
     with a roster. Verify the accuracy of occupational health examination using AF Form
     2766 as a guide before forwarding them to Flight Medicine.
     2.5.5. Provide hearing tests to personnel performing duties in designated hazardous noise
     areas. These audiograms are pre-placement (reference), annual and on termination of
     service or employment. When necessary, additional detailed follow-up audiograms are
     required to further evaluate a worker’s hearing.
         2.5.5.1. Provide health education and fitting for ear plugs IAW AFOSH STD 48-20,
         Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program, to all individuals identified
         as working in hazardous areas.
     2.5.6. Provide pregnant civilians, their supervisors and CPO with a written description of
     potential health hazards in the duty restrictions. Temporary relocation and absence are
     the responsibility of the supervisor and CPO.
     2.5.7. Track health trends in work areas and report adverse trends and occupational
     illnesses to OEHWG. Assist BE in occupational injury/illness investigations as needed.
     2.5.8. Provide unit or organizational commanders with the names of those who fail to
     show for scheduled appointments.
  2.6. Commanders and/or Functional Managers will ensure that all work centers have
  conducted and properly documented hazard assessments to determine if hazards are present
  and take appropriate actions necessary to protect workers from injury, illness, or death.
  2.7. Supervisors will:
     2.7.1. Ensure required OEH hazard controls are implemented and functioning correctly,
     and personal protective equipment (PPE) is available and used correctly in the workplace.
     PPE will be provided, used, and maintained in a sanitary serviceable condition IAW BE
     OEH Risk Assessment reports.
     2.7.2. Ensure workplace complies with applicable OEH regulatory and policy
     requirements as outlined in BE OEH Risk Assessment reports.
4                                       GRANDFORKSAFBI48-102 27 SEPTEMBER 2012


       2.7.3. Supply job descriptions of pregnant workers to PH/BE when requested. Include a
       task list of each woman’s specific duties, physical requirements and known or suspected
       hazardous chemical exposures related to her duties.
       2.7.4. Make sure duty restrictions imposed on workers due to the results of occupational
       health examination or pregnancy are followed. Consult with PH if the restriction cannot
       be followed or duties are otherwise appreciably changed.
       2.7.5. Inform BE of any operation suspected of being potentially hazardous and when
       existing potentially hazardous operations are moved or appreciably changed.
       2.7.6. Ensure personnel attend scheduled examinations (see 2.9 and 2.10 below).
       2.7.7. Refer all military personnel with occupational illnesses and injuries to Flight
       Medicine for medical evaluation and care. Encourage civilians to do likewise. Assist
       PH/BE and other Medical Group agencies in investigating occupational injuries and
       illnesses.
       2.7.8. Prepare the job task list and forward it to PH within three working days of
       notification of pregnancy by a civilian employee.
       2.7.9. Ensures an updated personnel roster is provided to BE and Public Health once
       every six months IAW AFI 48-145, Air Force Occupational Health Program
    2.8. CPO will:
       2.8.1. Ensure all workers employed in potentially hazardous workplaces receive pre-
       placement occupational examinations before beginning work. The individuals requiring
       pre-placement examinations are assigned to workplaces identified by PH/BE. The
       individual’s SF 78, Certification of Medical Examination, is annotated with the name of
       gaining organization, work center, Occupational Structure Code and annotation that pre-
       placement occupational health examination is required, before being sent to Flight
       Medicine.
       2.8.2. Provide monthly master civilian personnel rosters to PH used in verifying their
       database.
       2.8.3. Give outprocessing checklists to civilian employees who work in hazardous areas
       or perform hazardous duties when they initiate termination or retirement procedures.
       Check to make certain they have processed through PH. Provide a monthly list to PH of
       those on the occupational health examination program who have terminated employment.
    2.9. Annual occupational health examinations are scheduled in the following manner:
       2.9.1. Each industrial shop that requires a special medical exam (determined by
       OEHWG) will have all personnel contact Flight Medicine for an appointment.
       2.9.2. Shop supervisors will track compliance with occupational health appointments and
       reschedule missed appointments through Flight Medicine.
       2.9.3. Flight Medicine will schedule occupational health examinations and follow-up
       procedures, if required, with the individual.
GRANDFORKSAFBI48-102 27 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                       5


     2.9.4. PH will maintain a record of occupational health compliance and send no-show
     notices to commanders on the same day individuals fail to show for scheduled
     appointment.
     2.9.5. Flight Medicine will track no-shows at the end of the day. Flight Medicine will
     contact member’s supervisor (after multiple attemps, they may contact the First Sergeant)
     informing them of the missed appointment and will reschedule the member.
  2.10. Newcomers’ occupational health examinations are scheduled in the following manner:
     2.10.1. Military newcomers who require pre-placement examinations are identified by
     PH. Newcomers will be given a pre-placement exam either the day they process through
     or scheduled for a later date. Some individuals may not require a pre-placement
     examination, such as, an individual who received annual audiometric testing, hearing
     conservation training and fit-testing before departing their last base. Newcomers will
     receive examinations as early as possible, but no later than 30 days after inprocessing to
     establish baseline data before significant exposed to potentially hazardous duties.
     2.10.2. Civilian newcomers are identified to Flight Medicine via the SF 78 forwarded
     from the CPO as described in 2.8.1. above. Flight Medicine will perform the required
     examinations. PH provides occupational health education, fits and issues ear plugs..




                                          TIMOTHY E. BUSH, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 319 ABW
 6                                      GRANDFORKSAFBI48-102 27 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR, Labor, Jul 07.
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, May 07.
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations, Aug 05.
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, Mar 08.
AFOSH STANDARD 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, Feb 05.
AFOSH STANDARD 48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program, Apr 10.
AFOSH STANDARD, 91-501, Air Force consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, Jul 04.
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms: There are no forms prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CPO—Civilian Personnel Office
EDP—Environmental Differential Pay
OEH—Occupational and Environmental Health
OEHWG—Occupational and Environmental Health Working Group
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PH—Public Health

Terms
Category 1 Work Center— These work centers are categorized with having the following
requirements:
     - Hazards poorly defined or poorly controlled; work environment or processes unstable
     - Inherent occupational/environmental risk present with medium to high hazard potential
     - Regulatory assessment requirements, e.g., asbestos (29 CFR 1910.1001)
     - Requirement for special purpose occupational exams, other than audiograms
     - Potential for significant occupational/environmental regulatory non-compliance
Pre-Exposure Examinations—Specific examinations given before employment in potentially
hazardous areas to document baseline data for use in future medical evaluations or to assess the
GRANDFORKSAFBI48-102 27 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                           7


individual’s fitness for specific jobs. Individuals receiving examinations in this category include
newly hired civilians, military personnel arriving Permanent Change of Station (PCS) and
military and civilians who Permanent Change of Assignment (PCA) to a hazardous situation.
Pre-Placement (Reference) Audiogram—These are required at the time of first exposure to
noise hazard duty. They are accomplished within 30 days of assignment. Those scheduled for
reference audiograms must be removed from hazardous duties for a period of at least 14 hours
before the testing to get a true evaluation of their hearing abilities.
Pregnant Workers’ Occupational Evaluation— Interviews are performed by PH to help
determine the possible effects of workplace exposures on the fetus and the pregnant woman.
Duty restriction recommendations are based on information provided by the woman, her
supervisor and through consultation with the BE workplace exposure assessment and the hospital
professional staff.
Special Purpose Occupational Health Examinations— These are conducted at intervals (pre-
placement and periodic) to evaluate and document possible effects of occupational exposures
other than noise. They are tailored to the occupational hazards identified by BE surveillance.
Special purpose examinations may include medical histories, physical examinations and clinical
and biological tests.
Termination Occupational Health Examinations—Special purpose and audiometric
examinations are done upon end of employment or retirement; however, some may also be
required before PCS or PCA. Termination examinations result document worker health when
leaving a potentially hazardous work environment. Such information is essential in establishing
equitable compensation should a claim be filed.
