BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      GRISSOM AIR RESERVE BASE
434 AIR REFUELING WING                                               INSTRUCTION 32-2001

                                                                           11 OCTOBER 2011
                                                  Incorporating Change 1, 21 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                   BASE FIRE PREVENTION REGULATION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 434 MSG/CEF                                           Certified by: 434 MSG/CC William T.
                                                                            Cahoon, Col, USAFR
                                                                                       Pages: 29


This instruction implements applicable portions of Air Force Instruction 32-2001, Fire
Emergency Services Program and AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational
Safety Standard Chapter 6 Fire Protection and Prevention. It implements the procedures for an
effective Fire Protection and Prevention program to prevent loss of life, property damage and
related intangible losses. The Base Fire Prevention Regulation program establishes
organizational and individual responsibilities and effects all areas, facilities, and activities at
Grissom Air Reserve Base (GARB). It applies to all units assigned or attached to the 434th Air
Refueling Wing (ARW), including tenant units, visitors, contractors, concessionaries, and the
Base Operating Services (BOS) contractor. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publication/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records     Disposition     Schedule    (RDS)      located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims. The use of the name or rank of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

This is the initial publication of the Grissom Air Reserve Base Instruction (GARBI-32-2001)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change add/deletes: Title page changes OPR: 434 MSG/CEFP to 434 MSG/CEF,
14.1 Deletes the last sentence (The user shall obtain a permit from the base fire prevention office
 2                                                                  GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


2 days prior use, A2.1.1.11 Deletes the last sentence (This includes outdoor recreational
cooking), A9.6.2 Deleted. A9.6.3. changed

      1.     Overview. ...............................................................................................................      3
      2.     Unit Commanders, Functional Manager Responsibilities. ....................................                                     3
      3.     Installation Fire Protection and Prevention program. ............................................                              3
      4.     Facility/Building Managers, Alternates, and Supervisors Responsibilities. ..........                                           5
      5.     Fire Reporting. .......................................................................................................        7
      6.     Exits and Evacuation Routes. ................................................................................                  7
      7.     Fire Drills. ..............................................................................................................    8
      8.     Space Heaters. ........................................................................................................        9
      9.     Paint Spraying (Flammable and Combustible Liquids). ........................................                                   9
      10.    Break Area / Coffee Maker. ...................................................................................                10
      11.    Kitchen Hood System and Deep Fryer. .................................................................                         10
      12.    Open Flame & Hot Work Permits. ........................................................................                       10
      13.    Smoking Area and Smoking Material. ...................................................................                        10
      14.    Portable Barbecue Grills and Deep Fryer. .............................................................                        10
      15.    Holiday Decorations. .............................................................................................            11
      16.    Munitions Storage and Movement. ........................................................................                      11
      17.    Portable Fire Extinguisher. ....................................................................................              11
      18.    Fire Protection, Detection, Alarm and Mass Notification Systems. ......................                                       13
      19.    The Inspection System. ..........................................................................................             14
      20.    Inspection Procedures. ...........................................................................................            14
      21.    Hazard Abatement Program (HAP). ......................................................................                        15
      22.    Correction of Fire Hazards FSD AND RAC. ........................................................                              15
      23.    Self-Help and Construction. ...................................................................................               16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             18

Attachment 2—FIRE PREVENTION                                                                                                               20

Attachment 3—LIFE SAFETY                                                                                                                   22

Attachment 4—FIRE PREVENTION TRAINING                                                                                                      23

Attachment 5—FIRE PREVENTION IN HANGARS, SHOPS, AND FLIGHT LINE                                                                            24

Attachment 6—MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE FIRE PREVENTION                                                                                     26
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                             3


Attachment 7—FIRE PREVENTION IN PUBLIC ASSEMBLY, RECREATION AND
             BILLETING BUILDINGS                                                              27

Attachment 8—FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY IN FUEL DISPENSING AREAS                              28

Attachment 9—MISCELLANEOUS FIRE PREVENTION POLICIES AND
             PROCEDURES                                                                       29

1. Overview.
   1.1. Purpose. This instruction is to assist functional managers (commanders), facility
   managers, and supervisors in effective management of their area(s) to eliminate the causes of
   fire and prevent the loss of life and property. Information stated in this document is
   referenced from AFI 91-302, UFC 3-600-01, AFOSH STD91-501, AFOSH STD91-100,
   NFPA 101 Life Safety Codes, NFPA 10 Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, and
   applicable NFPA Guidelines.
2. Unit Commanders, Functional Manager Responsibilities.
   2.1. The Installation Commander (434 ARW/CC) is responsible for Fire Protection at
   Grissom Air Reserve Base and the 434th Air Refueling Wing.
   2.2. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) is the Base Fire Marshall and is responsible to the
   installation commander for the effective and efficient execution of the installation’s fire
   protection program. The fire marshal provides the Chief, Fire Emergency Services with the
   necessary support to ensure the highest possible priority and funding of fire protection and
   prevention initiatives to accomplish mission support.
   2.3. The Chief, Fire Emergency Services (CEF) is responsible to the Base Fire Marshall for
   determining the resources required for the installation’s overall fire protection program. The
   Chief, Fire Emergency Services will establish and implement an effective fire protection and
   prevention program, including hazardous materials, mutual aid, emergency medical care,
   confined space rescue, and emergency response programs. This authority extends over all
   tenants and contractors on base.
   2.4. Unit commanders, division chiefs, facility managers, supervisors, and their
   subordinates at all levels are responsible for and must ensure that sound Fire Prevention
   procedures are established and practiced in each activity under their jurisdiction.
   2.5. Exceptions to this Regulation.
      2.5.1. Exceptions will not be made to this regulation without approval of the installation
      commander or his/her representative.
3. Installation Fire Protection and Prevention program.
   3.1. Unit commanders will execute comprehensive installation fire protection and fire
   prevention programs.
      3.1.1. CEF with the help of the Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention develops, manages,
      and implements Fire Protection and Fire Prevention programs. CEF ensures that:
4                                                GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


           3.1.1.1. All facilities are inspected at least annually to identify and eliminate
           potential fire hazards and that fire prevention measures are enforced.
           3.1.1.2. Notification to the Fire Prevention Office/Technical Services (688-4051 or
           688-4050) regarding any change of conditions within their buildings, structures, or
           area(s), that effect life safety, evacuation routes, personnel assembly point(s),
           safeguarding of classified information; which may require redistribution of fire
           extinguishers, and change in fire protection requirements.
           3.1.1.3. Commanders will designate a facility manager and assistant for each
           building and area under their jurisdiction and notify the Real Property Officer and
           Fire Prevention Office by letter of assignment and changes as they occur.
           3.1.1.4. The facility manager and work area supervisors are responsible to the unit
           commander to maintain a fire-safe condition for facilities under their jurisdiction.
           3.1.1.5. Ensure facility manager and work area supervisor complete job specific
           portable fire extinguisher training and fire prevention training. The base emergency
           telephone number is 911 and the Cell Phone emergency services number “688-HELP
           (4357)” to call GRISSOM 911 center. Encourage all base employees to add the
           emergency numbers to their cell phone memory for quick access. Fire Protection and
           Fire Prevention program elements (Attachment 1-Attachment 9) are made available
           to all unit commanders, division chiefs, facility managers, supervisors, tenants, and
           concessionaries. Brief building emergency evacuation procedures to all newly
           assigned civilian, contractors and active/reserve military personnel within 30 days of
           assignment to your organization and annually thereafter. Annually conduct the
           following training on portable fire extinguisher, work area fire prevention and
           evacuation procedures and submit a training letter to the Fire Prevention Office
           stating that the following individual(s) has been trained with date of completion. For
           fire extinguisher training you can use the Air Force Portal Education/Training/Force
           Development section, click on ADLS Learning Service and go to Miscellaneous and
           take Fire Extinguisher Safety Course. Submit completed course certificate to the
           supervisor. All fire prevention training must be completed by each work area in your
           building prior to the building annual inspection.
    3.2. Portable fire extinguisher training is required at least annually for all civilian, reserve
    and active duty personnel. U.S. Air Force regulations for job specific work and work areas
    could require personnel to have more frequent fire prevention training in maintenance areas
    for aircraft, fuels, vehicle, electronic, aircrews, ground crews, computer rooms, and
    dining/kitchen areas.
    3.3. Annual training is required for hangar fire suppression (HEF and AFFF) systems. A
    letter is to be submitted upon completion to the Fire Prevention Office stating that the
    following individual(s) has been trained with date of completion (Ref. AFOSH91-301,
    AFOSH91-501, NFPA 10, 29 CFR (OSHA) 1910.157(g) (1) & (2)).
    3.4. Ensure facility manager develops an Emergency Action Plan with evacuation maps for
    your building showing primary and secondary exit routes. Building Map with exit routes
    will be mounted on walls at locations in the building to aid personnel to exit the building for
    an evacuation. Emergency Action Plan must include fire reporting, personnel evacuation,
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                              5


   safeguarding classified information, and location of portable fire extinguisher(s) cabinets or
   stations for firefighting. Depending on the type activity, instructions must also include such
   items as emergency removal of aircraft from hangars, protection of high value and critical
   material, accidents involving fuel handling, and special instructions for operation of
   HEF/AFFF foam and portable FFFP, CO2, HALON extinguishers.
   3.5. Annually facility manager and work section supervisors must conduct fire prevention
   training and building emergency evacuation procedures with all reservist, civilian,
   contractors and active duty personnel working in your build or work area. The fire
   prevention office will schedule a building inspection time with facility manager and during
   the inspection a building fire drill may be scheduled or conducted.
   3.6. All kitchens, kitchenettes and break areas with stoves shall have a cooking hood with an
   automatic fire extinguishing system. The hood system is to be connected to the building fire
   alarm system. The hood fire suppression system will inspected annually or more frequent as
   required by AFOSH STD 91-501, NFPA 96, fire prevention office or manufacture
   requirements and tested by an outside certified testing agency. All kitchen hoods are to be
   cleaned every 6 months or more frequent as required by the fire prevention office. Kitchen
   type and portable deep fryers (gas or electric) will be inspected and tested annually by an
   outside certified testing agency.
   3.7. Open flame or open heating element device(s) are not allowed in any building including
   candles, incense burners, etc. The fire prevention office can authorize and issue a limited use
   permit for an open flame device during a given time period.
   3.8. Report any fire hazard(s), which cannot be corrected by the building manager to Fire
   Alarm Control Center (688-3353) or the Fire Prevention Office (688-4050 or 688-4051)
   immediately.
4. Facility/Building Managers, Alternates, and Supervisors Responsibilities.
   4.1. Perform daily and monthly checks of their building(s) or area to detect fire hazards.
   4.2. Check all portable fire extinguishers in cabinets or at stanchions and not blocked.
   Perform monthly inspections & record on AF Form 3130, log book or automated record.
   4.3. Ensure annual inspection dates & hydrostatic test are indicated on extinguisher shell by
   decal or sticker.
   4.4. Supervisors are required to have all personnel receive initial (annual thereafter) fire
   extinguisher training. Training includes general principles of fire extinguisher use & hazards
   involved with initial stage fire fighting.
   4.5. Notify Fire Department 688-3353, when handicapped employees are hired and their
   work area location.
   4.6. Appoint two employees working near a hearing impaired or handicapped employee to
   assist the employee in evacuating the building for an emergency.
   4.7. Portable fire extinguishers used on base: Class ABC (dry chemical), Class D (dry
   powder), Class K (wet chemical kitchen), Class B CO2, HALON 1211, FFFP portable fire
   extinguishers.
6                                                GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


    4.8. Specific training for each type of portable extinguisher, building specific fire
    suppression systems and evacuation procedures is available upon request. Classroom training
    is approximately 20 minutes with a video on portable fire extinguishers. The training can
    include hands-on using a portable fire extinguisher. You can request to use VHS and CD
    videos or PowerPoint presentations from the fire prevention office for group presentation, or
    for an individual. VHS tape videos, CDs are available on building emergency evacuation
    procedures, hotel emergency evacuation procedures, selecting portable fire extinguishers,
    how to use portable fire extinguishers and kitchen fire extinguishing systems at the fire
    prevention office.
    4.9. All aircraft maintenance & servicing personnel receive initial (annual thereafter) hands
    on training on the use of the 150-lb. HALON 1211 flight line fire extinguishers? Supervisor
    responsibility to provide training & track requirement. Submit all fire extinguisher training
    reports to Fire Prevention Office within one month after training is accomplished (annually).
    4.10. Manager(s) of all assembly occupancies establish & maintain a certification system to
    ensure employees of assembly occupancies have been trained & understand their fire
    prevention & protection responsibilities.
    4.11. Ensure all exit routes are not obstructed; exit doors work properly, and in good
    condition. Immediately inform the Fire Prevention Office and CE help desk of any exit
    doors damaged or not working properly. Inform the Fire Prevention Office on any portable
    fire extinguisher that was discharged or damaged and any building fire protection system that
    has been damaged by material handling equipment.
    4.12. Assure that all personnel assigned to their building are familiar with the information in
    the building Emergency Action Plan.
    4.13. No smoking inside any Air Force and DoD buildings. Where smoking is authorized at
    designated areas; the smoking and disposal of smoking materials shall meet requirements of
    AFI 40-102, AFOSH 91-100, and AFOSH 91-501. The designated location and disposal
    container will be approved by the fire prevention office and negotiated Labor/Management
    Agreements, or any other instruction, regulation or directive governing smoking will be
    adhered to.
    4.14. Report any fire and unsafe fire condition that could cause a fire (fuel spill, electrical
    short, etc.) to Grissom Fire Alarm Control Center at 911. Government islands call 911. If
    using an off base or cell phone you can call 911, tell the dispatcher your name, the building,
    location and your emergency. You can call 688-HELP to report an emergency.
    4.15. Facility managers and supervisors are responsible to their unit commander to maintain
    a fire-safe condition for facilities under their jurisdiction.
    4.16. The facility manager or an alternate designated by him/her will accompany the fire
    inspector during scheduled the fire safety visit and correct on the spot any hazards or
    deficiencies noted during the visit.
    4.17. Used cotton wipes, cleaning rags, oily rags, and steel wool will be kept in separate
    NFPA approved metal container with self-closing lid having contents stenciled on the
    container and to be emptied at the end of each work day.
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                                 7


   4.18. Fire safety practices in facilities, rooms, or areas, which are under continuous lock and
   key, are the responsibility of the individual supervisor maintaining that secure area.
   Additionally, it is the responsibility of the supervisor to arrange access to these facilities for
   base fire prevention personnel to perform scheduled fire prevention inspections.
   4.19. Open flame or open heating element device(s) are not allowed in any building
   including candles, incense burners, etc. The fire prevention office can authorize and issue a
   limited use permit for an open flame device only to be used during a given time period.
   4.20. Only noncombustible trash containers will be used and they will be emptied at the end
   of each work day, or as often when full. Note: When exposed to fire, plastic trash containers
   will melt and not contain the fire.
   4.21. Ensure positive measures are taken year-round to eliminate vegetation growth around
   assigned facilities, fire hydrants, Post Indicating Valve (PIV), Fire Department Hose
   Connection (FDC) and mechanical rooms.
   4.22. Report any fire hazard(s), which cannot be corrected by the facility manager to Fire
   Alarm Control Center (688-3353) or the Fire Prevention Office (688-4051 or 688-4050)
   immediately.
   4.23. Any issue not covered herein should be brought to the attention to the unit commander
   or the fire prevention office for clarifications.
5. Fire Reporting.
   5.1. If you smell smoke or find a fire, try to close doors to that area to prevent the fire
   spread. Locate and activate the building fire alarm system by pulling the manual pull station
   handle near the exit door. Go to a safe area and call 911. Give them the following
   information:
      5.1.1. Your name, phone number, building number/address, and approximate location of
      fire, smell of smoke or chemical spill.
   5.2. One person can stay in front of the building at a safe distance to inform the first arriving
   firefighters, the possible location of the hazard and if all personnel are all accounted for or if
   any missing and there last known location.
   5.3. Take a head count at the evacuation area.
   5.4. Ensure personnel do not re-enter facility without approval of on-scene Fire Department
   Incident Commander.
   5.5. When using your cell phone to call the base emergency 911 dial “688-HELP (4357).
6. Exits and Evacuation Routes.
   6.1. In every building or structure exits shall be so arranged and maintained as to provide
   free and unobstructed egress from all parts of the building or structure at all times when it is
   occupied. Hallway(s) will have a clear width; it will be the same size for each exit door(s). If
   you have questions, contact the fire prevention office 688-4051 or 688-4050.
   6.2. Doors used in connection with exits will be kept continually unobstructed and unlocked
   in all directions of egress while building is occupied.
 8                                                  GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


     6.3. Door openings in existing facilities will have at least 28 inches of clear opening and new
     facilities will have a minimum of 32 inches of clear opening.
     6.4. Exit doors will open in the direction of exit travel.
     6.5. In public assembly and recreational facilities, exit doors, including panic hardware
     type, will be tested daily to ensure free operation.
     6.6. Panic hardware will be installed on the exit doors for all public assembly and new
     construction.
     6.7. Each building exit door will open outward to the outside.
     6.8. Doors should never open on a surface of a different level.
     6.9. Doors will not open immediately to a flight of stairs, but to a landing having at least the
     same width of the door.
     6.10. Doors may be hinged so they will be double acting and open both outward and inward.
     Double-acting doors should have a see-through panel with the same fire rating.
     6.11. Doors that are blocked will have a sign posted conspicuously on the opposite side,
     indicating “DOOR BLOCKED”.
     6.12. Materials will not be stored under, piled against, next to, or piled under doors, exits, or
     stairways.
     6.13. Each exit door marked and has adequate lighting to safely exit the area.
     6.14. Lighted Exit signs will be provided for each emergency exit and Passageway, as
     required by NFPA Standard 101, Indiana Building Code, UFC 3-600-01 and USAF
     Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) 94-5.
     6.15. The Fire Prevention Office, IAW NFPA Life Safety Code Standard 101 and Indiana
     Building Code will determine the requirement for exit signs.
     6.16. When an illuminated exit sign is inoperative, contact Civil Engineering Helpdesk 688-
     3383 replace the light bulb. If needed submit an AF Form 332, BCE for work request.
     6.17. For safety of personnel, battery powered emergency lighting units will be installed as a
     part of the building’s fixed wiring system to provide illumination of exits where required
     during periods of lost electrical power.
     6.18. Fire evacuation routes for each room will be posted in all buildings. Waiver for
     unoccupied building can be requested from the fire prevention office.
     6.19. All marked exits must be readily accessible, provide the best route to safety, and be
     suitably lighted. Provide signs to indicate the direction of travel to each exit not visible from
     any part of the room or floor area. Aisles, corridors, stairways, and passageways must be
     unobstructed at all times and must not be used for storage. Do not lock exit doors when a
     building is occupied.
7. Fire Drills.
     7.1. Building managers will conduct a fire exit drill at least annually or more often
     depending on work hazard classification to meet the minimum requirements in accordance
     with AFOSH91-501, NFPA Life Safety Code Standard 101 and any applying AF Technical
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                               9


   Order for job specific requirements. Contact the Fire Prevention Office for clarification at
   688-4051. Building managers will contact the fire prevention office to conduct a fire drill,
   two working days prior to exercise or fire drill. Fire drill can be conducted during annual fire
   prevention safety visit. Occupants will be aware of at least two means of egress and
   knowledge on how to activate the building fire alarm or fire suppression system. When
   utilization of automatic or manual fire alarm system is desired, the manager will coordinate
   with the Fire Prevention Office (688-4050 or 688-4051) to operate the system during the fire
   drill. A letter of completion with names of occupants will be given to the Fire Prevention
   Office for documentation of the drill.
8. Space Heaters.
   8.1. Heating unit and portable space heater(s) cause two out of three fires in the home and all
   are caused by improper use. Space heater shall meet all current product safety requirements
   and approved by a reputable safety testing organization. Heater must be equipped with tip
   over protection. Plug space heater directly into a wall outlet; don’t use extension cords or
   power strips. The space heater shall have a minimum clearance of 18 inches from anything
   that can burn. The heater will be unplugged when the work area is left unattended and at the
   end of each workday. Timers and thermostats have failed in the past; don’t rely on the heater
   to turn off when you’re not there to monitor it. The user shall follow all directions from
   manufacturer owner’s manual for proper use. Gas, liquid, or wood space heaters shall not be
   used inside any government permanent or temporary structure unless authorized by the fire
   prevention office and issued a permit for limited usage.
9. Paint Spraying (Flammable and Combustible Liquids).
9.1 For spot spray painting on aircraft with non-removable section(s) in a hangar; the hangar
shall meet National Fire Protection Association 410 Standard on Aircraft Maintenance, NFPA
204 Standard for Smoke and Heat Venting, NFPA 33 Standard for Spray Application Using
Flammable or Combustible Materials and Air Force Standards. A building or hangar that
doesn’t meet the required standards will follow AFOSH STD 91-100, AFOSH STD 91-66.
   9.2. Painting of aircraft in nose dock 6 & 5 (Buildings 434 & 437), all heaters will be turned
   off prior to any spray painting operation. Heaters will not be allowed to be turned on until
   the building or hangar is ventilated to clear out flammable vapors.
   9.3. AFOSHSTD91-100: 8.3.3.2.3. A hangar’s general ventilation may be supplemented by
   opening the hangar doors (not less than 10 feet) to provide additional air movement. This
   may aid in preventing flammable vapor concentrations from exceeding 20 percent LEL
   (Lower Explosive Limit), especially at floor level and in pits and drains.
   9.4. If, because of severe weather conditions such as extreme cold, the hangar doors are
   required to opened less than 10 feet, the main electrical power switch for the door will be
   locked out (OFF) and remain locked out until the door is opened more than 10 feet or closed
   (AFOSH Standard 91-66). If these actions do not achieve the desired results, additional
   ventilation by forced air will be used.
   9.5. Spot painting of aircraft in the nose docks 6 & 5 (Buildings #434 and #437) shall limit
   the application of one U.S. paint quart during an eight hour shift using compressed air
   spraying equipment.
 10                                             GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


   9.6. Additional painting above stated requirements will need to be authorized by Grissom
   ARB Fire Department Fire Prevention Office two business days prior to painting.
10. Break Area / Coffee Maker.
   10.1. All work centers without a break room can have an area identified as a break area. All
   coffee makers, pot warmers, toasters and cooking appliances shall be kept in the identified
   area to prevent overloading of electrical outlets and circuits. Plug in all appliances directly
   into a wall outlet – don’t use extension cords or power strips. All appliances shall be kept
   free of any flammable and combustible products. All coffee makers, pot warmers, cup
   warmers, and any appliances with a heating element shall be unplugged at the end of the day.
   Coffee makers with timers are not allowed. Cooking stoves are not allowed in break rooms
   or break areas unless they are approved and have the proper hood system and hood fire
   extinguishing system. Exceptions will be approved by the Fire Chief. The total power
   requirement of appliances used at each receptacle outlet shall not exceed the power rating of
   each outlet.
11. Kitchen Hood System and Deep Fryer.
   11.1. All Kitchen hoods are to be cleaned every 6 months or more frequent in accordance
   with AFOSH STD 91-501 and the fire prevention office. The hood fire suppression system
   will be inspected annually or more frequent as required by the fire prevention office. All
   hood fire extinguishing systems will be inspected, tested and serviced by an outside
   authorized certified company. Kitchen type deep fryers (gas or electric) will be inspected and
   tested annually by an outside certified testing agency (Ref. AFOSH STD 91-501, NFPA 96).
   Break areas using a stove for cooking will meet the requirements in AFOSH STD 91-501 and
   have a fire extinguishing system installed and connected to the building fire alarm system.
12. Open Flame & Hot Work Permits.
   12.1. Open flame or open heating element device(s) are not allowed in any building for
   heating or decorations; including candles, incense burners, etc. The fire prevention office can
   authorize and issue a limited use permit to use an open flame device or open element for
   work or a special event during a given time period.
13. Smoking Area and Smoking Material.
   13.1. Smoking and disposal of smoking materials shall meet the requirements of AFI 40-102
   and AFOSH 91-501 approved by the fire prevention office, negotiated Labor/Management
   Agreements, and any applicable instruction, regulation or directive relating to this particular
   topic.
14. Portable Barbecue Grills and Deep Fryer.
   14.1. All portable barbecue grills and deep fryers using Liquid Propane Gas (LPG) tanks
   will be inspected annually prior to use by fire prevention office and the building
   manager/supervisor will inspect for wear and aging of connector hose, regulator, burner, and
   rust conditions of LPG tank prior to each use. Inspection shall follow the standard for visual
   inspections of Compressed Gas Cylinders by the Compressed Gas Association (CGA). No
   barbecue grills or fryers can be used inside a building. All grills and deep fryers shall be
   outside at a minimum of 10 feet away of any type structure including tents. The user shall
   have a minimum of a 5-pound ABC type fire extinguisher near the operator and when using a
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                              11


   deep fryer a K type fire extinguisher will be near the operator. No grill or deep fryer can be
   stored with LPG tank inside a building. Storage of LPG tank shall be stored in a compressed
   gas cylinder cage and meet requirements stated in NFPA 55. All portable barbecues using
   charcoal briquettes or wood will follow same requirements for gas grills when finished cool
   briquettes or wood with water or if the grill has a lid to cover all openings you can let the
   grill cool and allow briquettes or wood to burn out over night to the check if ashes are cool
   before discarding. Do not place ashes in trash container or dumpster.
15. Holiday Decorations.
   15.1. The Fire Prevention Office will approve the location of all holiday decorations.
   Decorations will be noncombustible or fire retardant and approved by UL or other reputable
   safety testing organization. Only an artificial tree, wreath, can be used during Christmas time.
   All Christmas lights will be unplugged when the area is left unattended and at the end of the
   workday. Decorations utilizing an open flame are prohibited.
16. Munitions Storage and Movement.
   16.1. CEF OG 32-08 Weapons Movement is the operating guideline that establishes a policy
   governing fire department operations, notifications, precautionary measures and procedures
   in response to Mass Weapon Movements in accordance with AFMAN 32-4004 Chapter 2
   Emergency Response Operations, 434 ARWI 91-201 Safe Haven/Safe Refuge Assistance for
   Explosive Laden Vehicles, 434 ARW ORM 1 Risk Management Plan and Grissom FSTR
   Plan 10-2.
17. Portable Fire Extinguisher.
   17.1. Use and care of portable firefighting equipment:
      17.1.1. It is imperative that all personnel are thoroughly familiar with the proper use of
      all fire extinguishers for their work area. Classes of fire and applicable extinguishing
      agents to use are as follows (AFI 91-301) (AFOSH STD91-501):
          17.1.1.1. CLASS A: “ordinary combustibles”- wood, paper, household rubbish,
          cloth, rubber, and many plastics.
          17.1.1.2. CLASS B: flammable/combustible liquids – oils, greases, tar, oil based
          paints, thinner, lacquers, flammable gases, and some plastics.
          17.1.1.3. CLASS C: “energized” (plugged in) electrical equipment, household
          appliances, televisions, radios, computers, space heaters, wiring, electrical boxes, and
          circuit breaker boxes. (Note: if electrical equipment involved in a fire is not
          energized [e.g., unplugged], the fire becomes a Class A or Class B fire.)
          17.1.1.4. CLASS     D: combustible metals – magnesium, potassium, sodium,
          titanium, etc. These types of fires are most likely to occur in an industrial or
          commercial setting.
          17.1.1.5. CLASS K: combustible cooking oils – vegetable, animal cooking oils used
          for frying food.
   17.2. Type and uses of portable fire extinguishers:
12                                              GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


     17.2.1. Pressurized Water: Use on Class A fires only. DO NOT USE ON ENERGIZED
     ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
     17.2.2. (ABC) Dry Chemical: Use on Class A, B, and C fires, depending on size.
     17.2.3. FOAM (FFFP): Use on Class A and B fires. Can be used as an effective fire
     preventing vapor barrier when applied to a flammable or combustible product spill.
     17.2.4. HALON 1211 Flight line: Use on Class A, B, and C fires (for aircraft only).
     17.2.5. K Wet Chemical: Use on cooking equipment when vegetable, animal cooking
     oils is used to fry and deep fry foods.
     17.2.6. It is the responsibility of the using agency to maintain, replace and to report to
     the Fire Prevention Office on any instances in which a portable fire extinguisher(s) has
     been discharged, spilled, damaged or suspected of having been tampered with (such as
     broken seal or low pressure). All portable fire extinguisher maintenance will be
     accomplished in accordance with NFPA 10.
     17.2.7. Fire fighting appliances are placed in buildings in compliance with Department
     of Defense, Air Force criteria, Federal, NFPA and State Codes. The location of such
     appliances will not be changed without the approval of the base Fire Chief.
     17.2.8. Notify the Fire Prevention Office in regards to changing conditions within
     building(s), structure(s), or area(s), which may require redistribution of fire extinguishers
     and/or fire protection equipment.
     17.2.9. User Portable Fire Extinguisher Inspection Procedures (MONTHLY minimum):
         17.2.9.1. Check to see if seal is intact.
         17.2.9.2. Check to see gauge needle is pointing within operating pressure range. Is
         gauge glass broken or cloudy making gauge unreadable? NOTE: Internal pressure is
         affected by temperature changes. Pressure increases with heat and decreases when it
         becomes colder.
         17.2.9.3. Check hose for defects such as cracks and deterioration.
         17.2.9.4. Check nozzle for cracks or obstructions.
         17.2.9.5. Check container for leakage, damage, or signs of tampering.
         17.2.9.6. Check hanging bracket if secured to wall.
         17.2.9.7. Ensure fire extinguisher is not blocked for access and is visible.
         17.2.9.8. Suitable fire extinguishers will be in place at all painting, paint removing,
         and doping operations.
  17.3. The base Fire Chief is responsible and has designated the Fire Prevention Office to
  determine type of portable fire extinguisher will be used at each work area and to annually
  inspect all portable fire extinguishers for all Grissom Air Reserve Base buildings and flight
  line area. The user shall maintain and replace as necessary any portable fire extinguishers
  that are damaged, discharged or out of date in accordance with AFOSH STD91-501.
  17.4. Fire prevention during flightline maintenance necessitates accessible to firefighting
  equipment, which will be provided in accordance with Air Force guidance, industry
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                               13


   standards or as specified by the Fire Chief. A suitable fire extinguisher(s) will be placed
   within easy reach of the operator and close to ground power equipment when used in
   maintaining or servicing aircraft (AFOSH STD91-100).
   17.5. When fueling or defueling an aircraft by truck, fuels cart; a suitable fire extinguisher(s)
   will be checked and placed in strategic locations upwind and near the aircraft before
   beginning fuel transfer operations.
18. Fire Protection, Detection, Alarm and Mass Notification Systems.
   18.1. Grissom ARB utilizes basically 8 types of systems to protect personnel and property.
   They are: mass notification systems, automatic water sprinkler systems, automatic heat
   detection or smoke detection with manual fire pull stations, HEF, AFFF, deluge, and wet
   chemical. Most base buildings have a combination of systems.
   18.2. Fire suppression systems can have automatic sprinkler, HEF, AFFF, and deluge
   systems are installed to protect high value equipment and hazardous operations. All building
   systems sound a local alarm and some use water as a primary extinguishing agent to control
   or extinguish the fire and the system will transmit an alarm signal to the Fire Alarm
   Communication Center to have the Fire Department respond.
   18.3. Painting of any emergency notification devices and fire suppression devices are
   prohibited (smoke detectors, heat detectors, alarm strobes, alarm horns, sprinkler heads).
   18.4. Sprinkler heads and piping shall not be used as supports, attachments, or hanging of
   equipment and material.
   18.5. Sprinkler heads and sprinkler risers will be unobstructed at all times. A minimum
   clearance of 18 inches shall be maintained between the top of storage and sprinkler
   deflectors.
   18.6. Sprinkler water supply piping should be kept in good repair. Broken or loose hangers
   should be reported promptly. No articles can be attached to any sprinkler pipes.
   18.7. Automatic fire (smoke and heat) detection systems with manual pull stations are
   installed to detect and sound an alarm where safety of life, need for early detection, and
   notification of fire are of principle concern. System will sound a local alarm and transmit an
   alarm signal to the Fire Department Fire Alarm Communication Center.
   18.8. Smoke and heat detectors will be free of paint, lint, covering, and coating of any paint.
   18.9. Ensure fire alarm manual pull stations are easily accessible (not blocked) and easily
   spotted.
   18.10. If the fire alarm panel is located inside an occupied space, do not block and keep
   accessible.
   18.11. Fire alarm manual pull stations are placed are located in the path of exit from the area
   for the occupant to activate. They will sound the fire alarm to notify the building occupants
   and the fire department in case of a small fire or smell of smoke odor.
   18.12. Mass notification system if installed in the building will be used to notify building
   occupants of a hazard or potential weather emergency and to advise them to evacuate or
   shelter in place.
 14                                             GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


   18.13. Only qualified fire protection-civil engineering employees or authorized contractors
   will accomplish testing, maintenance, and repair fire protection systems.
   18.14. Personnel involved in malicious or willful misuse of a fire protection system, willful
   transmission of incorrect or inaccurate information concerning a fire, or who in any way
   tampers with fire reporting equipment, firefighting equipment, or fire appliances will be
   subject to appropriate administrative or disciplinary actions.
19. The Inspection System.
   19.1. Commanders are responsible for fire prevention on their installation(s). Each
   functional manager is responsible for fire prevention within his/her functional area and for
   correcting fire hazards and deficiencies. The functional manager is defined in AFI 91-301
   and AFOSH 91-501.
   19.2. All base buildings will be inspected annually. Buildings of high importance and large
   occupant load will be inspected quarterly (Hangars, Lodging and Dining facility).
   19.3. AF Form 218, Facility Fire Prevention/Protection Record, will be used as a checklist
   and recording document during the entire inspection process. Use the reverse side of the
   form to document fire inspections where no hazards or deficiencies are noted.
   19.4. AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report.
      19.4.1. This form will be used to identify to the functional manager fire hazards or
      deficiencies noted during the inspection.
      19.4.2. This form will be used during scheduled and unscheduled fire inspection.
   19.5. Building managers or their alternates will accompany the fire prevention inspector
   during scheduled fire inspections.
   19.6. When hazardous practices or processes are observed during an inspection, the fire
   inspector will recommend that the operation be ended immediately. The fire inspector shall
   notify the Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention and the Fire Chief. The base Fire Marshal is
   notified and if the resolution of the situation with the functional manager fails, the base
   commander will be notified and determine if the operation is to continue. Upon completion
   of inspection, the fire inspector(s) will brief the building manager or alternate accompanying
   them on the results of the inspection and sign the backside of the AF Form 218. If corrective
   action needs to be made, an AF Form 1487 will be issued to the building manager or
   alternate within 5 working days. The second page will be filled out stating correction made
   or CE work request number. Building manager or alternate will sign the form. This signature
   verifies the occurrence and results of the inspection.
   19.7. The building manager or alternate will act to begin immediate correction of fire
   hazards and process fire deficiencies according to AFI 91-301. Their copy of AF Form 1487
   with corrective actions indicated will be returned to the fire prevention office to be reviewed
   and filed in the AF Form 218 file (facilities folder).
   19.8. AF Form 1487 may be routed through channels to the highest base command level for
   correction of hazards or deficiencies when deemed necessary by the base Fire Chief.
20. Inspection Procedures.
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                             15


   20.1. Fire Prevention inspector(s) emphasize the following during inspections:
   20.2. Personnel knowledge of fire reporting, evacuation, and initial fire fighting procedures.
   They will query a random sample of personnel during each inspection.
   20.3. Adequacy and condition of fire detection, alarm, and protective systems and devices
   including fire extinguishers.
   20.4. Adequacy and condition of devices and facility features to segregate and separate
   special fire hazard occupancy areas (fire doors, walls, stops, drafts, etc.).
   20.5. Designed materials are used with applicable directions.
   20.6. Condition of heating, fuel handling, and similar hazard producing installations and
   equipment.
   20.7. Adequacy of safe practices to eliminate and prevent fires.
   20.8. Smoking control and other hazardous personal practices.
   20.9. The proper use of power strips and extension cords. Power strips cannot be connected
   together and can only be plugged into an electrical wall outlet. Extension cords can only be
   used during temporary repair work.
   20.10. Identify changes in construction, occupancy, or other factors that require updating the
   pre-fire plan.
   20.11. Adequacy of unit reporting, evacuation, and initial fire fighting procedures and plans.
   20.12. Condition and proper use of electrical equipment and connections.
   20.13. Housekeeping practices.
      20.13.1. Adequacy, condition, and accessibility of fire exits and escape routes.
      20.13.2. Proper separation, storage, and placarding of explosives.
      20.13.3. Evidence of unauthorized self-help projects.
21. Hazard Abatement Program (HAP).
   21.1. IAW AFI 91-301 when major fire hazards or deficiencies are identified as HAP, AF
   Form 332 will be initiated to civil engineering for corrective action. When hazard or
   deficiency has not been corrected within 30 days, the Fire Prevention Office will submit each
   item to the Safety Office for inclusion into the Hazard Abatement Program.
22. Correction of Fire Hazards FSD AND RAC.
   22.1. The building manager should initiate immediate corrective action within his/her own
   resources to eliminate fire hazards.
   22.2. A fire hazard is defined as an existing condition or situation, which if not corrected,
   could result in undesired ignition and subsequent fire causing personal injury or loss of life
   and property.
   22.3. A service call should be initiated by the manager to civil engineering for correction of
   urgent hazards, which are beyond the manager’s capabilities.
 16                                              GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


   22.4. Building managers should complete AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
   (provide one copy to the fire prevention office) to correct fire hazards which are beyond their
   control and submit the form to Civil Engineering Customer Service with a copy of the AF
   Form 1487 for correction of such items as:
   22.5. Improperly operating heating unit(s).
   22.6. Deteriorated wiring and broken light fixtures, wall receptacles, circuit breakers,
   missing covers, plates, etc.
   22.7. Discrepancies involving exit doors, exit lighting, and panic hardware.
   22.8. Inoperative emergency lighting.
   22.9. Holes in walls and ceilings that would create a fire draft or contribute to the spread of
   fire.
   22.10. When minor modifications or installation is required, i.e. installation of additional
   electrical receptacles to eliminate the need for extension cords ensure AF Form 332 is
   coordinated through the fire prevention office.
   22.11. A fire protection deficiency is defined as any condition in a facility, which could
   contribute to the rapid and uncontrolled spread of fire, fail to confine or suppress a fire within
   defined limits, or result in a life safety hazard or extensive property loss from fire.
23. Self-Help and Construction.
   23.1. The Fire Prevention Office will approve all self-help work requests including a listing
   of the material to be used, before the project is started and the materials purchased. All such
   material must meet the minimum requirements of current standards, building and fire codes,
   and instructions.
   23.2. Individual units expending non-appropriated funds must also comply with the above
   requirements.
   23.3. In the event interior alterations are made in a building equipped with a sprinkler
   system, necessary modifications to the sprinkler system will be effected to extend the
   protection into the altered area. Under no circumstances will false ceilings, drop ceilings, or
   hidden areas be installed without extending the system. Alterations to partitions, rooms, and
   enclosures will be planned to assure sprinkler coverage of all areas involved.
   23.4. During construction a need to use equipment that generates sparks or has an open
   flame, the fire prevention office will inspect area prior to work being done at the location and
   determine best course of action to prevent fire and issue an open flame permit for limited use
   time period. During the equipment use, a Class A,B,C fire extinguisher will be at the area of
   work.
   23.5. Where justified for functional use, only Class A and B paneling may be used for
   specific interior finish treatment except in sleeping rooms, corridors, stairs, and fire exits
   provided the use of these materials is held to 50 percent of wall area and they are installed on
   a wall of non-combustible material extending to the floor. The combustible interior finish
   material specified in this paragraph will not be installed in buildings having high fire hazard
   occupancy, having strategic importance or housing critical material.
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                           17


  23.6. Critical material includes equipment, devices, apparatus, and supplies which meet one
  of the following conditions:
     23.6.1. Essential to the accomplishment of vital military missions.
     23.6.2. Exceptionally costly.
     23.6.3. Normally in short supply.
     23.6.4. Highly complex.
     23.6.5. Require a long lead time for procurement.
  23.7. In dormitories, other sleeping quarters, club facility, auditoriums, dining hall, and in
  fire exit stairways, carpets, and rugs as they are installed (with or without separate
  underlayment) will have a flame spread propagation index of 4.0 or less when tested in
  accordance with a certified testing laboratory chamber test or have a flame spread rating not
  greater than 75 when tested in accordance with industry standard.
  23.8. When acoustical tile is used, it will be non-combustible inorganic or treated organic
  type with a flame-spread rating not exceeding 25.
  23.9. Any subject requiring clarification or not covered, please contact Asst. Chief of Fire
  Prevention, Grissom ARB Fire Department at 688-4051.




                                           WILLIAM T. CAHOON, COL, USAFR
                                           Commander
 18                                             GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Publications
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities,
Air Force Publications
AFOSH Standard 91-5, Welding, Cutting and Brazing, 1May 1997
AFOSH 91-66, General Industrial Operations, 1 October 1997
AFOSH 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line – Ground Operations and Activities, 1 May 1998
AFOSH 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Safety Standard, Safety, 7 July 2004
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 3 June 2002
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 01Jun 1996
AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Standards, 18 Apr 1994
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineering Work Request
AF Form 592, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
AF Form 3130, General Purpose Form
TO 00-25-172, Grounding Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding, 21 February
2008
OSHA standard 1910.157 Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Portable Fire
Extinguishers, Current Edition
NFPA 10 Portable Fire Extinguishers, Current Edition
NFPA 33 Spray Application Using Flammable or Combustible Materials, Current Edition
NFPA 55 Compressed and Liquefied Gases in Portable Cylinders, Current Edition
NFPA 96 Ventilation Control Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations, Current
Edition
NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, Safety to Life from Fire in Buildings and Structures, Current
Edition
NFPA 410 Aircraft Maintenance, Current Edition
NFPA 204 Smoke and Heat Venting, Current Edition
Adopted Forms
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                   19


AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineering Work Request
AF Form 592, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
AF Form 3130, General Purpose Form

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DOD—Department of Defense
FSD—Fire Safety Deficiencies
HAP—Hazard Abatement Program
HazMat—Hazardous Materials
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
TO—Technical Orders
RAC—Risk Assessment Codes
 20                                              GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


                                          Attachment 2
                                     FIRE PREVENTION

A2.1. Functional managers and facility managers are responsible for monthly inspections of
their organizations to ensure compliance with this instruction, to eliminate fire hazards and
correct deficiencies. This includes:
   A2.1.1. Ensuring that:
       A2.1.1.1. All work areas are left in a fire safe condition at the end of each day.
       A2.1.1.2. All non-essential electric machines and equipment are shut off when not in
       use.
       A2.1.1.3. There will be no storage in any attic, crawl space, stairwell, exit, exit enclosure
       or boiler/mechanical rooms.
       A2.1.1.4. Flammable and combustible products are stored in an approved flammable
       storage locker or cabinet and are compatible with other items stored in the cabinet.
       A2.1.1.5. All gasoline powered equipment can only be stored in an approved
       maintenance garage, mini barn or outside.
       A2.1.1.6. All waste materials are kept in non-combustible containers and emptied daily.
       Office recycle containers will be emptied daily.
       A2.1.1.7. Hazardous waste materials are disposed of in accordance with current
       hazardous waste handling and disposal procedures.
       A2.1.1.8. Mechanical rooms are not utilized for any storage purpose.
       A2.1.1.9. An electrical permit is required for any non-government electrical appliance. It
       will need to be inspected by the base civil engineer electrician and by the fire protection
       section before being utilized. Examples: space heaters, coffee pots, microwaves,
       toasters, refrigerators.
       A2.1.1.10. Authorized smoking areas are kept free of trash and combustible material
       and that smoking materials are extinguished and disposed of in approved containers.
       A2.1.1.11. Any operation or process that requires an open flame, heat producing, spark
       producing will be IAW AFOSH Standard 91-5 Welding, Cutting and Brazing and
       coordinated through the fire prevention office and or Operations section and an AF Form
       592 Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit will be issued.
       A2.1.1.12. Inspect electrical equipment and appliances monthly for worn or defective
       cords.
       A2.1.1.13. Accompanying or delegating an alternate to accompany the fire inspector
       during fire prevention visits and to ensure that all areas are accessible to the fire
       inspector.
   A2.1.1.14. Monthly visual inspection of all fire extinguishers, (date and initial white tag,
   yellow tag is for annual fire department inspection), extinguisher cabinets, emergency lights,
   exit sign lights, pull stations, sprinkler systems and extinguishing systems, for signs of
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                         21


  damage, tampering, or use. Report deficiencies to the fire prevention section and CE service
  call desk.
     A2.1.1.15. The monthly extinguisher inspection tag is signed off.
     A2.1.1.16. Appropriate action is taken against anyone who carelessly or willfully
     violates fire prevention policies, or by negligence causes fire loss to government
     property.
 22                                               GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


                                           Attachment 3
                                          LIFE SAFETY

A3.1. Unit commanders, division chiefs, facility managers, and supervisors are responsible for
ensuring that all life safety devices and features within areas of their jurisdiction are operational.
A3.2. Functional managers and facility managers will ensure that all:
   A3.2.1. Hallways, stairwells, or any other path of egress is not obstructed in any manner.
   A3.2.2. Exits and exit ways are clear of trash, debris, and obstructions (blue bins, trashcans,
   de-icing drums, shovels etc.), including ice and snow, for a distance of ten (10) feet from the
   exit.
   A3.2.3. Exits signs in their activity are electrically illuminated and operational at all times.
   A3.2.4. Doors which are identified as exits are kept unlocked and not chained while
   occupants are in the facility.
   A3.2.5. Doors which are identified as fire doors are designed to stop the spread of flame and
   smoke, remain closed at all times and not held open by any device except as designed.
       A3.2.5.1. Designed devices are not tampered with.
   A3.2.6. Making sure fire protection features and devices are operational, unobstructed, and
   undamaged. These include: heat and smoke detectors, manual pull stations, portable fire
   extinguishers, sprinkler systems, extinguishing systems, emergency lighting, door panic
   hardware, fire and smoke doors and fire alarm control panels.
   A3.2.7. Making sure handicap devices are in working order.
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                              23


                                          Attachment 4
                              FIRE PREVENTION TRAINING

A4.1. Unit commanders, division chiefs, and supervisors will:
   A4.1.1. Annually conduct fire safety and prevention briefings to their subordinates at all
   levels and annotate this training on the Air Force form 55, Employee Safety and Health
   Record or electronic equivalent.
   A4.1.2. Ensure that all personnel are observing fire regulations.
   A4.1.3. Provide training in compliance with provisions in Air Force Occupational Safety and
   Health (AFOSH) standard 91-501, Safety, 91-301, Safety and Health and Department of
   Labor Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standard 1910.157, Portable Fire
   Extinguishers, NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers.
   A4.1.4. Ensure a fire/evacuation assembly point is designated and that all employees are
   briefed. The assembly point should be far enough away from the building to protect the
   people and not hinder fire-fighting operations. The assembly point should not be near
   dumpster, flammable storage lockers that could conceal secondary explosives. Assembly
   point should be posted on common bulletin boards.
A4.2. All newly assigned personnel will be briefed in Fire Prevention safety within thirty days
of their assignment by Fire Prevention personnel and immediate supervisor.
   A4.2.1. Briefing topics shall include, building evacuation/shelter-in-place procedures,
   assembly point, fire-reporting procedures using on-base phones, cell and pay phones
   emergency numbers, exit locations, fire extinguisher locations, fire alarm pull station
   locations, safe flammable and combustible storage, and housekeeping practices.
A4.3. Annual fire safety and extinguisher familiarization training will be conducted by the
supervisor or the fire prevention section of the fire department as requested.
A4.4. Request for hands-on flight line fire extinguisher training for flight line personnel, or any
other section, should be coordinated through the fire prevention office.
A4.5. Building fire/evacuation drills are conducted at the discretion of the fire prevention office
or as requested by the unit authority.
 24                                             GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


                                         Attachment 5
            FIRE PREVENTION IN HANGARS, SHOPS, AND FLIGHT LINE

A5.1. Flight chiefs, shop foreman, and supervisors are responsible for fire safety within their
workplace.
A5.2. Aircraft stands, motorized equipment, electrical equipment and other material will not be
stored in such a manner as to block exits, interfere with fire protection systems, equipment, or
block accessibility or visibility of fire extinguishers or pull stations.
A5.3. Aircraft will not be fueled/de-fueled, or ground fuel transferred, while inside the hangar,
or within fifty feet of the hangar without special written permission from fire prevention office
and coordinating agencies. Hangars designed for this type of operation are exempt, (434 and
436).
A5.4. Aircraft will not be serviced with oxygen while inside hangars, or within fifty feet of
hangars.
   A5.4.1. At least one (1) flight line fire extinguisher (150 lb wheeled) must be easily
   accessible during any refuel/de-fuel or oxygen servicing operation.
A5.5. Aircraft engines, aircraft APU’s or ground power units will not be operated inside hangars
under any circumstances.
A5.6. Batteries should be disconnected and aircraft grounded at all times while inside the
hangar.
A5.7. No open flame, spark-producing device, exposed filament heater, or any equipment
capable of igniting vapors or gases are permitted within fifty feet of the hangar.
   A5.7.1. Use of blow torches, soldering irons, and other equipment in which an open flame
   must be used, will be IAW AFOSH Standard 91-5 Welding, Cutting and Brazing and
   restricted to isolated places where there is air circulation, and where no explosive vapors are
   present. An Air Force form 592, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit, must be obtained
   from the fire prevention office prior to beginning any open flame operation.
A5.8. Flammable or combustible materials and liquids required to perform maintenance, shall be
stored in approved containers, labeled and stored with compatible like items and marked as to the
contents. The labeled containers shall be housed within approved flammable storage cabinets or
lockers. A current Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) should be made available upon request.
   A5.8.1. Quantities of flammable and combustible liquids stored in cabinets shall be in
   accordance with National Fire Codes, Air Force Occupational and Health (AFOSH)
   standards, and Codes of Federal Regulations.
   A5.8.2. Flammable liquid storage cabinets shall be kept closed at all times, when not being
   accessed.
A5.9. Inspections will be made daily prior to closing shops and hangars to ensure a fire safe
condition is maintained.
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                            25


A5.10. Flight line fire extinguishers will be located along the ramp, spaced between the aircraft
IAW: TO 00-25-172 and far enough away to prevent damage to the aircraft or extinguisher by
prop wash, jet blast, or inclement weather.
   A5.10.1. Flightline extinguishers are accountable, maintained by the fire prevention section,
   and monthly checked and recorded by the maintenance sections. Damaged, used, or
   inoperable extinguishers shall be removed from service and immediately reported to the fire
   department for required maintenance or repair.
   A5.10.2. Flight line extinguishers which are to be deployed with the aircraft must be signed
   for on an Air Force, Temporary Issue Receipt, from the fire prevention section.
 26                                              GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


                                          Attachment 6
                MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE FIRE PREVENTION

A6.1. Supervisors, foremen and workers are responsible for fire safety within their workplace.
A6.2. Special activities necessary to perform vehicle maintenance operations, such as painting,
welding or other hazardous operations, will be performed in places designated for that purpose.
A6.3. Flame producing devices are prohibited in the garages, except in specifically designated
locations.
A6.4. Oily rags and waste will not be left on floors, workbenches, desks, etc.
A6.5. Oil, fuel, or other products spilled, will be cleaned up immediately and disposed of
properly.
A6.6. Exhaust recovery system will be in operation while “engine-run” maintenance is
performed.
A6.7. Equipment having gasoline tanks mounted over the engines will not be refueled within
fifty feet of the building and only after a “cool down” period is observed.
   A6.7.1. Should fuel overflow during refueling operations, engines will not be started until
   fuel has been cleaned up and sufficient time passed for evaporation of fumes.
   A6.7.2. During refueling operations and starting of engines after refueling, a fire
   extinguisher will be held “at the ready” in the event of fire.
   A6.7.3. Trucks, trailers, and other special vehicles containing small auxiliary gasoline
   powered units will be equipped with suitable fire extinguishers.
A6.7.4. Engines used as power generators inside trailers or closed spaces will be refueled with
extreme care to prevent spillage and ignition from electrical sources or hot exhaust.
A6.8. All electrical devices and fixtures will be kept in good working condition at all times.
   A6.8.1. All defective equipment will be repaired by authorized technicians or tradesmen.
   A6.8.2. Metal parts of all electrical machines will be grounded to a low resistance ground.
A6.9. Flammable/combustible liquids will be stored in approved containers and housed in
approved cabinets or lockers in quantities specified by the National Fire Protection Association,
Code of Federal Regulations, Air Force directives, or local established policies.
A6.10. Hazardous waste will be stored in approved accumulation points, away from ignition
sources, until disposed of or re-cycled according to regulations, policies, or directives.
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                            27


                                         Attachment 7
   FIRE PREVENTION IN PUBLIC ASSEMBLY, RECREATION AND BILLETING
                             BUILDINGS

A7.1. Managers of public assembly and recreation facilities are responsible for fire safety
compliance within their jurisdiction. This responsibility extends over contractors and
concessionaries.
A7.2. Managers must establish and maintain a certification system ensuring employees are
trained in their fire prevention responsibilities within their work environment.
   A7.2.1. This system includes yearly training of employees and immediate indoctrination of
   newly hired employees.
A7.3. Managers or alternates will conduct fire inspections of facilities at closing time in
accordance with a Fire Prevention approved, Manager directed checklist.
A7.4. Managers, where restaurant cooking is performed, will establish and enforce procedures
to ensure grease filters and exposed surfaces of kitchen hoods are thoroughly cleaned at least
once a day.
   A7.4.1. Fire Prevention will arrange for semi-annual cleaning and inspection of duct
   systems, and fat fryers, by certified contractors. Documentation will be kept by Fire
   Prevention Office.
   A7.4.2. Cooking is not permitted under range hoods without grease filters installed and
   exhaust fans operational.
   A7.4.3. Metal covers must be pre-positioned for each fryer for immediate use in case of fire.
A7.5. Open flames (IE: candles) designed to enhance atmospheres, are prohibited, unless written
permission is obtained from Fire Prevention.
A7.6. Billeting managers will ensure fire protection features in lodging and individual rooms are
fully operational, prior to assigning rooms for occupancy.
   A7.6.1. Emergency evacuation plans should be available for each occupant’s familiarization.
   A7.6.2. Emergency telephone numbers should be visibly accessible.
A7.7. Smoking in base buildings is prohibited.
   A7.7.1. Smoking materials, in outside smoking areas, will be placed in approved receptacles.
A7.8. Space heaters, hot plates, woks, fondue/crock pots, or other cooking devices are strictly
prohibited.
A7.9. Open flame of any type is not permitted in billeting rooms.
 28                                              GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011


                                          Attachment 8
           FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY IN FUEL DISPENSING AREAS

A8.1. Turn off your vehicle engine while refueling. Disable or turn off any auxiliary sources of
ignition.
A8.2. Do not smoke, light matches or lighters while refueling at the pump or when using
gasoline.
A8.3. Use only the refueling latch provided on the gasoline dispenser nozzle, - never jam
anything in to the refueling latch on the nozzle to keep it open.
A8.4. Do not re-enter your vehicle during refueling, due static electricity build-up.
A8.5. In the event of a static-caused fire, leave the nozzle in the fill pipe, back away from
vehicle and activate the EMERGENCY STOP BUTTON and notify Emergency Services.
A8.6. Do not over-fill or top-off your vehicle tank, which can cause gasoline spillage.
A8.7. Avoid prolonged breathing of gasoline vapors.
A8.8. When dispensing fuel into a container, use approved containers placed on the ground to
avoid static electricity ignition of vapors. Never fill containers while inside a vehicle trunk, or
bed of a pickup truck
A8.9. Store gasoline in approved containers as required by federal or state authorities. Never
store gasoline in glass or any other unapproved containers.
A8.10. When filling containers, manually control the nozzle throughout the filling process. Fill
portable container slowly to decrease chance of static electricity buildup and minimize spilling.
A8.11. Fill portable containers no more than 95 percent full to allow for heat expansion.
A8.12. If gasoline spills on the container, make sure it has evaporated before you place the
container inside vehicle. Report any ground spills to your emergency services.
A8.13. Never siphon gasoline for any reason. Gasoline can be harmful or fatal if swallowed. If
someone swallows gasoline, do not induce vomiting, contact Fire Emergency Services.
A8.14. Keep gasoline away from eyes and skin; it may cause irritation. Remove gasoline-soaked
clothing immediately.
A8.15. Use gasoline as a motor fuel only. Never use gasoline to wash your hands or as a cleaner.
A8.16. Do not use cell phones or portable radios while refueling.
GRISSOMARBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2011                                                           29


                                         Attachment 9
       MISCELLANEOUS FIRE PREVENTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

A9.1. Unit commanders, division chiefs, facility managers, supervisors, and subordinates at all
levels are responsible for complying with fire prevention policies and procedures covered in
these attachments.
A9.2. Holiday and Public Gathering procedures:
   A9.2.1. Natural Christmas trees will not be displayed.
   A9.2.2. Artificial Christmas trees must be chemically treated or be inherently flame
   retardant.
   A9.2.3. Electrical devices of any type are prohibited on metallic Christmas trees.
   A9.2.4. Straw and Hay decorations are prohibited.
A9.3. Holiday lighting devices and extension cords will be inspected for serviceability before
use and will be of the types tested and listed by accredited testing Laboratory.
   A9.3.1. Overloaded circuits must be avoided. Civil engineering electricians will determine
   adequacy of the circuits, requested through the service call desk.
A9.4. Facilities where social events are planned, managers will consult fire prevention prior to
displaying unusual arrangements or decorations. Decorations will be non-flammable fire
retardant type.
A9.5. Overcrowding during gatherings is prohibited. Occupancy capacity will not be exceeded.
A9.6. The use of charcoal grills is discouraged; 20-lb propane units are preferred. If long term
use in one location is desired, a permanent natural gas unit may be installed.
   A9.6.1. Disposal of charcoal ashes in dumpsters is strictly prohibited. Any ashes must be
   extinguished with water if left unattended.
   A9.6.2. DELETED
   A9.6.3. Storage of propane tanks in facilities or mechanical-boiler rooms is prohibited.
   Outside storage is required. Cylinders of one (1) Lb capacity or less may be stored in
   approved containers (Flammable Storage Lockers).
