BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      GRISSOM AIR RESERVE BASE
434TH AIR REFUELING WING                                              INSTRUCTION 23-302

                                                                                   29 APRIL 2013

                                                                                    Transportation

                                                   GRISSOM AIR RESERVE BASE VEHICLE
                                                                 ACCIDENT AND ABUSE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 434 MSG/AOT                                                        Certified by: 434 MSG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Betty A. Bowen)
                                                                                          Pages: 11


This instruction implements AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management. This instruction applies to all
squadron commanders, tenant units, vehicle control officers (VCO), vehicle control
noncommissioned officers (VCNCO) and vehicle operators assigned to or temporary duty (TDY)
to Grissom ARB, including all National Guard and Reserve personnel. This instruction
establishes the policies and procedures for implementing and managing the wing’s vehicle
accident, abuse and incident program. It includes specific guidance and addresses the definitions,
authority, disposition, reporting procedures and reimbursement of repairs for military vehicle
accidents, abuse and incidents. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publication/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records     Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)     located     at   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims. The use of the name or rank of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

This is the initial publication of Grissom Air Reserve Base Instruction (GARBI23-302)

1. Objective. The commander is charged with maintaining high standards of vehicle operator
training and discipline and consequently, using the procedures set forth in paragraph 5.6., of this
instruction, units will transfer expenses for the actual cost to repair accident and abuse damage to
vehicles operated by their personnel.
 2                                                      GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013


2. Goal. To reduce the number of vehicle accidents, abuse and incident cases, thereby, keeping
the cost of repairs to an absolute minimum.
3. Policy: The organization using vehicles and or equipment will reimburse the
Transportation’s O&M account for direct material and or contractor repair costs required to
repair accident or abuse related damages. The using organization may not be the assigned
organization (e.g., U-Drive-It vehicles from Transportation or a loaned vehicle from another
organization).
     3.1. Reimbursement will be made regardless of any administrative or pecuniary liability
     assessed to an individual. Reimbursement is to be accomplished through a transfer of funds
     from the using organization's O&M account to Transportation’s O&M account or a transfer
     of expenses from transportation’s O&M account to the using organization’s O&M account.
     3.2. Organizational commanders in coordination with their VCOs will determine if the
     member(s) involved in the accident(s) or suspected abuse will surrender their AF Form 2293,
     US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card
4. Definitions:
     4.1. A vehicle accident is any situation in which a GMV/E strikes or is struck by another
     GMV/E and or object, structure, or animal where action by any participate vehicle operator
     could have prevented the outcome.
     4.2. Vehicle abuse is normally considered damage caused by willful or negligent acts of
     improper operation or care. Refer to (Attachment 2), Types of Vehicle Abuse, for examples
     of vehicle abuse.
     4.3. Incidents are classified as damage caused by acts of nature, natural disasters, mechanical
     failures or other phenomenon that could not have been avoided by safe operation or adequate
     vehicle care during non-use. Examples of incidents may also include damage resulting from
     normal use for the vehicle’s intended purpose (i.e., snow removal or heavy construction
     work). Using organizations are not required to reimburse for damage caused by incidents.
     Wind damage to vehicle doors is not considered an act of nature.
5. Responsibilities:
     5.1. The Commander, 434th Air Refueling Wing (434 ARW) is the authority for establishing
     the wing’s vehicle accident and abuse prevention program. The 434 ARW/CC is the final
     decision authority to resolve all conflicts concerning the Accident and Abuse Program.
     5.2. The Commander, 434 Mission Support Group (434 MSG/CC) will coordinate with
     affected group commanders on the transfer of O&M funds or expenses to cover vehicle
     accident and abuse repair cost.
     5.3. Vehicle Management. Data Monitor Systems (DMS), Vehicle Management Flight
     (LGRV) is responsible for identifying damage from accidents, suspected abuse and incidents.
     DMS /LGRV flight chief, vehicle fleet manager, or their designated representative will
     evaluate each case of accident/abuse damage. Documentation and tracking of the accident,
     abuse, or incident damage repair is the responsibility of the Vehicle Management and
     Analysis Section (VM&A) in DMS/LGRV.
GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013                                                                3


   5.4. Vehicle Operator. The vehicle operator has the primary responsibility to prevent a
   vehicle accident or abuse. On base vehicle accidents will be reported immediately to the
   434th Security Forces Squadron. Off base vehicle accidents will be reported to local law
   enforcement. All vehicle damages will be reported to unit VCO/VCNCO and DMS/LGRV.
   Vehicle operators will provide copies of accident reports to Vehicle Management Customer
   Service when turning in vehicles for repairs.
   5.5. Vehicle Control Program. Unit’s VCO/VCNCO will inspect their unit’s vehicles
   periodically for unreported damage.
   5.6. Using Organization. Reporting damage to an AF vehicle is the unit’s responsibility.
   Financial responsibility for vehicle damage resulting from accident and/or abuse rests with
   the vehicle operator’s assigned organization. In cases where multiple government-owned
   vehicles (GOV) are involved in an accident and an investigation cannot determine fault,
   repair cost will be the responsibility of the organization/squadron to which the operator is
   assigned. Group commanders are responsible for accuracy, review and completeness of
   Report of Surveys (ROS) originating within their squadrons. Using organizations are
   required to initiate internal investigations into circumstances surrounding vehicle damage not
   attributed to fair wear and tear IAW AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force
   Property.
6. Procedures:
   6.1. DMS/LGTVM will:
      6.1.1. Identify vehicle damage caused by accident and or abuse.
      6.1.2. Provide memorandum of accident or abuse notification (Attachment 3 or
      Attachment 4) to the squadron commander of the assigned organization (may not be the
      unit responsible for the damage) with a copy of the repair estimate work order. Also,
      copies will be sent to the vehicle control officer, the group commander of the assigned
      organization, and the Transportation Accountable Officer (434 MSG/AOT). If the
      assigned organization is not responsible for the damage, it is the responsibility of the
      assigned organization to notify the organization responsible for the damage.
      6.1.3. Repair vehicle upon receipt of Memorandum of Release/Acceptance of Financial
      Responsibility (Attachment 5) from the responsible unit (may not be the assigned
      organization), or after five workdays days from notification, whichever is earlier.
      6.1.4. Maintain accident and abuse case files to track quantity and repair cost data.
      6.1.5. Provide AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement, when
      requested by the assigned or using organization.
      6.1.6. Track and provide reimbursable cost data to 434 ARW/FMA monthly through the
      group commanders. Each group commander will receive monthly totals for their
      respective group. 434 MSG/CC will receive monthly totals for all groups.
   6.2. The Vehicle Operations Flight (DMS/LGTVO) will withhold replacement vehicle for
   vehicles involved in accident and or abuse actions until Memorandum of Release is received
   by DMS/LGTVM.
   6.3. Assigned or Using Organizations will:
 4                                                   GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013


        6.3.1. Report all vehicle damage to DMS/LGTVM within 24 hours.
        6.3.2. Report U-Drive-It or loaned vehicle damage to Vehicle Dispatch (DMS/LGTVO)
        within 24 hours.
        6.3.3. Forward a copy of the Memorandum of Release/Acceptance of Financial
        Responsibility to DMS/LGTVM when vehicle is no longer needed for the investigation,
        or within five calendar days from notification.
        6.3.4. Investigate the accident and or abuse according to procedures outlined in
        AFMAN23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.
     6.4. 434 MSG/CC will coordinate the amount of money with each group commander.
     6.5. Affected Group Commanders will inform 434 ARW/FMA of amount to be transferred
     after final coordination.
     6.6. 434 ARW/FMA will transfer O&M funds from the appropriate account into
     Transportation’s O&M account or transfer expenses from Transportation to the appropriate
     account.
7. Accident Reporting Procedures for Privately Owned Vehicles (POV) and Government
Owned Vehicles (GOV):
     7.1. Reporting Procedures. Report accidents involving vehicles on Standard Form (SF) 91,
     Operators Report of Motor Vehicle Accident. Ensure you obtain the names of all individuals
     involved, including witnesses and police. Complete and deliver the SF 91 to the unit
     VCO/VCNCO, along with narrative, in your own words, of the events.
     7.2. POV Procedures. All vehicle accident cases involving a GOV and a POV with private
     insurance will be coordinated through 366 FW/JA (Judge Advocate) (Base Legal Office).
     7.3. GOV Procedures. Accomplish repair estimates and actual GOV repairs with
     DMS/LGRV.




                                            DONALD R. BUCKLEY, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013                                                              5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007, incorporating through change 2, 1 June 09
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss
SF 91, Operator’s Report of Motor Vehicle Accident

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
CC—Commander
DD—Department of Defense
GARB—Grissom Air Reserve Base
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
IAW—In Accordance With
JA—Judge Advocate (434 ARW/JA)
LGRV—Vehicle Management Flight (DMS)
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron (434 LRS)
MSG—Mission Support Group (434 MSG)
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RA—Resource Advisor
ROS—Report of Survey
SE—Safety (434 ARW/SE)
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VCO—Vehicle Noncommissioned Officer
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
 6                                      GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013


VMS—Vehicle Management Superintendent
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis
GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013                                                                 7


                                         Attachment 2
                    EXAMPLES OF POTENTIAL VEHICLE ABUSE

A2.1. Examples of Potential Vehicle Abuse:
   A2.1.1. Failure to accomplish operator maintenance IAW AFI 23-302 paragraph 3.13.
   resulting in damage to the vehicle that was otherwise preventable.
   A2.1.2. Not reporting maintenance discrepancies that affect vehicle safety or mission
   capability, or not reporting accident damage within 1-duty day, or not reporting safety
   discrepancies as soon as possible or if after duty hours, the next duty day.
   A2.1.3. Overloading or failing to tie down or otherwise secure cargo.
   A2.1.4. Tampering with governors or pollution control devices.
   A2.1.5. Operating vehicle/equipment with broken tire chains or improperly inflated tires.
   A2.1.6. Failure to protect the painted surface from oxidization and corrosion.
   A2.1.7. Modifying a vehicle/equipment without written permission from DMS/LGRV flight
   chief or superintendent.
   A2.1.8. Refueling a vehicle with incorrect type fuel, that is, diesel instead of gas or vice
   versa.
   A2.1.9. Contributing to wind damage by not parking vehicle into the wind or restraining
   doors when opening.
   A2.1.10. Riding or slipping clutches, except when necessary to maintain control of a vehicle
   during backing operations.
   A2.1.11. Operating vehicles using improperly selected gears, such as lugging in high gear
   and shifting into reverse when traveling forward.
   A2.1.12. Using a vehicle for other than its designed purpose.
   A2.1.13. Operating vehicles with insufficient oils or coolants or failure to check levels,
   according to established requirements, or failure to monitor dash instrumentation
   A2.1.14. Operating vehicle with applied/dragging parking brakes.
   A2.1.15. Improper distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo areas of vehicle or
   not following established loading/unloading procedures
   A2.1.16. Failure to clean or maintain vehicle’s interior and or exterior to meet corrosion
   control and appearance requirements.
   A2.1.17. Unauthorized wiring, marking, modification or added special equipment in or on
   vehicle.
   A2.1.18. Failure to bring a vehicle to Vehicle Maintenance for scheduled preventative
   maintenance before an overdue condition exists.
   A2.1.19. Operation of a vehicle or equipment in conflict with published Department of
   Defense (DoD), Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH), Occupational Safety
8                                                   GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013


    and Health Act (OSHA) standards, Air Force Instructions, Manuals, and Technical Orders, or
    Public Law concerning vehicle safety.
GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013                                                                     9


                                           Attachment 3
                ACCIDENT NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM (SAMPLE)

MEMORANDUM FOR XXXX/CC                                                        Date

FROM: DMS/LGT

SUBJECT: Vehicle Accident, Case No. XXXXX

1. On DD/MM/YY, Air Force vehicle XXXXXXXX, assigned to your organization, was turned
into Vehicle Maintenance with accident damage. The attached work order indicates the damage
and an estimate of the repairs necessary to return the vehicle to a serviceable condition.

2. Request your office initiate an investigation as required by AFMAN 23-220, Reports of
Survey for Air Force Property, Chapter 18. All completed case files must be forwarded to 434
MSG/AOT within 10 days from the date of this letter.

3. We also require a repair release from you or your representative as soon as the vehicle is no
longer required for the investigation, but not later than five workdays from the date of this letter.
According to AFMAN 24-307, Procedures for Vehicle Maintenance Management, unless
otherwise notified, repair action will commence after that period of time.

4. If an individual has been found liable or voluntarily accepts liability, your unit VCO/VCNCO
may request, in writing, an AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement, from
Vehicle Maintenance.

5. Any questions concerning the repair, release, or AF Form 20 can be referred to Vehicle
Maintenance (DMS/LGTVM) at ext. 2-3480. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention of
this matter.




                                              SAMMI SOMEONE, DMS/LGT
                                              Vehicle Operations and Maintenance Manager
Attach 1: AF Form 1823-1, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order

cc:
434 (Group)/CC
434 MSG/AOT
434 ARW/SE
DMS/LGTM
 10                                                     GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013


                                          Attachment 4
      SUSPECTED VEHICLE ABUSE NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM (SAMPLE)

MEMORANDUM FOR XXXX/CC                                                       Date

FROM: DMS/LGT

SUBJECT: Vehicle Abuse, Case No. XXXXX

1. On DD/MM/YY, Air Force vehicle XXXXXXXX, assigned to your organization, was turned
in to Vehicle Maintenance with damage that cannot be attributed to normal fair wear and tear.
The attached work order indicates the damage and an estimate of the repairs necessary to return
the vehicle to a serviceable condition.

2. Request your office initiate an investigation as required by AFMAN 23-220, Reports of
Survey for Air Force Property, Chapter 18. All completed case files must be forwarded to 434
MSG/AOT within 10 days from the date of this letter.

3. We also require a repair release from you or your representative as soon as the vehicle is no
longer required for the investigation, but not later than 5 workdays from the date of this letter.
According to AFMAN 24-307, Procedures for Vehicle Maintenance Management, unless
otherwise notified, repair action will commence after that period of time.

4. If an individual has been found liable or voluntarily accepts liability, your unit VCO/VCNCO
may request, in writing, an AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement, from
Vehicle Maintenance.

5. Any question concerning the repair, release, or AF Form 20 can be referred to Vehicle
Maintenance (DMS/LGTVM) at ext. 2-3480. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention of
this matter.



                                                    SAMMI SOMEONE, DMS/LGT
                                                    Vehicle Operations and Maintenance Manager
Attach: 1
AF Form 1823-1, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order

cc:
434 (Group)/CC
434MSG/AOT
434 ARW/SE
DMS/LGTM
GRISSOMARBI23-302 29 APRIL 2013                                                                   11


                                          Attachment 5
 MEMORANDUM OF RELEASE/ACCEPTANCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
                          (SAMPLE)

MEMORANDUM FOR 434 MSG/AOT                                                   Date

FROM: (Assigned/Using Organization)

SUBJECT: Memorandum of Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility

1. Vehicle (Reg Num), which (is assigned to our organization/was used by our organization),
was involved in an (accident/abuse). Our investigation is now complete and the vehicle is
released to maintenance for repairs.

2. I understand the cost associated with these repairs, to include materials and/or contract costs,
will be transferred from our unit’s operations and maintenance (O&M) account to
Transportation’s O&M account.




                                              VCO/VCNCO/Unit Commander Signature Block
