BY ORDER OF THE                                         HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-38
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                         5 OCTOBER 2009


                                     DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE AIR FORCE
                              (LOGISTICS, INSTALLATIONS AND MISSION SUPPORT)




          COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
________________________________________________________________________

OPR: AF/A4/7P                                         Certified by: AF/A4/7 (Mr. Aimone)
                                                                                Pages: 22

1. Mission. The Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS) of the Air Force for Logistics,
Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7), pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8031-8038, and as
documented by paragraph 4.3 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive, assists the Secretary of the Air Force,
other Secretariat offices, and the Chief of Staff in carrying out the training, organizing,
and equipping of personnel for all facets of Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support
programs of the Department of the Air Force. As Secretary of the Air Force, I retain
ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the Air Force. Within
his/her areas of responsibility, the AF/A4/7 prepares policies for my approval and issues
official guidance/procedures to ensure implementation of those policies. The AF/A4/7
also assists the Chief of Staff of the Air Force in his role, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 151, as
a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS).

2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and
has all legal authority necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air
Force. The Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Air Staff offices perform
their Department of the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control
of the Secretary of the Air Force.

   2.1. The AF/A4/7 reports directly to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force but provides
   support to the Secretary of the Air Force, the Under Secretary of the Air Force, other
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


   Secretariat offices, and other Air Staff offices. The Secretary of the Air Force may
   re-delegate authority to the AF/A4/7, but the Secretary of the Air Force, through the
   Chief of Staff of the Air Force and, as appropriate, Assistant Secretaries of the Air
   Force, retains ultimate responsibility for all matters affecting training, organizing, and
   equipping of personnel for all facets of Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support
   programs of the Department of the Air Force.

   2.2. The AF/A4/7 is part of the Air Staff and as such works closely with other HAF
   offices to assist the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff in carrying out
   his or her responsibilities. The AF/A4/7 and the Office of the AF/A4/7 work in
   cooperation with the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations,
   Environment and Logistics (SAF/IE), and his/her office, which is responsible,
   pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-
   8038), for assisting the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff in carrying
   out his or her responsibilities.

       2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, two or more
       HAF two-letter/digit organizations, Field Operating Agencies, or Direct Reporting
       Units with responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged to develop
       “standard operating procedures (SoPs)” that set forth procedures enabling covered
       organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective missions, roles, and
       responsibilities. Therefore, any SoPs having been entered into between A4/7 and
       any other organization, which will be forthcoming, will be included at Attachment
       3, with subsequent attachments as necessary, of this HAF Mission Directive.

   2.3. Reporting to the AF/A4/7 are the following Field Operating Agencies: Air Force
   Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE), the Air Force Civil Engineer
   Support Agency (AFCESA), the Air Force Logistics Management Agency
   (AFLMA), and the Air Force Security Forces Center (AFSFC), Air Force Petroleum
   Agency (AFPET). Their missions are documented in AFMD-19, AFMD-20, AFMD-
   33, and AFMD-45. Respectively, the AFPET AFMD is forthcoming.

3. Responsibilities.

   The AF/A4/7 is specifically responsible for:

   3.1. Training, organizing, and equipping personnel for all facets of Logistics,
   Installations, and Mission Support for A4/7 functional areas. AF/A4/7 ensures Agile
   Combat Support, sustainment, and readiness through planning, programming and
   budgeting. The office supports annexes to war plans supporting the President and the
   Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, and the Combatant Commanders, as well as
   establishing weapon system logistics performance measurement and metrics (only
   SECAF establishes “policy”). This mission directive addresses systems including
   materiel necessary to equip, operate, maintain, and support military activities (i.e.
                                                    HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


administrative or combat purposes), and nonexpendable equipment needed to outfit
an individual or organization.

3.2. Establishing broad policy implementation guidance to Air Force Logistics,
Installations, and Mission Support combat support activities. Guidance that relates to
installation real property or Base Realignment And Closure (BRAC) activities will be
coordinated with SAF/IEI.

3.3. Directing worldwide management of Air Force Logistics, Installations, and
Mission Support. Direction that relates to installation real property or BRAC
activities will be coordinated with SAF/IEI.

3.4.     Determining Air Force Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support
requirements, directing associated program and budget submission preparation, and
providing justification through all review levels, including depot maintenance
reporting, Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the legislative process.
Overseeing procurement, operations and maintenance (O&M), Military Construction
and Military Family Housing, and nonappropriated funds to support Logistics,
Installations, and Mission Support program responsibilities.

3.5. Overseeing Agile Combat Support strategic war planning, programming,
budgeting and logistics sustainability analysis prepared by the Commander, Air Force
Forces (COMAFFOR), Air Force Materiel Command and the Operational
MAJCOMs.

3.6. Overseeing the organizing, training and equipping of civil engineering, security
forces, logistics readiness, and maintenance forces.

3.7. Supporting and assisting the Secretariat with Air Force weapon systems
acquisitions, maintaining insight into life cycle product support, and representing Air
Force product support equities at joint and interservice governance and review
forums.

3.8. Accomplishing independent fleet viability assessments on systems as identified
by the Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of Staff of the Air Force.

3.9. Developing sustainment, planning, programming, training, integration and
policy guidance for strategic security capabilities. Managing integration of strategic
security capabilities into AF, joint, coalition, and national planning and operations.

3.10. Representation on the Air Force Council, Department of Defense Executive
Resale Board, Integrated Life Cycle Management Executive Forum, Air Force
Advisory Group with RAND Corporation, Executive Resources Board, the
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


   Acquisition Professional Development Council, the Joint Logistics Board, Air Force
   Logistics Board of Advisors (LBOA), and Air Force Installations Board of Advisors
   (IBOA).

4. Delegations of Authority: Attachment 1 lists my delegated authorities to the
AF/A4/7. The authorities delegated to the AF/A4/7 by this HAF Mission Directive may
generally be re-delegated to other Department of the Air Force officials unless re-
delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding law,
Executive Order, regulation, or Department of Defense issuance. While the authorities
are delegated to the AF/A4/7, the exercise of the authorities remains subject to the
oversight and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, any Assistant Secretary of the Air
Force having oversight, and the Chief of Staff. Any re-delegation of authority made shall
not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating authorities in
accordance with this Directive may further restrict or condition the authority being re-
delegated.

5. Continuation of Prior Re-Delegations of Authority: Re-delegations of authorities
made prior to the date of issuance of this HAF Mission Directive remain effective insofar
as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF Mission Directive,
unless superseded by new issuances.




                                             Michael B. Donley
                                             Secretary of the Air Force

Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authorities for AF/A4/7
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter/Digit Responsibilities
3. Standard Operating Procedure (SoPs)
                                                       HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


                                   ATTACHMENT 1

     DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITY
                              TO THE
                       DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF
         (LOGISTICS, INSTALLATIONS AND MISSION SUPPORT)

A1.1. Authority relating to the procuring and distributing items of new and combat-
serviceable equipment to the Air Force Reserve component, delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1225.6, Equipping the
Reserve Forces.

A1.2. Authority relating to evaluating and certifying military projects to upgrade existing
or construct new urban training facilities, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1322.27, DoD Urban Training Facilities.

A1.3. Authority relating to the administration and operation of military correctional
programs and facilities, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive 1325.04, Confinement of Military Prisoners and
Administration of Military Correctional Programs and Facilities.

A1.4. Authority relating to the administration and operation of military correctional
programs and facilities and military clemency and parole programs, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1325.7,
Administration of Military Correctional Facilities and Clemency and Parole Authority.
As per DoDI 1325.7, paragraph 6.16.6.3.4, this authority does not include authority to
grant clemency for approved sentences of life without parole. In addition, as per DoDI
1325.7, paragraph 6.16.1.1, only the Secretary of the Air Force may exercise the
authority contained in paragraph 6.16.1.1 of DoDI 1325.7.

A1.5. Authority relating to the Air Force annual maintenance awards program, delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1348.30,
Secretary of Defense Maintenance Awards Program.

A1.6. Authority relating to the Department of Defense Antiterrorism Program, delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 2000.12,
DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Program.

A1.7. Authority relating to the conducting of civil affairs activities, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 2000.13, Civil
Affairs.
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


A1.8. Authority relating to implementing the Department of Defense Antiterrorism
Program, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 2000.16 DoD Anti-terrorism (AT) Standards.

A1.9. Authority relating to the implementing of the Department of Defense installation
emergency response program to manage the consequences of a Chemical, Biological,
Radiological, Nuclear or High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) incident, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 2000.18,
Department of Defense Installation Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and
High-Yield Explosive Emergency Response Guidelines.

A1.10. Authority relating to the supporting of U.S. Government foreign consequence
management (FCM) operations in response to a foreign chemical, biological,
radiological, nuclear, or high-yield explosive (CBRNE) incident, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 2000.21,
Foreign Consequence Management (FCM).

A1.11. Authority relating to the NATO Security Investment Program, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 2010.5, The
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Security Investment Program.

A1.12. Authority relating to the rationalization of NATO and NATO member
telecommunications facilities, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 2010.07, Policy on Rationalization of NATO and
NATO Member Telecommunications Facilities.

A1.13. Authority relating to acquisition and cross-servicing agreements with foreign
governments, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Directive 2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements.

A1.14. Authority relating to the disposition of excess and surplus personal property,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
2030.08, Implementation of Trade Security Controls (TSC) for Transfers of DoD U.S.
Munitions List (USML) and Commerce Control List (CCL) Personal Property to Parties
Outside DoD Control.

A1.15. Authority relating to the support of Humanitarian and Civic Assistance Activities,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
2205.02, Humanitarian and Civic Assistance (HCA) Activities.

A1.16. Authority relating to the preparation of U.S. Military inventory materiel prior to
transfer, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 2110.33, Preparation of U.S. Inventory Materiel for Transfer Under the
Grant Aid Military Assistance Program.
                                                      HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009



A1.17. Authority relating to the detainee program, delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 2310.01E, The Department of
Defense Detainee Program.

A1.18. Authority relating to the development and employment of non-lethal weapons, as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
3000.3, Policy for Non-Lethal Weapons.

A1.19. Authority relating to the defense crisis management capability, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 3020.44, Defense
Crisis Management.

A1.20. Authority relating to the production, issue, use, and disposition of Explosive
Ordnance Disposal (EOD) technician credentials and use of resources to support United
States Secret Service, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department
of Defense Directive 3025.13, Employment of Department of Defense Resources in
Support of the United States Secret Service.

A1.21. Authority relating to reporting for mission-essential systems and equipment,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
3110.05, Readiness-Based Materiel Condition Reporting for Mission-Essential Systems
and Equipment.

A1.22. Authority relating to war reserve materiel requirements and positioning,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
3110.06, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Policy.

A1.23. Authority relating to the security and survivability of nuclear weapon systems,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
3150.3, Nuclear Force Security and Survivability (S2).

A1.24. Authority relating to responding to a radiological accident, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 3150.8, DoD
Response to Radiological Accidents.

A1.25. Authority relating to research, engineering, procurement, installation
maintenance, and material support for PSE, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 3224.03, Physical Security Equipment
(PSE) Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT & E).

A1.26. Authority relating to interservice and intragovernmental support related to the
functional areas and authorities designated in this Mission Directive, delegated to the
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4000.19,
Interservice and Intragovernmental Support.

A1.27. Authority relating to Department of Defense installation management policy,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
4001.01, Installation Support.

A1.28. Authority relating to the acquisition of Department of Defense Mobile Electric
Power generating sources, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive 4120.11, Standardization of Mobile Electric Power
(MEP) Generating Sources.

A1.29. Authority relating to the management of energy commodities, quality assurance
and quality surveillance, storage and associated facilities, delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 4140.25, DoD Management
Policy for Energy Commodities and Related Services.

A1.30. Authority relating to the Replenishment Parts Purchase or Borrow Program,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
4140.57, DoD Replenishment Parts Purchase or Borrow (DoD RPPOB) Program.

A1.31. Authority relating to compiling and submitting the National Guard and Reserve
Equipment Report, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Directive 4140.58, National Guard and Reserve Equipment Report (NGRER).

A1.32. Authority relating to measuring and improving the responsiveness of the
Department of Defense logistics system to customer requirements, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4140.61,
Customer Wait Time and Time Definite Delivery.

A1.33. Authority relating to the management of DoD clothing and textiles (Class II),
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
4140.63, Management of DoD Clothing and Textiles (Class II).

A1.34. Authority relating to the serialized item management program, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4151.19,
Serialized Item Management (SIM) for Material Maintenance.

A1.35. Authority relating to the implementation of Condition Based Maintenance Plus
(CBM+) for materiel maintenance, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 4151.22, Condition Based Maintenance Plus (CBM+)
for Materiel Maintenance.
                                                        HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


A1.36. Authority relating to the management, control and disposal of government
property (not real property) in the possession of contractors, delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4161.2, Management,
Control and Disposal of Government Property in the Possession of Contractors.

A1.37. Authority relating to Facility Classes and Construction Categories, delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4165.3,
Department of Defense Facility Classes and Construction Categories.

A1.38. Authority relating to the Homeowners Assistance Program, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 4165.50E,
Homeowners Assistance Program (HAP).

A1.39. Authority relating to the authorization, acquisition, use and disposition of
relocatable buildings, which are accounted for as personal property and not real property,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
4165.56, Relocatable Buildings.

A1.40. Authority relating to host nation-funded construction programs relating to U.S.
military construction (MILCON) in the U.S. Pacific Command (USPACOM) area of
responsibility (AOR), delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department
of Defense Directive 4270.34, Host Nation-Funded Construction Programs in the U.S.
Pacific Command Area of Responsibility.

A1.41. Authority relating to the military construction program, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 4270.5, Military
Construction.

A1.42. Authority relating to transportation and traffic management, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 4500.09E,
Transportation and Traffic Management and Department of Defense Instruction 4500.57,
Transportation and Traffic Management.

A1.43. Authority relating to the participation in or initiation of proceeding before
transportation regulatory bodies, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 4500.17, Proceedings Before Transportation
Regulatory Bodies.

A1.44. Authority relating to the worldwide movement, storage, and handling of personal
property, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 4500.34, DoD Personal Property Shipment and Storage Program.
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


A1.45. Authority relating to Department of Defense-owned and -controlled motor
vehicles, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 4500.36, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles.

A1.46. Authority relating to travel reservation and ticketing services, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4500.42, DoD
Passenger Transportation Reservation and Ticketing Services.

A1.47. Authority related to transportation provided by Operational Support Airlift
(OSA) aircraft, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Directive 4500.43, Operational Support Airlift (OSA).

A1.48. Authority relating to the ridesharing program, delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4500.44, DoD Ridesharing
Program.

A1.49. Authority relating to the determination of overseas locations that may be exempt
from the prohibition on shipment of foreign-made privately-owned vehicles, delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4500.50,
Overseas Areas Exempt from Prohibition on Shipment of Foreign-Made Privately-Owned
Vehicles at Government Expense.

A1.50. Authority relating to Department of Defense non-tactical armored vehicles,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
C-4500.51, DoD Commercially Procured and Leased Armored Vehicle Policy (U),
marked as classified.

A1.51. Authority relating to monitoring and reviewing commercial air carriers providing
passenger airlift services, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 4500.53, DOD Commercial Air Transportation
Quality and Safety Review Program.

A1.52. Authority relating to the use of government aircraft by Department of Defense
officials, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 4500.56, DoD Policy on the Use of Government Aircraft and Air Travel, with
the exception of Enclosure 2, Paragraph 6b, to "review and approve government air
requests from within their respective Departments" which is delegated to SAF/AA for
Secretariat requests, the AF/CV for Major Commanders (except when the primary
purpose of the travel is for the Combatant Command), and the AF/CVA for Air Staff,
Field Operating Agency, and Direct Reporting Unit requests. SAF/AA may approve
these requests when AF/CV and AF/CVA are not available; the respective MAJCOM/CC
will approve requests from the MAJCOM/CV; the respective MAJCOM/CV will approve
requests from the MAJCOM staff and subordinate organizations.
                                                      HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


A1.53. Authority relating to conducting Department of Defense transportation
engineering, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Directive 4510.11, DoD Transportation Engineering.

A1.54. Authority relating to the operation and use of Department of Defense-owned or
controlled passenger-carrying vehicles in the National Capital Region (NCR), delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4515.7,
Use of Motor Transportation and Scheduled DoD Bus Service in the National Capital
Region.

A1.55. Authority relating to the requirements, conditions and restrictions for travel,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
4515.16, Use of General Services Administration (GSA) Contracts for Air Passenger
Transportation Services (GSA City Pair Program) for Attendance at Inactive Duty
Training (IDT) Assemblies.

A1.56. Authority relating to the logistic transportation of nuclear weapons, delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 4540.5,
Logistic Transportation of Nuclear Weapons.

A1.57. Authority relating to the Department of Defense Engineering for Transportability
and Deployability Program, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 4540.07, Operation of the DoD Engineering for
Transportability and Deployability Program.

A1.58. Authority relating to the management of land-based water resources in support of
contingency operations, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive 4705.1, Management of Land-Based Water Resources
in Support of Joint Contingency Operations.

A1.59. Authority relating to environmental education, training, and career development
for personnel, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction 4715.10, Environmental Education, Training and Career
Development.

A1.60. Authority relating to the Department of Defense Noise Program, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4715.13, DoD
Noise Program.

A1.61. Authority relating to responsibilities for implementing Department of Defense
Instruction 4715.15, Environmental Quality Systems.

A1.62. Authority relating to tangible Department of Defense owned equipment and other
accountable property, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


of Defense Instruction 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DoD-Owned
Equipment and Other Accountable Property.

A1.63. Authority relating to the program to prevent and mitigate corrosion of
Department of Defense military equipment and infrastructure, delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 5000.67, Prevention and
Mitigation of Corrosion on DoD Military Equipment and Infrastructure.

A1.64. Authority relating to the Department of Defense Productivity Program, delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 5010.34,
Productivity Enhancement, Measurement, and Evaluation – Operating Guidelines and
Reporting Instructions.

A1.65. Authority relating to employment of resources in foreign disaster relief
operations, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 5100.46, Foreign Disaster Relief.

A1.66. Authority relating to safeguarding conventional arms, ammunition, and
explosives (AA&E) and the AA&E Physical Security Review Board, as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 5100.76,
Safeguarding Conventional Arms, Ammunition, and Explosives (AA&E) and the AA&E
Physical Security Review Board.

A1.67. Authority relating to bulk petroleum, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5101.8, DoD Executive Agent (DoD EA) for
Bulk Petroleum.

A1.68. Authority relating to subsistence, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5101.10, DoD Executive Agent (DoD EA)
for Subsistence.

A1.69. Authority relating to the management of construction/barrier materiel (Class IV)
in peacetime and across the spectrum of military operations, delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5101.12, DoD Executive
Agent (DoD EA) for Construction/Barrier Materiel.

A1.70. Authority relating to the coordination of Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Research,
Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) information and UXO technologies within
the Department of Defense, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive 5101.13, DoD Executive Agent for the Unexploded
Ordnance Center of Excellence (UXOCOE).

A1.71. Authority relating to the Department of Defense Joint Counter Radio-Controlled
Improvised Explosive Device Electronic-Warfare (CREW) technology program,
                                                        HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
5101.14, DoD Executive Agent and Single Manager for Military Ground-Based Counter
Radio-Controlled Improvised Explosive Device Electronic Warfare (CREW) Technology.

A1.72. Authority relating to the Defense Logistics Agency, delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5105.22, Defense Logistics
Agency (DLA).

A1.73. Authority relating to the Defense Energy Information System, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5126.46, Defense
Energy Information System (DEIS).

A1.74. Authority relating to the Defense Materiel Management Board, as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 5128.33,
Defense Materiel Management Board (DMMB).

A1.75. Authority relating to the Defense Logistics Studies Information Exchange
(DLSIE) information services, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 5154.19, Defense Logistics Studies Information
Exchange (DLSIE).

A1.76. Authority relating to Department of Defense transportation, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5158.04, United
States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM).

A1.77. Authority relating to the Department of Defense-wide distribution processes,
including force projection, sustainment, and redeployment/retrograde operations,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
5158.06, Distribution Process Owner (DPO).

A1.78. Authority relating to recruiting facilities, except for the authority to acquire or
dispose of real property to support recruiting facilities, delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5160.58E, Recruiting Facilities.

A1.79. Authority relating to explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) technology and training,
including EOD research and development (R&D) programs, delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5160.62, Single Manager
Responsibility for Military Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technology and Training
(EODT&T).

A1.80. Authority relating to the Single Manager for Conventional Ammunition mission,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
5160.65, Single Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA).
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


A1.81. Authority relating to conventional ammunition management actions, delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 5160.68,
Single Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA): Responsibilities of the SMCA,
the Military Services, and United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM).

A1.82. Authority relating to the security of Department of Defense installations and
resources, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 5200.08, Security of DoD Installations and Resources.

A1.83. Authority relating to the Military Working Dog (MWD) Program, delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5200.31E,
DoD Military Working Dog (MWD) Program.

A1.84. Authority relating to the security policy for protecting U.S. nuclear weapons,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
O-5210.41, Security Policy for Protecting Nuclear Weapons (U) marked For Official Use
Only (FOUO).

A1.85. Authority relating to the carrying of firearms and the use of deadly force,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
5210.56, Use of Deadly Force and the Carrying of Firearms by DoD Personnel Engaged
in Law Enforcement and Security Duties.

A1.86. Authority relating to safeguarding Department of Defense nuclear reactors and
special nuclear materials, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction O-5210.63, DoD Procedures for Security of Nuclear
Reactors and Special Nuclear Materials (SNM) (U), marked FOUO.

A1.87. Authority relating to securing and safeguarding chemical agents and special
nuclear materials, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction 5210.65, Minimum Security Standards for Safeguarding Chemical
Agents.

A1.88. Authority relating to nuclear weapons coding equipment, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction S-5210.82,
Protection of Nuclear Weapons Coding Equipment (U), marked classified.

A1.89. Authority relating to the training, certification, and physical fitness standards for
civilian police and security guards, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 5210.90, Minimum Training, Certification, and
Physical Fitness Standards for Civilian Police and Security Guards (CP/SGs) in the
Department of Defense.
                                                       HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


A1.90. Authority relating to enforcement of state vehicular and pedestrian traffic laws,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
5525.4, Enforcement of the State Traffic Laws on DoD Installations.

A1.91. Authority relating to Military Working Dog Teams (MWDTs) supporting civilian
law enforcement agencies’ counterdrug operations, delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 5525.10, Using Military Working
Dog Teams (MWDTs) to Support Law Enforcement Agencies in Counterdrug Missions.

A1.92. Authority relating to the use of deputized State or local law enforcement powers,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
5525.13, Limitation of Authority to Deputize DoD Uniformed Law Enforcement
Personnel by State and Local Governments, except for the responsibilities set forth in
paragraphs 5.3, 5.4, 5.4.1, and 5.4.2, and approval authority set forth in paragraphs 7.3
and 8, which are not delegated.

A1.93. Authority relating to Fire and Emergency Services program, delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6055.06, DoD
Fire and Emergency Services (F & ES) Program.

A1.94. Authority relating to incident reporting, delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 7730.47, Defense Incident-Based
Reporting System (DIBRS).

A1.95. Authority relating to the process to replace Department of Defense-unique
logistics data exchange standards, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive 8190.1, DoD Logistics Use of Electronic Data
Interchange (EDI) Standards.
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


                                   ATTACHMENT 2

                        DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF/
            LOGISTICS, INSTALLATIONS AND MISSION SUPPORT

                                           Deputy Chief of Staff/
                                       (AF/A4/7)
                                Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
                                                  AF/A4/7




                 Mobilization Assistant                      Director of Global Combat
                        AF/A4/7                                        Support
                                                                      AF/A4/7Z
                    Reserve Affairs
                      AF/A4/7H

                    The Civil Engineer                          Director of Logistics
                        AF/A7C                                        AF/A4L

               Director of Security Forces                   Director of Transformation
                         AF/A7S                                        AF/A4I


                                   Director of Resource Integration
                                               AF/A4/7P


A2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
(AF/A4/7) is responsible for the training, organizing, and equipping of personnel for all
facets of Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support including Air Force Logistics,
Security Forces, and Civil Engineering. AF/A4/7 ensures Agile Combat Support,
sustainment, and readiness through planning, programming, and budgeting. The office
supports annexes to war plans supporting National Command Authority, Joint Staff, and
MAJCOMs, as well as establishing weapon system logistics performance measurement
and metrics.

A2.2. Three-digit subordinate offices include:

     A2.2.1. The Civil Engineer (AF/A7C): AF/A7C, in partnership with its field
     operating agencies (the Air Force Civil Engineering Support Agency and the Air
     Force Center for Engineering and the Environment) provides commanders and
                                                  HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


57,000 Civil Engineering personnel with the policies, authorities, advocates for
resources, and technical support it requires in the areas of warfighting readiness,
base development and operations, environmental protection, housing, fire
protection, explosive ordnance disposal, disaster preparedness, and air base
operability. The Directorate is responsible for $16B annually in base operating
support, military construction (MILCON), real property maintenance activities and
environmental quality. The directorate is the largest in the A4/7 Deputy Chief of
Staff (DCS).

A2.2.2. Directorate of Logistics (AF/A4L): Develops long-term Air Force
enterprise level logistics operations strategy, concept of operations, and doctrine
and implements logistics policy. Directs life cycle management and functional
management of legacy logistics Information Technology (IT) systems. Responsible
for logistics organizational and management issues. Leads logistics force
development and training. Deliberately develops our Total Force to include
education and training programs for all Logistics Readiness, Aircraft Maintenance
and Munitions officers, enlisted and civilians.

A2.2.3. Directorate of Transformation (AF/A4I): Responsible for the planning
for all facets of installations and logistics transformation. Provides leadership and
drives change management throughout the design, implementation, and sustainment
phases of Air Force logistics transformation. Responsible for providing input and
maintaining the logistics section of the Air Force Enterprise Transition Plan.
Optimizes Information Technology (IT) resource allocation by harmonizing
requirements, while meeting immediate real-world needs and setting the stage for
the larger Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)-centered IT structure of the
Expeditionary Combat Support System (ECSS). Develops logistics information
enterprise architectures and provides oversight across the diverse logistics
management information systems requirements for Global Combat Support System-
Air Force (GCSS-AF). Responsible for the management of the Air Force Logistics,
Installations, and Mission Support AFSO21 program and strategic plan and
ensuring its alignment with the Air Force Strategic Plan. AF/A4/7’s focal point for
logistics, installations, and mission support studies being accomplished through
Project Air Force (PAF), RAND, and Air Force Logistics Management Agency
(AFLMA).

A2.2.4. Directorate of Resource Integration (AF/A4/7P): Responsible for AF
Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support long-range and strategic integration.
Prepares, executes, and manages budget programs for AF aircraft, missiles,
munitions, support equipment, and vehicles. Serves as AF/A4/7’s representative on
the Air Force Board and Group as part of the Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS)
System. Validates requirements and defends budget requests through Corporate
Resource Panels, AF Council, OSD, Office of Management & Budget (OMB), Joint
Chiefs of Staff (JCS), and congressional review and enactment. Oversees
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


   Information Management/ Administration, Computer Support, Military and Civilian
   Personnel programs for the entire AF/A4/7 organization.

   A2.2.5. Directorate of Security Forces (AF/A7S): Develops and ensures effective
   integrated base defense policies, tactics, techniques, procedures, planning,
   programming and budgeting to protect aerospace power and people. AF focal point
   for all policy and operational issues involving nuclear and non-nuclear security,
   operational doctrine, standards, and policy, physical security, integrated defense,
   combat arms, law enforcement, Air Provost, antiterrorism, crime prevention,
   resources protection, corrections and the Department of Defense Military Working
   Dog Program. Also serves as focal point for multi-disciplined force protection (FP)
   needs. Directs FOA, Air Force Security Forces Center and USAF Force Protection
   Battle Lab.

   A2.2.6. Directorate of Global Combat Support (AF/A4/7Z): Provides
   worldwide situational awareness on expeditionary bases in use as well as potential
   sites. Integrates MAJCOM, C-NAF, and functional area common operating
   pictures. Coordinates and synchronizes disparate issues on expeditionary Airmen
   and equipment. Integrates and synchronizes functional area best practices to benefit
   entire combat support community.

   A2.2.7. Mobilization Assistant/Reserve Advisor (AF/A4/7H): Advises across
   five distinct functional areas on matters pertaining to the Air Force Reserve (AFR).
   Assists in the development of policies and directives affecting more than 67,000
   Reserve personnel, a $4 billion AFR budget, 360 unit equipped aircraft, associate
   aircraft, supply, Military Construction projects, Civil Engineering programs and
   Security Forces (SF) initiatives. Serves as liaison between HQ USAF A4/7, AFRC,
   and the Chief of Air Force Reserve (RE). Executes the A4/7 Individual
   Mobilization Augmentee (IMA) Program comprised of more than 85 senior
   Officers and NCOs and 8000+ Mandays annually.
                                                         HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


                                    ATTACHMENT 3

               STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
                           FOR THE
             ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
          (INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT, & LOGISTICS)
                             AND
 THE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF/LOGISTICS, INSTALLATIONS & MISSION
                           SUPPORT

These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to Assistant
Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, & Logistics (SAF/IE) and the
Deputy Chief of Staff/ Logistics, Installations & Mission Support (AF/A4/7) who are
responsible for developing policy, managing programs, and preparing guidance on
approved policies and plans for the field in the general area of logistics, installations and
mission support. These procedures are intended to facilitate routine staff actions and
functions and reduce duplication of effort between SAF/IE and AF/A4/7 staff roles while
increasing operating effectiveness and efficiency.

A3.1. SAF/IE retains oversight authority and responsibility as defined in these SOPs for
logistics, installation, and mission support delegated through public law, executive order
and Department of Defense Directive and Instruction for the programs outlined in:

A3.1.1. DoD Directive 1225.07, Reserve Component Facilities Programs and Unit
Stationing
A3.1.2. DoD Instruction 1225.8, Programs and Procedures for Reserve Component
Facilities and Unit Stationing
A3.1.3. DoD Directive 3030.1, Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA)
A3.1.4. DoD Instruction 3030.3, Joint Land Use Study (JLUS) Program
A3.1.5. DoD Directive 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel
A3.1.6. DoD Instruction 4151.20, Depot Maintenance Core Capabilities Determination
Process
A3.1.7. DoD Instruction 4151.21, Public Private Partnerships for Depot-level
Maintenance
A3.1.8. DoD Directive 4165.6, Real Property
A3.1.9. DoD Instruction 4165.14, Real Property Inventory and Forecasting
A3.1.10. DoD Instruction 4165.65, Shelter for the Homeless Program
A3.1.11. DoD Instruction 4165.69, Realignment of DoD Sites Overseas
A3.1.12. DoD Instruction 4165.70, Real Property Management
A3.1.13. DoD Instruction 4165.71, Real Property Acquisition
A3.1.14. DoD Instruction 4170.10, Energy Management Policy
A3.1.15. DoD Directive 4715.1E, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH)
A3.1.16. DoD Instruction 5030.53, Reimbursement of GSA Space, Services, and
Facilities
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


A3.1.17. DoD Directive 5126.9, Exemption Under Title II: Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act – Transportation and Traffic
A3.1.18. Department of Defense Instruction 5126.47, Department of Defense Energy
Policy Council
A3.1.19. DoD Directive 5410.12, Economic Adjustment Assistance to Defense-Impacted
Communities
A3.1.20. DoD Directive 6050.7, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Department of
Defense Actions, 31 May 79.

A3.2. Subject to the standard operating procedures that follow, a general description of
the flow of work between SAF/IE and AF/A4/7 for the specific programs described in
A3.1 is:

A3.2.1. AF/A4/7 submits policies requiring SECAF and/or SAF/IE approval to SAF/IE
for coordination and concurrence prior to publication.
A3.2.2. AF/A4/7 executes approved policies and guidance, AF instructions, and strategic
plans, providing additional guidance to the field as necessary.
A2.2.3. Additionally, by establishing conditions and parameters that signal when an
issue, initiative, or performance measure requires the involvement of SAF/IE to fulfill
inherent policy oversight responsibilities (see paragraphs A433 – A3.5), these standard
operating procedures will help prevent the development of a permission-
seeking/permission-granted dynamic between SAF/IE and AF/A4/7.

A3.3. Conditions for AF/A4/7 to Exercise Delegated Secretarial Authorities.
AF/A4/7 is authorized to act on behalf of the SECAF or SAF/IE for programs outlined in
A3.1 when such action:

A3.3.1. Provides data, analyses, information papers, etc., to OSD or congressional staff
in support of established policies, programs, or other initiatives that have been vetted
through the Air Force corporate structure, or other appropriate decision process; e.g.
senior leader forum or fully coordinated staff package.

A3.3.2. Implements an order or revised policy direction from the Secretary of the Air
Force.

A3.3.3. Satisfies routine reporting requirements and requests for status reports on Air
Force programs/initiatives from OSD and Congress.

A3.3.4. Supports the POM, BES, and/or President’s Budget.

A3.4. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Action. SAF/IE review and concurrence are
required prior to implementing any policy, plan, and program when one or more of the
following situations or conditions apply for programs outlined in A3.1:
                                                        HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


A3.4.1. Involves a controversial issue that will cause, or is likely to cause, significant
reactions among senior Administration officials, Members of Congress or key staff, the
public, or the press.

A3.4.2. Involves the breach of a performance parameter established in policy directives
and/or Air Force instructions.

A3.4.3. Involves a disagreement among the components of the Air Force Total Force on a
policy over which SAF/IE has authority.

A3.4.4. Drives unprogrammed or budgeted resource demands ($50M or more across the
FYDP) to the federal government.

A3.4.5. Drives broad cultural changes crossing many Air Force functions that will take
concerted, coordinated action over several years to achieve.

A3.5. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Approval of AF/A4/7 Actions. SAF/IE approval
is required prior to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity for
programs outlined in A3.1 when one or more of the following situations or conditions
apply:

A3.5.1. Involves a Statute, Executive Order, or DoD policy that requires Secretary of the
Air Force review, coordination, and/or implementation. DoD policy requires SD Forms
106 be signed by SAF/IE (a Senate confirmed position).

A3.5.2. Involves new policies or initiatives proposed by OSD officials, congressional
staff, or Air Force that would result in significant changes to Air Force programs that are
the corollary to DoD programs in A3.1.

A3.5.3 Involves a change or perceived erosion of Air Force support for a Secretary of
the Air Force or Administration key agenda item about which the Principal speaks;
likewise for a senior Member of Congress or a member of a congressional committee
with significant focus on national defense-related issues (such as Armed Services,
Appropriations, Ways and Means, or Veterans Affairs).

A3.5.4. Involves process changes affecting the oversight roles or abilities of the Air Force
Secretariat, Office of the Secretary of Defense, other (non-Air Force) Administration
officials, or the Congress.

A3.6. Conditions Impacting Resources. SAF/IE communicates, if time permits, to
AF/A4/7 when the implementation of any policies, plans, programs, practices and/or
activities for programs outlined in paragraph 3.1 may cause a resource impact as a result
of execution.
HAFMD1-38 5 OCTOBER 2009


A3.7. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may
be reviewed and revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Air Force. SAF/IE
or AF/A4/7 may also initiate a revision in consultation with AF/A4/7 or SAF/IE,
respectively. OPRs must follow revision procedures as mandated in HOI 90-1,
Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives – Delegations of Statutory Authority and
Assignment of Responsibilities.



  //SIGNED//                                     //SIGNED//
MICHAEL A. AIMONE, P.E.                       KEVIN W. BILLINGS
Asst DCS/ Logistics, Installation &           Acting Assistant Secretary
Mission Support                               (Installations, Environment & Logistics)
