BY ORDER OF THE                                                HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   24 MAY 2012




                                                  UNDER SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/US                                      Certified by: (Hon Erin C. Conaton)
Supersedes HAF MD 1-2, September 8, 2008                                    Pages: 8
_____________________________________________________________________________

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision incorporates changes pertaining to Chief Management Officer (CMO)
responsibilities contained in §908 of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2009 National Defense Authorization
Act (NDAA) and §1072 of the FY10 NDAA, organizational changes pertaining to the Offices of
the Under Secretary of the Air Force and the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition),
and changes to responsibilities resulting from the Headquarters Air Force (HAF) review of Space
Management Responsibilities completed in August 2010.
1. Mission. The Under Secretary of the Air Force (USECAF) position is established within the
Office of the Secretary of the Air Force by 10 United States Code (USC) §8015. The USECAF,
subject to the direction and control of the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), (1) exercises the
full authority of the Secretary (except as limited by law, regulation, Office of the Secretary of
Defense (OSD), or SECAF restrictions) in all affairs of the Department of the Air Force and
relationships and transactions with Congress and other governmental and non-governmental
organizations and individuals; (2) develops, oversees, and executes programs enabling the
United States to exploit, integrate, and control air and space to protect and defend the nation and
its global interests from peace through war; (3) as the CMO, effectively and efficiently manages
Air Force business operations and directs and oversees the activities of the Air Force Deputy
Chief Management Officer (DCMO) and Air Force Office of Business Transformation,
SAF/US(M), in carrying out Air Force business transformation initiatives; (4) IAW Secretary of
the Air Force memorandum, Headquarters Air Force Space Management and Organization,
August 25, 2010, the USECAF is designated the focal point for space within the Air Force
Headquarters, responsible for coordination of functions and activities across the Air Force space
enterprise; (5) IAW Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
(USD(AT&L)) memorandum, Implementing Executive Order (EO) 13514, April 12, 2010, the
USECAF is designated as the Senior Sustainability Officer of the Air Force to oversee
2                                                                    HAFMD 1-2 24 MAY 2012

sustainability plans and performance for the Department; and (6) the USECAF is designated as
the Air Force’s Senior Energy Official to oversee, monitor, and report on the Air Force’s Energy
Program to ensure priorities and goals are addressed. When the position of the SECAF is vacant,
the USECAF is the acting SECAF. The organizational structure of the Office of the Under
Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/US) is shown at Attachment 2.
2. Organizational Relationships. The SECAF exercises authority through a civilian Under
Secretary, civilian Assistant Secretaries, and the Chief of Staff, but retains immediate
supervision of activities that involve vital relationships with Congress, the Secretary of Defense,
other governmental officials, and the public. The USECAF reports directly to the SECAF. The
USECAF has several direct reports: the Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (Space
Programs) (SAF/SP); the Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (International Affairs)
(SAF/IA); the Director, Air Force Small Business Programs (SAF/SB), and the DCMO. Other
key relationships are with OSD, Unified Commands, Joint Staff, intelligence community,
defense agencies, other military departments, and the HAF staff. As the Air Force CMO, the
USECAF works in close coordination with the DoD CMO and DCMO, as well as the Air Force
DCMO to identify and exchange information necessary to facilitate execution of DoD business
transformation initiatives.
    2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission
    Directive – Delegations of Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities, two or more HAF
    two-letter/digit organizations with responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged
    to develop “standard operating procedures (SOPs)” that set forth procedures enabling
    covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective missions, roles, and
    responsibilities. No SOPs currently exist.
3. Responsibilities. The USECAF, subject to the direction and control of the SECAF, exercises
the full authority of the Secretary (except as limited by law and regulation, or restrictions of OSD
or SECAF) in all affairs of the Department of the Air Force and relationships and transactions
with Congress and other governmental and non-governmental organizations and individuals.
Specifically, the USECAF shall:
    3.1 Co-chair the Air Force Council (AFC) with the Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force
    (VCSAF). The AFC is the senior forum for cross-functional consideration of the most
    critical Air Force issues. The AFC reviews and evaluates Air Force objectives, policies,
    plans, programs, budgets, and studies to make timely recommendations to the SECAF and
    CSAF.
    3.2. Co-chair the Air Force Space Board with the VCSAF. This Board is the governance
    mechanism to coordinate Air Force positions regarding multi-organization, service, and
    interagency issues. All programmatic and budgetary decisions will continue to be addressed
    through the existing Air Force corporate structure.
    3.3. Co-chair the Force Management and Development Council (FMDC) with the VCSAF.
    The FMDC provides an institutional perspective and makes strategic recommendations on
    USAF-wide force management and development issues for the purpose of developing the
    necessary institutional competencies within our officer, enlisted and civilian force.
    3.4. Co-chair the Air Force Energy Council (AFEC) with the VCSAF. The AFEC is a
    deliberative body responsible for developing energy strategy and priorities and endorsing
HAFMD 1-2 24 MAY 2012                                                                            3

  energy requirements; as well as providing oversight regarding the attainment of the Air
  Force’s energy priorities, goals, and objectives.
  3.5. Serve as the Air Force CMO with primary management responsibilities for Air Force
  business operations.
     3.5.1. IAW FY10 NDAA §1072 and DoD CMO memorandum, Implementation of §1072
     of the FY10 NDAA - Business Process Reengineering (BPR), February 12, 2010,
     determine that the defense business system modernization is in compliance with the
     enterprise architecture; and ensure that appropriate BPR efforts are taken.
     3.5.2. IAW FY08 NDAA §904, develop and implement a comprehensive business
     transformation plan with measurable performance goals and objectives to achieve an
     integrated management system for Air Force business operations.
     3.5.3. IAW FY08 NDAA §904, develop a well-defined, enterprise-wide business
     systems architecture and transition plan encompassing end-to-end business processes and
     capable of providing accurate and timely information in support of Air Force business
     decisions.
     3.5.4. IAW FY08 NDAA §904, implement a business enterprise architecture and a
     transition plan.
     3.5.5. Represent the Air Force on the Defense Business Systems Management
     Committee Charter IAW Directive Type Memorandum (DTM) 05-006, Department of
     Defense (DoD) Business Transformation.
  3.6. Serve as the focal point for space within the Air Force Headquarters and be responsible
  for coordination of functions and activities across the Air Force space enterprise. As such,
  the USECAF becomes the senior Air Force official for space matters to include planning,
  policy, strategy, international relations, space interagency relations, and the primary interface
  to OSD for space matters. Serve as a member of the Defense Space Council.
  3.7. Serve as the Senior Agency Official for energy and, as such, act as the focal point within
  the Air Force for energy matters, to include operational energy. Oversee the Air Force’s
  Energy Program and, as the Air Force’s Energy Program Manager, be responsible for
  guiding the planning, policy, strategy, international relations, and interagency relations
  aspects of energy management. Provide support for solving Air Force-wide energy issues by
  leveraging the AFEC. Provide resolution when conflicts arise over areas of energy
  responsibilities. Act as the primary interface to OSD for energy matters and represent the Air
  Force at the DoD Energy Policy Council.
  3.8. Serve as the Senior Sustainability Official of the Air Force, responsible for overseeing
  the establishment of sustainability performance goals and objectives; approving the
  Department’s sustainability plans; managing policy, strategy, international relations, and
  interagency relations that pertain to or impact on sustainability; and serving as the primary
  interface to OSD for sustainability matters.
  3.9. Serve as the SECAF representative to Department of Defense’s (DOD) Senior
  Governance Councils (e.g. the Senior Leader Review Group (SLRG), and the Deputy’s
  Management Action Group (DMAG)), as required.
  3.10. Serve as a member of the Defense Human Resource Board.
4                                                                    HAFMD 1-2 24 MAY 2012

    3.11. Serve as a member of the Air Force Nuclear Oversight Board, IAW SECAF
    memorandum, Charter for the Air Force Nuclear Oversight Board, November 26, 2008.
    3.12. Serve as a member of the Special Access Program Oversight Committee (SAPOC),
    IAW DoDD 5205.07, July 1, 2010.
    3.13. Direct and oversee activities of SAF/SP.
    3.14. Direct and oversee activities of SAF/IA.
    3.15. Direct and oversee activities of SAF/SB.
       3.15.1. Advise, coordinate, and assist other principal military and civilian officials of the
       Department of the Air Force in matters relating to the Small Business Program; and
       implement and execute the functions and duties under the authorities of 10 USC §8024,
       15 USC §644.
    3.16. Direct and oversee activities of SAF/US(M)
4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility. Attachment 1 lists authorities
delegated and assignments of responsibility to SAF/US. The authority delegated to SAF/US by
this HAF Mission Directive may generally be redelegated, unless redelegation is expressly
prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance. While
SAF/US may re-delegate authority to other Department of Air Force officials, he or she will
ultimately be responsible to the SECAF for all delegations of authority or assigned
responsibilities. Any re-delegation of authorities/responsibilities shall not be effective unless in
writing. Any person re-delegating authority IAW this HAF Mission Directive may further
restrict or condition the authority being re-delegated.
5. Notifications to Congress. No re-delegation of authority/assigned responsibility under this
HAF Mission Directive below the level of Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-letter/digit office
shall include authority to provide notifications or reports to Congress.
6. Revocation of Secretary of the Air Force Order. No additional SECAF Orders have been
revoked.




                                                 Michael B. Donley
                                                 Secretary of the Air Force



Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility to SAF/US
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter/digit Responsibilities
HAFMD 1-2 24 MAY 2012                                                                           5


                                      ATTACHMENT 1

                 DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                  AUTHORITIES/ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY
                                   TO THE
                     UNDER SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


A1.1. Authority relating to duties as the CMO pursuant to FY09 NDAA §904 and subsequent
amendments.
A1.2. Authority relating to serving as the focal point for space within Air Force Headquarters,
responsibility for coordination of functions and activities across the Air Force space enterprise,
serve as co-chair of the Air Force Space Board, and oversight of SAF/SP pursuant to SECAF
memorandum, Headquarters Air Force Space Management and Organization, August 25, 2010.
A1.3. Authority relating to duties as the Senior Energy Official and Senior Operational Energy
Official of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5134.15, Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Operational Energy Plans and Programs (ASD(OEPP)).
A1.4. Authority relating to duties as the Senior Sustainability Officer of the Air Force pursuant
to EO 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy and Economic Performance,
USD(AT&L) memorandum, Implementing Executive Order (EO) 13514, April 12, 2010, and
SECAF memorandum, Appointment of Air Force Senior Sustainability Official and DoD
Sustainability Council Representative, May 18, 2010 to include overseeing the establishment of
sustainability performance goals and objectives, approving the Air Force’s sustainability plans,
managing matters related to sustainability, such as planning, policy, strategy, international
relations, interagency relations, and serving as the primary interface to OSD for sustainability
matters. Serves as the Air Force representative to the Department of Defense Senior
Sustainability Council pursuant to USD(AT&L) memorandum, Implementing Executive Order
(EO) 13514, April 12, 2010 and SECAF memorandum, Appointment of Air Force Senior
Sustainability Official and DoD Sustainability Council Representative, May 18, 2010.
A1.5. Authority relating to duties as a member of Senior Governance Councils pursuant to
DoDD 5105.79, DoD Senior Governance Councils.
A1.6. Authority relating to identifying positioning, navigation, and timing (PNT)-related
operational requirements: conducting research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) on
PNT-related systems; and procuring PNT-related systems and equipment.               Providing
representation to the PNT Executive Committee and the PNT Working Group, pursuant to
DoDD 4650.5, Positioning, Navigation, and Timing (PNT).
A1.7. Authority relating to establishing directions and plans for the Business Mission Area
(BMA), overseeing the implementation of systematic performance in the Departments business
operations, approve BMA transformation plans and initiatives, establish policies, approve
Investment Review Board processes and procedures and annual reports to the congressional
defense committees, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DTM 05-006,
Department of Defense (DoD) Business Transformation.
6                                                                  HAFMD 1-2 24 MAY 2012

A1.8. Authority relating to implementing DoD Continuous Process Improvement (CPI)/Lean
Six Sigma (LSS) programs, policies, and procedures within the Air Force to improve overall
effectiveness and efficiency across missions and functions to gain the broadest possible range of
organizational improvements; developing and implementing appropriate education and training
procedures and promoting CPI/LSS career development opportunities to include offering a
CPI/LSS award and performance objective initiative as appropriate; establishing CPI/LSS
education, training, and certification procedures consistent with DoD-wide guidelines and
standards and including CPI/LSS in individual employee performance objectives as appropriate;
attaining DoD-designated training and project targets; and providing representation to the DoD
CPI Senior Steering Committee and its supporting bodies, pursuant to DoDD 5010.42, DoD-
Wide Continuous Process Improvement (CPI)/Lean Six Sigma (LSS) Program, and DoD
Instruction 5010.43, Implementation and Management of the DoD-Wide Continuous Process
Improvement/Lean Six Sigma (CPI/LSS) Program.
HAFMD 1-2 24 MAY 2012                                                                          7


                                      ATTACHMENT 2

                  ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE OFFICE
                                  OF THE
                     UNDER SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


                                           USECAF
                                           (SAF/US)



                               SAF/IA                    SAF/SP



                               SAF/SB                  SAF/US(M)


A2.1. The USECAF is responsible for the overall supervision of all matters, subject to the
direction and control of SECAF, pertaining to the exercise of full authority of the Secretary
(except as limited by law and regulation, or restrictions of OSD or SECAF) in all affairs of the
Department of the Air Force and relationships and transactions with Congress and other
governmental and non-governmental organizations and individuals. The USECAF develops,
oversees, and executes programs enabling the United States to exploit, integrate, and control air
and space to protect and defend the nation and its global interests from peace through war.
A2.2. Subordinate offices include:
   A2.2.1. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (Space Programs) (SAF/SP) (and
   Director, DoD Executive Agent for Space Staff). SAF/SP is subject to the direction and
   control of USECAF. SAF/SP directs the HAF staff responsible for space policy, issue
   integration, and strategy providing principle support for the USECAF’s role as the HAF focal
   point for space matters and coordinating activities across the Air Force space enterprise;
   SAF/SP also supports the USECAF and VCSAF by acting as the Air Force Space Board
   Secretariat. In addition, SAF/SP serves as the Director, DoD Executive Agent for Space
   Staff (DirEA4SS). When serving as the DirEA4SS, SAF/SP reports to the DoD EA for
   Space and serves as an agent of the DoD EA for Space within assigned policy and program
   domains, and carries out duties and responsibilities as directed.
   A2.2.2. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (International Affairs) (SAF/IA).
   SAF/IA is subject to the direction and control of USECAF. IAW HAF MD 1-16, SAF/IA
   supports the USECAF by providing policy oversight and guidance to international programs
   supporting national security objectives through politico-military affairs, security assistance
   programs, technology and information disclosure, education and training, cooperative
   research and development, and attaché affairs. In addition, IAW SECAF memorandum,
   Headquarters Air Force Space Management and Organization, August 25, 2010, SAF/IA is
   the office of primary responsibility for Air Force international space matters. SAF/IA
8                                                                  HAFMD 1-2 24 MAY 2012

    executes these responsibilities with guidance provided by the Under Secretary of Defense for
    Policy, and with Air Force policy guidance provided by the SECAF, CSAF, and USECAF in
    collaboration with SAF/SP.
    A.2.2.3. Director, Air Force Small Business Programs (SAF/SB). SAF/SB reports to the
    USECAF and leads the Air Force in directing, managing, and overseeing the AF Small
    Business Program to ensure maximum practicable small business opportunities in Air Force
    acquisition. SAF/SB prepares policy, initiates processes, advocates small business strategies
    in the requirements and acquisition process, and conducts outreach to promote small business
    strategies to meet Air Force mission needs and priorities.
    A2.2.4. Deputy Chief Management Officer (SAF/US(M)). The DCMO, and the
    SAF/US(M) office, as directed by USECAF, exercises assigned duties and authorities
    relating to the management of business operations for the Air Force. The DCMO manages
    the Air Force Office of Business Transformation, carrying out enterprise-wide business
    transformation initiatives and associated activities, and overseeing implementation of
    CPI/LSS programs to improve overall effectiveness and efficiency across missions and
    functions to gain the broadest possible range of organizational improvements. As a
    minimum those initiatives and activities will include: (1) development and implementation
    of a comprehensive business transformation plan with measureable performance goals and
    objectives to achieve an integrated management system for Air Force business operations; (2)
    development and implementation of a well-defined enterprise-wide systems architecture and
    transition plan encompassing end-to-end business processes; (3) ensuring appropriate BPR is
    accomplished throughout business system acquisition and modernization efforts; (4)
    providing an annual follow-up report to Congress as to the status of Air Force business
    transformation initiatives; (5) development and implementation of CPI/LSS policies; (6)
    development and implementation of CPI/LSS education, training, and certification
    procedures; and (7) accomplishing such other initiatives and business transformation
    activities as the SECAF or USECAF determine are appropriate.
