BY ORDER OF THE                                               HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-24
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                15 December 2008




                                              ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                   (MANPOWER AND RESERVE AFFAIRS)




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
______________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at:
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________

OPR: SAF/MRM                           Certified by: SAF/MR (Mr. Craig W. Duehring)
Supersedes: HAF MD 1-24, 16 July 2007                                     Pages: 21
______________________________________________________________________________

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision updates SAF/MR responsibilities, and adds standard operating procedures (SoPs)
between SAF/MR and AF/A1. Major changes include: adding areas of responsibility to the
SAF/MR mission; better defining the relationships between SAF/MR and the functionals for
which SAF/MR is assigned oversight responsibility; clarifying SAF/MR oversight responsibility
for the U.S. Air Force Academy; adding to the list of delegated authorities at Attachment 1; and,
adding to the list of Secretary of the Air Force Orders (SAFO) deletions. An asterisk (*)
indicates revision from the previous edition.
*1. Mission. The Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8013-8016, may establish
offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the Secretary in carrying out his or her
responsibilities. As documented by Paragraph 4.1 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive, the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) is established as part of the Secretariat. The SAF/MR
has overall responsibility for and/or supervision of: manpower, military, and civilian personnel;
reserve component affairs; National Security Personnel System (NSPS); Equal Opportunity;
health program benefits and entitlements; medical readiness; U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA);
family readiness; sexual assault prevention, and response programs; family advocacy; services;
base exchanges and commissaries; morale, welfare, and recreation (MWR) programs; and
strategic diversity integration for the Department of the Air Force. As Secretary of the Air
Force, I retain ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the Air Force.
Within his/her areas of responsibility, the SAF/MR prepares policies for my approval and issues
official guidance/procedures to ensure implementation of those policies.
2                                                                      HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08

2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and has all
legal authority necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The
Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Air Staff offices perform their Department of
the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control of the Secretary of the Air
Force.
    2.1. The SAF/MR reports to the Secretary of the Air Force, serves as an agent of the
    Secretary within assigned policy and program domains, and provides guidance, direction, and
    oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans,
    policies, programs, and budgets within his/her area of responsibility. The SAF/MR is
    accountable to the Secretary for results achieved within the policy and program domains
    assigned by this Directive.
    *2.2. The SAF/MR is part of the Secretariat and as such works closely with other HAF
    offices to assist the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his or her responsibilities. The
    SAF/MR and the Office of the SAF/MR work in cooperation with the Deputy Chief of Staff
    of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1), the Surgeon General
    (AF/SG), the Director, Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Chief of Air Force Reserve
    (AF/RE), and their respective offices, as well as other HAF organizations, which are
    responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8023 and §§
    8031-8038), assist the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his or her responsibilities.
       *2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, two or more HAF
       two-letter/digit organizations, Field Operating Agencies, or Direct Reporting Units with
       responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged to develop “standard operating
       procedures (SoPs)” that set forth procedures enabling covered organizations to fulfill and
       carry out their respective missions, roles, and responsibilities. Therefore, the SoPs
       between the SAF/MR and AF/A1 are included at Attachment 3 of this HAF Mission
       Directive. SoPs between SAF/MR and AF/SG, and SAF/MR and AF/RE, which are
       forthcoming, will be incorporated as attachments upon signature.
    2.3. Reporting to the SAF/MR is one Field Operating Agency, the Air Force Review Boards
    Agency, whose mission is documented in AFMD-43.
3. Responsibilities.
The SAF/MR is specifically responsible for:
    3.1. Leading teams that address strategic-level, long-range personnel and manpower issues
    associated with the Administration’s agenda.
       *3.1.1. Providing perspective, insight, guidance, and assistance for developing the Air
       Force Manpower, Personnel, and Services Strategic Plan as well as the processes,
       metrics, and standards that support it.
       3.1.2. Overseeing the effectiveness of the Manpower, Personnel and Services Strategic
       Plan and the results of manpower, personnel and services programs, and, with AF/A1,
       jointly developing a research agenda that advances the Manpower, Personnel, and
       Services Strategic Plan.
HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08                                                                         3

         *3.1.2.1. Verifying and validating accomplishment of strategic plan goals through
         use of performance parameters, field visits, and audits and/or inspections performed
         by the Air Force Auditor General and/or the Air Force or DoD Inspector General.
     3.1.3. Improving Air Force capabilities and efficiency within the Manpower, Personnel,
     and Services community by championing proven “best practices,” participating in
     AFSO21 initiatives, and advocating for policy, practice, and statutory changes identified
     through AFSO21 events.
     3.1.4. Serving as an Air Force signature authority for all DOD issuances; developing
     policy and coordinating on departmental policy and guidance related to Manpower,
     Personnel, and Services programs.
  3.2. Military and civilian personnel matters to include recruitment; accession; education,
  training and development; assignment; utilization; promotion; sustainment; compensation,
  entitlements, and separation; sexual assault prevention and response programs; family
  readiness and support; quality of life components.
     3.2.1. Manpower management programs and techniques, including manpower mix,
     military-civilian-contractor substitutions, competitive sourcing, and definition of military
     essential matters.
     3.2.2. Overseeing accomplishment of the USAFA mission; issuing guidance for and
     monitoring implementation of Secretary of the Air Force approved policy; developing
     and reviewing legislative proposals; and, ensuring effective HAF oversight of USAFA.
         3.2.2.1. SAF/MRM will serve as the Designated Federal Officer (DFO) to the
         USAFA Board of Visitors.*
     3.2.3. Training Transformation, Distance Learning, Flight and Operational Training, and
     other Technical and Special Skills Training.
     3.2.4. Services, Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs; commissaries and
     base exchanges.
  3.3. Medical readiness; health promotion of active and reserve component members,
  including health care programs and benefits and entitlements for family members and retired
  members; and the drug demand reduction program; and, the Veterans Affairs (VA)-
  Department of Defense (DoD) Health Resources Sharing program.
  *3.4. Diversity at all levels of the Total Air Force. Strategic direction, oversight and
  guidance for attracting, developing, leading, and retaining a diverse Total Force to leverage
  the unique qualities of the citizenry we serve and to achieve mission excellence.
  *3.5. Serving as the Director of Equal Opportunity pursuant to 29 CFR 1614.102 overseeing
  policy implementation and management matters intended to provide an equal opportunity to
  succeed to every member of the workforce and to prohibit unlawful discrimination, including
  unlawful discrimination based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, or, in the
  case of civilian employees, disabling conditions or sexual orientations, and to create a
  working environment free from the aforementioned discrimination as well as sexual
  harassment and or assaults; and/or retaliation against protected whistleblowers.
4                                                                     HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08

       3.5.1. Issuing decisions regarding discrimination complaints, to include ordering
       necessary corrective measures to resolve complaints and promote equal opportunity.
    3.6. Guidance, direction, and oversight of the Air Reserve Component and Auxiliary Affairs,
    including the Air National Guard, the Air Force Reserve, and Air Force oversight of the Civil
    Air Patrol.
    3.7. Advising SecDef on readiness issues through the Senior Readiness Oversight Council
    (SROC); monitors the Air Force readiness posture encompassed in personnel and training.
    3.8. Guidance, direction, and oversight of contingency and crisis management planning.
    Policy coordination stemming from Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) capability, processes,
    and AF sourcing in support of Combatant Commanders’ requirements, and Guard and
    Reserve mobilization.
    3.9. Acting as the Department of Defense Executive Agent for the National Science
    Foundation’s Polar Programs and the DoD Civilian/Military Service Review Board.
    *3.10. Policies addressing the prevention of, and response to, sexual assault during
    peacetime, contingencies, hostilities and war; and Air Force Family Advocacy programs
    (FAP) to include prevention and intervention of child and spouse treatment, domestic abuse,
    and domestic violence.
    *3.11. Advocating with the Secretary of the Air Force, the Office of the Secretary of
    Defense, and the Congress for resources (dollars, people, tools) and policy/legislation
    changes in support of strategic goals and objectives for assigned programs.
    *3.12. The Air Force Review Boards Agency, consisting of the Air Force Civilian Appellate
    Review Office; the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records; the Secretary of the
    Air Force Personnel Council and its component boards, to include the Air Force Personnel
    Board, the Air Force Discharge Review Board, the Air Force Personnel Security Appeal
    Board, the Air Force Decorations Board, the Air Force Clemency and Parole Board; the
    Council’s responsibility with respect to the DoD Civilian/Military Service Review Board,
    and the Air Force’s responsibility as Lead Component for the Physical Disability Board of
    Review.
    *3.13. Serving as a member of the Air Force Council (AFC); Senior Readiness Oversight
    Council (SROC); Executive Steering Group (USAFA); Joint Cross-Service Group
    (Education & Training); JCSG E&T; Military Health System Executive Review (MHSER);
    Exchange Integration Executive Council (EIEC); Defense M&RA/DCSPER Meetings;
    Executive Review Board; National Security Personnel System Steering Group (NSPS);
    Reserve Forces Policy Board; Defense Human Resources Board (DHRB); Defense Quality
    of Life Executive Committee (EXCOM); DoD Executive Steering Group on Training
    Transformation; and Wounded, Ill, and Injured Senior Oversight Committee (WII SOC).
4. Delegations of Authority: Attachment 1 lists my delegated authorities to the SAF/MR. The
authorities delegated to the SAF/MR by this HAF Mission Directive may generally be re-
delegated unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding
law, regulation, or DoD issuance. While the SAF/MR may re-delegate authorities to other
Department of Air Force officials, he or she will ultimately be responsible to the Secretary of the
Air Force for all matters affecting overall responsibility for supervision of manpower; military
and civilian personnel; reserve component affairs; National Security Personnel System (NSPS);
HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08                                                                            5

Equal Opportunity, health program benefits, and entitlements; medical readiness; U.S. Air Force
Academy, family readiness; sexual assault prevention and response programs; family advocacy;
services; base exchanges and commissaries; morale, welfare, and recreation (MWR) programs;
and strategic diversity integration for the Department of the Air Force. Any re-delegation of
authority made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating authority
in accordance with this HAF Mission Directive may further restrict or condition the authority
being re-delegated.
5. Notifications to Congress: No re-delegation of authority under this HAF Mission Directive
below the level of a Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-letter/digit office shall include authority
to provide notifications or reports to Congress.
*6. Revocation of Secretary of the Air Force Order: Secretary of the Air Force Order
(SAFO), 118.1, Designation of a Director of Equal Employment Opportunity, October 30, 1997;
SAFO 248.1 Determination of Status of Missing and Deceased Personnel, April 27, 1998; SAFO
253.1 Correction of Military Records, May 16, 2001; and, SECAF Memo, Clarification of
Authority for Individual Personnel Actions, dated May 14, 2008, that rescinded SAFO 240.8
Delegation of Secretarial Authority to Take Actions in Certain Individual Military Personnel
Cases, December 17, 1999, and subsequent SECAF Memo, Extension of Direction and Authority
for Individual Personnel Actions, October 29, 2008 are hereby superseded. Re-delegations of
authorities made pursuant to those SAFOs prior to the date of issuance of this HAF Mission
Directive, however, remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with the
terms of this HAF Mission Directive, or unless superseded by a new re-delegation.




                                              MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                              Secretary of the Air Force


Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authorities for SAF/MR
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter Responsibilities
*3. Standard Operating Procedures for SAF/MR and AF/A1
6                                                                    HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08


                                      ATTACHMENT 1

         DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITY
                               TO THE
                ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                  (MANPOWER AND RESERVE AFFAIRS)

*A1.1. Authority relating to determining if an established group of civilian employees or
contract workers provided services to the U.S. Armed Forces in a manner considered active
military service for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1000.20, Active Duty Service
Determinations for Civilian or Contractual Groups.

*A1.2. Authority relating to the establishment, management, and control of NAFIs as delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1015.15
Establishment, Management, and Control of NAFIs and Financial Management of Supporting
Resources.

A1.3. Authority relating to use of units and personnel in civil-military innovative readiness
training (IRT) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 1100.20, Support and Services for Eligible Organizations and Activities Outside the
Department of Defense.

*A1.4. Authority relating to the assignment, transfer, and discharge of reserve members
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
1200.15, Assignment to and Transfer Between Reserve Categories, Discharge from Reserve
Status, Transfer to the Retired Reserve, and Notification of Eligibility for Retired Pay.

*A1.5. Authority relating to the management of Reserve Components as an Operational Force as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1200.17
Managing the Reserve Components as an Operational Force.

*A1.6. Authority relating to civilian employment and reemployment rights, benefits, and
obligations as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 1205.12, Civilian Employment and Reemployment Rights of Applicants for, and
Service Members and Former Service Members of the Uniformed Services.

*A1.7. Authority relating to the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps (JROTC) Program as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
1205.13, Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (JROTC) Program.

A1.8. Authority relating to the development of programs that promote employer and community
support for the activities of the National Guard and Reserve as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1205.22, Employer Support of the
Guard and Reserve.
HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08                                                                             7

*A1.9. Authority relating to Senior ROTC programs as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1215.08, Senior Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps (ROTC) Programs.

*A1.10. Authority relating to the transfer of active-duty commissioned officers as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1300.04, Inter-
Service Transfer of Commissioned Officers.

*A1.11. Authority relating to policy on enlistment, selective reenlistment, critical skills
accession, critical skills retention bonuses as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant
to Department of Defense Directive 1304.21, Policy on Enlistment Bonuses, Accession Bonuses
for New Officers in Critical Skills, Selective Reenlistment Bonuses, and Critical Skills Retention
Bonuses for Active Members.

*A1.12. Authority relating to the administration of enlistment, selective reenlistment, critical
skills accession, critical skills retention bonuses as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1304.29, Administration of Enlistment Bonuses,
Accession Bonuses for New Officers in Critical Skills, Selective Reenlistment Bonuses, and
Critical Skills Retention Bonuses for Active Members.

*A1.13. Authority relating to conscientious objectors as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1300.06, Conscientious Objectors.

*A1.14. Authority relating to the appointment of chaplains as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1304.19, Appointment of Chaplains for
the Military Departments.

*A1.15. Authority relating to the rank and seniority of commission officers as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1310.01, Rank and
Seniority of Commissioned Officers, except for the authority to adjust the date of rank of certain
promotions delayed by reason of unusual circumstances.

*A1.16. Authority relating to the original appointment of commissioned officers as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to the Department of Defense Instruction 1310.02,
Appointing Commissioned Officers.


*A1.17. Authority relating to the continuation of commissioned officers on the active duty list
and reserve active status list as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 1320.08, Continuation of Commissioned Officers on Active
Duty and on the Reserve Active Status List, except for the authority to convene continuation
selection boards, appoint board members, issue written instructions to board members, approve
administrative briefings provided to board members, approve the board results.

*A1.18. Authority relating to military officer actions requiring approval of the Secretary of
Defense or higher authority as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 1320.4, Military Officer Actions Requiring Approval of the
8                                                                     HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08

Secretary of Defense or the President, or Confirmation by the Senate, except for the forwarding
of military officer personnel actions involving general officers and promotion board reports.

*A1.19. Authority relating to discharge of commissioned officers not qualified for promotion as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
1320.10, Discharge of Commissioned Officers Not Qualified for Promotion to First Lieutenant
or Lieutenant (Junior Grade).

*A1.20. Authority relating to special selection boards as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1320.11, Special Selection Boards, except
for the authority to convene special selection boards and special boards, appoint board members,
issue written instructions to board members, approve administrative briefings provided to board
members, and forward the board results.

*A1.21. Authority relating to the commissioned officer promotion program as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1320.12,
Commissioned Officer Promotion Program, except the authority to establish competitive
categories, convene individual selection boards, and appoint boards members.

*A1.22. Authority relating to administering the commissioned officer promotion program as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
1320.13, Commissioned Officer Promotion Reports (COPRs) and Procedures.

*A1.23. Authority relating to administering the commissioned officer promotion program as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
1320.14, Commissioned Officer Promotion Program Procedures, except for the authority to
convene promotion selection boards, appoint board members, issue written instructions to board
members, approve administrative briefings provided to board members, forward the board results
to the Department of Defense, make an individual date of rank adjustment, remove an individual
from a promotion list, and terminate promotion delays as specified in 10 U.S.C. §624(d)(2) and
§14311(b). The Instruction prohibits any further delegation of the requirement to interview board
participants.

A1.24. Authority relating to service academies as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1322.22, Service Academies.

*A1.25. Authority relating to leave and liberty policies as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1327.5, DoD Policy on Leave and Liberty,
and Department of Defense Instruction 1327.6, Leave and Liberty Procedures.

*A1.26. Authority relating to Armed Services Exchange Policy as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1330.09 Armed Services Exchange
Policy.

*A1.27. Authority relating to Armed Services Commissary Operations as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1330.17 Armed
Services Commissary Operations.
HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08                                                                           9



*A1.28. Authority relating to Armed Services Exchanges as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1330.21 Armed Services Exchange
Regulation.

*A1.29. Authority relating to administrative separations for enlisted members as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1332.14, Enlisted
Administrative Separations.

*A1.30. Authority relating to dropping officers from the rolls as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1332.16, Dropping Retired Military
Personnel from the Rolls of the Armed Forces, and pursuant to 10 U.S.C. §1161(b), except for
the authority to forward recommendations for dropping officers from the rolls of the Air Force to
the Secretary of Defense for transmission to the President.

*A1.31. Authority relating to the separation or retirement for physical disability as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1332.18, Separation
or Retirement for Physical Disability, except for the authority to retire or separate for physical
disability a general officer or medical officer in any grade, who is also being processed for
retirement for age or length of service.

*A1.32. Authority relating to the minimum service in grade for a voluntary retirement as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
1332.20, Minimum Service in Grade for Non-Disability (Voluntary) Retirement, except for the
authority to forward waivers of the three-year minimum service requirement in a grade above
major that require Presidential approval under 10 U.S.C. §1370(a)(2)(D), to forward a request for
reduction involving a general officer to the Under Secretary or Principal Deputy Under Secretary
of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, and to authorize a reduction in the minimum service
requirement to not less than two years when authorized by the Secretary of Defense under 10
U.S.C. §1370(a)(2)(A) and (d)(5)(A).

*A1.33. Authority relating to prescribing regulations on service academy disenrollment as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
1332.23, Service Academy Disenrollment.

*A1.34. Authority relating to the review of discharges and the provision for public access to
DRB decisional documents as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department
of Defense Instruction 1332.28, Discharge Review Board (DRB) Procedures and Standards.

*A1.35. Authority relating to eligibility of personnel for separation pay pursuant to Department
of Defense Instruction 1332.29, Eligibility of Regular and Reserve Personnel for Separation
Pay, except for the Secretary of the Air Force’s discretional denial of separation pay, severance
pay, or readjustment pay.

*A1.36. Authority relating to separation of commissioned officers as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1332.30, Separation of Regular
10                                                                      HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08

and Reserve Commissioned Officers, except for the authority to approve or disapprove a general
officer’s resignation, discharge, separation or release from active duty.

*A1.37. Authority relating to selective early retirement of officers and selective early removal of
officers from the reserve active status list as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant
to Department of Defense Instruction 1332.32, Selective Early Retirement of Officers on an
Active Duty List and the Reserve Active Status List and Selective Early Removal of Officers from
the Reserve Active Status List, except for the authority to convene selective early retirement
selection boards, appoint board members, issue written instructions to board members, approve
administrative briefings provided to board members, and approve the board results.

*A1.38. Authority relating to physical disability evaluation as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1332.38, Physical Disability
Evaluation, except for the authority to retire or separate for physical disability a general officer
or medical officer in any grade, who is also being processed for retirement for age or length of
service.

*A1.39. Authority relating to separation procedures for commissioned officers as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1332.40,
Separation Procedures for Regular and Reserve Commissioned Officers, except for the authority
to approve or disapprove a general officer’s resignation, discharge, separation or release from
active duty.

*A1.40. Authority relating to the administration of DRBs and for correcting any military record
of the Military Department as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department
of Defense Directive 1332.41, Boards for Correction of Military Records (BCMRs) and
Discharge Review Boards (DRBs), except for the authorities in the sub-paragraphs that follow:

       *A1.40.1. Except for the authority to grant or deny any application submitted under
       DODI 1332.41 and 10 U.S.C. §1552 asking the Secretary, acting through a board of
       civilians, to correct military record(s) relating to or affecting a security clearance or
       access to classified materials.

       *A1.40.2. Except for the authority to grant or deny any application or group or category
       of applications submitted under DODI 1332.41 and 10 U.S.C. §1552 asking the
       Secretary, acting through a board of civilians, for correction of military record(s) with
       respect to which the Secretary of the Air Force has reserved final decision authority.

       *A1.40.3. Except for the authority to grant an application submitted under DODI 1332.41
       and 10 U.S.C. §1552 asking the Secretary, acting through a board of civilians, for
       correction of a military record when denial has been recommended by a unanimous vote
       of a panel of the Board of Correction of Military Records; the authority to deny an
       application for correction of military record(s) when correction has been recommended
       by unanimous or majority vote of a panel of the Board of Correction of Military Records.
       This authority may not be re-delegated further.
HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08                                                                            11

*A1.41. Authority relating to the Survivor Benefit Program as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1332.42, Survivor Annuity Program
Administration.

*A1.42. Authority relating to clothing monetary allowances as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1338.18, Armed Forces Clothing
Monetary Allowance Procedures.

*A1.43. Authority relating to the waiver of debts from erroneous payment of pay and
allowances as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 1340.22, Waiver of Debts Resulting from Erroneous Payment of Pay and Allowances.

*A1.44. Authority relating to commercial solicitations on DoD installations as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1344.07, Personal
Commercial Solicitation on DoD Installations.

*A1.45. Authority relating to the military equal opportunity program as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1350.2, Department of
Defense Military Equal Opportunity (MEO) Program.

*A1.46. Authority relating to the management and mobilization of military members as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1352.1,
Management and Mobilization of Regular and Reserve Retired Military Members.

*A1.47. Authority relating to the defense civilian intelligence personnel management as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
1400.35, Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS). The authority relating to the
termination of employment of any employee in a Defense Intelligence Position may not be re-
delegated per 10 U.S.C. 1609.

*A1.48. Authority relating to civilian personnel as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force in
DoD 1400.25-M Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Manual.

   *A1.48.1. Authority to approve Air Force supplementation of Subchapters within Chapter
   1900, “National Security Personnel System (NSPS),” DoD 1400.25-M, Civilian Personnel
   Manual, as described in paragraph SC1910.6 of DoD 1400.25-M. Through this delegation, I
   have determined, as required by SC1910.6.3. of DoD 1400.25-M, that such supplementation
   is necessary for component implementation of NSPS. This authority shall not be further re-
   delegated.

   *A1.48.2. Authority relating to civilian air traffic controllers as delegated to the Secretary of
   the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1400.25-M, Subchapter 331,
   Civilian Air Traffic Controller.

   *A1.48.3. Authority relating to the employment of firefighters and law enforcement officers
   as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 336,
12                                                                    HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08

     Civilian Firefighters, and Law Enforcement Officers, except for the authority to grant
     exceptions to the maximum entry age, which may not be delegated below the Secretary.

     *A1.48.4. Authority relating to the awards program as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
     Force pursuant to DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 451, Awards.


     *A1.48.4. Authority relating to the approval and announcement of reduction in force actions
     as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 1701,
     Approval and Announcement of Reduction in Force (RIF).

*A1.49. Authority relating to civilian equal employment opportunity programs as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1440.1, The DoD
Civilian Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Program.

A1.50. Authority relating to the designation of the U.S. representative to the Committee on
Women in the NATO Forces as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive 2000.17, United States Policy on the Committee on Women in
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Forces.

A1.51. Authority relating to the Reserve Forces Policy Board as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5120.2, Reserve Forces Policy Board.

A1.52. Authority relating to the quality of life executive committee as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5124.6, Quality of Life Executive
Committee.

A1.53. Authority relating to the position of Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
5125.01, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs (ASD(RA)).

A1.54. Authority relating to addressing discrimination in federally assisted programs as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
5500.11, Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs.

*A1.55. Authority relating to the Unified Legislation and Budgeting Process as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5500.20, Unified
Legislation and Budgeting (ULB) Process.

*A1.56. Authority relating to the Physical Disability Board of Review as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6040.44, Lead DoD
Component for the Physical Disability Board of Review (PDBR). The authority contained in
Enclosure 2, paragraph 5g, of DoDI 6040.44 to correct military records shall not be re-delegated
below the Director, Air Force Review Boards Agency.
HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08                                                                            13

*A1.57. Authority relating to sexual assault response and prevention as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6495.01 Sexual Assault
Prevention and Response (SAPR).

*A1.58. Authority relating to support for the National Science Foundation's Polar Programs as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Deputy Secretary of Defense
Memorandum, Designation of Secretary of the Air Force as Department of Defense (DoD)
Executive Agent for Support to the National Science Foundation's Polar Programs, March 3,
2005.

*A1.59. Authority to act for the "Secretary concerned" in matters under the Joint Federal Travel
Regulations and the Joint Travel Regulations, which may be re-delegated only to the Deputy
Assistant Secretary, Force Management Integration, who is designated the Per Diem, Travel and
Transportation Allowance Committee Principal per SECAF memo, same subject, 22 March
2007.

*A1.60. Authority relating to Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay and Voluntary Early
Retirement Authority as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to the Deputy
Under Secretary of Defense for Civilian Personnel Policy memorandum, National Security
Personnel System – Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay (VSIP) and Voluntary Early Retirement
Authority (VERA) Policy, 30 April 2008.

*A1.61. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force concerning retirement for length of
service under 10 U.S.C. Chapter 867, except for the authority to approve or disapprove a general
officer’s application to retire and to approve or disapprove an officer’s application to retire while
under a sentence of dismissal.

*A1.62. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force concerning retired grade under 10
U.S.C. Chapter 869, except for the authority to approve the retired grade of a general officer.

*A1.63. Authority to:

       a) Order to active duty units and members not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a
          unit, of the Ready Reserve of the Air Force. Exercise of this authority will be
          coordinated with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or his designee prior to
          their announcement. Prior to executing the order to active duty of a specific unit, the
          appropriate state Governors and Congressional delegations, and the defense oversight
          committees of Congress, will be notified;
       b) Exercise, subject to such instructions as may be issued by the Secretary of Defense or
          his designee, the President’s authorities under 10 U.S.C. §§123, 123a, 527, 12006,
          12011, 12012, and 12305. Exercise of authority under this paragraph will be
          coordinated with the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, or his
          designee prior to their announcement:

as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Secretary of Defense memorandum,
Partial Mobilization (World Trade Center and Pentagon Attacks), dated February 13, 2003, and
14                                                                   HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08

any subsequent delegation to the Secretary of the Air Force by the Secretary of Defense of all or
any part of the authority conveyed by Executive Orders 13223 and 12728. This re-delegated
authority may not be further re-delegated.

*A1.64. Authority relating to line of duty determinations as given to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to 10 U.S.C. §8013(g).

*A1.65. Authority relating to the administrative demotion of enlisted members as given to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to 10 U.S.C. §8013(g).

*A1.66. Authority to grant exceptions under certain circumstances to meet the requirement that
a member receive a housing allowance based on the area in which the member is assigned to
duty when the member’s dependents reside in the areas different from the member’s duty
location, pursuant to 37 U.S.C. Section 403.

*A1.67. Authority relating to requests for waiver of repayment of voluntary separation pay for
members who receive Veterans Administration disability compensation as given to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
memorandum, Implementation of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 National Defense Authorization Act
(NDAA) Expanded Voluntary Separations Payment (VSP) for Members of the Armed Forces,
January 8, 2007, and 10 U.S.C. §1175a.
HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08                                                                       15


                                        ATTACHMENT 2

                     ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                        MANPOWER AND RESERVE AFFAIRS
                                   (SAF/MR)


                             Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                              (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
                                          SAF/MR


       Deputy Assistant Secretary                            Deputy Assistant Secretary
           (Reserve Affairs)                                  For Force Management
              SAF/MRR                                               Integration
                                                                    SAF/MRM


       Deputy Assistant Secretary
      Strategic Diversity Integration
                SAF/MRD




A2.1. The Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) is responsible for
the overall supervision of all matters pertaining to Air Force manpower, military and civilian
personnel, reserve component affairs, National Security Personnel System (NSPS), Equal
Opportunity, health program benefits and entitlements, medical readiness, U.S Air Force
Academy, family readiness, sexual assault prevention and response programs, family advocacy,
Services, base exchanges and commissaries, morale, welfare, and recreation (MWR) programs, ,
and strategic diversity integration.

A2.2. The SAF/MR provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the
formulation, review and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets relative to Reserve
Affairs (MRR), Force Management Integration (MRM), Strategic Diversity Integration (MRD),
and SAF/MR’s Field Operating Agency, the Air Force Review Boards Agency,.

A2.3. Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include:

       A2.3.1. Deputy Assistant Secretary for Reserve Affairs (SAF/MRR). SAF/MRR is
       responsible for the policy oversight of all matters pertaining to Air National Guard, Air
       Force Reserve Forces, and auxiliary programs, to include the National Science
       Foundation’s Polar Programs.
16                                                                HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08

       A2.3.2. Deputy Assistant Secretary for Force Management Integration (SAF/MRM).
       SAF/MRM is responsible for the policy oversight of all matters pertaining to Air Force
       manpower, military and civilian personnel, National Security Personnel System (NSPS),
       medical readiness, health program benefits and entitlements, Services, base exchanges
       and commissaries, morale, welfare and recreation (MWR) programs, family readiness,
       sexual assault prevention and response programs, family advocacy, and the U.S. Air
       Force Academy.

A2.3.3. Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategic Diversity Integration (SAF/MRD). SAF/MRD
is responsible for the policy oversight of all matters pertaining to diversity and diversity
management within the Air Force.
HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08                                                                        17

*ATTACHMENT 3

                    STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
                                 FOR THE
                  ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                    (MANPOWER AND RESERVE AFFAIRS)
                                 AND THE
             DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF, MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL

These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to SAF/MR and
AF/A1 who are responsible for developing policy, managing programs, and preparing guidance
on approved policies and plans for the field. These procedures are intended to facilitate routine
staff actions and functions and reduce duplication of effort between SAF/MR and AF/A1 staff
roles while increasing operating effectiveness and efficiency.

A3.1 Subject to the standard operating procedures that follow, a general description of the flow
of work between SAF/MR and AF/A1 is:

       A3.1.1. AF/A1 develops policies and submits them to SAF/MR for coordination and
       concurrence prior to SECAF approval;

       A3.1.2. AF/A1 develops AF Instructions and submits them to SAF/MR for coordination
       and concurrence prior to A1 approval;

       A3.1.3. AF/A1 develops strategic plans and submits them to SAF/MR for coordination
       and concurrence prior to A1 implementation; and,

       A3.1.4. AF/A1 executes approved policies and guidance, AF instructions, and strategic
       plans, providing additional guidance to the field as necessary.

Additionally, by establishing conditions and parameters that signal when an issue, initiative, or
performance measure requires the involvement of SAF/MR to fulfill inherent policy oversight
responsibilities (see paragraphs A3.3 thru A3.5), these standard operating procedures will help
prevent the development of a permission-seeking/permission-granted dynamic between SAF/MR
and AF/A1. SAF/MR and AF/A1 will combine senior leader field visits with reviews by the Air
Force Inspector General and Auditor General to verify the effectiveness of these standard
operating procedures, as well as the effectiveness of manpower, personnel and services
programs.

A3.2. AF/A1 Support of the Chief of Staff in his Role as a Member of the Joint Chiefs:
AF/A1 will act independently of SAF/MR when AF/A1 is providing support to the Air Force
Chief of Staff or Vice Chief of Staff in their roles as members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
including the Joint Requirements Oversight Council. To the extent not inconsistent with the
direction of the Chief of Staff or the Vice Chief of Staff, AF/A1 will keep SAF/MR informed of
significant matters in these areas.
18                                                                  HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08

A3.3. Conditions for AF/A1 to Exercise Delegated Secretarial Authorities.             AF/A1 is
authorized to act on the SECAF or SAF/MR’s behalf when such action:

      A3.3.1. Supports the POM, BES, or President’s Budget;

      A3.3.2. Provides data, analyses, information papers, etc., to OSD or congressional staff in
      support of established policies, programs, or other initiatives that have been vetted
      through the Air Force corporate structure, or other appropriate decision process; e.g.
      senior leader forum or fully coordinated staff package;

      A3.3.3. Provides a clear, unambiguous, quantitative link to the Manpower, Personnel, and
      Services Strategic Plan, and/or aligns program resources with its goals and objectives;

      A3.3.4. Implements an order or revised policy direction from the Secretary of the Air
      Force;

      A3.3.5. Satisfies routine reporting requirements and requests for status reports on Air
      Force programs/initiatives from OSD and Congress;

      A3.3.6. Has been delegated to A1 to deal with specific manpower and personnel matters
      (i.e. speaking, making decisions, and acting on behalf of the Air Force).

A3.4. Conditions Requiring SAF/MR Action. SAF/MR review and concurrence are required
prior to implementing any policy, plan, and program when one or more of the following
situations or conditions apply:

      A3.4.1 Involves a disagreement among the components of the Air Force Total Force on a
      policy over which SAF/MR has authority.

      A3.4.2. Drives unprogrammed or budgeted resource demands ($50M or more across the
      FYDP) to the federal government.

      A3.4.3. Involves a controversial issue that will cause, or is likely to cause, significant
      reactions among senior Administration officials, Members of Congress or key staff, the
      public, or the press, such as, but not limited to, matters regarding sexual assault or
      religious preference.

      A3.4.4. Involves the breach of a performance parameter established in policy directives
      and/or Air Force instructions.

      A3.4.5. Drives broad cultural changes crossing many Air Force functions that will take
      concerted, coordinated action over several years to achieve.

      A3.4.6. Involves an assessment of a program, falling within the portfolio of SAF/MR,
      that suggests a significant problem or failure in the program.
HAF MD1-24 15 Dec 08                                                                          19



A3.5. Conditions Requiring SAF/MR Approval of AF/A1 Actions. SAF/MR approval is
required prior to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity when one or more
of the following situations or conditions apply:

       A3.5.1. Involves a change or perceived erosion of Air Force support for a key Secretary
       of the Air Force or Administration agenda item about which the Principal speaks;
       likewise for a senior Member of Congress or a member of a congressional committee
       with significant focus on national defense-related issues (such as Armed Services,
       Appropriations, Ways and Means, or Veterans Affairs).

       A3.5.2. Involves process changes affecting the oversight roles or abilities of the Air Force
       Secretariat, Office of the Secretary of Defense, other (non-Air Force) Administration
       officials, or the Congress.

       A3.5.3. Involves a Statute, Executive Order, or DoD policy that requires Secretary of the
       Air Force review, coordination, and/or implementation. AF policy requires all SD Forms
       106 to be signed by SAF/MR for DoD Issuances falling within his purview.

       A3.5.4. Involves new policies or initiatives proposed by OSD officials, congressional
       staff, or Air Force that would result in significant changes to Air Force personnel
       management practices or programs and their outcomes.

       A3.5.5. Involves decisions relating to SAF/MR operations, to include personnel
       assignments, TDY and supply resource, and contract or research support.

A3.6. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may be
reviewed and revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Air Force. SAF/MR or
AF/A1 may also initiate a revision in consultation with AF/A1 or SAF/MR, respectively. OPRs
must follow revision procedures as mandated in HOI 90-1 Delegating Statutory Authority or
Assigning Responsibilities.


  //SIGNED//                                                      //SIGNED//
CRAIG W. DUEHRING                                         RICHARD Y. NEWTON III
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force                      Lieutenant General, USAF
(Manpower and Reserve Affairs)                            DCS, Manpower and Personnel
