BY ORDER OF THE                                                HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-18
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   10 JULY 2014


                                             ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                         (INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY)




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/IE                                        Certified by: SAF/IE (Ms. Kathleen Ferguson)
Supersedes: HAF MD 1-18, 30 May 2013                                                  Pages: 36


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision renames the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, Environment
and Logistics to the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, Environment, and
Energy to comply with Secretary of the Air Force decision to move the Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Air Force Logistics function under the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
(Acquisition). Major changes to this Mission Directive include: realignment of
responsibilities between Deputy Assistant Secretary for Installations and Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Environment and adding responsibilities transferred from AF/A8 for
strategic basing as a result of Secretary of the Air Force decision. Further changes include
enhancing certain descriptions to more accurately reflect the subject matter of the
pertinent references; including certain authorities allocated to the SAF/IE after discussion
among affected offices or removing authorities allocated to another office; filling in
statutory gaps; adding references to newly promulgated or revised Department of Defense
Instructions; and removing or changing references that have been superseded, changed, or
rescinded. Minor administrative changes were also made to consolidate references, and to
eliminate duplication.


1. Mission. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8013-8016, may
establish offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the Secretary in carrying out his/her
responsibilities. As documented by Paragraph 4.1.3 of Air Force Mission Directive (AFMD) 1,
Headquarters Air Force (HAF), and this Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAF MD),
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                       2


the SAF/IE is established as part of the Secretariat. The SAF/IE has overall responsibility for
installations strategy and strategic basing processes; built and natural infrastructure; facility,
process and operational energy; environment, safety and occupational health; and to ensure the
sustainability and operational readiness of the Department of the Air Force. The SAF/IE
provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review,
and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets to ensure the sustainment and protection
of the mission from degradation and encroachment. The SECAF retains ultimate responsibility
for all policies related to the Department of the Air Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility,
the SAF/IE prepares policies for approval and issues official guidance/procedures via official Air
Force publications to ensure implementation of those policies.

2. Organizational Relationships. The SECAF is responsible for, and has all legal authority
necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The Secretariat, the Chief
of Staff of the Air Force, and Air Staff offices perform their Department of the Air Force
functions subject to the authority, direction, and control of the SECAF.

   2.1. The SAF/IE reports to and serves as an agent of the SECAF, within assigned policy and
   program domains, and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining
   to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets within
   his/her area of responsibility. The SAF/IE is accountable to the SECAF for results achieved
   within the policy and program domains assigned by this directive.

   2.2. The SAF/IE is part of the Secretariat and as such works closely with other HAF offices
   to assist the SECAF in carrying out his/her responsibilities. The SAF/IE and the office of the
   SAF/IE work in cooperation with the General Counsel (SAF/GC), Deputy Chief of Staff for
   Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7), Chief of Safety (AF/SE), Surgeon
   General (AF/SG), Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE), and the National Guard Bureau
   (NGB) and their respective offices, as well as other HAF organizations, which are
   responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8024 and §§
   8031-8039), for assisting the SECAF in carrying out his/her responsibilities.

       2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air
       Force Mission Directive – Delegations of Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities,
       two or more HAF two-digit organizations, Field Operating Agencies, or Direct Reporting
       Units with responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged to develop
       “standard operating procedures (SOP)” that set forth procedures enabling covered
       organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective missions, roles, and responsibilities.
       Therefore, SOPs between the SAF/IE and AF/SG, SAF/IE and AF/SE, and SAF/IE and
       AF A4/7 are attached to the HAF MD.

   2.3. There are no field operating agencies (FOAs) reporting to SAF/IE.

3. Responsibilities. The SAF/IE is specifically responsible for providing guidance, direction and
oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review and execution of plans, policies,
programs, budgets and Air Force positions regarding federal and state legislation and regulations
related to:
3                                                                      HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

    3.1. Installations to include: planning, programming, decisions on base closures and
    realignments including force structure basing changes, installations strategy, the Air Force
    Environmental Impact Analysis Process and the Air Force Strategic Basing process;
    community interface, compatible land use planning and economic adjustment; community
    planning and impact assistance; multiple military service operations and joint land use;
    installations support public/private partnerships; Readiness and Environmental Protection
    Integration (REPI) program; and encroachment management.

    3.2. Environment, safety, and infrastructure to include: environment, safety, occupational
    health, radiation safety and radioactive materials management, to include the planning,
    programming, implementation, operations, management and interagency-intergovernmental
    coordination for all Air Force programs, projects and activities subject to environmental,
    safety, occupational health, radiation safety and radioactive materials management
    requirements in law, regulation, international agreements, executive orders, Department of
    Defense (DoD) directives, instructions and policy, Air Force directives, instructions and
    policy, and special agreements; programming, acquisition, utilization, and disposal of all
    facilities and utilities to include privatization of utilities, military family housing, or other
    facilities or real property improvements; maintenance, repair, and operation of all facilities,
    utilities, and land; installation sustainability, security and operability; joint military-civil
    airfield usage; acquisition, sustainability, utilization and disposal of real property, to include
    withdrawal of public lands for Air Force mission needs; changes in legislative jurisdiction of
    Air Force real property; and annexation of installations by municipalities. The SAF/IE is the
    Department of the Air Force’s Designated Agency Safety and Health Official (DASHO) and
    is responsible for all such duties within the scope of Title 29 of the Code of Federal
    Regulations; the SAF/IE also serves as the Air Force representative to the Department of
    Defense Senior Sustainability Council pursuant to USD (AT&L) memorandum,
    Implementing Executive Order (EO) 13514; the SAF/IE also designates the Department of
    the Air Force’s federal preservation officer. The SAF/IE designates the Air Force Tribal
    Liaison Officer in accordance with the authorities assigned in Department of Defense
    Instruction 4710.02, DoD Interactions with Federally-Recognized Tribes, dated 14
    September 2006. The SAF/IE is the Department of the Air Force’s Senior Sustainability
    Official and is responsible for overseeing the establishment of Executive Order 13514
    sustainability performance goals and objectives; approving the Department’s sustainability
    plans; managing policy, strategy, international relations, and interagency relations that pertain
    to or have an impact on sustainability; and serving as the primary interface to OSD for
    sustainability matters. The SAF/IE designates the Air Force representative to the DoD Senior
    Sustainability Council.

    3.3. Energy, to include overseeing and monitoring all Air Force energy programs. This
    includes providing direction for all Air Force programs that expend or cause energy to be
    expended, including facility and operational energy; developing energy strategy; creating
    energy policy; meeting the energy requirements established by statute or executive orders or
    contained in DoD and Joint staff directives and instructions; ensuring energy considerations
    are reflected in weapons system requirements and acquisition in accordance with DoD and
    Joint Staff directives and instructions; developing and overseeing implementation of
    analytical methods to integrate energy considerations into all Air Force business processes;
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                     4


   meeting federal and DoD energy goals, objectives, and metrics; providing energy
   programmatic transparency and accountability through development and use of an
   Enterprise-wide Energy Dashboard; managing energy security; managing energy culture
   change; executing final authority over all energy issues with the Air Force; and interfacing
   with outside organizations concerning Air Force-wide energy issues. The SAF/IE will serve
   as the designated Senior Energy Official for the Air Force.

   3.4. Representation on boards covering the subject areas addressed herein, such as the
   Defense Strategic Sustainability Council, the Defense Safety Oversight Council, the Air
   Force Operational Safety Council, the Air Force Environment, Safety and Occupational
   Health Council, the Acquisition Strategy Panel, the Air Force Intermediate-Level Review, the
   Air Force Board and Council, the Air Force Review Board, the Functional Business
   Governance Board, , the Emerging Contaminants Steering Group, the Installations Executive
   Council, and the Defense Emerging Contaminants Governance Council.

4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility. Attachment one lists delegated
authorities to the SAF/IE. The authorities delegated to the SAF/IE by this HAF Mission
Directive may generally be re-delegated unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the
attached delegation or superseding law, regulation, executive order, or DoD issuance. While the
SAF/IE may re-delegate authorities to other Department of Air Force officials, he/she will
ultimately be responsible to the SECAF for all matters affecting installations, energy,
environment, and safety and occupational health. Any redelegation of authority/assigned
responsibility made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating
authority/reassigning responsibility in accordance with this HAF Mission Directive may further
restrict or condition the authority/responsibility being re-delegated/re-assigned. Unless otherwise
prohibited by law or applicable policy, delegated authorities herein include the authorities to
execute any agreements and approve any obligation of funds for any agreements necessary to
implement the authorities identified.

5. Notifications to Congress. No re-delegation of authority under this HAF Mission Directive
below the level of a Deputy Assistant Secretary shall include authority to provide notifications or
reports to Congress.

6. Revocation of Secretary of the Air Force Orders. No additional SAFOs are being revoked
by the issuance of this HAF MD revision. Re-delegations of authorities/assignment of
responsibilities made prior to the date of issuance of this revised HAF MD remain effective
insofar as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF MD, or unless
superseded by a new re-delegation.




                                                     Deborah Lee James
                                                     Secretary of the Air Force
5                                                                HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authorities/Assignment of Responsibility for SAF/IE
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Digit/Letter Responsibilities
3. Standard Operating Procedures for SAF/IE and AF/SG
4. Standard Operating Procedures for SAF/IE and AF/SE
5. Standard Operating Procedures for SAF/IE and AF/A4/7
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                    6


                                      ATTACHMENT 1

        DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITIES
             TO THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
              (INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY)

A1.1. The following authorities relating to acquiring, managing and disposing of real property:

   A1.1.1. Authority relating to acquiring, managing and disposing of real property as delegated
   to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4165.06, Real Property, DoD
   Instruction 4165.70, Real Property Management, DoD Instruction 4165.71, Real Property
   Acquisition and DoD Instruction 4165.72, Real Property Disposal.

   A1.1.2. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force relating to acquiring, managing,
   disposing, and granting temporary use, of real property (other than industrial facilities
   property, as defined in Air Force Instruction 63-609, Managing Industrial Facilities) under
   Title 10 United States Code Chapters 155, 159, 169, 949 and 1803, special legislation, or any
   other provision of law. The exercise of acquisition authorities herein shall, to the greatest
   extent practicable, be guided by the policies stated in Title 42 United States Code Section
   4651.

   A1.1.3. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 40 United States
   Code Sections 3113 and 3114 and Title 10 United States Code Section 2663 relating to
   acquisition of land by condemnation, by purchase in lieu of condemnation, purchase options,
   and other bases for land acquisition. The authority for condemnation may be re-delegated to
   the appropriate Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force and may not be further re-
   delegated.

   A1.1.4. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to enter into agreements for the
   exchange of Air Force real property for land acquisition to limit encroachment and other
   constraints on military training, testing, and operations, under Title 10 United States Code
   Section 2869.

   A1.1.5. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to acquire buildings and
   facilities by lease under Title 10 United States Code Section 2661(b).

   A1.1.6. Authority to acquire property for air bases and depots as given to the Secretary of the
   Air Force under Title 10 United States Code Section 9773. This authority may be re-
   delegated to the appropriate Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force and may not be
   further re-delegated.

   A1.1.7. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to enter into agreements to limit
   encroachment and other constraints on military training, testing, and operations, under Title
   10 United States Code Section 2684a, to include the authority to approve obligation of funds
   to implement such agreements.
7                                                                     HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

    A1.1.8. Authority relating to inventorying and forecasting real property, directing
    installations to appoint real property accountability officers, and ensuring proper legal
    documentation and recording of all State-owned National Guard real property utilized by the
    Air Force as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4165.14,
    Real Property Inventory and Forecasting.

    A1.1.9. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 40 United States
    Code Section 3112 to acquire exclusive or partial jurisdiction over land under the control of
    the Air Force. These authorities may be re-delegated to the appropriate Deputy Assistant
    Secretary of the Air Force and may not be further re-delegated.

    A1.1.10. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
    Code Section 2675 to acquire by lease in foreign countries structures and real property that
    are needed for military purposes other than for military family housing.

    A1.1.11. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to screen real property and
    accept real estate from or transfer real estate to another armed force under Title 10 United
    States Code Section 2696.

    A1.1.12. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
    Code Sections 2667 and 2878 to lease or convey property (other than industrial property).

    A1.1.13. Authorities as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
    Code Section 2664 to authorize an increase in cost of a land, to pay any deficiency judgment
    against the United States awarded by a court or resulting from a final settlement in an action
    for condemnation of any interest in land needed for Air Force mission requirements, limiting
    the maximum amount payable as a commission on a contract for the purchase of land, and
    limiting certain reductions in project scope or increase in the cost of a land acquisition unless
    Congressional notification is provided. These authorities may be re-delegated to the
    appropriate Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force and may not be further re-delegated.

    A1.1.14. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
    Code Section 2691 to restore land used by the Air Force by permit or lease from another
    military department or Federal agency, and to require restoration of Air Force land used by
    another Federal agency or accept reimbursement in lieu of restoration by the Federal agency,
    to include the authority to approve obligation of funds to implement Air Force restoration
    obligations under this provision of law.

    A1.1.15. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
    Code Section 2683 to relinquish all or part of the legislative jurisdiction of the United States
    on land or interests under Air Force control. These authorities may be re-delegated to the
    appropriate Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force and may not be further re-delegated.

    A1.1.16. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
    Code Section 2668, Title 40 United States Code Section 1314, and Title 43 United States
    Code Section 961 to grant easements for rights of way for various purposes.
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                    8


   A1.1.17. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2668a to include restrictive easements in conveyances of real property.

   A1.1.18. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to convey surplus Air Force
   property for natural resource conservation under Title 10 United States Code Section 2694a.

   A1.1.19. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 9777 to grant permits for landing ferries, erecting bridges and driving livestock
   on Air Force installations.

   A1.1.20. Authority as given under Title 30 United States Code Section 185 to the appropriate
   agency head to grant rights of way for pipelines through Federal lands under the jurisdiction
   of the agency head.

   A1.1.21. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2678 to use helicopters and motorized equipment to remove feral horses or
   burros found on an Air Force installation.

   A1.1.22. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2697 to impose, accept, and use landing fees charged for the use by civil
   aircraft of domestic military airfields.

   A1.1.23. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 12 United States
   Code Section 1770 to lease land or allot space to qualified credit unions.

   A1.1.24. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 16 United States
   Code Section 470h-3 to lease or exchange historic property to ensure the preservation of the
   historic property.

   A1.1.25. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 16 United States
   Code Section 505a and 505b to interchange lands.

   A1.1.26. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Section 8029 of the
   Consolidated Appropriations Act for FY 2012 to convey to certain Indian tribes, upon
   request, unneeded re-locatable military housing units at certain Air Force installations.

A1.2. Authorities and responsibilities for revitalizing base closure communities and addressing
impacts of realignment as given to the Secretary of Defense by a base closure law, as defined in
Title 10 United States Code Section 101, and delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force in Title
32 Code of Federal Regulations Section 174.5(c) and (d). These authorities and responsibilities
include working with communities and states, real property, personal property, maintenance and
repair, and environmental matters. These authorities may be further re-delegated to the extent
allowed under the delegation to the Secretary of the Air Force.

   A1.2.1. Authority vested in the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
   Section 2687 concerning the closure and realignment of bases.
9                                                                     HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

    A1.2.2. Authority given to the Secretary of the Air Force as relating to compliance under
    DOD Instruction 4165.68, Revitalizing Base Closure Communities and Community
    Assistance – Community Redevelopment and Homeless Assistance.

    A1.2.3. Authority given to the Secretary of the Air Force as relating to designating
    representatives to serve as focal points for providing policy and assistance regarding
    Community Economic Adjustment Programs, as well as assigning representatives to provide
    liaison and coordination with affected communities in response to closure or realignment of
    military installations under DoD Directive 5410.12, Economic Adjustment Assistance to
    Defense-Impacted Communities.

    A1.2.4. Authority vested in the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
    Section 993 concerning plans to reduce the armed forces assigned at a military installation.

    A1.2.5. Authority as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to memoranda by
    the Deputy Secretary of Defense, DoD Guidance on the Environmental Review Process to
    Reach a Finding of Suitability to Transfer (1 June 1994), and DoD Guidance and Policies on
    Fast Track Cleanup and Closing Installations (19 May 1996), to determine the environmental
    suitability to lease or transfer real property closed or realigned under a base closure law, as
    defined in Title 10 United States Code Section 101.

A1.3. Authority relating to staffing the Office of Economic Assistance as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 3030.01, Office of Economic Adjustment
(OEA).

A1.4. Authority relating to realigning overseas installations as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4165.69, Realignment of DoD Sites Overseas.

A1.5. Authority relating to enhancing and achieving compatibility between military installations
and neighboring civilian communities as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
DoD Instruction 3030.3, Joint Land Use Study (JLUS) Program.

A1.6. Authority relating to developing, implementing, and maintaining an air installations
compatible use zone (AICUZ) program for each air installation, and developing an AICUZ
program for DoD-controlled joint military-civilian use airfields to include: ensuring that each air
installation conducts and maintains an AICUZ study; providing education and training for
installation leadership on aircraft noise and safety, land use compatibility, and community
engagement, acquiring, managing, and disposing of real property interests associated with the
AICUZ program; and reviewing and approving AICUZ studies and updates for each air
installation, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4165.57,
Air Installations Compatible Use Zones (AICUZ).

A1.7. Authority to use the United States Army Corps of Engineers for real property-related
services and to allow the United States Army Corps of Engineers to approve or execute Air Force
real property-related legal instruments or documents as given to the Secretary of the Air Force
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                     10


pursuant to Air Force Joint Instruction 32-9006, Army and Air Force Basic Real Estate
Agreements.

   A1.7.1. Authority to use the Naval Facilities Engineering Command for real property-
   related services and to allow the Naval Facilities Engineering Command to approve or
   execute Air Force real property-related legal instruments or documents as given to the
   Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Title 10 United States Code Section 8013 as part of the
   Secretary’s inherent authorities to provide guidance, direction, and oversight on program
   pertaining to the acquisition, sustainability and disposal of real estate. The authority to allow
   the Naval Facilities Engineering Command to approve or execute Air Force real property-
   related legal instruments or documents may be re-delegated to the appropriate Deputy
   Assistant Secretary of the Air Force and may not be further re- delegated.

A1.8. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to accept any gift, devise, or bequest
of real property given to the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code Section 2601, and to
pay all necessary expenses in connection with such a conveyance.

   A1.8.1. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2493 to accept contributions of real property for the support of a Fisher House
   or Fisher Suite as defined in the United States Code.

   A1.8.2. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 9771 to accept a gift of land that he considers suitable and desirable for a
   permanent mobilization, training or supply base, as well as land that he considers suitable and
   desirable for an aviation field.

   A1.8.3. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2663(e)(2) to acquire an interest in real property by gift.

A1.9. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to accept funds to cover
administrative expenses relating to real property transactions under Title 10 United States Code
Section 2695.

A1.10. Authority relating to provision, construction, acquisition and exchange of reserve
component facilities as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive
1225.07, Reserve Component Facilities Programs and Unit Stationing, DoD Instruction 1225.8,
Programs and Procedures for Reserve Component Facilities Programs and Unit Stationing, and
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics Memorandum, Re-
delegation of Military Construction Exchange Authority of Title 10 United States Code Section
18240.

A1.11. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
Section 2661(b)(2) to maintain defense access roads.

A1.12. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to use public property for military
headquarters and Air Force exchanges under Title 10 United States Code Section 9779.
11                                                                     HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

A1.13. Authority to approve construction and improvements on land held in other than fee
simple interest and on land not owned by the United States as given to the Secretary of the Air
Force under Title 10 United States Code Sections 2852(b) and Section 18239(b) .

A1.14. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to lease-purchase facilities under
Title 10 United States Code Section 2812. These authorities may be re-delegated to the
appropriate Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force and may not be further re-delegated.

A1.15. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to acquire existing facilities in lieu of
construction under Title 10 United States Code Section 2813. This authority may be re-delegated
to the appropriate Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force and may not be further re-
delegated.

A1.16. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
Section 9780 to requisition the use and take possession of buildings in the District of Columbia.
These authorities may be re-delegated to the appropriate Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air
Force and may not be further re-delegated.

A1.17. Authority relating to reimbursement of U.S. General Services Administration (GSA)
space as given to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 5030.53,
Reimbursement for GSA Space, Services and Facilities.

A1.18. Authority relating to facilities and construction and conveyance of utilities as follows:

     A1.18.1. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2686 to sell or contract to sell certain utilities and related services, including
     the authority to make minor expansions and extensions of any distributing system or facility
     within such utilities or related services proposed for sale, to certain purchasers.

     A1.18.2. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2688 to convey a utility system, or part of a utility system, under the
     jurisdiction of the Air Force to a municipal, private, regional, district, or cooperative utility
     company or other entity.

A1.19. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
Section 9444 to furnish to the Civil Air Patrol any equipment, supplies, or other resources, to
include use of Air Force facilities with or without charge, deemed necessary to enable the Civil
Air Patrol to fulfill the missions as assigned to serve as an auxiliary of the Air Force.

A1.20. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
Section 9783 to manage support to civil air carriers at Johnston Atoll.

A1.21. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
Section 2556 to provide shelter and incidental services for the homeless and to implement the
Shelter for the Homeless Program and appoint a senior manager to monitor the program under
DoD Instruction 4165.65, Shelter for the Homeless Program.
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                   12


A1.22. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
Section 2551 to provide support to national veterans’ organizations.

A1.23. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
Section 2566 to provide space and services to military welfare societies as defined by the United
States Code.

A1.24. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States Code
Section 9778 to grant licenses to the Young Men’s Christian Association.

A1.25. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to issue licenses to the Red Cross,
allow polling places, and provide space and equipment to veterans service organizations under
Title 10 United States Code Section 2670.

A1.26. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to participate in wetland mitigation
and conservation banks under Title 10 United States Code Sections 2694b and c, to include the
authority to approve obligation of funds for such participation.

A1.27. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to make determinations, under Title
10 United States Code Section 2692(b)(9)-(11), on allowing storage, treatment, or disposal of
any toxic or hazardous material that is not owned by the DoD on an Air Force installation, and to
assess a charge, on a reimbursable cost basis, for any allowed storage or disposal.

A1.28. Authority relating to the management of DoD housing, delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4165.63, DoD Housing and DoD Manual 4165.63-M,
DoD Housing Management or as follows:

   A1.28.1. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2824 to acquire, in lieu of construction, sole interest in existing family housing
   units and interests in land associated with the housing units that are privately owned or that
   are held by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, or to acquire less than sole
   interest in existing family units located in foreign countries.

   A1.28.2. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2825 to improve existing military family housing units and ancillary housing
   support facilities, and to construct replacement military family housing units in lieu of
   improving existing military family housing units.

   A1.28.3. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2826 to ensure that, in the construction, acquisition, and improvement of
   military family housing, the room patterns and floor areas are similar to room patterns and
   floor areas of similar housing in the private sector in the locality.

   A1.28.4. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2827 to relocate existing military family housing units.
13                                                                   HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

     A1.28.5. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2828 to lease housing facilities at or near a military installation in the United
     States, Puerto Rico, or Guam for assignment as family housing to members of the armed
     forces and to civilian employees of the DoD stationed at such installation, and to lease
     housing facilities in foreign countries for assignment as family housing to members of the
     armed forces and civilian employees of the DoD, and to adjust the maximum expenditures for
     rental of family housing in foreign countries.

     A1.28.6. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2829 to make contracts for periods of up to four years for supplies and services
     for the management, maintenance, and operation of military family housing.

     A1.28.7. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2830 to lease substandard family housing units to members of any of the
     uniformed services for occupancy by such members.

     A1.28.8. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2831 to make obligations against the DoD Military Family Housing
     Management Account.

     A1.28.9. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2834 to enter into an agreement with the Secretary of State for the State
     Department to provide housing and related services for personnel under the jurisdiction of the
     Secretary of the Air Force who are assigned to duty in a foreign country.

     A1.28.10. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2835 to enter into a contract for the lease of family housing units to be
     constructed or rehabilitated to residential use near a military installation.

     A1.28.11. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2835a to use military family housing constructed under build and lease
     authority to house members without dependents or to house military unaccompanied
     members.

     A1.28.12. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2836 to enter into an agreement to assure the occupancy of rental housing to be
     constructed or rehabilitated to residential use.

     A1.28.13. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2838 to lease to the Secretary of Defense military family housing in the
     National Capital Region.

     A1.28.14. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2872 to exercise any authority or any combination of authorities under Title 10
     United States Code Subchapter IV in order to provide for the acquisition or construction by
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                   14


  eligible entities of military family or unaccompanied housing units on or near military
  installations within the United States and its territories or possessions.

  A1.28.15. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
  Code Section 2872a to furnish utilities and services in connection with any military housing
  acquired or constructed pursuant to the exercise of any authority or combination of
  authorities under Title 10 United States Code Subchapter IV if the military housing is located
  on a military installation.

  A1.28.16. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
  Code Section 2873 to make direct loans or loan guarantees to an eligible entity for the
  acquisition or construction of suitable military family or military unaccompanied housing
  units.

  A1.28.17. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
  Code Section 2874 to enter into contracts for the lease of housing units that are determined
  suitable for use as military family or military unaccompanied housing.

  A1.28.18. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
  Code Section 2875 to make investments in an eligible entity carrying out projects for the
  acquisition or construction of housing units suitable for use as military family or military
  unaccompanied housing.

  A1.28.19. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
  Code Section 2876 to enter into rental guarantee agreements with eligible entities that acquire
  or construct military family or military unaccompanied housing units under Title 10 United
  States Code Subchapter IV.

  A1.28.20. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
  Code Section 2877 to enter into an agreement with the lessor of military family or military
  unaccompanied housing to make differential lease payments to the lessor.

  A1.28.21. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
  Code Section 2878 to convey or lease property or facilities (including ancillary supporting
  facilities) to eligible entities for the purposes of using the proceeds of such conveyance or
  lease to carry out activities under Title 10 United States Code Subchapter IV.

  A1.28.22. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
  Code Section 2881 to acquire or construct ancillary supporting facilities for military family or
  military unaccompanied housing and to determine whether such a facility is to be used for
  providing merchandise or services in direct competition with Military Exchange
  organizations, the Defense Commissary Agency, or any nonappropriated fund activity of the
  DoD for morale, welfare, and recreation of members of the armed forces.

  A1.28.23. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
  Code Section 2882 to require members of the armed forces who lease housing units acquired
15                                                                  HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

     or constructed under Title 10 United States Code Subchapter IV to make lease payments
     through pay allotments.

A1.29. Authorities relating to energy management as follows:

     A1.29.1. Authority relating to energy planning, use, and management as delegated to the
     Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4180.01, Energy Policy.

     A1.29.2. Authority relating to installation energy management as delegated to the Secretary
     of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4170.11, Installation Energy Management.

     A1.29.3. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 40 United States
     Code Section 591 relating to the purchase of electricity.

     A1.29.4. Authority as specified in Title 10 United States Code Section 2915 to require
     consideration of renewable forms of energy and energy efficient products in new
     construction.

     A1.29.5. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2916 to sell electricity from alternate energy and cogeneration facilities.

     A1.29.6. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2917 to develop or allow development of geothermal energy resources on Air
     Force property.

     A1.29.7. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2918 to make determinations on the conversion of a coal-fired heating facility
     to an oil-fired heating system.

     A1.29.8. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force relating to operational energy,
     including performing duties as the designated Senior Operational Energy Official, pursuant to
     DoD Directive 5134.15, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy Plans and
     Programs (ASD(OEPP)).

     A1.29.9. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2919 to participate in demand response programs for the management of
     energy demand or the reduction of energy usage during peak periods.

     A1.29.10 Authorities related to managing the energy program as the Senior Energy
     Official for the Department of the Air Force, pursuant to Title 10 United
     States Code Section 2911.


A1.30. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to notify or report to the
congressional defense committees or armed services committees as required in any section of
Title 10 United States Code, special legislation, or congressional committee report, relating to
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                     16


real property matters. Except for reports to the congressional defense committees required under
Title 10 United States Code Section 2885(d) for military housing privatization initiative projects
that enter into default, this authority may be re-delegated to the appropriate Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Air Force and may not be further re-delegated.

A1.31. Authorities relating to military construction as follows:

   A1.31.1. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to carry out military
   construction projects under Title 10 United States Code Section 2802.

   A1.31.2. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to carry out emergency military
   construction under Title 10 United States Code Section 2803.

   A1.31.3. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to carry out unspecified minor
   construction and laboratory revitalization under Title 10 United States Code Section 2805.

   A1.31.4. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to obtain architectural and
   engineering services and carry out construction design in connection with military
   construction projects, family housing projects, and construction to restore or replace damaged
   or destroyed facilities under Title 10 United States Code Section 2807.

   A1.31.5. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to enter into a contract for the
   procurement of the enumerated services in connection with the construction, management,
   and operation of a facility on or near a military installation under Title 10 United States Code
   Section 2809.

   A1.31.6. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force to carry out repair projects for
   an entire single-purpose facility or one or more functional areas of a multipurpose facility
   under Title 10 United States Code Section 2811.

   A1.31.7. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2852 to carry out authorized military construction and military family housing
   projects without regard to Title 31 United States Code Section 3324(a) and (b) and to carry
   out military construction and military family housing projects on land not owned by the
   United States before a sufficiency of title opinion from the United States Attorney General
   and to make determinations that the interest in land is sufficient for the purposes of the
   project.

   A1.31.8. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2853 to approve a variation of cost or a modification in the scope of work for a
   military construction project or for the construction, improvement, and acquisition of a
   military family housing project.

   A1.31.9. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
   Code Section 2854 to repair, restore, or replace a facility under Air Force jurisdiction that has
   been damaged or destroyed.
17                                                                     HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

     A1.31.10. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2854a to convey any family housing facility and associated real property, that,
     due to damage or deterioration, is in a condition that is uneconomical to repair.

     A1.31.11. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2855 to make estimates relating to architectural and engineering contracts.

     A1.31.12. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2856 to ensure that the floor areas of military unaccompanied housing that is
     either constructed, acquired, or improved, do not exceed the floor areas of similar housing in
     the private sector in the locality.

     A1.31.13. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2858 to certify additional costs are necessary to protect the national interest and
     establish a reasonable project completion date before expending funds appropriated for
     military construction or military family housing for additional costs involved with expediting
     a construction project.

     A1.31.14. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2862 to use one-step-turn-key selection procedures for entering into contracts
     for the construction of authorized military construction projects.

     A1.31.15. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2863 to pay meritorious contractor claims arising under military construction or
     family housing contracts.

     A1.31.16. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
     Code Section 2867 to waive the application of the energy monitoring and utility control
     system specification required under Section 2867(a) with respect to a specific military
     construction project, military family housing activity, or other activity under Title 10 United
     States Code Chapter 169 upon a determination that the application of the specification is not
     life cycle cost-effective.

A1.32. Authority relating to environment, safety and occupational health programs as delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force. The delegated authorities include the authorities to execute any
agreements and approve obligation of funds for any agreements necessary to implement the
authorities set forth herein and environmental programs listed below.

     A1.32.1. Authorities relating to environment, safety and occupational health programs as
     delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4715.1E, Environment,
     Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH).

     A1.32.2. Authority relating to the program for regional environmental coordination as
     delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4715.02 Regional
     Environmental Coordination.
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                 18


  A1.32.3. Authority relating to management of natural and cultural resources (including
  historic and archaeological resources) on property under Department of Defense control as
  follows:

     A1.32.3.1. Authority to develop and implement programs to monitor, achieve, and
     maintain compliance with federal natural resource requirements (including, without
     limitation, protection of migratory birds, wetlands, and floodplain management), and
     integrate such programs with mission and applicable installation activities as delegated to
     the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4715.03 Natural Resources
     Conservation Program, and authorities cited therein.

     A1.32.3.2. Authority to develop and implement programs to monitor, achieve and
     maintain compliance with cultural resource requirements and integrate cultural resources
     management with broader planning activities and other facilities management systems
     and processes, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction
     4715.16 Cultural Resources Management, and authorities cited therein. This authority
     includes designating a “Senior Policy Level Official” and “Federal Preservation Officer”.
     The position and authority of the Senior Policy Level Official may be re-delegated to
     SAF/IE’s Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force or its appropriate Deputy
     Assistant Secretary of the Air Force and may not be further re-delegated. The position
     and authority of the Federal Preservation Officer under Title 16 United States Code
     Section 470h-2(c) may be re-delegated to a subordinate reporting directly to the Senior
     Policy Level Official and may not be further re-delegated.

     A1.32.3.3. Authority to enter into Sikes Act cooperative assistance agreements with
     states, local governments, nongovernmental organizations, and individuals to provide for
     the maintenance and improvement of natural resources on, or to benefit natural and
     historic research on DoD installations pursuant to Title 16 United States Code Section
     670c-1.

  A1.32.4. Authority relating to pollution prevention programs as delegated to the Secretary of
  the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4715.4 Pollution Prevention.

  A1.32.5.      Authority relating to complying with applicable standards, carrying out
  responsibilities of the Lead Environmental Component (LEC) as designated by the
  Department of Defense, having lead responsibility for the Overseas Environmental Baseline
  Guidance Document on a rotating basis, and other responsibilities as delegated to the
  Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4715.05 Environmental Compliance
  at Installations Outside the United States.

  A1.32.6. Authority relating to achieving environmental compliance standards, delegated to
  the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4715.6 Environmental
  Compliance.

  A1.32.7. Authority related to the establishment of policy, assignment of responsibility and
  prescription of procedures for achieving conformance with requirements for the
19                                                                  HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

     implementation of Environmental Management Systems (EMS) pursuant to Executive Order
     13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management, as
     outlined in Department of Defense Instruction 4715.17, Environmental Management Systems.

     A1.32.8. Authorities relating to the Defense Environmental Restoration Program and the
     Base Realignment and Closure environmental restoration program, delegated to the Secretary
     of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4715.07, Defense Environmental Restoration
     Program (DERP). Any authority derived from paragraphs 2(j) and 4(e) of Executive Order
     12580 may only be further re-delegated to a member of the Senior Executive Service or to a
     General Officer with principal responsibility for the execution of the environmental
     restoration program.

        A1.32.8.1. Authority relating to natural resource trustee responsibilities under Section
        1006 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and Section 1(c) of Executive Order 12777, subject
        to the concurrent authority of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and
        Environment (DUSD(I&E)), as delegated by Directive Type Memorandum from the
        Acting Secretary of Defense, dated 18 February 2011.

     A1.32.9. Authority relating to environmental remediation overseas, delegated to the
     Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4715.08, Remediation of
     Environmental Contamination Outside the United States.

     A1.32.10. Authority relating to the integration of environmental considerations into
     Department of Defense activity and operational planning delegated to the Secretary of the Air
     Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4715.9, Environmental Planning and Analysis.

     A1.32.11. Authority to take account of environmental considerations when authorizing or
     approving certain major federal actions that do significant harm to the environment,
     delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 6050.7, Environmental
     Effects Abroad of Major Department of Defense Actions.

     A1.32.12. Authority related to the identification, assessment, and management of risks
     associated with emerging contaminants pursuant to DoD Instruction 4715.18, Emerging
     Contaminants (ECs).

     A1.32.13. Authority relating to the DoD Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Program,
     delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4150.07, DoD Pest
     Management Program.

     A1.32.14. Authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force relating to directing,
     managing, or carrying out actions related to protecting human health and the environment
     under Title 10 United States Code Chapters 159, 160, and 172, Title 42 of the United States
     Code, special legislation, or any other provision of law.

     A1.32.15. Authority relating to serving as the Air Force representative to the Department of
     Defense Senior Sustainability Council pursuant to USD (AT&L) memorandum,
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                  20


   Implementing Executive Order (EO) 13514, April 12, 2010 and SECAF memorandum,
   Appointment of Air Force Senior Sustainability Official and DoD Sustainability Council
   Representative, May 18, 2010.

A1.33. Authority relating to the Safety and Occupational Health Program as follows:

   A1.33.1. Authority to implement and manage an environmental safety and occupational
   health (ESOH) program and management system to maintain readiness and support mission,
   as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4715.1E,
   Environment, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH).

   A1.33.2. Authority to establish safety and occupational health programs designed to apply
   risk management principles and eliminate accidents, deaths, and occupational illnesses, as
   delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 6055.1, DoD Safety
   and Occupational Health (SOH) Program. The authority to serve as the Air Force’s
   designated agency safety and health official (DASHO) under paragraph 5.2.1 of DoD
   Instruction 6055.1 may not be re-delegated.

   A1.33.3. Authority to establish and maintain occupational and environmental health
   programs implementing risk management principles and procedures to anticipate, recognize,
   evaluate and control health hazards associated with occupational and environmental
   exposures to chemical, physical, and biological hazards, as delegated to the Secretary of the
   Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4715.1E and DoD Instruction 6055.05, Occupational
   and Environmental Health (OEH).

   A1.33.4. Authority to establish and maintain an occupational ionizing radiation protection
   program and ensure that unnecessary personnel exposure is avoided and support Nuclear
   Regulatory Commission master material licenses and programs to implement such a program,
   as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4715.1E and DoD
   Instruction 6055.08, Occupational Ionizing Radiation Protection Program.

   A1.33.5. Authority to establish and maintain an electromagnetic field (EMF) protection
   program, and to administer and maintain a DoD EMF Injury Hotline to provide timely, expert
   medical advice, and an EMF Overexposure Repository for DoD Components, as delegated to
   the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4715.1E and DoD Instruction
   6055.11, Protecting DoD Personnel from Electromagnetic Fields.

   A1.33.6. Authority to establish and maintain a laser protection program and safety review
   process, as well as establishing, administering and maintaining the tri-service laser injury
   hotline to provide timely, expert medical advice, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
   Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4715.1E and DoD Instruction 6055.15, DoD Laser
   Protection Program.

   A1.33.7. Authority to establish, maintain and annually evaluate the effectiveness of a hearing
   conservation program to protect personnel from hearing loss resulting from operational and
   occupational noise exposure, reduce such exposure, and communicate noise hazard risks to
21                                                                  HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

     support the integration of noise controls in system design performance or capabilities, as
     delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4715.1E and DoD
     Instruction 6055.12, Hearing Conservation Program (HCP).

     A1.33.8. Authority relating to designating an office as the office of primary responsibility
     (OPR) for obtaining, reviewing, entering, and providing information to the DoD Hazardous
     Materials Information System as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under DoD
     Instruction 6050.05, DoD Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program.

A1.34. Authorities requiring the concurrence of the Attorney General: where concurrence of the
Attorney General is required to implement the authorities delegated or re-delegated in this
mission directive (including the initiation or settlement of affirmative or defensive litigation),
such concurrence must be obtained through and with the concurrence of the office of the General
Counsel and the office of the Judge Advocate General.

A1.35. Authorities relating to consultation with native Hawaiian organizations when proposing
actions that may affect a property or place of traditional religious and cultural importance as
outlined in DoD Instruction 4710.03, Consultation with Native Hawaiian Organizations (NHOs).

A1.36. Authorities relating to consultation with federally recognized Native American other than
those authorities directly assigned to the installation commander pursuant to DoD Instruction
4710.02, DoD Interactions with Federally Recognized Tribes.

A1.37. Authorities relating to open-air burn pits in contingency operations as outlined in DoD
Instruction 4715.19, Use of Open-Air Burn Pits in Contingency Operations.

A1.38. The authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
Code Section 2336 to enter into intergovernmental support agreements with a State or local
government.

A1.39. The authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 51 United States
Code Section 50504 to allow non-Federal entities to use Air Force space-related facilities on a
reimbursable basis to support commercial space activities.
A1.40. The authority as given to the Secretary of the Air Force under Title 10 United States
Code Section 9781 to determine missile launch related real property that is no longer needed by
the Air Force and which the General Services Administration can dispose.
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                       22


                                         ATTACHMENT 2

                     ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                (INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT, & ENERGY) (SAF/IE)

                                      Assistant Secretary for
                                  Installations, Environment and
                                               Energy
                                              (SAF/IE)



Deputy Assistant Secretary          Deputy Assistant Secretary           Deputy Assistant Secretary
    for Installations                for Environment, Safety,                   for Energy
        (SAF/IEI)                       and Infrastructure
                                            (SAF/IEE)                              (SAF/IEN)


A2.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Energy is
specifically responsible for providing guidance, direction and oversight for all matters pertaining to
the formulation, review and execution of plans, policies, programs and budgets and Air Force
positions regarding federal and state legislation and regulations relative to:

A2.2. Subordinate offices, which include:

   A2.2.1. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Installations (SAF/IEI). SAF/IEI is responsible
   for all matters pertaining to the development of strategic planning for AF installations. This
   includes the formal establishment of Air Force strategic goals and objectives for installations.
   SAF/IEI is also responsible for Air Force Strategic Basing to include processes and analyses to
   support decisions relating to basing, base closures and realignments; caretaker and disposal of
   base closure property; force structure basing changes; installation and compatible planning and
   economic adjustment; community planning and impact assistance; planning to promote
   installation sustainability, security and operability; policy, oversight and interagency
   coordination and engagement for the Air Force Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP);
   multiple military service operations, encroachment management; and public-public/public-
   private partnerships to provide efficient and effective operations and services for Air Force
   installations. SAF/IEI interfaces with outside organizations on matters concerning Air Force-
   wide installations and strategic planning matters.

   A2.2.2. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environment, Safety and Infrastructure
   (SAF/IEE). SAF/IEE is responsible for all matters pertaining to Air Force built and natural
   infrastructure. This includes the life cycle management of real property interests, real property
   and facilities (including utilities) for planning, programming, acquisition, sustainability,
   utilization, and disposal to include any associated portfolio management of real property
   transactions; maintenance, repair and operation of all facilities, utilities, and land; military
   construction; privatization of utilities, military family housing, or other facilities or real property
   improvements; joint military-civil airfield usage; changes in legislative jurisdiction of Air Force
23                                                                   HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

     real property; and annexation of installations by municipalities. SAF/IEE, working with
     AF/A7C, has specially arranged lines of authority to and oversight of the Installations
     Directorate within the Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC), a field operating agency of
     AF/A4/7, that is responsible for executing and managing Air Force real property acquisitions and
     disposals, providing corporate level portfolio management for Air Force property. Except for
     EIAP, SAF/IEE is also responsible for all matters pertaining to Air Force environment, safety,
     occupational health, radiation safety and radioactive materials management interests. This
     includes the planning, programming, implementation, operations, management, and
     interagency/intergovernmental coordination for all Air Force programs, projects and activities
     subject to environmental, safety, occupational health, radiation safety and radioactive materials
     management requirements in law, regulation, international agreements, executive orders, DoD
     directives, instructions and policy, Air Force policy directives, instructions and policy, and
     special agreements. SAF/IEE interfaces with outside organizations on matters concerning Air
     Force-wide environment, safety, occupational health and built/natural infrastructure matters.

     A2.2.3. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Energy (SAF/IEN). SAF/IEN is responsible for
     all matters pertaining to overarching energy policy, management and oversight, to include energy
     program management; installations, process and infrastructure energy; operational energy;
     energy across the weapons system life cycle; integration of energy considerations into all Air
     Force business processes; energy security; energy culture change; energy governance and
     accountability of enterprise-wide energy metrics using the enterprise-wide energy dashboard;
     and representing the Air Force to outside organizations concerning Air Force-wide energy
     matters.
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                     24


                                         ATTACHMENT 3

                          STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
                                       FOR THE
                        ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                      (INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT, & ENERGY)
                                       AND THE
                             AIR FORCE SURGEON GENERAL

These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to Assistant Secretary of
the Air Force for Installations, Environment, & Energy (SAF/IE) and the Air Force Surgeon General
(AF/SG) who are responsible for developing policy, managing programs, and preparing guidance on
approved policies and plans for the field in the general area of occupational health. These procedures
are intended to facilitate routine staff actions and functions and reduce duplication of effort between
SAF/IE and AF/SG staff roles while increasing operating effectiveness and efficiency.

A3.1. SAF/IE retains authority and responsibility for occupational health programs delegated
through public law, executive order and Department of Defense Directive and Instruction. These
include programs outlined in:

   A3.1.1. DoD Directive 4715.1E, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH)

   A3.1.2. DoD Instruction 6050.05, DoD Hazard Communication Program.

   A3.1.3. DoD Instruction 6055.5, Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health.

   A3.1.4. DoD Instruction 6055.08, Occupational Ionizing Radiation Protection Program.

   A3.1.5. DoD Instruction 6055.11, Protecting Personnel From Electromagnetic Fields.

   A3.1.6. DoD Instruction 6055.12, DoD Hearing Conservation Program.

   A3.1.7. DoD Instruction 6055.15, DoD Laser Protection Program.

A3.2. Subject to the standard operating procedures that follow, a general description of the flow of
work between SAF/IE and AF/SG for the specific programs described in A3.1 is:

   A3.2.1. AF/SG submits policies requiring Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) approval to
   SAF/IE for coordination and concurrence prior to publication.

   A3.2.2. AF/SG executes approved policies and guidance, AF instructions, and strategic plans,
   providing additional guidance to the field as necessary.

   A3.2.3. Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environment, Safety and Occupational Health
   (SAF/IEE) coordinates policies that impact execution of the Air Force Occupational Health
   Program with AF/SG prior to publication.
25                                                                     HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014

A3.3. Conditions for AF/SG to Exercise Delegated Secretarial Authorities. AF/SG is authorized
to act on the SECAF or IE’s behalf for programs outlined in A3.1 when such action:

     A3.3.1. Provides data, analyses, information papers, etc., to Office of Secretary of Defense
     (OSD) or congressional staff in support of established policies, programs, or other initiatives that
     have been vetted through the Air Force corporate structure, or other appropriate decision process;
     e.g., senior leader forum or fully coordinated staff package.

     A3.3.2. Implements an order or revised policy direction from the SECAF.

     A3.3.3. Satisfies routine reporting requirements and requests for status reports on Air Force
     programs/initiatives from Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and Congress.

A3.4. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Action. SAF/IE review and concurrence are required prior to
implementing any policy, plan, and program when one or more of the following situations or
conditions apply for programs outlined in A3.1:

     A3.4.1. Involves a controversial issue that will cause, or is likely to cause, significant reactions
     among senior Administration officials, Members of Congress or key staff, the public, or the
     press.

     A3.4.2. Involves the breach of a performance parameter established in policy directives and/or
     Air Force instructions.

     A3.4.3. Informs SAF/IE of annual Defense Health Program (DHP) occupational health (OH)
     programs and budget requirements and any impacts to OH program execution.

A3.5. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Approval of AF/SG Actions. SAF/IE approval is required
prior to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity for programs outlined in A3.1
when one or more of the following situations or conditions apply:

     A3.5.1. Involves a Statute, Executive Order, or DoD policy that requires SECAF review,
     coordination, and/or implementation. DoD policy requires SD Forms 106 be signed by SAF/IE
     (a Senate confirmed position).

     A3.5.2. Involves new policies or initiatives proposed by OSD officials, congressional staff, or
     Air Force that would result in significant changes to Air Force programs that are the corollary to
     DoD programs in A3.1.

A3.6. Conditions Requiring AF/SG Review of SAF/IEE Actions. AF/SG review is required prior
to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity for programs outlined in A3.1, which
may cause a resource impact as a result of execution.

A3.7. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may be reviewed
and revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Air Force. SAF/IE or AF/SG may also
initiate a revision in consultation with AF/SG or SAF/IE, respectively. OPRs must follow revision
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                               26


procedures as mandated in HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives – Delegations of
Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities.




//SIGNED, 6 Jun 14//                                        //SIGNED, 6 Jun 14//
KATHLEEN I. FERGUSON, SES                                   THOMAS W. TRAVIS
Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary                        Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
Performing Duties as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force   Surgeon General
(Installations, Environment and Energy)
27                                                                    HAFMD1-18 16 JUN 2014


                                         ATTACHMENT 4

                     STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR THE
                       ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                 (INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT, & ENERGY) AND THE
                             AIR FORCE CHIEF OF SAFETY

These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to Assistant Secretary of
the Air Force for Installations, Environment, & Energy (SAF/IE) and the Air Force Chief of Safety
(AF/SE) who are responsible for developing policy, managing programs, and preparing guidance on
approved policies and plans for the field in the general area of safety. These procedures are intended
to facilitate routine staff actions and functions and reduce duplication of effort between SAF/IE and
AF/SE staff roles while increasing operating effectiveness and efficiency.

A3.1. SAF/IE retains authority and responsibility for safety programs delegated through public law,
executive order and Department of Defense Directive and Instruction.

A3.2. Subject to the standard operating procedures that follow, a general description of the flow of
work between SAF/IE and AF/SE for the specific programs described in A3.1 is:

     A3.2.1. AF/SE submits policies requiring SECAF approval to SAF/IE for coordination and
     concurrence prior to publication.

     A3.2.2. AF/SE executes approved policies in guidance (AF instructions) providing additional
     guidance to the field as necessary.

     A3.2.3. SAF/IEE (Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environment, Safety and Infrastructure)
     coordinates policies and guidance that impact execution of the Air Force Safety Program with
     AF/SE prior to publication.

A3.3. Conditions for AF/SE to Exercise Delegated Secretarial Authorities. AF/SE is authorized
to act on the SECAF or SAF/IE's behalf as outlined in HAF MD 1-46, Attachment 1, and for
programs outlined in A3.1 when such action:

     A3.3.1. Provides data, analyses, information papers, etc., to OSD or congressional staff in
     support of established policies, programs, or other initiatives that have been vetted through the
     Air Force corporate structure, or other appropriate decision process; e.g. senior leader forum or
     fully coordinated staff package.

     A3.3.2. Implements an order or policy direction from the Secretary of the Air Force.

     A3.3.3. Satisfies routine reporting requirements and requests for status reports on Air Force
     programs/initiatives from OSD and Congress.
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                    28


A3.4. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Action. SAF/IE review and concurrence are required prior to
implementing any policy, plan, and program when one or more of the following situations or
conditions apply for programs outlined in A3.1:

   A3.4.1. Involves a controversial issue that will cause, or is likely to cause, significant reactions
   among senior Administration officials, Members of Congress or key staff, the public, or the
   press.

   A3.4.2. Involves the breach of a performance parameter established in policy directives and/or
   Air Force instructions.

A3.5. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Approval of AF/SE Actions. SAF/IE approval is required
prior to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity for programs outlined in A3.1
when one or more of the following situations or conditions apply:

   A3.5.1. Involves a Statute, Executive Order, or DoD policy that requires Secretary of the Air
   Force review, coordination, and/or implementation. DoD policy requires SD Forms 106 be
   signed by SAF/IE (a Senate confirmed position).

   A3.5.2. Involves new policies or initiatives proposed by OSD officials, congressional staff, or
   Air Force that would result in significant changes to Air Force programs that are the corollary to
   DoD programs in A3.1.

A3.6. Conditions Requiring AF/SE Review of SAF/IEE Actions. AF/SE review is required prior
to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity for programs outlined in A3.1, which
may cause a resource impact as a result of execution.

A3.7. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may be
reviewed and revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Air Force. SAF/IE or AF/SE may
also initiate a revision in consultation with AF/SE or SAF/IE, respectively. OPRs must follow
revision procedures as mandated in HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives –
Delegations of Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities.




//SIGNED, 6 Jun 14//                   //SIGNED, 6 Jun 14//
KURT NEUBAUER                          KATHLEEN I. FERGUSON, SES
Major General, USAF                    Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
Chief of Safety                        Performing Duties as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                       (Installations, Environment and Energy)
29                                                                    HAFMD1-18 16 JUN 2014


                                         ATTACHMENT 5

              STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES (SOP) FOR THE
                  ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
             (INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY) AND THE
     DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF, LOGISTICS, INSTALLATIONS & MISSION SUPPORT

1. PURPOSE/SCOPE

     These standard operating procedures (SOPs) establish relationships, governance, and other
     principles agreed to by the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment &
     Energy (SAF/IE) and the Deputy Chief of Staff/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support (AF
     A4/7) related to the common functional areas assigned to SAF/IE in Headquarters Air Force
     (HAF) Mission Directive (MD) 1-18 and to AF A4/7 in HAF MD 1-38. These procedures are
     intended to provide for appropriate SAF/IE and AF A4/7 high- level oversight within their
     respective functional areas and to confirm governance structures and mutually-established
     principles to facilitate decision-making actions and reduce duplication of effort between SAF/IE
     and AF A4/7 while increasing operating effectiveness and efficiency.

2. AUTHORITIES AND DELEGATIONS

     The authority to enter into these procedures are found in Paragraphs 2 of both HAF MD 1-18
     and HAF MD 1-38. These SOPs do not enact or change two-letter delegations of authority or
     organizational relationships as reflected in HAF MD 1-18 and HAF MD 1-38.

3. GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

     3.1. Ensure the effectiveness and optimize the efficiency of the installations, energy, and
          environmental portfolios supporting the Air Force mission.

     3.2. Ensure necessary information flow and communications are in place to provide
          SAF/IE, and representative Deputy Assistant Secretaries (DASs), oversight of program
          execution by AF A4/7 for matters within SAF/IE areas of responsibility under HAF
          MD 1-18 and for SAF/IE and DASs to provide AF A4/7 necessary information to
          facilitate program execution.

     3.3. Ensure there is a “one Air Force voice” approach and that SAF/IE and AF A4/7
          develop and convey consistent messages on matters of interdependent interests/
          responsibilities.

     3.4.    Ensure SAF/IE and AF A4/7 are fully synchronized and engaged in the Air Force
            corporate programming and budgeting processes for matters within SAF/IE areas of
            responsibility.
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                 30


4. FRAMEWORK PRINCIPLES

  4.1. Situational Context: SAF/IE and AF A4/7 understand that, due to personnel, financial,
       and time limitations, resourcing tradeoffs will need to occur to produce a balanced
       approach to oversight, management, and execution. SAF/IE and AF A4/7 will mutually
       agree on these tradeoff decisions.

  4.2. Overarching Concepts: Policy, Oversight, Management, and Execution.

     4.2.1. Establishing and Issuing Policy. Policy is a statement of important, high-level
            direction that guides decisions and actions throughout the Air Force. In general
            terms, it provides the “what” and “when” regarding this high-level direction.
            Policy translates the ideas, goals, or principles contained in the mission, vision, and
            strategic plans into actionable directives. SAF/IE is responsible for developing Air
            Force policies for all functional areas within HAF MD 1-18 and will coordinate with
            AF A4/7. Both SAF/IE and AF A4/7 will coordinate on any proposed Department
            of Defense (DoD) or other federal agency issuance.

     4.2.2. Program Oversight. SAF/IE exercises program oversight for the programs and
            authorities encompassed within HAF MD 1-18, while AF A4/7 bears responsibility
            for both oversight and execution for programs related to authorities listed in HAF
            MD 1-38. Program oversight means ensuring that high-level decision-making,
            programming, resource allocation, and program execution are consistent with and
            achieve overall Air Force policy, strategic direction and guidance, jointly established
            priorities, and legal requirements.

     4.2.3. Management: Covers the steps between oversight and execution as carried out
            through applicable governance structures.       For many programs addressed in
            HAF MD 1-18 and HAF MD 1-38, SAF/IE and AF A4/7 have shared management
            interests. Specific direction and details of roles and responsibilities for these
            programs may appear in appropriate Air Force publications. Management actions
            should ensure that decisions and resource requirements are developed a nd executed
            so that program execution is consistent with and achieves overall policy, strategic
            direction and guidance, and priorities.

     4.2.4. Execution and Implementation: The processes of carrying out near-year investments
            and/or utilizing personnel and/or resources to accomplish program requirements in
            accordance with DoD and Air Force policy and direction(s). These processes are
            defined and codified in guidance. Generally, guidance defines the “how” to the
            policy’s “what” and “when”. AF/A4/7 and subordinate offices have primary
            execution and guidance development responsibilities for programs within HAF MD
            1-38 and HAF MD 1-18 as delegated and as specified in official Air Force
            documents. AF A4/7 and subordinate offices (as directed by AF A4/7) will support
            the Program Objective Memorandum (POM), Budget Estimate Submission, and/or
            the President’s Budget.
31                                                                      HAFMD1-18 16 JUN 2014


5. INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE (IGS) AND THE AIR FORCE
CORPORATE STRUCTURE

     5.1. Installation Executive Council (IEC). SAF/IE and AF A4/7 co-chair the IEC. The IEC is
          the strategic level forum for establishing the Air Force vision, priorities, and goals related
          to real property (to include land and facilities), housing, military construction, energy
          security, sustainability and the environment. SAF/IE and AF A4/7 will consider and
          synchronize input from the Civil Engineer Council and various Executive Steering Groups
          (ESGs) to shape and provide strategic direction to influence the Air Force Asset
          Management Plan (AFAMP), which represents the long-term investment plan covering the
          five years beyond the current and next (+1) budget years. SAF/IE and AF A4/7, as
          members of the Air Force Council, together advise and make recommendations on
          major Air Force installation interests.

        5.1.1. Participants: AF/A7C, SAF/IEE, SAF/IEI, SAF/IEN, the Air Force Civil Engineer
               Center (AFCEC) Director.

        5.1.2. Advisors:   SAF/AQ, SAF/FM, SAF/GC, AF/JA, SAF/SB, MAJCOM vice
               commanders (CV) (representing MAJCOM equity and CFLI role; biennially) and
               USAFA Superintendent.

        5.1.3. Link to Air Force Corporate Structure: SAF/IE and AF A4/7 together advise and
               make recommendations to the Chief of Staff and Secretary of the Air Force
               (SECAF) related to facilities investment, real property (to include land and
               facilities), housing military construction, energy security, sustainability and the
               environment. Those recommendations are informed, in part, by input from the IEC.

     5.2. Civil Engineer Council (CEC). SAF/IEI (or other applicable SAF Deputy Assistant
          Secretary (DAS)) and A7C will co-chair the CEC for shared management matters.
          A7C will chair and DASs will participate in the CEC for non-shared management matters.
          Consistent with IEC direction, the CEC may give direction, establish metrics or take
          other actions designed to ensure programs meet IEC vision, priorities and goals.

        5.2.1. Participants: AFCEC Director, SAF/IEE, SAF/IEI, S AF/IEN, Installation Support
               Panel (ISP) Chair, CFLI Representative, AFCEC Planning & Integration (P&I)
               Director, and MAJCOM A7 or A4/7 or A6/7 as applicable (delegable to the
               MAJCOM/Civil Engineer (CE).

        5.2.2. Advisors: SAF/SB, SAF/AQ, SAF/FM, SAF/GC, AF/JA.

        5.2.3. Link to Air Force Corporate Structure: As co-chairs of the CEC, SAF/IEI and
               AF/A7C together advise and make recommendations at the Air Force Board on major
               Air Force installation interests while meeting the IEC’s strategic intent.

     5.3. Installations Integration Group (I2G). The I2G, chaired by the AFCEC Director, integrates
           all AFCEC product line requirements to create the AFAMPs and the AFCAMP. The
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                               32


       AFAMP is a Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) Requirements plan that will be
       used in the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) and POM build
       process. The AFCAMP is a two-year prioritized investment plan. The I2G is the primary
       link for input from the Air Force Major Commands, CFLIs and installations. The AFCEC
       Director will invite DASs and AF/A7C or their staffs to participate in the I2G as advisors
       as appropriate.

     5.3.1. Participants: AFCEC Product Line Directors (Centers of Excellence (CoE) and
            Directorate Leaders), AMP/CAMP Portfolio Managers, AMP Integrators, MAJCOM
            Representatives.

     5.3.2. Advisors: SAF/AQ, SAF/GM, SAF/GC, SAF/SB, AF/JA.

     5.3.3. Link to Air Force Corporate Structure: I2G processes all the task-related input from
            the CEC and provides data to the Installation Support Panel to build the POM which
            is first presented at the Air Force Group. SAF/IEI-2 and AF/A7CI together advise
            and make recommendations to the Air Force Group on major Air Force
            installations interests at the Air Force Group in accordance with IEC goals and
            metrics.

  5.4. Executive Steering Groups (ESG). Existing ESGs, chaired by the appropriate SAF/IE
       DAS (or as part of the CEC), enables oversight responsibilities to ensure execution is
       having the intended effect. ESGs will meet as directed by the ESG chair and IAW ESG
       charters, which identify specific members and key advisors. This SOP does not override
       the intent of the ESG charters. To the maximum extent practical these meetings shall be
       rolled into the IGS battle rhythm.

  5.5. Where an Air Force Program Management Review is being conducted or received
       below the two-letter IEC level, the review shall be co-chaired by the AF/A7C and the
       applicable DAS on a frequency to be mutually determined. These co-chaired meetings are
       for the purposes of oversight discussed in paragraph 4.2.2 and do not override the
       execution and implementation duties discussed in paragraph 4.2.4.

6. ORGANIZATIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

  6.1. SAF/IE Functions. For all matters encompassed within HAF MD 1-18, SAF/IE functions
        include:

     6.1.1. Translating strategic vision into executable policies and goals;

     6.1.2. Transmitting strategic vision and goals to other Air Force offices;

     6.1.3. Serving as the primary Air Force liaison with the Office of the Secretary of Defense
            (OSD), Congress, other federal agencies, external organizations, and
33                                                                    HAFMD1-18 16 JUN 2014

               state and local government. HAF MD 1-18 does not permit re-delegation below
               DAS level for notification of reports to Congress.

        6.1.4. Serving as the primary Air Force liaison for media, non-routine or policy matters.

        6.1.5. Delegating program execution as appropriate and developing metrics to measure
               success (with input from execution offices).

     6.2. AF/A4/7 Functions. AF A4/7 and subordinate offices (as directed by AF A4/7) will:

        6.2.1. Implement Air Force policies and execute strategic plans or other direction from
               applicable HAF offices or joint governance structure, consulting with SAF/IE or the
               applicable DAS as needed for effective implementation.

        6.2.2. Coordinate with SAF/IE and appropriate DAS(s) to determine offices of primary and
               coordinating responsibilities for drafting/amending guidance documents (Air Force
               Instructions) for the subject matters covered in this SOP. SAF/IE and DAS
               coordination is required prior to signature for those that fall within MD 1-18.

        6.2.3. Support communication to outside entities by:

               6.2.3.1. Satisfying routine requests for data, information and reporting requirements
                         from OSD, other federal agencies, external organizations and state and local
                         government by direct reply with a courtesy copy to the respective DAS
                         office or advance coordination if time permits.

               6.2.3.2. Satisfying non-routine or policy related requests from OSD, other federal
                        agencies, external organizations and state and local government by direct
                        reply with advance coordination from the respective DAS.

               6.2.3.3. Providing data analyses and information papers to OSD or Congressional
                        staff in support of established policies, programs, or other initiatives that
                        have been vetted through the Air Force corporate structure or other
                        appropriate decision process (e.g., ESG).

               6.2.3.4. Complying with HAF MD 1-18, HAF MD 1-38 and AFI 90-401 when
                        responding to Congress. SAF/IE and AF A4/7 shall keep each other
                        informed of communication to Congress affecting shared responsibilities
                        and will coordinate in advance of communications.

7. SPECIAL ORGANIZATIONAL ROLES AND RELATIONSHIPS

     7.1. SAF/IE (generally through SAF/IEI) maintains direct lines of authority with AFCEC
          Installations Center of Excellence (AFCEC/IC) for real property transactions (including
          real property disposal for all current and future rounds of Base Realignment and Closure
          (BRAC)). SAF/IE will provide BRAC fiscal guidance and funding to AFCEC. SAF/IE
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                    34


          will retain Programming, Planning, and Budget Execution responsibilities for all BRAC
          ‘05, Legacy BRAC and possible future BRAC funds. AFCEC/IC will ensure both SAF/IE
          and AF A4/7 chains of command are duly informed.

  7.2. Should the Congress authorize a future round of base realignment and closure, the SECAF
       will establish and assign program oversight, management, and execution responsibilities.
       It is anticipated that both the pre-decisional analysis supporting commission deliberations
       and the post-decisional implementation of the approved recommendations will be led
       from the Headquarters Air Force. It is also anticipated that A4/7 would provide
       analytical support, and AFCEC might provide responses to data requests during the
       analytical phase. Once Congress approves the BRAC recommendations, AFCEC would
       perform their normal duties in support of implementation of those recommendations

  7.3.     SAF/IE and Deputy Assistant Secretaries (DASs) have direct liaison authority with
          AFCEC and subordinate AFCEC Directors, to directly consult and/or coordinate action(s)
          with each other’s respective organizations, provided that each organization’s chain of
          command is duly informed.

  7.4. AFCEC/CI and the Energy Directorate shall insure that SAF/IEI and SAF/IEN are kept
       fully informed of all aspects of such renewable energy-related projects involving non-
       governmental financing or ownership projects and real property outgrants, regardless of
       whether formal Congressional notification is required by law for such projects.

  7.5. SAF/IE and AF A4/7 have a shared management interest in the Joint Basing
       Implementation Guidance (JBIG). SAF/IE retains oversight authority while AF A4/7
       bears responsibility as the Air Force Executive Agent for joint basing.

8. COMMUNICATION

  8.1. Early and informal discussion and communication is strongly encouraged within and
       across the SAF/IE and AF A4/7 chains of command as needed to efficiently and
       effectively carry out programs.

         8.1.1. It is incumbent upon appropriate staff attending meetings to inform their respective
                 chains of command on issues of concern and decision(s) made/outcomes of meetings,
                 recognizing that formal updates may occur during quarterly IEC meetings or
                 meetings of other Air Force entities.

  8.2. In accordance with 4.2.1, SAF/IE is responsible for providing program oversight for all
       functional areas within HAF MD 1-18. In some instances relative to MD 1-18, SAF/IE
       may provide day-to-day direction for sensitive issues like those outlined below.

         8.2.1. A controversial or high-visibility issue likely to generate significant interest among
                senior Administration officials (to include other federal agencies), members of
                Congress or key staff, the public, or the press.
35                                                                                 HAFMD1-18 16 JUN 2014

          8.2.2. A substantial issue of first impression, or may have a significant precedential
                 impact across the Air Force, other military departments, or OSD.
          8.2.3. A statute, Executive Order, legislative matter, or DoD policy that requires
          SECAF or SAF/IE review, coordination, and/or implementation.

          8.2.4. A disagreement among Air Force components or functions.

          8.2.5. The breach of a performance parameter established by formal strategic policy or
                 directives pertaining to, or coming from any of the councils, steering groups, or
                 executive boards in the governance structure.

          8.2.6. The adoption or articulation of a policy position to OSD, other military departments,
                 federal agencies, federal or state elected representatives, or other organizations
                 outside the Air Force, establishes or significantly changes an Air Force policy, or
                 changes or erodes an established policy or position of the Air Force, Administration
                 position, or Congressional position.

          8.2.7. Broad cultural changes crossing many Air Force functions or concerted coordinated
                 action over several years to achieve.

     8.3. SAF/IE and AF A4/7 will communicate when implementing any policies, plans, programs
          and/or activities for functional areas outlined in this SOP that may cause a significant
          resource impact as a result of execution. In addition to the quarterly IEC, AF A4/7 will
          minimally provide the following information to SAF/IE and staff at the key points in the
          table below.

                                       INSTALLATIONS SUPPORT PROGRAMS

     Yr        POM           POM          PBR     PB       NDAA       SAF Tax     Initial      Tax      EOY
                           Strategy      Approp                        (ERA)      Distro    HAF/AFCEC   Obs
FS Cent
   FS
 DCent
 R&M
MILCON
  EQ
ER MFH
  FO
Combat
Support
*Year of Execution adjustments will be provided when needed.
FS Cent: Facilities Sustainment Centralized        EQ: Environmental Quality
FS DCent: Facilities Sustainment De-centralized    ER: Environment Restoration
R&M: Restoration and Modernization                 MFH: Military Family Housing
MILCON: Military Construction                      FO: Facilities Operation
HAFMD1-18 10 JULY 2014                                                                   36


9. REFERENCES

   9.1. HAF Mission Directive 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations,
        Environment and Energy).

   9.2. HAF Mission Directive 1-38, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force (Logistics,
        Installations and Mission Support).

10. TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT

   This agreement may be reviewed and revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the
   Air Force. It is effective 10 June 2014 and may only be terminated or amended upon
   agreement by both SAF/IE and A4/7.



//SIGNED, 10 Jun 14//                                   //SIGNED, 10 Jun 14//
KATHLEEN I. FERGUSON, SES                               JUDITH A. FEDDER
Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary                    Lieutenant General, USAF
Performing Duties as                                    Deputy Chief of Staff
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force                    Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
(Installations, Environment and Energy)
