BY ORDER OF THE                                               HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-20
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                            26 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                                                  THE INSPECTOR GENERAL




______________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at:
                   http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________

OPR: SAF/IG                  Certified by: SAF/IG (Lieutenant General Stephen P. Mueller)
Supersedes HAFMD 1-20, April 23, 2008                                          Pages: 10


SUMMARY OF CHANGES.
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the addition and deletion of several delegations of authority/assignments of responsibility
within Attachment 1. Further details on the specific responsibilities of the SAF/IG are provided
within the subparagraphs of section 3, Responsibilities. Additionally, some of the verbiage
within has been updated IAW HOI 90-1

1. Mission. The Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8013-8016, may establish
offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the Secretary in carrying out his or her
responsibilities. As documented by Paragraph 4.1 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive, the Inspector General (SAF/IG) is established
as part of the Secretariat. The SAF/IG is responsible for assessing and reporting on the overall
readiness, economy, efficiency, and the state of discipline of the Department of the Air Force.
The SAF/IG has overall responsibility for the Military Criminal Investigative Organization
(MCIO) mission through the Air Force Office of Special Investigations. The Secretary of the Air
Force retains ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the Air Force.
Within his or her areas of responsibility, the SAF/IG prepares policies for approval and issues
official guidance/procedures via official AF publications to ensure implementation of those
policies.

2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and has all
legal authority necessary, to conduct the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The
Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Air Staff offices perform their Department of
2                                                        HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013

the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control of the Secretary of the Air
Force.

    2.1. The SAF/IG reports to the Secretary of the Air Force, serves as an agent of the Secretary
    within assigned policy and program domains, and provides guidance, direction, and oversight
    for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies,
    programs, and budgets within his or her area of responsibility. The SAF/IG is accountable to
    the Secretary for policy and program results assigned by this Directive.

    2.2. The SAF/IG is part of the Secretariat and as such works closely with other HAF offices to
    assist the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his or her responsibilities. The SAF/IG
    and his or her staff work in cooperation with the General Counsel, The Judge Advocate
    General, and the Auditor General, and their respective offices, as well as other HAF
    organizations, which are responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC
    §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out
    his or her responsibilities.

        2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air
        Force Mission Directive – Delegations of Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities,
        two or more HAF two-letter/digit organizations with responsibilities in the same
        functional area are encouraged to develop “standard operating procedures (SOPs)” that
        set forth procedures enabling covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their
        respective missions, roles, and responsibilities. There are no SOPs between SAF/IG and
        any other organization.

    2.3. Reporting to the SAF/IG are two Field Operating Agencies: the Air Force Inspection
    Agency (AFIA), whose mission is documented in AFMD 31; and the Air Force Office of
    Special Investigations (AFOSI), whose mission is documented in AFMD 39.

3. Responsibilities.

The SAF/IG is specifically responsible for:

        3.1. Inquiry into and reporting upon the discipline, efficiency, economy, and readiness of
        the Air Force through:

                3.1.1. The Air Force Inspection System (AFIS)
                3.1.2. The complaint resolution program
                3.1.3. Criminal and counterintelligence programs
                3.1.4. Portions of the insider threat and antiterrorism programs in collaboration
                       with SAF/AA
                3.1.5. The Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (FWA) program

        3.2. Performing other duties prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of
        Staff of the Air Force. Such other duties include, but are not limited to:
HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                       3

               3.2.1. Chair the Intelligence Oversight Panel
               3.2.2. Serve on the Defense Council on Integrity and Efficiency (DCIE)
               3.2.3. Serve on the Air Force Council (AFC)
               3.2.4. Serve as advisor to the USAF Academy Executive Steering Group (ESG)
               3.2.5. Serve on the Sexual Assault and Prevention and Response ESG
               3.2.6. Serve on the Air and Space Expeditionary Force Forum
               3.2.7. Serve on the Air Force Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group
               3.2.8. Serve on the Information and Technology Management Board (ITMB)
               3.2.9. Serve on the Air Force Operational Safety Council
               3.2.10. Serve on the Nuclear Oversight Board (NOB)

       3.3. Proposing programs of inspection and investigation to the Secretary of the Air
       Force.

       3.4. Cooperating fully with the Inspector General of the Department of Defense in
       connection with the performance of any duty or function by the Inspector General of the
       Department of Defense under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 USC App. § 3)
       regarding the Department of the Air Force.

       3.5. Acting as the functional and force management proponent for the Air Force Inspector
       General system.

       3.6. Communicating directly with the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff of the
       Air Force, and all other Air Force command elements on IG matters, thereby providing
       advocacy on behalf of all Air Force commanders.

       3.7. Supervising, directing, and guiding the Air Force Inspection Agency.

       3.8. Supervising, directing, and guiding the Air Force Office of Special Investigations.

4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility: Attachment 1 lists delegated
authorities and responsibilities to the SAF/IG. The authorities delegated and responsibilities
assigned to the SAF/IG by this HAF Mission Directive may generally be re-delegated unless re-
delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding law, regulation, or
DoD issuance. While the SAF/IG may re-delegate authorities to other Department of Air Force
officials, he or she will ultimately be responsible to the Secretary of the Air Force for all matters
affecting the MCIO mission for the Secretary of the Air Force through the AFOSI. Any re-
delegation of authority made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-
delegating authority in accordance with this HAF Mission Directive may further restrict or
condition the authority/responsibility being re-delegated/re-assigned.

5. Notifications to Congress: No re-delegation of authority/re-assignment of responsibility
under this HAF Mission Directive below the level of a Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-
letter/digit office shall include authority to provide notifications or reports to Congress.
4                                                    HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013



                                                 Eric K. Fanning
                                                 Acting Secretary of the Air Force

Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authority and Assignment of Responsibility for SAF/IG
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter/digit Responsibilities
HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                    5


                                       ATTACHMENT 1

                  DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                   AUTHORITIES/ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY
                                    TO THE
                             INSPECTOR GENERAL

A1.1. Responsibilities relating to the protection of High Risk Personnel assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 2000.22,
Designation and Physical Protection of DoD High Risk Personnel (HRP).

A1.2. Responsibilities relating to suspicious activities reporting assigned to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to DoDI 2000.26, Suspicious Activity Reporting.

A1.3. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence training assigned to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to DoDI 3305.11, DoD Counterintelligence (CI) Training.

A1.4. Responsibilities relating to the DoD Forensic Science Committee assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5100.86, DoD Forensic Science Committee.

A1.5. Responsibilities assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force in support of Combatant
Command Inspectors General pursuant to DoDI 5106.05, Combatant Command Inspectors
General—Implementing Procedures.

A1.6. Responsibilities assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force in support of the Inspector
General of the Department of Defense pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD)
5106.1, Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG DoD).

A1.7. Responsibilities assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force in support of Combatant
Command Inspectors General pursuant to DoDD 5106.4, Combatant Command Inspectors
General.

A1.8. Authority relating to information concerning non-DoD affiliates as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5200.27, Acquisition of Information Concerning
Persons and Organizations Not Affiliated with The Department of Defense.

A1.9. Responsibilities relating to the DoD Forensic Enterprise assigned to the Secretary of the
Air Force, to include those assigned to him or her in his or her capacity as the DoD Executive
Agent (EA) for Digital and Multimedia (D/MM) Forensics for those forensics disciplines relating
to computer and electronic device forensics, audio forensics, image analysis, and video analysis,
pursuant to DoDD 5205.15E, DoD Forensic Enterprise (DFE).

A1.10. Authority relating to the polygraph program as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to DoDD 5210.48, Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA)Program.
6                                                       HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013

A1.11. Responsibilities relating to Polygraph and Credibility Assessment procedures assigned to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5210.91, Polygraph and Credibility Assessment
(PCA) Procedures.

A1.12. Responsibilities relating to conducting, managing, coordinating, controlling, and
reporting requirements for counterintelligence investigations and criminal violations assigned to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5240.04, Counterintelligence (CI)
Investigations.

A1.13. Responsibilities relating to the Counterintelligence Awareness and Briefing Program
assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5240.06, Counterintelligence
Awareness and Reporting (CIAR).

A1.14. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence requirements assigned to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5240.10, Counterintelligence (CI) in the Combatant Commands
and Other DoD Components.

A1.15. Responsibilities relating to Force Protection Response Group assigned to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI S-5240.15, Force Protection Response Group (FPRG)(U), a
DoDI classified as Secret.

A1.16. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence functional services assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5240.16, Counterintelligence (CI) Functional
Services (CIFS).

A1.17. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence collection reporting assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI S-5240.17, Counterintelligence (CI) Collection, a
DoDI classified as Secret.

A1.18. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence analysis and production assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5240.18, Counterintelligence (CI) Analysis and
Production.

A1.19. Responsibilities relating to the critical infrastructure protection program assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force, to include those assigned to him or her in his or her capacity as the
DoD EA for Defense Cyber Crime Matters, pursuant to DoDI 5240.19, Counterintelligence (CI)
Support to the Defense Critical Infrastructure Program.

A1.20. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to DoDD O-5240.2, Counterintelligence (CI).

A1.21. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence inquiries assigned to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to DoDI O-5240.21, Counterintelligence (CI) Inquires.
HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                    7

A1.22. Responsibilities relating to conducting and managing counterintelligence support to
force protection assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5240.22,
Counterintelligence Support to Force Protection.

A1.23. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence activities in cyberspace assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5240.23, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities in
Cyberspace.

A1.24. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to DoDI 5240.24, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities Supporting Research,
Development, and Acquisition (RDA).

A1.25. Responsibilities relating to counterintelligence activities assigned to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5240.26, Countering Espionage, International Terrorism, and the
Counterintelligence (CI) Insider Threat.

A1.26. Responsibilities relating to technical surveillance countermeasures services assigned to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5240.5, Technical Surveillance
Countermeasures (TSCM) Program.

A1.27. Responsibilities relating to classification of counterintelligence information assigned to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI C-5240.8, Counterintelligence (CI) Security
Classification Guide (U), a DoDI classified as Confidential.

A1.28. Responsibilities relating to the counterespionage program assigned to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to DoDI S-5240.9, Offensive Counterintelligence Operations (OFCO)(U),
a DoDI classified as Secret.

A1.29. Responsibilities relating to obtaining information from financial institutions assigned to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5400.15, Guidance on Obtaining Information
from Financial Institutions.

A1.30. Responsibilities relating to military criminal investigative organizations assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5505.03, Initiation of Investigations by Defense
Criminal Investigative Organizations.

A1.31. Responsibilities relating to investigating noncombat deaths of members assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5505.10, Investigation of Noncombat Deaths of
Active Duty Members of the Armed Forces.

A1.32. Responsibilities relating to reporting offender criminal history data assigned to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5505.11, Fingerprint Card and Final Disposition
Report Submission Requirements.

A1.33. Responsibilities relating to functions for the Department of Defense Cyber Crime Center
assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force, to include those assigned to him or her in his or her
8                                                       HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013

capacity as the DoD EA pursuant to DoDD 5505.13E, DoD Executive Agent (EA) for the DoD
Cyber Crime Center (DC3).

A1.34. Responsibilities relating to deoxyribonucleic acid collection requirements for criminal
investigations assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5505.14,
Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Collection Requirements for Criminal Investigations.

A1.35. Responsibilities relating to receiving, reporting, and investigating contractor disclosures
of a violation assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5505.15, DoD
Contractor Disclosure Program.

A1.36. Responsibilities relating to criminal investigations by personnel not assigned to defense
criminal investigative organizations assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DODI
5505.16, Criminal Investigations by Personnel Who Are Not Assigned to a Defense Criminal
Investigative Organization.

A1.37. Responsibilities relating to sexual assault investigations assigned to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5505.18, Investigation of Adult Sexual Assault in the Department of
Defense.

A1.38. Responsibilities relating to criminal investigations of fraud assigned to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5505.2, Criminal Investigations of Fraud Offenses.

A1.39. Responsibilities relating to reporting and investigating allegations of misconduct against
senior officials assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5505.6,
Investigations of Allegations Against Senior Officials of the Department of Defense.

A1.40. Responsibilities relating to standards for titling and indexing subjects of criminal
investigations assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5505.7, Titling and
Indexing Subjects of Criminal Investigations in the Department of Defense.

A1.41. Responsibilities relating to criminal investigations into certain types of sexual
misconduct assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5505.8, Military
Criminal Investigative Organizations (MCIO) and other DoD Law Enforcement Organizations
Investigations of Adult, Private, Consensual Sexual Misconduct.

A1.42. Responsibilities relating to the interception of communications for law enforcement
assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5505.9, Interception of Wire,
Electronic, and Oral Communications for Law Enforcement.

A1.43. Responsibilities relating to the implementation of the Law Enforcement Officers Safety
Act assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5525.12, Implementation of the
Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004.

A1.44. Responsibilities relating to criminal investigative elements found in the 1981
Memorandum of Understanding between the Department of Justice (DoJ) and Department of
Defense (DoD) assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5525.7,
HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                   9

Implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Between the Departments of
Justice (DoJ) and Defense Relating to the Investigation and Prosecution of Certain Crimes.

A1.45. Responsibilities relating to the defense hotline program assigned to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to DoDI 7050.1, Defense Hotline Program.

A1.46. Responsibilities relating to military whistleblower protection assigned to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 7050.6, Military Whistleblower Protection.

A1.47. Responsibilities relating to the semi-annual report to Congress assigned to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 7750.6, Information Requirements for Semiannual Report to
the Congress.

A1.48. Authority granted to the Secretary of the Air Force in Chapter 873, 10 USC § 9027,
relating to authorizing civilian Air Force special agents to execute and serve warrants and to
make arrests and conduct searches without a warrant, following guidelines prescribed by the
Secretary of Defense and the Attorney General in the Attorney General Memorandum signed 23
April 2004 with the attached Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “Subject: Guidelines
for Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) Civilian Special Agents to Execute
Warrants and Make Arrests.”

A1.49. Responsibilities relating to Air Force quarterly and annual reporting requirements
assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Deputy Secretary of Defense Directive-
Type Memorandum (DTM) 08-052, DoD Guidance for Reporting Questionable Intelligence
Activities and Significant or Highly Sensitive Matters, and in accordance with guidance in DoD
5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components That Affect
United States Persons.

A1.50. Authorities relating to consensual interceptions assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to DTM 11-007, Delegation of Authority to Approve Consensual Interceptions for Law
Enforcement.
10                                                               HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013



                                           ATTACHMENT 2

                                    THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
                                            (SAF/IG)


                                      The Inspector General
                                                  SAF/IG

          Air Force Inspection                                                Air Force Office of
                Agency                                                       Special Investigations

                 AFIA                                                                  AFOSI


                          Executive Services                    Directorate of
                                                                 Inspections

                                 SAF/IGE                           SAF/IGI


                            Directorate of                    Directorate of
                         Special Investigations            Complaints Resolution

                                 SAF/IGX                          SAF/IGQ



                        Air Reserve Component                   Directorate of
                               Advisors                    Senior Official Inquiries

                                 SAF/IGR                          SAF/IGS



A2.1. The Inspector General (SAF/IG) advises the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force on the readiness, economy, efficiency, and state of discipline of the Air
Force. SAF/IG supervises, directs, and guides the execution of the MCIO mission for SECAF
through AFOSI and the evaluation of Air Force activities, personnel, and policies through AFIA.

A2.2. Subordinate offices include:

     A2.2.1. Executive Services (SAF/IGE). SAF/IGE supports the Inspector General in
     interpreting and implementing administrative policy and managing the security and travel
     programs for the SAF/IG staff.

     A2.2.2. Inspections Directorate (SAF/IGI). The Inspections Directorate develops policies,
     planning, and program evaluation for the Air Force Inspection System and maintains policy
     oversight. Represents the SAF/IG and AFIA on policy, planning, and program evaluation
     matters for inspection issues at the Air Staff, Secretariat, and Office of the Secretary of
HAFMD1-20 26 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                11

  Defense (OSD) levels, as well as with the Government Accountability Office (GAO),
  DoD/IG, and other agencies external to the Air Force. Manages intelligence oversight
  program responsibilities for SAF/IG.      Performs special assignments and provides
  management and advisory service to The Inspector General, the Air Staff, and Secretariat.
  Prepares, coordinates, and recommends changes to the DoD, Air Force, and IG inspection
  policy directives. Prepares, executes, and oversees resources, plans, and programs for
  accomplishing the SAF/IG inspections mission to include preparing and coordinating reports
  and recommended changes to Air Force resource planning and program directives impacting
  the AFIA.

  A2.2.3. Complaints Resolution Directorate (SAF/IGQ). The Complaints Resolution
  Directorate supports The Inspector General as the focal point for Air Force administrative
  investigations, Fraud, Waste and Abuse (FW&A) prevention programs and complaints
  resolution. Additionally, SAF/IGQ performs the IG function, normally performed by Major
  Commands (MAJCOMs) for their subordinate units, for State Joint Force Headquarters
  (JFHQ) covering the 54 states and US territories. As such, Statutory Tour Air National Guard
  (ANG) personnel are permanently integrated in SAF/IGQ to aid in executing the Total Air
  Force Complaints Resolution Program.

  A2.2.4. Air Reserve Component (ARC) Advisors (SAF/IGR). As provided in 10 USC §§
  10211 and 8021, the Air Force Reserve and ANG Advisors' manpower authorizations include
  specific positions for ARC affairs to advise directors of higher staff levels and take part in
  preparing and managing policies, plans, programs, and regulations affecting the ARC.

  A2.2.5. Senior Official Inquiries Directorate (SAF/IGS). The Senior Official Inquiries
  Directorate supports the SAF/IG in developing policy on and conducting inquiries of
  complaints and allegations made against Senior Air Force officials (active, reserve, ANG,
  civilians, and retired) in the grade of O-7 select and above; Air National Guard Colonels with
  a Certificate of Eligibility; current and former members of the Senior Executive Service
  (SES) or equivalent and Air Force civilian Presidential Appointees; and other matters as
  directed by the SECAF, CSAF, or The Inspector General.

  A2.2.6. Special Investigations Directorate (SAF/IGX). The Special Investigations
  Directorate supports the SAF/IG in developing and overseeing policies, plans, programs, and
  budgets for the Air Force Security and Investigative Activities Programs (S&IA), the
  Counterintelligence (CI) Program, and portions of the Force Protection Antiterrorism
  Program.
