BY ORDER OF THE                                               HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-26
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   22 JUNE 2011



                                            CHIEF OF WARFIGHTING INTEGRATION AND
                                                       CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________

OPR: SAF/A6PP                                          Certified by: SAF/CIO A6
                                                        (Lt Gen William T. Lord)
                                                                       Pages: 21
______________________________________________________________________________

1. Mission. The Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8013-8016, may establish
offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the Secretary in carrying out his or her
responsibilities. As documented by Paragraph 4.1 of AFMD-1, Headquarters Air Force, and this
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive, the Chief Warfighting Integration and Chief
Information Office, (SAF/CIO A6) is established as part of the Secretariat. The SAF/CIO A6
has overall responsibility for networks and network-centric policies and concepts; command and
control (C2); communications; enterprise-wide integration of Air Force information matters;
Information Technology (IT), including National Security Systems (NSS); information resources
management (IRM); spectrum management; network operations; information systems;
information assurance (IA); sensitive information integration; contingency support and migration
planning; and related matters for the Department of the Air Force. Pursuant to 40 USC § chapter
113, subchapter III, the SAF/CIO A6 has responsibilities for integrating information and
information-related activities and services across the Department of the Air Force. The
SAF/CIO A6 also serves as the Department of the Air Force Enterprise-level strategist and
business advisor from the information, IT, and IRM perspective; Information and IT architect for
the Department of the Air Force enterprise; and, Air Force-wide IT and IRM executive. The
Secretary of the Air Force retains ultimate responsibilty for all policies related to the Department
of the Air Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility, the SAF/CIO A6 prepares policies for
approval and issues official guidance/procedures via official Department of the Air Force
publications to ensure implementation of those policies.
2                                                                  HAFMD1-26        22 JUNE 2011

2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and has all
legal authority necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The
Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Air Staff offices perform their Department of
the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control of the Secretary of the Air
Force.

    2.1. The SAF/CIO A6, reports directly to the Secretary of the Air Force, serves as an agent
    of the Secretary within assigned policy and program domains and provides guidance,
    direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of
    plans, policies, programs, and budgets within his/her areas of responsibility. The SAF/CIO
    A6 is accountable to the Secretary for results achieved within the policy and program
    domains assigned by this Directive.
    2.2. The SAF/CIO A6 is a member of the Secretariat and as such works closely with other
    HAF offices to assist the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his/her responsibilities.
    The SAF/CIO A6 and the Office of the SAF/CIO A6 work in cooperation with the Under
    Secretary of the Air Force, the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, the
    Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller, the Deputy
    Chief Management Officer of the Air Force, and their respective offices, as well as other
    HAF organizations, which are responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of 10 USC §§
    8013--8023 and §§ 8031-8038, in assisting the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out
    his/her responsibilities.
        2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air
        Force Mission Directive – Delegations of Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities,
        two or more HAF two-letter/digit organizations with responsibilities in the same
        functional area are encouraged to develop “standard operating procedures (SOPs)” that
        set forth procedures enabling covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their
        respective missions, roles, and responsibilities. No SoPs have been entered into at this
        time.

    2.3. There are no Field Operating Agencies reporting to SAF/CIO A6.

3. Responsibilities. The SAF/CIO A6 is specifically responsible as:
   3.1. Department of the Air Force Chief Information Officer to:
        3.1.1. Serve as the senior CIO policy and resources official below the Secretary of the
        Air Force.
        3.1.2. Advise and assist the Secretary of the Air Force on policy and issues regarding
        all assigned responsibilities and functions as they relate to the Air Force.
        3.1.3. Review and provide recommendations to the Secretary and the Heads of HAF
        offices on:
                 3.1.3.1. The performance of the Department of the Air Force’s IT and NSS
                 programs (to include monitoring and evaluating the performance of IT and NSS
                 programs on the basis of all applicable performance measurements).
HAFMD1-26   22 JUNE 2011                                                                   3



             3.1.3.2. Department of the Air Force budget requests for IT and NSS pursuant
             to DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information
             Enterprise, and other applicable authorities.
             3.1.3.3. The continuation, modification, or termination of an IT and/or NSS
             program or project pursuant to 40 USC § 1425.
             3.1.3.4. The continuation, modification, or termination of an Air Force or CIO
             program pursuant to the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002
             as part of Public Law (Pub. L.) 107-347, Executive Order (E.O.) 13011, and
             other applicable authorities.
             3.1.3.5. The formulation and implementation of enterprise-level defense
             strategies from the information, IT, network-centric, and non-intelligence space
             perspective.
     3.1.4. Establish and maintain a SAF CIO policy office to oversee the implementation of
     laws, publications and policies, and the compliance therewith as they pertain to duties
     delineated in this Mission Directive.
     3.1.5. Serve as the Certifying Authority for all CIO-mandated policies as prescribed by
     law and implementing publications and as the Approving Authority for all CIO-related
     guidance.
     3.1.6. Develop and maintain a Secretary of the Air Force Communications and IT
     Strategic Plan.
     3.1.7. Establish and maintain an Information Management (IM)/IT capital planning and
     investment management process integrated with the Secretary of the Air Force
     Corporate budgeting, financial, strategic sourcing and program management processes.
     3.1.8. Shape and oversee the SAF IM/IT investment process and budgets, and influence
     the OSD investment process to ensure investments are aligned with Department of the
     Air Force strategy and capability delivery in coordination with the operational and
     resource management stakeholders.
     3.1.9. Serve as the overall Department of the Air Force IM/IT Portfolio Manager in
     coordination with the operational and resource management stakeholders.
     3.1.10. Serve as the Department of the Air Force Chief Architect for the Air Force
     enterprise information environment and provide oversight, analysis, and policy
     guidance to ensure compliance with standards for developing, maintaining, and
     implementing sound integrated and interoperable architectures across the Department of
     the Air Force, including intelligence systems and architectures. Ensure that information
     security protections are integrated into architectures pursuant to 44 USC § 3534 and 40
     USC § 11315.
     3.1.11. Coordinate with Joint Staff and OSD on IM/IT matters to ensure consistency
     with Global Information Grid (GIG) strategies, policies, and guidance.
     3.1.12. Perform the duties and fulfill the responsibilities associated with information
     security and other matters under 44 USC § 3541-3549 and 40 USC § 11331.
     3.1.13. Serve as the Air Force-wide information executive and participate as a member
     on Air Force-wide councils and boards involving CIO matters. Develop and maintain
4                                                           HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011

    the Department of the Air Force IA program and associated policies, procedures, and
    standards required by DoD Directive 8500.01E.
    3.1.14. Appoint a Senior Information Assurance Officer as defined in 44 USC § 3544,
    reporting directly to SAF/CIO A6.
    3.1.15. Appoint Air Force Designated Accrediting Authorities on behalf of SECAF.
    3.1.16. Provide oversight for and develop policy and guidance to employ multiple
    capabilities for identity and privilege management across the Department of the Air
    Force.
    3.1.17. Serve as a principal member of the Special Program Oversight Committee.
    3.1.18. Provide leadership to realize net-centric information-sharing capabilities with
    interagency partners within the Next Generation (NextGen) Air Transportation System.
    3.1.19. Appoint an Assistant Director, NextGen Joint Planning and Development
    Office (JPDO), to participate in interagency oversight of NextGen efforts, and to devise
    and promote the establishment of policy, processes, and standards for interagency
    information sharing within NextGen.
    3.1.20. Facilitate the availability of authoritative data to the Air Force network
    enterprise and make Air Force authoritative data available to other mission partners.
    3.1.21. Review and provide recommendations to the Secretary on effective control of
    IT/IRM and NSS systems acquisition, development, and integration.
    3.1.22. Provide advice and other assistance to the Secretary of the Air Force and other
    senior Air Force managers to ensure that IT/IRM, including NSS, is acquired and
    information resources are managed in a manner consistent with DoDD 8000.01, as well
    as the priorities established by the Secretary.
    3.1.23. Provide for the elimination of duplicate IT, including NSS, within and between
    the DoD Components, including the Military Departments and the Defense Agencies,
    pursuant to DoDD 4350.05, Interoperability and Supportability of Information
    Technology (IT) and National Security Systems (NSS).
    3.1.24. Coordinate with other HAF offices to assist the Secretary of the Air Force and
    the Chief of Staff in carrying out his/her responsibilities. Coordinate closely with HAF
    offices of primary responsibility (OPR) for designated functional expertise to include
    planning, programming, policy, guidance, and force development for both the active
    and reserve components; and developing strategy, guidance standards, and concepts of
    operations for capabilities and programming flight plans/roadmaps.
    3.1.25. Cyberspace and Communications & Information (C&I) Functional
    Management:
               3.1.25.1. Provide the policy and guidance necessary to develop the total
    Cyberspace and C&I workforce in coordination with AF/A3/5 and AF/A2.
    3.1.26. Determine and establish knowledge and skill requirements necessary for
    Cyberspace and C&I personnel to accomplish their mission.
    3.1.27. Serve as the Department of the Air Force “Senior Communicator” and
    functional authority, as the total Cyberspace and C&I force manager and developer for
    both military and civilian career fields.
HAFMD1-26     22 JUNE 2011                                                                  5



      3.1.28. Develop, analyze, and advocate Cyberspace and C&I career field structure,
      capabilities packaging, and force organization. Evaluate force structure and the effect
      on in-garrison and deployed operations.
      3.1.29. Provide oversight, policy, and guidance for the training and development of the
      Cyberspace and C&I workforce to ensure they possess skills necessary to deliver
      capabilities and effects that are necessary to perform cyberspace operations and support
      functions.
      3.1.30. Information Management Functions:
              3.1.30.1      Serve as the focal point for Air Force-wide issues
              regardinginformation management, knowledge operations management,
              information access, information formats to include data structures, and postal
              operations.
              3.1.30.2. Establish and provide oversight, and guidance for a Freedom of
              Information Act (FOIA) office.
              3.1.30.3. Establish and provide oversight, and guidance for a Privacy Act
              office.
              3.1.30.4. Establish and provide oversight, and guidance for a Records
              Management office.
              3.1.30.5. Ensure compliance with the Freedom of Information Act, the
              Computer Matching and Privacy Act, Records Management and Federal
              Register requirements.
              3.1.30.6. Approve guidance for the development and staffing of policy and
              guidance across the Department of the Air Force.
              3.1.30.7. Prepare guidance for the administration of Department of the Air
              Force correspondence and written communications.
              3.1.30.8. Establish and provide oversight, and guidance for postal operations
              for the Department of the Air Force.

  3.2. Chief, Warfighting Integration to:
       3.2.1. Serve as the Air Force A6 at the HAF. Provide the Chief of Staff of the Air
       Force (CSAF) independent advice on networks, network-centric policies, and
       enterprise-wide integration of Air Force IM, IT, NSS, IRM, and IA.
       3.2.2. Provide the CSAF with subject matter expertise on communications and
       information matters which may impact Air Force operations and sustainment.
       3.2.3. Represent the Air Force in Joint fora (e.g., Joint SATCOM Panel) related to
       communications, information, and warfighting integration as directed by the CSAF,
       Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff, or DoD issuances. Develop the Air Force position
       on issues related to IM/IT/NSS capabilities in support of the Joint Capabilities
       Integration and Development System.
       3.2.4. Provide oversight, policy and guidance for AFNetOps and information
       management functions. Coordinate with AF/A3/5 in the development and
6                                                           HAFMD1-26        22 JUNE 2011

    implementation of AFNetOps operational reporting, standardization, integration,
    evaluation, training policies, and TTP publication.
    3.2.5. Provide oversight, policy and guidance for long-haul telecommunications
    equipment and services, satellite communications terminals, and military and leased
    SATCOM services to ensure effective implementation, consistent with net-centric
    policy, concepts and plans.
    3.2.6. Provide guidance, policy, and direction in coordination with AF/A2 and AF/A3/5
    to promote and improve interoperability, supportability, and information sharing.
    3.2.7. Develop guidance, strategy, and oversee implementation of Air Force Enterprise
    information management, resources, and technology capabilities.
    3.2.8. Provide oversight, policy and guidance for Air Force enterprise implementation
    of enterprise-level network services delivery, information and data storage, and critical
    applications to meet warfighter capability needs.
    3.2.9. Lead technical integrator for warfighting systems:
            3.2.9.1. Provide communications and information and Warfighting Integration
            (WFI) subject matter expertise to support Air Force strategic and contingency
            planning.
            3.2.9.2. Identify and prioritize Department of the Air Force warfighting
            integration issues in coordination with lead commands, other Air Staff offices
            and joint commands. Develop support planning, programming, and policy
            guidance to optimize the Department of the Air Force’s combat effectiveness,
            subject to fiscal constraints.
             3.2.9.3. Department of the Air Force Net-Centric (NC) Capability Portfolio
            Manager (CPM). Serve as the Air Force representative for NC Joint Capability
            Area portfolio management. Advise the SECAF and CSAF on optimizing
            capability investments across the Air Force enterprise while minimizing risk in
            meeting the Air Force’s capability needs in support of strategy.
            3.2.9.4. Develop and maintain a Department of the Air Force Net-Centric
            Capability (NC2) Strategic Plan. The Air Force NC Capability Strategic Plan
            considers and informs the DoD NC Strategic Plan. The Air Force NC
            Capability Strategic Plan supports warfighting integration by supporting and
            enabling C2, NC2, Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance Intelligence,
            Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR), and space strategic goals across all
            Service Core Functions. Advise and inform Air Force Strategic planning efforts
            on all NC capabilities.
            3.2.9.5. Represent the Air Force NC capability portfolio during Air Force
            Corporate Structure (AFCS) processes. Advise the Air Force AFCS panels,
            Group, Board, and Council on NC capability priorities, strategy and
            investments.
            3.2.9.6. Represent Air Force NC capabilities in the Air Force Requirements
            Oversight Council structure and processes. Advise NC Functional Capability
            Board on Air Force equities in the DoD NC capability portfolio.
HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011                                                                      7



                 3.2.9.7. Advocate for net-centric programs as the Air Force Net-Centric
                 Capability Portfolio Manager in support of the Air Force Corporate Structure,
                 requirements and acquisition processes.
         3.2.10. Establish and maintain an Air Force Aerial Layer Network (ALN) Vision and
         the Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System Roadmap in coordination with ACC and
         AFSPC.
         3.2.11. Provide oversight of Air Force Spectrum Management policy and guidance.
         3.2.12. Provide C2 Networking guidance and oversight including, but not limited to,
         Aerial Layer Networking, Airborne, Terrestrial, and Space in coordination with ACC
         and AFSPC.
         3.2.13. Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for Air Force Modeling and Simulation
         (M&S). Chair the Air Force M&S General Officer Steering Group (GOSG), and
         represent the Air Force in the DoD M&S executive-level committee and policy forums,
         and monitor Joint M&S initiatives in coordination with AF/A3/5.
         3.2.14. Establish, manage, and chair the Warfighter Integration GOSG, and monitor
         Joint WFI initiatives.
         3.2.15. Support the Air Force Requirements Oversight Council and Joint Requirements
         Oversight Council.
         3.2.16. Provide WFI systems enterprise integration, guidance oversight.
         3.2.17. Provide oversight and management of SAF/CIO A6 strategic planning process
         and integration with the Air Force strategic planning process.
         3.2.18. Represent the Air Force on the National Leadership Command Capability
         (NLCC) Executive Management Board (EMB) and the Nuclear Command and Control
         Issues Working Group (NC2IWG).

4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility: Attachment 1 lists delegated
authorities and assigned responsibilities to the SAF/CIO A6.                       The authorities
delegated/responsibilities assigned to the SAF/CIO A6 by this HAF Mission Directive may
generally be re-delegated unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation
or superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance. While the SAF/CIO A6 may re-delegate
authorities to other Department of Air Force officials, he or she will ultimately be responsible to
the Secretary of the Air Force for all matters affecting the technical integration of warfighting
systems; Chief Information Officer functions to include, but not be limited to: information
resource management, information management, information security and assurance,
information access, and information system compliance; communications and information
functional management; and the modernization of core services and infrastructure for the
Department of the Air Force. Any re-delegation of authority/assigned responsibility made shall
not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating authority in accordance with this
HAF Mission Directive may further restrict or condition the authority/assigned responsibility
being re-delegated.
8                                                               HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011

5. Notifications to Congress: No re-delegation of authority/assigned responsibility under this
HAF Mission Directive below the level of Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-digit office shall
include authority to provide notifications or reports to Congress.

6. Revocation of Secretary of the Air Force Order: Secretary of the Air Force Order (SAFO)
560.1, The Chief Information Officer of the Air Force, January 25 2002, is hereby superseded.
Re-delegations of authority/assignment of responsibility made pursuant to that SAFO prior to the
date of issuance of the HAF Mission Directive, however, remain effective insofar as such re-
delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF Mission Directive, or unless
superseded by a new re-delegation.



                                                   Michael B. Donley
                                                   Secretary of the Air Force

Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authorities / Assignment of Responsibility for SAF/CIO A6
2. Organizational Chart / Three-Letter Responsibilities
HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011                                                                  9



                                      ATTACHMENT 1
                DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                 AUTHORITIES/ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY
                                           TO THE
                        CHIEF, WARFIGHTING INTEGRATION
                         AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER


A1.1. Authority relating to E3 control requirements being addressed by Service Operational Test
Authorities and providing a representative to participate on the DoD E3 IPT as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3222.3, DoD
Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program.
A1.2. Authority relating to requesting the establishment and operation of Military Post Offices
(MPO’s); maintaining inspection, advisor, and assistance responsibilities; coordinating air and
surface transportation support; and providing and maintaining military personnel and information
systems support to the Military Postal Service Agency (MPSA) as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4525.7, Military Postal
Service and Related Services.
A1.3. Authority relating to the appointment of Official Mail Managers (OMMs) and
implementation of the DoD Official Mail Program (OMP) as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4525.08, DoD Official Mail
Management.
A1.4. Authority relating to implementation during the systems acquisition process or for
communications waveform modifications and providing subject matter expert support as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 4630.09, Wireless Communications Waveform Development and Management.
A1.5. Authority relating to implementation; and ensuring that compatibility, interoperability,
supportability, and integration of command, control, communications, and intelligence systems
policies are met as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of
Defense Directive (DoDD) 4630.05, Interoperability and Supportability of Information
Technology (IT) and National Security Systems (NSS).
A1.6. Authority relating designating officials to monitor, document, and maintain records of
telecommunications expenditures and designating a Telecommunications Service Control Officer
(TSCO) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 4640.07, Telecommunications Services in the National Capital Region
(NCR).
A1.7. Authority relating to encouraging participation in the Military Auxiliary Radio System
(MARS); ensuring that MARS capabilities established are available and mutually interoperable;
encouraging MARS participation in the Shared Resources High Frequency (HF) Radio Program;
plan and execute specific communications missions for any MARS capabilities; promoting
civilian interest; and providing an annual report to the ASD(NII)/DoD CIO as delegated to the
10                                                                HAFMD1-26        22 JUNE 2011

Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4650.02,
Military Auxiliary Radio System (MARS).
A1.8.    Authority relating to acquisition, funding, system engineering, integration and
configuration management for executive fleet airborne communications as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 4660.3,
Secretary of Defense Communications.
A1.9. Authority relating to the implementation of management processes that provide visibility
and access to Component-level Modeling and Simulation (M&S) programs and activities;
developing, managing, and providing Component representation data, and support; maximizing
the commonality, reuse, interoperability, efficiencies, and effectiveness; and appointing a
representative to the M&S Steering Committee (M&S SC) as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5000.59, DoD Modeling and
Simulation (M&S) Management.
A1.10. Authority relating to developing guidance for verification, validation, and accreditation
(VV&A) of models, simulations, and associated data; documenting the results of VV&A; serving
as the Air Force’s final validation authority; resolving validation issues; and being responsive to
other DoD Components as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5000.61, DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Verification,
Validations, and Accreditations (VV&A).
A1.11. Authority relating to establishing, managing, maintaining, and securing the DoD Records
Management Program at an organizational level; designating a Records Management Program
administrator; applying standards, procedures, and techniques designed to improve the
management of records; and advising employees of their responsibilities as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5015.2, DoD
Records Management Program.
A1.12. Authority delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive (DoDD) O-5100.30, Department of Defense (DoD) Command and Control (C2),
marked as FOUO.
A1.13. Authority relating to Director, Communication and Information, Air Force; referring
military communications-electronics and NSS matters to the MCEB for coordination, or other
applicable action; and providing qualified personnel when requested by the Chair, MCEB, to
serve on subsidiary MCEB panels as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5100.35, Military Communications-Electronics Board
(MCEB).
A1.14. Authority delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) S-5100.92, Defense and National Leadership Command Capability (DNLCC)
Governance(U), marked as Secret.
A1.15. Authority relating to programming, budgeting, obligating funds, providing required staff,
and eliminating duplicating policy and management functions as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5101.11, DoD Executive
Agent for the Military Postal Service (MPS).
A1.16. Authority relating to advising and coordinating with Director, DISA regarding funding
shortfalls, program activities, programmatic documents and technical specifications, standards,
HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011                                                                    11



acquisition plans; and identifying requirements for DISA support for networks,
telecommunications, and IT systems, services, and capabilities as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5105.19, Defense
Information Systems Agency (DISA).
A1.17. Authority relating to coordinating with and advising the ASD(NII)/DoD CIO as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
(DoDD) 5144.1, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration/DoD
Chief Information Officer (ASD(NII)/DoD CIO).
A1.18. Authority delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5200.16, Objectives and
Minimum Standards for Communications Security (COMSEC) Measures Used in Nuclear
Command and Control (NC2) Communications.
A1.19. Authority relating to supporting planning, programming, resourcing, and budgeting for
DIB CS/IA activities and serving as the DoD Executive Agent (EA) for DC3 digital forensic
training and laboratory services pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) S-
5205.13, Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Cyber Security/Information Assurance (CS/IA) Activities
(U),marked as Secret.
A1.20. Authority relating to controlling access to classified cryptographic information, carrying
out and administering a cryptographic access program, carrying out a counterintelligence scope
polygraph examination program as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5205.08, Access to Classified Cryptographic
Information.
A1.21.     Authority relating to complying with provisions of policy, procedures, and
responsibilities concerning specifications for official letterhead stationary used within DoD as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 5330.2, Specifications for DoD Letterheads.
A1.22. Authority relating to obtaining automated printing services through Defense Logistics
Agency (DLA) Document Services as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5330.03, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Document
Services.
A1.23. Authority relating to providing adequate funding and personnel to establish and support
an effective DoD Privacy Program; establishing procedures; conducting training; evaluating
DoD Component legislative proposals, policies, or programs; and appointing a senior official to
serve as the principal point of contact (POC) for DoD Privacy Program matters as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5400.11,
DoD Privacy Program.
A1.24. Authority relating to the establishment of policies and procedures, and minimizing the
collection and use of PII to the extent practicable as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5400.16, DoD Privacy Impact Assessment
(PIA) Guidance.
12                                                                HAFMD1-26        22 JUNE 2011

A1.25. Authority relating to internally administering the FOIA Program, publishing necessary
instructions, serving as, or appointing another Component official as, the FOIA appellate
authority, and establishing a FOIA Requester Service Center as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5400.07, DoD Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) Program.
A1.26. Authority relating to the establishment, implementation, and operation of a DoD Forms
Management Program, and the designation of a Forms Management Officer (FMO) as delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI)
7750.07, DoD Forms Management Program.
A1.27. Authority relating to the appointment of the SAF/CIO A6 as the Air Force's DoD
Component CIO; ensuring that the IT infrastructure will support enterprise, mission, functional,
and Component Strategies; promoting and forge a strong partnership among the Component’s
CIO and Comptroller, DoD Component Acquisition Executive or similar position, as well as
other key senior managers and external mission partners; designating, or authorizing the
designation of, subordinate-level CIOs, as needed, and ensuring the subordinate CIOs have a
reporting mechanism through the Component CIO; ensuring that the Component’s IT investment
portfolio aligns with DoD Information Enterprise policies and guidance,as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8000.01,
Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise.
A1.28. Authority relating to ensuring Unified Capabilities (UC) to DoD and non-DoD
authorized user requirements for interoperability and supportability are provided; implementing
functional requirements, performance objectives, and technical specifications for DoD networks
that support UC; operating DoD Component-owned networks that support UC with the
capability to assign resources on demand, consistent with mission priorities; and providing a
representative to the DoD UC Steering Group and the DoD UC Industry Advisory Council as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 8100.04, DoD Unified Capabilities (UC).
A1.29. Authority relating to submitting specific implementation timelines for compliance of
legacy systems; ensuring new commercial wireless procurement compliance; seeking and
conforming to guidance from the MCEB concerning the licensing, evaluation, and validation of
wireless systems; ensuring that DAAs control wireless access to ISs; use of a Knowledge
Management (KM) process concerning strengths, weaknesses, vulnerabilities, mitigation
techniques, and related security procedures as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8100.02, Use of Commercial Wireless
Devices, Services, and Technologies in the Department of Defense (DoD) Global Information
Grid (GIG).
A1.30. Authority relating to supporting multi-national information sharing network projects and
programs; using the MNIS CENTRIXS network standard; and planning, programming,
budgeting, and executing funding to support the MNIS Program and MNIS CENTRIXS
networks as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 8110.1, Multinational Information Sharing Networks Implementation.
A1.31. Authority relating to establishing a Component portfolio so that IT investments align to
Mission Area, and subportfolio or capability area portfolios as appropriate; issuing guidance for
managing the Component portfolio, providing a governance forum, and designating responsibilities
HAFMD1-26        22 JUNE 2011                                                                           13



for Component portfolio management; identifying common problems in portfolio management
processes and providing solutions that are in the best interest of the Enterprise as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force,pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8115.01,
Information Technology Portfolio Management.
A1.32. Authority relating to developing integrated architectures that are consistent with Mission
Area architectures; providing information on programs, investments, and Component portfolios
to Mission Area Leads and to Subportfolio Authorities as required by them to manage their
Portfolios; and serving as a COI lead as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio
Management Implementation.
A1.33. Authority relating to establishing a smart card technology office, field the requisite
infrastructure needed to use the CAC, implement Smart Card Technology policy, provide
sufficient personnel resources and submit reports on CAC performance, implementation
progress, and quality of maintenance support consistent with the performance measures
established by the DoD CIO as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8190.3, Smart Card Technology.
A1.34. Authority relating to ensuring information-sharing technologies and techniques curricula
for stabilization and reconstruction, disaster relief, and humanitarian and civic assistance are
incorporated into individual and unit training programs and Service schools; endorsing ICT
support requests; and developing and executing an implementation plan as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8220.02,
Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Capabilities for Support of Stabilization
and Reconstruction, Disaster Relief, and Humanitarian and Civic Assistance Operations.
A1.35. Authority relating to providing representatives to committees in support of the Single
Agency Manager (SAM) for Pentagon ITS; providing augmented and/or collocated manpower
and technical expertise to the SAM for Pentagon ITS organization; and operating & maintaining
selected functions and/or services as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8220.1, Single Agency Manager (SAM) for Pentagon
Information Technology Services.
A1.36. Authority relating to documenting electronically the force structure authorization data
(consistent with and as limited by law, policy, or security classification) and implement
procedures to publish hierarchical relationships and FMIDS assignments in the GFMIEDM
format; ensuring that only force structure data authorized is used for any force structure
representation in other automated systems as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8260.03, Organizational and Force
Structure Construct (OFSC) for Global Force Management (GFM).
A1.37. Authority relating to ensuring implementation of Net-Centric data sharing, including
establishing appropriate plans, programs, policies, processes, and procedures and Support
Mission Areas and Domains by taking an active role in COIs as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8320.02, Data Sharing in a
Net-Centric Department of Defense.
14                                                               HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011

A1.38. Authority relating to the use of .MIL as the primary Top Level Domain (TLD), tracking
all Second Level Domains (SLDs), manage and administering assigned subdomains, and
annually verifying administrative and technical contact information as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8410.01, Internet
Domain Name Use and Approval.
A1.39. Authority relating to executing NetOps functions within Air Force operated portions of
the GIG IAW SecDef direction and in support of the COCOMs responsibilities, ensuring
DOTMLPF for operating and defending the GIG that are consistent with DoD policy and
strategic guidance pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8410.02, NetOps for
the Global Information Grid (GIG).
A1.40. Authority relating to preparing and executing incident response plans for WLAN
intruson detection events, promoting joint interoperability through the adoption of commercial,
standards-based, IA-certified WLAN products IAW the requirements of this Instruction as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 8420.01, Commercial Wireless Local-Area Network (WLAN) Devices, Systems, and
Technologies.
A1.41. Authority relating to the development and implementation of an IA program focused on
assurance of Air Force-specific information and systems and defense-in-depth; coordinating with
Joint and Defense-wide program offices; collecting and reporting IA management, financial, and
readiness data; appointment of DAAs; and ensuring that IA awareness, training, education, and
professionalization are provided to all Component personnel as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8500.01E, Information
Assurance (IA).
A1.42. Authority relating to establishing information classification, sensitivity, and need-to-
know for Air Force-specific information; ensuring that security classification guidance is issued
and maintained; and ensuring that IA awareness, training, education, and professionalization are
provided as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation.
A1.43. Authority relating to ensuring Information Systems (ISs) comply with the DIACAP;
operating only accredited ISs; complying with all accreditation decisions, including denial of
authorization to operate (DATO), and enforcing authorization termination dates (ATD);
appointing a DoD Component SIAO; and establishing and enforcing the C&A process as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 8510.01, DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process
(DIACAP).
A1.44. Authority relating to planning, programming, and budgeting to support the evolution of
the DoD PKI program and to PK-Enable applicable Component information systems;
designating offices for coordinating PKI and PK-Enabling activities; developing and
implementing policies and procedures; reporting PKI and PK-Enabling policy compliance;
developing a DoD Component waiver process; and approving or disapproving waiver requests
as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 8520.2, Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Public Key (PK) Enabling.
HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011                                                                     15



A1.45. Authority relating to coordinating Component biometrics strategies, concepts, and
requirements with the DoD Biometrics EXCOM; planning, programming, and budgeting for
DoD Component-required biometric capabilities; ensuring that biometric training, direction, and
implementation guidance is developed and implemented, as required; and coordinating
biometrics strategies, concepts, standards, and requirements with the DoD Biometrics EXCOM
as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
(DoDD) 8521.01E, Department of Defense Biometrics.
A1.46. Authority relating to the implementation of all applicable COMSEC policies, directives,
criteria, standards, and doctrine within Air Force Components; the review and validation of all
Air Force requirements, planning, programming, funding, implementing, managing, and
providing logistics support to the COMSEC aspects of their information systems; management of
Air Force responsibilities of the CMCS and performing the functions of the Service Authority
Establish; and maintenance of an Air Force-wide COMSEC assessment program as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8523.01,
Communications Security (COMSEC).
A1.47. Authority delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) O-8530.2, Support to Computer Network Defense (CND), marked as FOUO.
A1.48. Authority relating to the selection of ports, protocols, and services (PPS) in DoD
information systems according to the PPS Assurance Category Assignment List and configure
them according to the PPS STIGs and SRGs, as appropriate; documenting PPS use: designating
points of contacts and representatives to serve as members of the DoD PPS CCB and its working
or advisory groups as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8551.1, Ports, Protocols, and Services Management (PPSM).
A1.49. Authority relating to configuring workstation and server mobile code-enabled software
to be compliant; ensuring all workstation and server mobile code-enabled software
configurations are monitored; ensuring compliance of all Component development, acquisition,
upgrade, or modification efforts for DoD information systems pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8552.01, Use of Mobile Code Technologies in DoD Information
Systems.
A1.50. Authority relating to establishing, resourcing, and implementing IA training and
certification programs for all personnel as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8570.01, Information Assurance Training,
Certification, and Workforce Management.
A1.51. Authority relating to ensuring that IA is implemented in all system and service
acquisitions in accordance with USD (AT&L) guidance; establishing and implementing internal
management processes; designating a principal point of contact; and establishing and
implementing procedures for the submission and review of Acquisition IA Strategies as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 8580.1, Information Assurance (IA) in the Defense Acquisition System.
A1.52. Authority relating to ensuring space systems compliance; ensuring that solicitations,
contracts, or formal agreements that are executed by DoD Components to acquire space systems
from commercial, other USG, or foreign government-owned entities require compliance;
16                                                                HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011

coordinating with the Director, NSA, in developing appropriate IA-related language for such
solicitations, contracts, or formal agreements; and ensuring the validation of IA requirements for
space systems that do not support joint and combined operations through appropriate
requirement oversight authorities as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8581.01, Information Assurance (IA) Policy for
Space Systems Used by the Department of Defense.
A1.53. Authority relating to ensuring that users justify new information collection requirements
and that data is not duplicated or unnecessarily generated to reduce costs; determine whether
information is releasable; establishing an information requirements control activity as delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI)
8910.01, Information Collection and Reporting.
A1.54. Authority relating to the Air Force Forms Management Officer pursuant to Directive-
Type Memorandum (DTM) 07-015-USD(P&R), DoD Social Security Number (SSN) Reduction
Plan.
A1.55. Authority relating to ensuring DoD Component business system certifications are in
compliance with 10 USC 2222(a) and applicable DoD policy and guidance; designating a
component Pre-Certification Authority (PCA) who is accountable for the Component's business
system investments and compliance to the DoD Enterprise Architecture for defense business
system modernization that will have a total cost in excess of $1M and that has not been certified
and approved; as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Directive-Type
Memorandum (DTM) 08-020, Investment Review Board (IRB) Roles and Responsibilities.
A1.56. Authority relating to ensuring that unclassified DoD information provided to or
developed by non-DoD entities in support of DoD activities is protected and include
requirements by implementing this policy in contracts, grants, and other legal agreements or
understandings as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Directive-Type
Memorandum (DTM) 08-027, Security of Unclassified DoD Information on Non-DoD
Information Systems.
 A1.57. Authority relating to ensuring that all new commercial WMAN procurements
immediately comply with this DTM; ensuring all entities within their organization and/or under
their control that are involved in acquiring (e.g., either developing or procuring) spectrum-
dependent (i.e., WMAN) systems seek and conform to guidance from the Military
Communications Electronics Board (MCEB) concerning the licensing and use of WMAN
systems as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Directive-Type
Memorandum (DTM) 08-039, Commercial Wireless Metropolitan Area Network (WMAN)
Systems and Technologies.
A1.58. Authority delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Directive-Type
Memorandum DTM-09-004, Encryption of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Wireless
Communications (U), marked as FOUO.
A1.59. Authority relating to registering unclassified component and capability architecture AF-
1s in DARS, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Directive-Type
Memorandum (DTM) 09-013, Registration of Architecture Descriptions in the DoD Architecture
Registry System (DARS).
HAFMD1-26        22 JUNE 2011                                                                    17



A1.60. Authority relating to the responsible and effective use of Internet-based capabilities,
including social networking services (SNS), on official DoD networks; prohibiting users from
participating in illegal activities (e.g., pornography, gambling, hate-crime related); ensuring that
user education mechanisms are in place; ensuring that computer network defense mechanisms
provide adequate security for access to Internet-based capabilities from the NIPRNET are in
place, effective, and compliant with DoD Instruction O-8530.2; taking immediate and
commensurate actions, as required, to safeguard missions as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force, pursuant to Directive-Type Memorandum (DTM) 09-026, Responsible and Effective Use
of Internet-based Capabilities.
A1.61. Authority relating to ensuring policies of interoperability and Supportability of
Information Technology and National Security Systems are met as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force, pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4630.8, Procedures for
Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National Security
Systems (NSS).
A1.62. Authority relating to providing spectrum management and providing members to the
Interdepartmental Radio Advisory Committee as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4650.1, Policy and Procedures for
Management and Use of the Electromagnetic Spectrum.
18                                                                HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011



                                      ATTACHMENT 2

 CHIEF OF WARFIGHTING INTEGRATION AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
                           (SAF/CIO A6)




                                                                                           A2.1.
 The Chief Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer, (SAF/CIO A6) is responsible
for networks and network-centric policies and concepts; command and control (C2);
communications; enterprise-wide integration of Air Force information matters; Information
Technology (IT), including National Security Systems (NSS); information resources
management (IRM); spectrum management; network operations; information systems;
information assurance (IA); next generation airspace and Air Force air traffic control activities;
sensitive information integration; contingency support and migration planning; and related
matters for the Department of the Air Force. Pursuant to 40 USC § chapter 113, subchapter III,
the SAF/CIO A6 has responsibilities for integrating information and information-related
activities and services across the Department of the Air Force. The SAF/CIO A6 also serves as
the Department of the Air Force Enterprise-level strategist and business advisor from the
information, IT, and IRM perspective; Information and IT architect for the Department of the Air
Force enterprise; and, Air Force-wide IT and IRM executive. The Secretary of the Air Force
retains ultimate respnsibilty for all policies related to the Department of the Air Force. Within
his/her areas of responsibility, the SAF/CIO A6 prepares policies for approval and issues official
guidance/procedures via official Department of the Air Force publications to ensure
implementation of those policies.


       A2.1.1. Security Information Assurance Officer (SIAO)
       The SIAO is appointed by the Chief Information Officer to carry out his responsibilities
       under DoDI 8510.01. These duties include the following: establish and enforce the Air
HAFMD1-26       22 JUNE 2011                                                                     19



       Force's Information Assurance (IA) program; establish Air Force IA and Certification
       and Accreditation (C&A) policies; function as Certifying Authority (CA) or formally
       delegates CA for all Air Force systems; ensure compliance with DoD IA Certification
       and Accreditation Process (DIACAP); appoint system, function or mission Designated
       Approving Authorities (DAAs) for SECAF; appoint primary and alternate members of
       DIACAP Technical Advisory Group (TAG); and appoint chairs to Air Force C&A
       Process (AFCAP) TAG."


       A2.1.2. Chief Technology Officer (CTO)
       The Chief Technology Officer (CTO) advisees the CIO on IT emerging technology,
       enterprise architecture, enterprise infrastructure, and strategy including identifying short-
       & long-term goals of Department-wide IT initiatives. The CTO provides executive and
       senior level technical leadership, direction & oversight of Department-wide large-scale
       IT issues & initiatives, ensuring the integrity, interoperability, supportability, and cost-
       effectiveness of the Department’s IT & provides advice to, HAF and MAJCOM on IT
       issues, activities & impacts.

A2.2. Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include:
       A2.2.1. Policy and Resources Directorate (SAF/A6P). The SAF/A6P developes and
       guidance for, and oversight of the processes and procedure associated with Information
       Resource Governance across the Air Force. The SAF/A6P manages the Air Force IT
       Portfolio Management process, and the Air Force Enterprise Architecture process. It
       monitors compliance with Air Force and OSD policy and guidance, congressional
       mandates and legal obligations such as IT certification and registration and the Clinger-
       Cohen Act. The SAF/A6P develops and manages the CIO Governance and Policy
       frameworks in support of the SAF/CIO A6 mission. The SAF/A6P leads development
       and reporting of the Air Force IT Budget. The Director serves as the Resource Advisor
       for SAF/CIO A6 and as the Chief Architect for the Air Force. The SAF/A6P also
       provides the Air Force Records Officer, the Air Force Freedom of Information Act
       Officer, the Air Force Privacy Act Officer, and oversees the Air Force Information
       Technology Accessibility Program (Section 508).


       A2.2.2. Network Services Directorate (SAF/A6O). The SAF/A6O is the Air Force
       CIO’s single manager for enterprise information domain infrastructure. It develops policy
       and guidance, resource strategies, and integrated architectures and capabilities to enable
       Air Force forces to generate, project, and sustain a single integrated information domain
       in air, space, and cyberspace. It partners with OSD and the Services, federal, industrial
       base, and international partners to fuse joint and allied policy, requirements,
       architectures, and capabilities into affordable, sustainable, integrated warfighting
       capabilities. The SAF/A6O serves as the cyberspace functional area manager, leading the
       development and delivery of forces in coordination with AF/A2 and A3/5 to meet Service
       and combatant commander requirements through workforce development, strategic
       planning and contingency operations. It interacts through outreach with MAJCOMs,
20                                                              HAFMD1-26        22 JUNE 2011

     COCOMs, the Joint Staff, OSD, and Federal partners to facilitate the availability of
     authoritative data to the Air Force network enterprise and make Air Force authoritative
     data available to other mission partners. This SAF/A6O supports the Air Force Strategic
     Planning Process and ensures SAF/CIO A6 priorities, policies, guidance and activities
     align with the OSD and Air Force Strategic plans. The SAF/A6O provides oversight and
     guidance in collaboration with AF/A3/5 to enable the development of the total
     Cyberspace Operations and Cyberspace Support force from the start of a career to the end
     of a career. It performs the roles and responsibilities of the Cyberspace Operations and
     Cyberspace Support functional area manager for developing and managing all planning
     and execution requirements to support all possible contingencies. It oversees policy and
     guidance for Information Assurance and Information Security for the Air Force portion of
     the Global Information Grid. It represents the SAF/CIO A6 as the Senior Information
     Assurance Official for the Air Force. It provides support to the SAF/CIO A6 in the
     assessment of technology and industry trends to shape the development of policies and
     procedures standards and architectures which guide Air Force IM/IT investments.



     A2.2.3. Warfighter Systems Integration Directorate (SAF/A6W). The SAF/A6W
     developes plans, programs, policy and guidelines for and oversight of the processes and
     procedures to integrate warfighting and combat support capabilities and the
     implementation of enterprise command and control, warfighter networking, and combat
     support data management capabilities for Joint, Coalition, and Air Force warfighters.
     Develops and maintains the SAF/CIO A6 Strategic Plan, the Air Force Net-Centric
     Capability Strategic Plan, and the Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System Roadmap.
     The SAF/A6W provides representation and advocacy for all Air Force Net-Centric
     capability portfolio topics. The SAF/A6W accommodates all approved C2 (C2, NC2,
     etc.), and space strategic goals by integrating them into the Air Force NC Capability
     Strategic Plan. The SAF/A6W provides O-7/8 representation to the Air Force
     Requirements Oversight Council (AFROC) on behalf of SAF/CIO A6. The SAF/A6W
     manages and coordinates SAF/CIO A6 equities in the Air Force requirements process and
     in Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) forums. The
     SAF/A6W is responsible for coordinating and facilitating the integration of warfighting
     requirements with operational capabilities for the Secretariat and Air Staff, across the Air
     Force structure, and within the DoD and Joint communities. The SAF/A6W serves as the
     Air Force representative to the DoD M&S executive-level committee and is the focal
     point for Air Force-wide M&S plans and policy. The SAF/A6W interacts through
     outreach with MAJCOMs, COCOMs, Joint Staff, OSD, and Federal partners to facilitate
     the availability of authoritative data to the Air Force network enterprise and make Air
     Force authoritative data available to other mission partners. This SAF/A6W supports the
     Air Force Strategic Planning Process and ensures SAF/CIO A6 priorities, policies and
     activities align with the Air Force Strategic plan.


     A2.2.4. Air Traffic Services (SAF/A6A). The SAF/A6A provides leadership and
     guidance for the implementation of net-centric capabilities in the Next Generation Air
     Transportation System (NextGen). SAF/A6A develops policy, guidance, standards, and
HAFMD1-26   22 JUNE 2011                                                                  21



    implementation strategies, integrates architectures, and promotes the sharing of
    authoritative data and other information among authorized partner organizations for
    positioning, navigation, and timing (PNT) systems.            The SAF/A6A facilitates
    development of interagency capabilities to enable Air Force, DoD, and NextGen partner
    agencies (DOC, DOT, NASA, and DHS) to operate efficiently in the National Air Space
    (NAS), defend and protect the Air Domain, and facilitate the Defense Support to Civil
    Authorities (DSCA) mission. It interacts with DoD entities and partner agencies to
    discover and bring to bear existing programs and projects that enhance capabilities,
    achieve efficiencies, and bridge gaps in inter-agency operations and decision-making.
    The SAF/A6A supports AF/A3/5 in their role as NextGen Lead Service Office, by
    supporting outreach activities, coordinating DoD resources in net centric activities, and
    performing liaison activities within the Joint Planning and Development Office (JPDO).
    It provides advocacy for Air Force, DoD programs and projects that have relevance to the
    NextGen mission. The SAF/A6A supports A6 mission directorates by sharing
    technology assessments, industry input, and lessons learned from inter-agency
    implementations; and by facilitating exposure to inter-agency expertise and projects.


    A2.2.5. Director of Staff Directorate (SAF/A6S). The SAF/A6S provides focused and
    timely support services to the SAF/CIO A6 Staff to enable the Air Force’s IT workforce
    and integration of critical warfighting systems. The SAF/A6S manages administrative
    functions necessary to support staff operations to include Joint Reader, Unit Deployment
    Manager, staffing, and information management. The SAF/A6S also provides all aspects
    of military and civilian personnel and manpower actions to include in/out-processing,
    assignment fill actions, promotions, and other force management actions. The SAF/A6S
    manages the CIO Support Program Element contracts as well as other contract support
    services for SAF/CIO A6. The SAF/A6S supports the Secretary of the Air Force’s
    continual focus on finding more efficient and cost-effective ways of conducting business
    through transformation efforts and by facilitating results-oriented quality and process
    improvement activities. Oversee facilities management support for offices and building
    space assigned to SAF/CIO A6.
