BY ORDER OF THE                                                   HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-6
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   20 MARCH 2014




                                                      ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO THE
                                                              SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/AAII                                              Certified by: SAF/AA (Mr. Tim Beyland)
Supersedes: HAF MD 1-6, December 22, 2008                                               Pages: 12

SUMMARY OF CHANGES. This revision includes significant changes due to a reorganization.
In addition, it adds the authority to ensure the Air Force processes payments promptly and
expeditiously for all Real Property Services rendered by Washington Headquarters Service
(WHS); authority to ensure that overseas military investigative agencies provide prompt
responses to Defense Investigative Service (DIS) personnel security lead requests; authority to
identify an official to serve as the Transition Assistance Coordinator for the departure or arrival
of Presidentially-Appointed, Senate-confirmed (PAS) and non-career Senior Executive Service
(SES) officials; authority to coordinate courier requirements and priorities; authority to ensure all
assigned personnel, contractors, visitors and guests to the Pentagon Reservation comply with the
governing Administrative Instruction (AI); authority to provide support to DoD or other non-
DoD Federal Departments and Agencies (NDFDA) cover and cover support activities and to
establish or designate a cover support office if necessary; Air Force Central Adjudication Facility
(AFCAF) has been absorbed into the DoD Central Adjudication Facility (DoD CAF).

1. Mission. The Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF), pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8013-8016, may
establish offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the Secretary in carrying out his/her
responsibilities. Pursuant to the authority contained in 10 USC §§ 8014, the Administrative
Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) is established as part of the Secretariat.
SAF/AA has overall responsibility for providing administrative continuity for the Office of the
Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/OS); managing support activities for SAF/OS, Headquarters Air
Force (HAF), and supported Field Operating Agencies (FOA) and elements; departmental
programs involving policy, publishing/publications, security enterprise to include information,
personnel and industrial security and committee management for the Department of the Air
Force. The SecAF retains ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the
Air Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility, the SAF/AA prepares policies for approval and
2                                                                   HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014

issues official guidance/procedures via official AF publications to ensure implementation of
those policies.
2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and has all
legal authority necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The
Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) and the HAF offices perform their
Department of the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control of the
SecAF.
    2.1. The SAF/AA reports to the Secretary of the Air Force, serves as an agent of the
    Secretary within assigned policy and program domains, and provides guidance, direction, and
    oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans,
    policies, programs, and budgets within his/her area of responsibility. The SAF/AA is
    accountable to the Secretary for results achieved within the policy and program domains
    assigned by this Directive.
    2.2. The SAF/AA and the Office of the SAF/AA work in cooperation with other HAF
    organizations, which are responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC
    §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out
    his/her responsibilities.
       2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air
       Force Mission Directive – Delegations of Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities,
       two or more HAF two-digit/letter organizations, FOA, or Direct Reporting Units (DRU)
       with responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged to develop “standard
       operating procedures (SOPs)” that set forth procedures enabling covered organizations to
       fulfill and carry out their respective missions, roles, and responsibilities. There are no
       SOPs between SAF/AA and any other organization.
    2.3. There is no FOA reporting to the SAF/AA.
3. Responsibilities. The SAF/AA is specifically responsible for:
    3.1. Providing advisory services on administrative matters and administrative continuity
    during changes of top officials in the SAF/OS;
    3.2. Departmental policy formulation; Special Access Program (SAP) security oversight for
    international arms control agreements and treaty issues; cover programs;
    3.3. Serving as the Security Program Executive (SPE) with oversight and management
    responsibilities for the Air Force Security Enterprise (AFSE). Integrates with other two-
    letter offices on security plans, policies, programs, resources, information sharing, and risk
    management activities. Chairs the Air Force Security Enterprise Executive Board
    (AFSEEB);
    3.4. Representing the Air Force as the Senior Agency Official;
    3.5. Serving on the Air Force Space Board to address SAP related issues across the space
    portfolio;
    3.6. Departmental guidance for and program management of contingency funds, to include
    Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses and Official Representation Funds; publishing;
HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014                                                                          3

   publications and forms management; implementation of DoD Issuances; and Committee
   Management;
   3.7. Oversight of Information Resource Management for the HAF in the Pentagon
   reservation; media (including graphics, videography and photography) services to HAF; and
   Official Mail service to HAF;
   3.8. Physical space management in the Pentagon, HAF office space on Joint Base Andrews
   Naval Air Facility – Washington, Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, and leased space in the
   Washington DC area; this includes AF Pentagon parking and badging, as well as the Air
   Force Art Program;
   3.9. The Air Force Executive Dining Facility; and representing the Air Force on the DoD
   Concessions Committee for the Pentagon and the Pentagon Governance Council;
   3.10. All budget and program development, and manpower and personnel management for
   the HAF portfolio consisting of all HAF organizations, their assigned FOAs; co-chairs the
   Program Budget Review Board (PBRB) and the Program Budget Review Group (PBRG);
   3.11. Personnel resource management for the Secretariat, Glass Doors Offices, and selected
   field activities. Budgeting and supply services for the Secretary of the Air Force, the Under
   Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, the Vice Chief of Staff of the
   Air Force, and the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force;
   3.12. Approving medical designee status on behalf of the SecAF;
   3.13. Approving claims submitted under the Military Claims Act, the Foreign Claims Act,
   and the National Guard Claims Act against the Air Force over $100,000;
   3.14. Approving Claims by Members for Certain Losses of Household Effects Caused by
   Hostile Action, in an amount not more than $100,000;
   3.15. Operates the HAF Gift Locker. Reviews requests from military members and civilian
   employees/political appointees of the Air Force on the appropriateness to retain gifts for
   themselves or their dependents from domestic personnel and/or foreign governments;
   maintains an inventory of items appropriate for gift giving by Glass Doors offices;
   processes gift requests;
   3.16. Approving the hiring and compensation of Highly Qualified Experts (HQEs);
   3.17. Making personnel appointments and certifying documents as directed by the SecAF;
   3.18. Overseeing and implementing the Air Force Insider Threat Program and,
   3.19. Serving as the Restricted Data (RD) Management Official to direct and administer the
   RD classification program within the Air Force.
4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility: Attachment 1 lists delegated
authorities and assigned responsibilities to the SAF/AA. The authorities
delegated/responsibilities assigned to the SAF/AA by this HAF Mission Directive may generally
be re-delegated unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or
superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance. While the SAF/AA may re-delegate authorities to
other Department of the Air Force officials, he or she will ultimately be responsible to the
Secretary of the Air Force for all matters affecting the provision of administrative continuity for
4                                                                 HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014

SAF/OS; managing support activities for the SAF/OS, the HAF, and supported FOAs and
elements; and departmental programs involving policy formulation, publishing/publications,
security, information, personnel and industrial security, cover, contingency funds, art program,
space allocation, and committee management. Any re-delegation of authority/assigned
responsibilities made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating
authority in accordance with this HAF Mission Directive may further restrict or condition the
authority/assigned responsibility being re-delegated.
5. Notifications to Congress: No re-delegation of authority/assigned responsibility under this
HAF Mission Directive below the level of a Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-letter/digit
office shall include authority to provide notifications or reports to Congress.




                                                     Deborah Lee James
                                                     Secretary of the Air Force


Attachments:

1. Delegations of Authority/Assignments of Responsibility for SAF/AA
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter/Digit Responsibilities
HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014                                                                             5


                                      ATTACHMENT 1

DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITY/ASSIGNMENT
                      OF RESPONSIBILITY

                                             TO THE

    ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

A1.1. Responsibility relating to detail of AF personnel to duty outside the Department of
Defense pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1000.17, Detail of DoD
Personnel to Duty Outside the Department of Defense.

A1.2. Responsibility relating to DoD security training and authority to appoint a representative to
the DoD Security Training Council (DSTC), pursuant to DoDI 3305.13, DoD Security Training.

A1.3. Responsibility relating to the administration and operation of executive dining facilities
located in the Pentagon pursuant to DoDI 5000.24, Pentagon Executive Dining Facilities
(EDFs).

A1.4. Authority and responsibility relating to DoD issuances pursuant to DoDI 5025.01, DoD
Directives Program.

A1.5. Responsibility relating to the process of payments for Real Property Services rendered by
WHS as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5030.60, Reimbursable Work Authorization
Procedures for Washington Headquarters Services (WHS) – Operated Facilities.

A1.6. Responsibility relating to United States security authority for North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) affairs as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive (DoDD) 5100.55, United States Security Authority for North Atlantic Treaty
Organization Affairs (USSAN).

A1.7. Authority relating to reporting DoD intelligence and intelligence-related sensitive
activities, other than CI and HUMINT activities, for the preceding fiscal quarter to the Office of
the Under Secretary of Defense, Intelligence, Sensitive Activities Directorate as delegated to the
SecAF pursuant to DoDI O-5100.94, Oversight, Coordination, Assessment, and Reporting of
DoD Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Sensitive Activities, marked as FOUO.

A1.8. Authority relating to the establishment and management of committees as delegated to the
SecAF, not to be further delegated lower than the Assistant Secretary level or the three-star flag
officer equivalent, pursuant to DoDI 5105.18, DoD Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental
Committee Management Program.

A1.9. Authority relating to the administration of the Federal Advisory Committee Act as
delegated to the SecAF (not to be further delegated lower than the Assistant Secretary level or
the three-star flag officer equivalent and to no one serving in any capacity on the Committees in
6                                                                 HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014

question) pursuant to DoDI 5105.04, Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee
Management Program.

A1.10. Responsibility relating to providing prompt responses to Defense Investigative Service
(DIS) personnel security lead requests from overseas military investigative agencies as delegated
to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5105.42, Defense Security Service (DSS).

A1.11. Authority and responsibility relating to the coordination of efforts with Director of
Administration and Management (DA&M) on matters relating to the authorities, responsibilities,
and functions assigned in the Directive as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5105.53,
Director of Administration and Management.

A1.12. Authority relating to DoD cover and cover support activities as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDD S-5105.61, DoD Cover and Cover Support Activities, classified as Secret.

A1.13. Authority relating to the implementation of DoD cover and cover support activities as
delegated to SecAF pursuant to DoDI S-5105.63, Implementation of DoD Cover and Cover
Support Activities (U), classified as Secret.

A1.14. Responsibility relating to identifying an official to serve as the Transition Assistance
Coordinator for the departure and arrival of PAS and non-career SES officials as delegated to the
SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5105.76, Transition of Administration Appointees and Other Officials.

A1.15. Responsibility relating to WHS as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to the DoDD
5110.04, Washington Headquarters Services.

A1.16. Responsibility relating to the updates, responsibilities, functions, relationships and
authorities of the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (PDUSD)(P)) as
delegated to the SecAF, pursuant to DoDD 5111.03, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of
Defense for Policy (PDUSD(P)).

A1.17. Responsibility relating to the DoD Concessions Committee as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDI 5120.18, DoD Concessions Committee.

A1.18. Responsibility relating to providing the General Counsel with information and
recommendations concerning all phases of the personnel security programs within the Air Force
pursuant to DoDI 5145.03, Oversight of the DoD Personnel Security Programs.

A1.19. Responsibility relating to Department of Defense Information Security Program as
delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5200.01, DoD Information Security Program and
Protection of Sensitive Compartmented Information.

A1.20. Responsibility relating to DoD Personnel Security Program (not including adjudication of
AF security investigations), with the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and
Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) having Personnel Security Appeals Board (PSAB) oversight, as
delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5200.2, DoD Personnel Security Program.
HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014                                                                          7



A1.21. Authority/Responsibility relating to the management, administration, and oversight of the
Air Force Security Enterprise pursuant to DoDD 5200.43, Management of the Defense Security
Enterprise.

A1.22. Authority relating to the management, administration, and oversight of DoD Special
Access Programs (SAPs) as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5205.11, Management,
Administration, and Oversight of DoD Special Access Programs.

A1.23. Responsibility relating to SAP security policy as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to
DoDD 5205.07, Special Access Program (SAP) Policy.

A1.24. Responsibility relating to providing AF SAP-unique IT support, access to AF Access
Database System (AFADS), AF Special Programs (AFSP), Configuration and Security Tracking
System (CASTS), phones and all other SAP specific hardware, databases and systems; funding
SAP specific missions, equipment and capabilities; referring adverse information on persons
under AF SAP cognizance to the DoD CAF following a determination by the appropriate
Program Security Officer, pursuant to Memorandum of Understanding between DA&M and
SAF/AA, 5 December 2012.

A1.25. Authority/Responsibility relating to access to and dissemination of restricted data as
delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5210.02, Access to and Dissemination of Restricted
Data and Formerly Restricted Data.

A1.26. Responsibility relating to assignment of American National Red Cross and United
Service Organizations, Inc., employees to duty with the military services as delegated to the
SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5210.25, Assignment of American National Red Cross and United
Service Organizations, Inc., Employees to Duty with the Military Services.

A1.27. Responsibility relating to unauthorized disclosure of classified information to the public
as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoDD 5210.50, Unauthorized Disclosure of Classified
Information to the Public.

A1.28. Responsibility relating to Department of Defense Presidential Support Program (not to
include adjudication of AF security investigations) as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD
5210.55, Department of Defense Presidential Support Program.

A1.29. Responsibility relating to Security Clearance Program (not to include adjudication of AF
security investigations), for U.S. citizens employed directly by NATO as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDI 5210.60, Security Clearance Program for US Citizens Employed Directly By
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).

A1.30. Responsibility relating to Air Force policy development for DoD unclassified control of
nuclear information as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5210.83, DoD Unclassified
Controlled Nuclear Information (UCNI).
8                                                                 HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014

A1.31. Responsibility relating to personnel investigations of Department of Defense personnel at
U.S. Missions abroad as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5210.84, Security of DoD
Personnel at U.S. Missions Abroad.

A1.32. Authority relating to selection of AF military and civilian personnel and contractor
employees for assignment to presidential support activities, as delegated to the SecAF, not to be
delegated below this level, pursuant to DoDI 5210.87, Selection of DoD Military and Civilian
Personnel and Contractor Employees for Assignment to Presidential Support Activities (PSAs).

A1.33. Responsibility relating to National Industrial Security Program (NISP) as delegated to the
SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5220.22, National Industrial Security Program (NISP).

A1.34. Responsibility relating to Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review
Program as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel
Security Clearance Review Program.

A1.35. Responsibility relating to procedures for the acquisition and effective use of Federally-
owned and leased administrative space in the National Capital Region (NCR) as delegated to the
SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5305.5, Space Management Procedures, National Capital Region.

A1.36. Authority relating to Emergency Extraordinary Expenses as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to Title 10, Section 127, Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses, and Official
Representation Funds guided by DoDI 7250.13, Use of Appropriated Funds for Official
Representation Purposes.

A1.37. Responsibility to ensure all assigned personnel, contractors, visitors, and guests to the
Pentagon Reservation comply with the Administrative Instruction; authorized to identify and
assign a Component Parking Representative and Division Representative to administer the Air
Force Parking Program as delegated to the SecAF, pursuant to Administrative Instruction (AI)
88, Pentagon Reservation Vehicle Parking Program.

A1.38. Responsibility and authority to grant the entry of authorized fire inspectors into Air
Force-controlled or occupied space at reasonable times, and to ensure conditions are promptly
corrected or incorporated into the appropriate WHS facility hazard abatement plan, and to ensure
fire safety representatives are assigned and trained, pursuant to AI 112, Washington
Headquarters Services Fire Regulations (WHSFRs).

A1.39. Authority relating to hiring and compensating HQEs pursuant to DoDI 1400.25, Volume
922, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Employment of Highly Qualified Experts
(HQEs).

A1.40. Specific authority within Enclosure 2 of Paragraph 6b ONLY, of DoDD 4500.56, DoD
Policy on the Use of Government Aircraft and Air Travel (full issuance implemented by
AF/A4/7), relating to the use of government aircraft by DoD officials, specifically, to "review
and approve government air requests from within their respective Departments" which is
delegated to SAF/AA for Secretariat requests, the AF/CV for MAJCOM Commanders (except
HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014                                                                      9

when the primary purpose of the travel is for a Combatant Command), and the Assistant Vice-
Chief of Staff (AF/CVA) for Air Staff, FOA, and DRU requests. SAF/AA may approve these
requests when AF/CV and AF/CVA are not available.

A1.41. Authority to approve, as the AF focal point for all AF hosted or attended conferences,
conferences where the estimated AF-wide costs are below $500,000. Authority to approve
attendance at conferences hosted by non-DoD entities, where the estimated AF-wide costs are at
or below $20,000, pursuant to SecAF Memorandum, Air Force Conference Policy Update,
December 13, 2013.

A1.42. Authority/Responsibility relating to the management, administration, and oversight of
classified information sharing/safeguarding program and the Air Force Insider Threat Program
pursuant to Executive Order 13587, Structural Reforms to Improve the Security of Classified
Networks and the Responsible Sharing and Safeguarding of Classified Information.

A1.43. Specific authority within DoDI 6025.23, Health Care Eligibility Under the Secretarial
Designee (SECDES) Program and Related Special Authorities, to approve medical designee
status as delegated to the SecAF. All other authorities within DoDI 6025.23 fall within AF/SG.
10                                                                             HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014


                                             ATTACHMENT 2


                         THE ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO THE
                                 SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                      (SAF/AA)


                                     Administrative
                                       Assistant                        Deputy
                                       SAF/AA                        Administrative
                                                                       Assistant
                                                                       SAF/AA

              Sensitive Activities
              Sensitive Activities
                 (SAF/AAH)
                 (SAF/AAH)                                 Resources
                                                            SAF/AAR


                 Information
                 Management
                   SAF/AAI                             Security and Special
                                                        Program Oversight
                                                            SAF/AAZ

              Air Force Executive
                 Dining Facility
                   SAF/AAM




                  Operations
                   SAF/AAO




A2.1. The Office of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force provides
administrative continuity for the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force; manages support
activities for the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, the HAF, and supported FOA and
elements; and is responsible for departmental programs involving policy, publishing/publications
and forms, information protection, and committee management.

A2.2. Three letter subordinate offices include:
     A2.2.1. Resources (SAF/AAR). SAF/AAR is a Secretariat function, which manages civilian
     personnel for the SAF/OS, SAF/US, AF/CC, AF/CV, AF/CVA and selected field activities.
HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014                                                                       11

  SAF/AAR also provides support for the many AA-sponsored and AF outside DoD activities
  located in approximately 35 locations world-wide. Responsibilities include liaison with
  Washington Headquarters Service/Office of the Secretary of Defense (WHS/OSD) on senior
  management personnel issues, management of DoD Outside Agency Assignments, and those
  responsibilities associated with chairing the Special Fund Council. Additionally, this
  directorate facilitates requests for personnel actions, in-hire security clearances and drug
  testing, oversight and guidance on manpower and staffing issues to include individuals
  brought into service as Special Government Employees, oversight of the civilian recognition
  programs, manages the resources and requirements for civilian training and education, and
  manages and oversees civilian performance management systems functions including
  emergency appeals that are directed by DoD and Office of Personnel Management (OPM).
  SAF/AAR represents the SAF/AA on Air Force Corporate Structure entities such as the
  Operating Budget Review Committee (OBRC). SAF/AAR manages the HAF resource
  management process and provides input to the Air Force Corporate Structure for all program,
  budget, and financial plans in the HAF portfolio. SAF/AAR is responsible for management
  of day-to-day programming, budgeting, and execution processes for the HAF. SAF/AAR
  maintains overall responsibility for the HAF military and civilian manpower, and civilian
  employment execution management within the HAF portfolio. Acts as the single entry point
  for HAF portfolio manpower issues to AF/A1. Provides resources support to the offices of
  the SecAF, CSAF, and the SAF/AA.
  A2.2.2. Operations (SAF/AAO). SAF/AAO manages all facility and logistical support
  services for the HAF and other Air Force agencies occupying government-owned and leased
  facilities in the NCR. SAF/AAO is the AF liaison with OSD, WHS, Facilities Services
  Directorate and other Services on all facility and logistical issues in the NCR. Support
  includes, but is not limited to, facilities and facility operations, facility modification,
  maintenance, space management, civil engineering, parking allocation, furniture
  procurement, systems furniture design, interior design, corridor displays, supplies and supply
  services, continuity of operations, capabilities, lease/rent management, facility acquisition
  and contracting, and secure/non-secure telecommunications. Other HAF-supported functions
  include locksmith and physical security support, Airman’s Hall scheduling, badge/CAC
  services, preparation of building pass applications and contractor verifications, maintains the
  HAF Gift Locker for presentation and disposition of gifts, and manages the official Air Force
  fundraising campaigns (e.g., Combined Federal Campaign and Air Force Assistance Fund)
  for the NCR. Additionally, SAF/AAO facilitates the world wide Air Force Art program,
  managing the custodial, curatorial and exhibition activities.
  A2.2.3. Security and Special Program Oversight (SAF/AAZ). SAF/AAZ provides a strategic
  policy focus on the Air Force Security Enterprise and on protection of information across the
  Air Force. SAF/AAZ serves as the Secretariat for the AFSEEB. Serves as the Vice Chair for
  the Security Enterprise/Mission Assurance Steering Group with responsibilities for
  convergence, integration, and information sharing of security activities across the AF
  security enterprise. Additionally, SAF/AAZ manages the AF Information Security Program
  (to include nuclear information security); Personnel Security Program; Industrial Security
  Program; acts as the AF focal point for the insider threat program, and serves as the Air
  Force Special Access Program Coordination Office (SAPCO) and the Authorizing Official
  for Air Force SAP systems.
12                                                                    HAFMD1-6 20 March 2014

     A2.2.4. Air Force Executive Dining Facility (SAF/AAM). SAF/AAM’s primary objective is
     to provide suitable accommodations where the SecAF and the CSAF can dine and host
     special functions for foreign dignitaries, official visitors, and other guests as necessary in the
     execution of the responsibilities of their respective offices. Additionally, the Executive
     Dining Facility is responsible for providing a secure and private facility for key staff
     personnel in the HAF, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense, where they may dine with
     guests while conducting official business.
     A2.2.5. Information Management (SAF/AAI). SAF/AAI provides leadership and oversight
     for HAF Information Resource Management, to include Information Management,
     Information Technology, Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, and Records
     Management activities. SAF/AAI serves as Executive Secretary for the HAF Information
     Technology Management Board and chairs the supporting ITMB Working Group. SAF/AAI
     has two named activities: the Air Force Departmental Publishing Office (AFDPO) and the
     Air Force Declassification Office (AFDO). AFDPO provides support to authors and users of
     official Air Force publications and forms (to include technical and customer support for those
     creating or accessing publications or forms). AFDO is responsible for the declassification
     and safeguarding of permanent and historical National Security Information (NSI) Air Force
     documents. It serves as the Air Force focal point for inter-agency coordination within the
     Federal Government of all Air Force declassification issues and acts as the lead agent for
     inter-agency and inter-service declassification working groups. SAF/AAI provides media
     services to include graphics, videography, and photography services to HAF organizations,
     and operates the Official Mail program for HAF organizations on the Pentagon reservation.
     SAF/AAI interfaces with the 844th Communications Group, reporting to the AFDW/CC, to
     ensure various communications and information systems and services for the HAF.
     SAF/AAI develops departmental policy on policy formulation, federal and DoD advisory
     committees, and the Group Federal Officer (GFO) for Air Force committees under the
     Federal Advisory Committee Act; issues departmental guidance for these programs, and
     publications and forms management. SAF/AAI manages the documentation of Secretary of
     the Air Force’s delegated authorities and responsibilities.
     A2.2.7. Sensitive Activities Office (SAF/AAH). SAF/AAH serves as the United States Air
     Force Focal Point and Single Enterprise to address immediate and emerging Combat Air
     Force, Combat Support Agency, and Combatant Commander’s mission needs involving
     sensitive activities, specifically their applications, and operational concepts. This also
     includes those sensitive activities, as defined in DoDI S-5205.63, involving other non DoD
     Federal Departments and Agencies (NDFDA). This Directorate also promulgates SAF/AA’s
     directed manning prioritization guidance for USAF personnel assigned to USAF, DoD, and
     NDFDA sensitive activities via AFPC’s Special Programs Assignment Division.
