BY ORDER OF THE                                                 HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-54
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               9 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF,
                                                    OPERATIONS, PLANS & REQUIREMENTS




                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
______________________________________________________________________________

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at: http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________
OPR: AF/A3/5Z                         Certified by: AF/A3/5 (Lt Gen Herbert J. Carlisle)
                                                                              Pages: 16
______________________________________________________________________________

1. Mission. The Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS) of the Air Force for Operations, Plans, and
Requirements (AF/A3/5), pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8031-8038, and as documented by paragraph
4.3.3 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission
Directive, assists the Secretary of the Air Force, other Secretariat offices, and the Chief of Staff
in carrying out the operations, plans, and requirements of the Department of the Air Force by
establishing and overseeing policy to organize, train, and equip air, space, and cyberspace forces;
developing and integrating operational strategies, plans, and concepts; and determining,
validating, and developing operational capability requirements to execute the National Military
Strategy. The Secretary of the Air Force retains ultimate responsibility for all policies related to
the Department of the Air Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility, the AF/A3/5 prepares
policies for approval and issues official guidance/procedures to ensure implementation of those
policies. The AF/A3/5 also assists the Chief of Staff of the Air Force in his/her role, pursuant to
10 U.S.C. § 151, as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS).
2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) is responsible for,
and has all legal authority necessary to conduct the affairs of the Department of the Air Force.
The Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), and Air Staff offices perform their
Department of the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction, and control of the
SECAF.
   2.1. The AF/A3/5 reports directly to the CSAF, but provides support to the SECAF, the
   Under Secretary of the Air Force, other Secretariat offices, and other Air Staff offices. The
   SECAF may re-delegate authority/assignment of responsibility to the AF/A3/5, but the
   SECAF, through the CSAF and, as appropriate, Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force,
   retains ultimate responsibility for all matters affecting the operations, plans, and requirements
2                                                             HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012


    of the Department of the Air Force, including, but not limited to: establishing and overseeing
    policy to organize, train, and equip air, space, and cyberspace forces; developing and
    integrating operational strategies, plans, and concepts; and determining, validating, and
    developing operational capability requirements to execute the National Military Strategy.
    2.2. The AF/A3/5 is part of the Air Staff and as such works closely with other HAF offices
    to assist the SECAF and the CSAF in carrying out his or her responsibilities. The AF/A3/5
    and the Office of the AF/A3/5 work in cooperation with the Vice Chief of Staff, Assistant
    Secretaries of the Air Force, the Deputy Chiefs of Staff, and their respective offices, which
    are responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8023 and §§
    8031-8038), for assisting the SECAF and the CSAF in carrying out his or her responsibilities.
       2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air
       Force Mission Directive – Delegations of Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities,
       two or more HAF two-letter/digit organizations with responsibilities in the same
       functional area are encouraged to “develop standard operating procedures (SOPs)” that
       set forth procedures enabling covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their
       respective missions, roles, and responsibilities. There are no SOP agreements between
       AF/A3/5 and another HAF 2 ltr/digit organization at this time.
    2.3. Reporting to the AF/A3/5 are the following Field Operating Agencies (FOAs): Air
    Force Operations Group (AFOG), whose mission is documented in AFMD 23; Air Force
    Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA), whose mission is documented in AFMD 27, Air Force
    Agency for Modeling and Simulation (AFAMS), whose mission is documented in AFMD 56,
    and the Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA), whose mission is documented in AFMD 52.
3. Responsibilities.
The AF/A3/5 is specifically responsible for:
    3.1. Providing policy, guidance, and oversight for air, space, and cyberspace operations,
    training, and sourcing of AF capabilities and personnel to support joint operations, and
    representing AF operations to Department of Defense (DoD) and other government agencies.
       3.1.1. Overseeing personnel development and training in support of air, space, and
       cyberspace operations.
       3.1.2. Developing, planning, and implementing policy to support air, space, and
       cyberspace operations, training, and testing activities.
       3.1.3. Overseeing AF training and exercise programs, and support to joint/coalition
       training and exercising.
       3.1.4. Assisting the CSAF in providing and allocating operationally ready air, space, and
       cyberspace forces and capabilities in response to the needs of the combatant
       commanders.
       3.1.5. Overseeing policy, planning, programming, resource allocation, and program
       evaluation to ensure air, space, and cyberspace dominance in peace, crisis, and war.
       3.1.6. Developing doctrine, guidance, requirements, and standards for effective weather
       support to the Air Force, Army, JCS, designated Unified and Specified Combatant
       Commands, National Programs, and other agencies as directed by the CSAF.
HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                              3


     3.1.7. Representing the Air Force, developing and executing policy on matters relating
     to civil aviation.
     3.1.8. Overseeing all DoD Foreign Clearance Program (FCP) responsibilities and
     execution of FCP functions for the SECAF; implementing aircraft clearance policy in a
     manner that meets the needs of the DoD, consistent with law and policy. Execution of
     FCP functions will entail conducting or participating in negotiations related to
     interagency and international agreements as they pertain to the DoD FCP, including the
     development, proposal, staffing, and provision of the DoD and Air Force positions.
     Execution will also include management, staffing, and communication of DoD FCP
     policies, guidance and procedures.
     3.1.9. Directing the AFOG activities in support of the CSAF responsibilities as a
     member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, including (to the extent that such action does not
     impair the independence of the CSAF in the performance of his duties as a member of the
     Joint Chiefs of Staff) informing the SECAF regarding military advice rendered by
     members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on matters affecting the Department of the Air
     Force, and other duties as directed by the SECAF.
     3.1.10. Organizing, manning, and directing the AF Crisis Action Team to support CSAF
     and SECAF decision making and develop coherent AF actions in coordination with the
     joint staff (JS), Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), combatant commands, and AF
     major commands (MAJCOMs).
     3.1.11. Maintaining a direct liaison with Assistant Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence
     and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10) regarding the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise to ensure
     proper responsibility for all matters affecting nuclear operations, policy, plans,
     requirements, strategy, guidance, integration and synchronization of the nuclear
     enterprise and strategic deterrence (global strike, etc.) efforts.
  3.2. Developing operational requirements.
     3.2.1. Lead the AF, together with MAJCOM, FOA, JS, OSD, and combatant commands,
     in developing, validating, approving, and prioritizing operational capability requirements.
     Accomplish capability and modification prioritization and initial planning through all
     acquisition milestones.
     3.2.2. Providing oversight for the development of Air Force capabilities-based
     requirements throughout the life cycle of the program.
     3.2.3. Participating in the development of Joint requirements by representing Air Force
     equities.
     3.2.4. Validating capabilities-based requirements at the service level.
     3.2.5. Overseeing congressional, programming, resource allocation, and program
     evaluation of validated operational requirements.
     3.2.6. Developing and integrating operational strategies, organization, operational
     concepts, capability requirements, and risk assessments, policies and planning (to include
     capabilities-based planning) supporting the employment of air, space, and cyberspace
     forces/capabilities.
  3.3. Preparing operational concepts for employing air, space, and cyberspace power.
4                                                              HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012


       3.3.1. Being the Air Force focal point for Joint Operation Planning and the Joint
       Planning and Execution Community (JPEC), to include the development of the Air
       Force’s campaign support plan in support of combatant commander theater and
       functional campaign plans.
       3.3.2. Formulating Air Force positions on matters under consideration by the JCS and
       National Security Council (NSC), and acting as single point of contact in the HAF for
       JCS and NSC related matters.
       3.3.3. Being the Air Force focal point for international treaties and agreements related to
       arms control and nonproliferation. Managing all aspects of the Air Force arms control
       process, including negotiations support, policy formulation, implementation and
       compliance, education and training, and overall budgeting.
       3.3.4. Developing Air Force guidance and strategy for combating weapons of mass
       destruction (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN).
       3.3.5. Performing Air Force mission need analysis along with capability reviews and
       risk assessment to support the Joint Warfighter.
       3.3.6. Leading Air Force concept development and experimentation, and leading Air
       Force input to Joint Concept Development & Experimentation.
       3.3.7. Assisting Core Function Lead Integrators in developing Air Force Core Function
       Master Plans.
       3.3.8. Leading Air Force Title 10 Service wargames and interservice warfighting talks.
       3.3.9. Developing Air Force guidance regarding utilization of Air Reserve Component
       members under Title 10 § 12301, 12302, and 12304 (mobilization).
       3.3.10. Managing the HAF Operator Engagement Talks program.
       3.3.11. Advising Air Force leadership on global posture initiatives.
    3.4. Enhancing Air Force’s ability to fight through Joint, Interagency, Coalition, and Total
    Force integration and interoperability.
4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility. Attachment 1 lists delegated
authorities and assigned responsibilities to the AF/A3/5. The authorities delegated and
responsibilities assigned to the AF/A3/5 by this HAF Mission Directive may generally be re-
delegated to other Department of the Air Force officials unless re-delegation is expressly
prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance. While
the authorities are delegated/responsibilities assigned to the AF/A3/5, exercise of the authorities
remains subject to the oversight and control of the SECAF, any Assistant Secretary having
oversight, and the CSAF. Any re-delegation of authority/assignment of responsibility made shall
not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating authorities in accordance with
this Directive may further restrict or condition the authority being re-delegated.
5. Revocation of Secretary of the Air Force Order: Secretary of the Air Force Order (SAFO)
306.1, Delegation of National Guard Re-call Authority, June 11, 2003 and 122.1,
Responsibiliites on Matters Concerning the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), October 29,
1997 are hereby superseded. Re-delegations of authority/assignment of responsibility made
pursuant to those SAFOs prior to the date of issuance of this HAF Mission Directive, however,
HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                             5


remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF
Mission Directive, or unless superseded by new re-delegations.




                                                   Michael B. Donley
                                                   Secretary of the Air Force

Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility for AF/A3/5
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter/digit Responsibilities
6                                                             HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012


                                      ATTACHMENT 1

                 DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                AUTHORITIES/ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES
                                           TO THE
                             DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR
                       OPERATIONS, PLANS & REQUIREMENTS


A1.1. Responsibility relating to the activation, mobilization, and demobilization of the reserve
components as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoD Directive (DoDD)
1235.10, Activation, Mobilization, and Demobilization of the Ready Reserve.
A1.2. Responsibility relating to procedures for the activiation, mobilization, and demobilization
of the reserve components as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoD
Instruction (DoDI) 1235.12, Accessing the Reserve Components (RC).
A1.3. Responsibility relating to providing Code of Conduct training as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 1300.21, Code of Conduct (CoC) Training and
Education, DoDI 1300.23, Isolated Personnel Training for DoD Civilian and Contractors, and
DoDD 1300.7, Training and Education To Support the Code of Conduct.
A1.4. Responsibility relating to supporting the urban training facility proposal evaluation and
certification process as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 1322.27,
DoD Urban Training Facilities.
A1.5. Responsibility relating to conduct of operations in the Antarctic Area as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 2000.06, Conduct of Operations in the Antarctic
Treaty Area.
A1.6. Responsibility relating to the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization
(JIEDDO) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 2000.19E, Joint
Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization (JIEDDO).
A1.7. Responsibility delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI C-2005.01,
Freedom of Navigation (FON) Program (U), marked as Confidential.
A1.8. Responsibility relating to designating an implementation and compliance review manager
to report to the Nuclear Treaty Manager and to initiate recommendations for application and
removal of the National Security Exclusion (NSE) as required, and to address associated
managed access or compliance matters; to develop requirements and procedures for managed
access, Air Force equity database management as applicable, and security and
counterintelligence training necessary to protect DoD equities; request assistance, as necessary,
from the Defense Treaty Inspection Readiness Program for security vulnerability assessments or
other matters through the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 2060.03, Application of the National Security Exclusion to the
Agreements Between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency
for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America.
HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                               7


A1.9. Responsibility relating to DoD’s efforts to combat weapons of mass destruction as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 2060.02, Department of Defense
Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Policy.
A1.10. Responsibility relating to arms control agreements as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control
Agreements.
A1.11. Responsibility relating to implementing procedures for the follow-on memorandum of
agreement for Korea as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI S-2110.36,
Implementing Procedures for the Follow-On Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) for Korea (U),
marked as Secret.
A1.12. Responsibility relating to Humanitarian and Civic Assistance (HCA) activities as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 2205.3, Implementing Procedures
for the Humanitarian and Civic Assistance (HCA) Program.
A1.13. Responsibility relating to procedures for repatriating detainees/missing persons under
hostile conditions as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 2310.4,
Repatriation of Prisoners of War (POW), Hostages, Peacetime Government Detainees and Other
Missing or Isolated Personnel.
Responsibility relating to the training, developing and equipping for Non-conventional Assisted
Recovery (NAR) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 2310.6, Non-
Conventional Assisted Recovery in the Department of Defense.
A1.14. Responsibility relating to the Munitions Requirements Process as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3000.04, DoD Munitions Requirements Process
(MRP).
A1.15. Responsibility relating to training and equipping forces for stability operations as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3000.05, Stability Operations.
A1.16. Responsibility relating to consulting with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staffs on
matters pertaining to Combat Support Agencies as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to DoDD 3000.06, Combat Support Agencies.
A1.17. Responsibility relating to conducting irregular warfare (IW) independently of, or in
combination with, traditional warfare and maintaining capabilities and capacity as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 3000.07, Irregular Warfare (IW).
A1.18. Responsibility relating to Balanced Survivability Assessments (BSA) as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI O-3000.08, Balanced Survivability Assessments
(BSAs), marked as FOUO.
A1.19. Responsibility relating to Personnel Recovery, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to DoDD 3002.01E, Personnel Recovery in the Department of Defense.
A1.20. Responsibility relating to DoD Support to Civil Search and Rescue (SAR) activities,
including designation of key experts, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
DoDI 3003.01, DoD Support to Civil Search and Rescue (SAR).
8                                                              HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012


A1.21. Responsibility relating to emergency evacuation and crisis-related operations for the
National Capital Region as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD
3020.26, Department of Defense Continuity Program (DCP).
A1.22. Responsibility relating to identifying, prioritizing, and protecting the Defense Critical
Infrastructure (DCI), establishing, resourcing, and executing an organizational program
supporting the DCIP and monitoring and reporting all relevant DCIP-related data on threats,
hazards, vulnerabilities, and related trends as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to DoDD 3020.40, Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP).
A1.23. Responsibility relating to establishing and providing resources for, and executing a
component program for matters pertaining to the identification, prioritization, assessment,
mitigation, remediation, and management of risk to DCI, along with annual DCIP training and
exercise resource requirements as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI
3020.45, Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP) Management.
A1.24. Responsibility relating to Defense Continuity Plan Development as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3020.42, Defense Continuity Plan Development.
A1.25. Responsibility relating to emergency management on the Pentagon facility as delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI O-3020.43, Emergency Management and
Incident Command on the Pentagon Facility (U), marked as FOUO.
A1.26. Responsibility relating to participation in the National Exercise Program as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3020.47, DoD Participation in the National
Exercise Program (NEP).
A1.27. Responsibility relating to support for military assistance for civil disturbances, delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 3025.12, Military Assistance for Civil
Disturbances (MACDIS).
A1.28. Responsibility relating to support of military emergency preparedness liaison officer
programs delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 3025.16, Military
Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer (EPLO) Program.
A1.29. Responsibility relating to establishing the necessary policies and procedures to ensure the
appropriate personnel are trained to execute Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA) plans
as directed by the Secretary of Defense, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant
to DoDD 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA).
A1.30. Responsibility relating to organizing, training and equipping forces necessary to support
the U.S. Space Command’s Laser Clearinghouse and the alternate Laser Clearinghouse as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant O-DoDI 3100.11, Illumination of Objects in
Space by Lasers (U), marked as FOUO.
A1.31. Responsibility relating to national security space transportation including launch and
orbital operations, as well as support for national test and evaluation operations of launch
vehicles as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3100.12, Space
Support.
A1.32. Responsibility relating to organizing, training, and equiping forces to carry out the space
force application mission area as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI
S-3100.13, Space Force Application (U), marked as Secret.
HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                  9


A1.33. Responsibility relating to providing Space Force Enhancement as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to to S-DoDI 3100.14, Space Force Enhancement (U),
marked as Secret.
A1.34. Responsibility relating to leading the systems integration of the Space Surveillance
Network to support its transition to providing space situational awareness; organizing, training,
and equipping forces for the space control mission area as well as integrating capabilities with
space control applications into all facets of AF strategy, doctrine, education, training, exercises,
and operations of US military forces as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
S-DoDI 3100.15, Space Control(U), and as commented on by DoD Directive-Type
Memorandum (DTM) 09-035, Provision of Space Situational Awareness (SSA) Services to Non-
U.S. Government (USG) Entities (U), marked as Secret.
A1.35. Responsibility relating to the CBRN Survivability Program as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological and
Nuclear (CBRN) Survivability Policy.
A1.36. Responsibility relating to issuing, revising policy & guidance; planning, programing &
budgeting for necessary resources; implementing standards & assessing readiness impacting the
sustainability of ranges and operating areas (OPAREAs); and conducting outreach programs
consistent with guidance provided as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
DoDD 3200.15, Sustainment of Ranges and Operating Areas (OPAREAs).
A1.37. Responsibility relating to planning, programing, and administering range clearance
programs as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3200.16, Operational
Range Clearance.
A1.38. Responsibility relating to electronic warfare, and command and control warfare
countermeasures as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 3222.4,
Electronic Warfare (EW) and Command and Control Warfare (C2W) Countermeasures.
A1.39. Responsibility relating to joint military diving technology and training as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3224.04, Single Manager Responsibility for Joint
Service Military Diving Technology and Training (MDT&T).
A1.40. Responsibility relating to establishing procedures within the Air Force and with other
Agencies regarding the use of DoD launch property and launch services by the private sector, as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 3230.3, DoD Support for
Commercial Space Launch Activities.
A1.41. Responsibility/authority relating to Civil Air Patrol (CAP) activities and programs as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to 10 USC, Sections 9442-9444 and 9446-
9448.
A1.42. Responsibility relating to overt psychological operations conducted by the military
services in peacetime and in contingencies short of declared war as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD S-3321.1, Overt Psychological Operations Conducted by the
Military Services in Peacetime and in Contingencies Short of Declared War (U), marked as
Secret.
A1.43. Responsibility relating to information operations as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force, pursuant to DoDD 3600.1, Information Operations (IO).
10                                                             HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012


A1.44. Responsibility relating to information operation security classification guidance as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI O-3600.2, Information Operation
Security Classification Guidance (U), marked as FOUO.
A1.45. Responsibility relating to information operations career force as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3608.11, Information Operations Career Force.
A1.46. Responsibility relating to joint information operations education as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 3608.12, Joint Information Operations Education.
A1.47. Responsibility relating to serving as the Executive Agent (EA) for the DoD Foreign
Clearance Program (FCP); ensuring all DoD FCP responsibilities and functions are executed
IAW all applicable laws and policies; and maintaining a current comprehensive Foreign
Clearance Guide (FCG) for DoD travelers to overseas areas as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 4500.54E, Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Program
(FCP).
A1.48. Responsibility relating to implementation of the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF)
Commercial Access to Military Installations program, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force, pursuant to DoDI 4500.55, Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF), Carrier Commercial Access
to Military Installations for Non-DoD Operations.
A1.49. Responsibility delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD S-4515.17,
Gate Keeper (U), marked as Secret.
A1.50. Responsibility relating to ensuring compliance with the directive concerning use of
international airspace by U.S. military aircraft and firings over the high seas, as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 4540.01, Use of International Airspace by U.S.
Military Aircraft and for Missile/Projectile Firings.
A1.51. Responsibility relating to the use and management of operational ranges within the U.S.
as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 4715.11, Environmental and
Explosives Safety Management on Operational Ranges Within the United States.
A1.52. Responsibility relating to use and management of operational ranges located outside the
U.S. as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 4715.12, Environmental
and Explosives Safety Management on Operational Ranges Outside the United States.
A1.53. Responsibility relating to operational range assessments as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 4715.14, Operational Range Assessments.
A1.54. Responsibility relating to standardizing military terminology as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 5025.12, Standardization of Military and Associated
Terminology.
A1.55. Responsibility relating to designating the Policy Board of Federal Aviation (PBFA)
Director, establishing the PBFA working group to support the PBFA chair and Executive
Director in carrying out their responsibilities as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to DoDD 5030.19, DoD Responsibilities on Federal Aviation and National Airspace
System Matters and DepSecDef Memorandum, Implementation of the Next Generation Air
Transportation System within the Department of Defense.
HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                              11


A1.56. Responsibility relating to directing the control of Federal Air Navigation Aids
(NAVAIDS (VOR, VORTAC, TACAN, and LORAN)) in Air Force areas as appropriate and
required as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 5030.36, Plan for the
A1.57. Responsibility relating to special mariner warnings as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 5030.57, Special Warnings to Mariners.
A1.58. Responsibility delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to S-DoDD 5100.44,
Defense and National Leadership Command Capability (DNLCC)(U), marked as Secret.
A1.59. Responsibility relating to joint urban operations as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force, pursuant to DoDD 5101.5, DoD Executive Agent for Joint Urban Operations.
A1.60. Responsibility relating to defense representation for the U.S. Mission to the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and Europe as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to DoDD 5105.20, Defense Representation, United States Mission to NATO and
Europe.
A1.61. Authority relating to providing technical and operational support and the
assignment/detail of personnel as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD
5105.62, Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA).
A1.62. Authority relating to coordinating with the Director of Pentagon Force Protection Agency
(PFPA) on matters relating to PFPA operations, functions and responsibilities as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 5105.68, Pentagon Force Protection Agency.
A1.63. Responsibility relating to providing weather support at the Raven Rock Mountain
Complex (RRMC) and, on a rotational basis with other military departments, providing a slate of
nominees for the position of RRMC Commander to the White House Services Director as delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to O-DoDI 5110.11, Raven Rock Mountain Complex
(RRMC), marked as FOUO.
A1.64. Responsibility relating to assisting the Director of Net Assessment as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 5111.11, Director of Net Assessment.
A1.65. Authority relating to coordinating on all matters related to the responsibilities and
functions of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense and America’s Security
Affairs as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 5111.13, Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense and America’s Security Affairs (ASD(HD&ASA)).
A1.66. Authority relating to coordinating on all matters related to the responsibilities and
functions of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 5111.18, Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Global Strategic Affairs (ASD(GSA)).
A1.67. Authority relating to coordinating on all matters related to the responsibilities and
functions of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological
Defense Programs as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 5134.08,
Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense
Programs (ATSD(NCB)).
A1.68. Responsibility relating to joint deployment and redeployment processes and changes as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 5158.05, Joint Deployment
Process Owner.
12                                                               HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012


A1.69. Responsibility relating to organizing, training, equipping, and otherwise preparing forces
to combat WMD, means of delivery, and related materials as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 5160.05E, Roles and Responsibilities Associated with the
Chemical and Biological Defense (CBD) Program (CBDP).
A1.70. Responsibility relating to the DoD operations security program as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 5205.02, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC)
Program.
A1.71. Responsibility relating to providing guidance for support and coordinating and approving
requests for Defense Treaty Inspection Readiness Program support as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 5205.10, DoD Treaty Inspection Readiness Program
(DTIRP).
A1.72. Authority relating to establishing a Defense Sensitive Support Office (DSSO) and
procedures to coordinate Defense Sensitive Service (DSS) requests, and reviewing and
coordinating on all Air Force DSS proposals for supportability, forwarding all DSS requirements
to the Director, DSS Activity Office, restricting DSS information to essential personnel, and
executing or supporting approved DSS requests as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to S-DoDD 5210.36, Provision of DoD Sensitive Support to DoD Components and
Other Departments and Agencies of the US Government (U), marked as Secret.
A1.73. Responsibility relating to registering facilities using, possessing, transferring, or receiving
biological select agents or toxins as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to
DoDD 5210.88, Safeguarding Biological Select Agents and Toxins.
A1.74. Responsibility relating to designating Responsible and Alternate Responsible Officials,
notifying the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological
Defense Programs (ATSD(NCB)) prior to registration of new DoD Biosafety Level Facility
(BLF) and ensuring compliance to include planning and programming fiscal and personnel
resources necessary to implement policy IAW all applicable regulations as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 5210.89, Minimum Security Standards for
Safeguarding Biological Select Agents and Toxins.
A1.75. Responsibility relating to the basic security eligibility requirements for access to Single
Integrated Operational Plan – Extremely Sensitive Information (SIOP-ESI) as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 5220.28, Application of Special Eligibility and
Clearance Requirements in the SIOP-ESI Program for Contractor Employees.
A1.76. Authority relating to low observable and counter low observable programs as delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to S-DoDI 5230.28, Low Observable (LO) & Counter
Low Observable (CLO) Programs (U), marked as Secret.
A1.77. Responsibility relating to disseminating the guidance issued by the Assistant Secretary of
Defense (Force Management and Personnel) (ASD (FM&P)) on DoD cooperation with civil law
enforcement as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 5525.5, DoD
Cooperation with Civilian Law Enforcement Officials.
A1.78. Responsibility relating to standardizing medical regulating and patient movement as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 6000.11, Patient Movement.
HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                             13


A1.79. Responsibility relating to public health emergencies as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force, pursuant to DoDI 6200.03, Public Health Emergency Management Within the
Department of Defense.
A1.80. Responsibility relating to the Readiness Reporting System as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDD 7730.65, Department of Defense Readiness Reporting
System (DRRS).
A1.81. Responsibility relating to serving as the DoD Executive Agent for DoD Computer
Forensics Lab and DoD Computer Investigations Training Program, establishing component-
level Computer Network Defense (CND) services, and complying with operational direction of
Commander in Chief, United States Space Command (USCINCSPACE), pursuant to DoDD
8530.1, Computer Network Defense (CND).
A1.82. Responsibility relating to Communications Security (COMSEC) monitoring and
Information Assurance (IA) readiness testing as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force,
pursuant to DoDI 8560.01, Communications Security (COMSEC) Monitoring and Information
Assurance (IA) Readiness Testing.
A1.83. Responsibility relating to counterinsurgency training and reporting as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DTM 11-002, Counterinsurgency (COIN) Training and
Reporting Guidance for Preparing U.S. Forces to Succeed in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
A1.84. Responsibility relating to developing policy and taking necessary action to resolve
Component-identified and validated urgent operational needs as expeditiously as possible and
reporting status to the Senior Integration Group as requested by co-chairs, pursuant to DTM 11-
006, Establishment of the Senior Integration Group (SIG) for the Resolution of Joint Urgent
Operational Needs (JUONs).
A1.85. Responsibility relating to requesting approval to use excess ballistic missiles to launch
DoD space payloads; certifying that such use is consistent with applicable laws and executive
directives; forwarding certification for approved use to Congress 30 days prior to the planned
conversion, and developing public affairs guidance for all Air Force activities for proposed use
of excess ballistic missiles to launch space payloads, pursuant to DTM 11-008, Use of Excess
Ballistic Missiles for Space Launch.
A1.86. Responsibility relating to preparing DoD Pentagon Reservation building occupants for
emergencies as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to Administrative
Instruction (AI) 111, Component Emergency Response on the Pentagon Reservation.
      14                                                             HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012


           ATTACHMENT 2

                                    DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF
                               OPERATIONS, PLANS & REQUIREMENTS
                                            (AF/A3/5)

                                           Deputy Chief of Staff
                                           Operations, Plans &
                                          Requirements (AF/A3/5)




                       Director of Resource                         Action Group
                            Integration                              (AF/A3/5Z)
                            (AF/A3/5P)




                        Air Reserve Advisor                      Air National Guard
                             (AF/A3/5H)                                Advisor
                                                                     (AF/A3/5G)




Director of Operations      Director of Space and       Director of Operational     Director of Operational
      (AF/A3O)                Cyber Operations                Capability             Planning, Policy and
                                  (AF/A3Z)                  Requirements                   Strategy
                                                               (AF/A5R)                    (AF/A5X)


      A2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) is
      responsible for the overall supervision of all matters pertaining to the Air Force defining and
      advancing U.S. air, space, and cyberspace power from concept to capability, providing
      coherence in operational requirements, policies, plans, programs, and support to Airmen and the
      joint force. AF/A3/5 provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the
      formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets within its area of
      responsibility.

      A2.2. A3/5 Directorates and other subordinate offices include:

           A2.2.1. Director of Operations (AF/A3O). AF/A3O is responsible for matters pertaining to:
           policy and oversight of operational readiness; rated and non-rated aircrew management;
           special operations; personnel recovery; classified programs; ranges; airspace; civil aviation;
           defense support to civil authorities; counter narcotics; homeland defense, Critical
           Infrastructure Protection (CIP); flying training; command and control; development of
HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                            15


  doctrine, policy, requirements, and standards to organize, train, and equip the weather career
  field. Delivers accurate, relevant, and timely environmental information, products and
  services anywhere in the world. Lead for monitoring combat and contingency operations and
  exercises. Shares responsibility with AF/A5R to represent A3/5 efforts within the AF
  Corporate Structure. Directs three FOAs: the Air Force Operations Group (AFOG), the Air
  Force Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA), and the Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA).

  A2.2.2. Director of Space and Cyber Operations (AF/A3Z). AF/A3Z is responsible for
  matters pertaining to space, cyberspace (including network warfare operations) and
  information operations. Advocates for space, cyberspace and information operations (IO)
  policy, doctrine and guidance. Advises SECAF and CSAF on space, cyberspace and IO
  issues.   Develops and assesses space, cyberspace and IO command and control and
  employment concepts. Ensures strategy, policy, doctrine and guidance for space, cyberspace
  and IO are fully integrated into Air Force, Joint, combatant command, coalition and national
  combat and contingency operations, plans and exercises. Assists in the development of
  requirements and standards to organize, train, and equip Air Force space, cyberspace and IO
  forces. Oversees the development and management of the IO Career Force and space
  professionals. Assists in and provides operational requirements that guide the development
  and management of Air Force cyberspace forces.

  A2.2.3. Director of Operational Capability Requirements (AF/A5R). AF/A5R is responsible
  for matters pertaining to the full range of operational capability requirements. Provides
  advocacy for approved/validated operational requirements resulting from capability
  gaps/shortfalls identified by the capabilities-based planning process. Provides expertise on
  the Joint Capabilities Integration & Development System (JCIDS) and serves as the central
  point of contact for Air Force coordination of JCIDS documents. Chairs and directs the Air
  Force Requirements Oversight Council (AFROC). Shares responsibility with AF/A3O to
  represent A3/5 efforts within the AF Corporate Structure. Chairs the Irregular Warfare Task
  Force as chartered by the USAF Vice Chief. Provides Capability Portfolio Managers
  (CPMs) who advise the CSAF and SECAF on optimizing and prioritizing capability
  investments (both materiel and non-materiel) across the service enterprise and reducing risk
  in meeting the Air Force’s capability needs in support of strategy.

  A2.2.4. Director of Operational Planning, Policy, and Strategy (AF/A5X). AF/A5X is
  responsible for matters pertaining to directing operational plans, policy, strategy,
  employment, wargaming, and concept development. Supports senior leaders on joint and
  NSC matters, effects-based capabilities development and mission-need analysis. Leads Air
  Force’s Operational Capabilities Council and Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment.
  Conducts force presentation, regional plans, sister Service warfighter talks, and summits with
  allied leadership and AF Title 10 wargames. Ensures operational assessment of current and
  future cyberspace and information superiority capabilities is integrated in Capability Review
  and Risk Assessments. Supports Core Function Lead Integrator development of the Core
  Function Master Plans. Executes the responsibilities of the DoD EA for the Foreign
  Clearance Program on behalf of SECAF; AF OPR for arms control treaties and international
  agreements, and counterproliferation of WMD; AF OPR for Air & Space Expeditionary
  Force (AEF) policy and procedures; AF focal point for ballistic missile defense (BMD), and
  A3/5 lead for Integrated Air and Missile Defense. Coordinates AF-wide concept
16                                                           HAFMD1-54 9 FEBRUARY 2012


     development and experimentation (CDE) and serves as senior AF representative to US Joint
     Forces Command for coordinating joint CDE. Provides air, space, and cyberspace power
     expertise supporting the CSAF, AF/A3/5 and NAF/Air Component Commanders and Staffs,
     focused on near-term operational planning challenges. Supports the Joint Staff and
     Combatant Commanders in operational planning and analysis by providing optimal
     recommendations for the employment of Air Force capabilities. AF OPR for policy and
     guidance regarding the use of Air Reserve Component members under Title 10 USC,
     including procedures for ordering to active duty and managing the reserve components in
     accordance with DoD policy and law.

     A2.2.5. Director of Resource Integration (AF/A3/5P). Provides recommendations and
     implements A3/5 leadership decisions regarding effective use of personnel, facilities, and
     funds. Supports the professional and administrative needs of A3/5’s military, civilian, and
     contractor personnel. Leads A3/5’s Capability Resource Team (CRT) and Program Budget
     Review Group/Board processes.

     A2.2.6. Air Reserve Advisor (AF/A3/5H). AF/A3/5H is responsible for advising the
     AF/A3/5 on all Air Force Reserve Component matters. Acts as liaison between AF/A3/5
     staff, HAF, other Air Staff AGR represenatatives and the Office of Air Force Reserve
     (AF/RE).

     A2.2.7. Air National Guard Advisor (AF/A3/5G). AF/A3/5G is responsible for advising the
     AF/A3/5 on all Air National Guard matters. Acts as liaison between AF/A3/5 staff, HAF and
     the Director of the Air National Guard.

     A2.2.8.    Action Group (AF/A3/5Z).           AF/A3/5Z is responsible for managing all
     communications and tasks of the AF/A3/5 Directorate, to include preparing and supervising
     preparation of briefings, speeches, and conference research material to aid in articulating
     AF/A3/5’s positions on air, space, and cyberspace issues. Liaises with SECAF and CSAF
     action groups on issues affecting AF/A3/5 staff; advises AF/A3/5 on issues and actions
     affecting current and future air, space, and cyberspace operations. A3/5Z also manages the
     A3/5 Air Force Smart Operations 21 (AF/A3/5 AFSO21) office, which is responsible for
     guiding and implementing continuous process improvements within the AF/A3/5 staff.
