BY ORDER OF THE                                               HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-48
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                               17 November 2011




                                                     THE AIR FORCE SURGEON GENERAL




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/SGE                               Certified by: AF/SG (Lt Gen Charles B. Green)
Supersedes: HAF MD 1-48, January 22, 2008                                    Pages: 24
______________________________________________________________________________

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect new and cancelled Department of Defense Issuances with
delegated authority to the Air Force Surgeon General’s Office. The major changes includes the
addition of a Standard Operating Procedures for the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
(Manpower and Reserve Affairs) and the Air Force Surgeon General; an updated Standard
Operations Procedures (SOP) for the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations,
Environment, & Logistics) and the Air Force Surgeon General; and includes the Air Force
Surgeon General organizational changes.

1. Mission. The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG), pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8031-8038, and
as documented by paragraph 4.3 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this Headquarters Air
Force (HAF) Mission Directive, assists the Secretary of the Air Force, other Secretariat offices,
and the Chief of Staff in carrying out the development of policies, plans, and programs,
establishing requirements, and providing resources to the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS).
The Secretary of the Air Force retains ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the
Department of the Air Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility, the AF/SG prepares policies
for my approval and issues official guidance/procedures to ensure implementation of those
policies. The AF/SG also assists the Chief of Staff of the Air Force in his/her role, pursuant to
10 U.S.C. § 151, as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS).
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                2


2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and has all
legal authority necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The
Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Air Staff offices perform their Department of
the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control of the Secretary of the Air
Force.

   2.1. The AF/SG reports directly to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, but provides support
   to the Secretary of the Air Force, the Under Secretary of the Air Force, other Secretariat
   offices, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and other Air Staff offices. The Secretary of the
   Air Force may re-delegate authority/responsibility to the AF/SG, but the Secretary of the Air
   Force, through the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and, as appropriate, Assistant Secretaries of
   the Air Force, retains ultimate responsibility for all matters affecting the development of
   policies, plans, and programs, establishing requirements, and providing resources to the
   AFMS.

   2.2. The AF/SG is part of the Air Staff and as such works closely with other HAF offices to
   assist the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff in carrying out their
   responsibilities. The AF/SG and the Office of the AF/SG work in cooperation with the
   Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, & Logistics (SAF/IE),
   the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR), the
   other HAF two-letter/digit officials, and their respective offices, which are responsible,
   pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for
   assisting the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff in carrying out his or her
   responsibilities.

       2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air
       Force Mission Directives – Delegations of Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities,
       two or more HAF two-letter organizations, Field Operating Agencies, or Direct
       Reporting Units with responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged to
       develop “standard operating procedures (SoPs)” that set forth procedures enabling
       covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective missions, roles, and
       responsibilities. Therefore, SoPs between AF/SG and SAF/IE, and between AF/SG and
       SAF/MR are included at Attachment 3 and 4 of this HAF Mission Directive.

   2.3. Reporting to the AF/SG are two Field Operating Agencies: the Air Force Medical
   Operations Agency (AFMOA), and the Air Force Medical Support Agency (AFMSA),
   whose missions are documented in AFMD-35 and AFMD-36, respectively.

3. Responsibilities. The AF/SG is specifically responsible for:

   3.1. Guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review,
   and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets related to carrying out the mission of
   the AFMS;

   3.2. Recommendations as the medical staff advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force and the
   Chief of Staff;
3                                                    HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011



    3.3. Coordination with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs [ASD(HA)] on
    Air Force health and medical matters;

    3.4. Health matters of Air Force personnel as the Air Staff office of primary responsibility;
    and,

    3.5. Guidance to MAJCOM Surgeons.

4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility. Attachment 1 lists my delegated
authorities and assigned responsibilities to the AF/SG. The authorities delegated to the AF/SG
by this HAF Mission Directive may generally be re-delegated to other Department of the Air
Force officials unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or
superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance. While the authorities are delegated and
responsibilities are assigned to the AF/SG, the exercise of the authorities/responsibilities remains
subject to the oversight and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, any Assistant Secretary of
the Air Force having oversight, and the Chief of Staff. Any re-delegations of
authority/assignments of responsibility made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any
person re-delegating authorities in accordance with this Directive may further restrict or
condition the authority being re-delegated.

5. Continuation of Prior Re-Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility. Re-
delegations of authority/assignment of responsibility made prior to the date of issuance of this
HAF Mission Directive remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with
the terms of this HAF Mission Directive, unless superseded by new issuances.



                                                   Michael B. Donley
                                                   Secretary of the Air Force

Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility for AF/SG
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Digit Responsibilities
3. SOPs for AF/SG and SAF/IE
4. SOPs for AF/SG and SAF/MR
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               4


                                       ATTACHMENT 1

                 DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                  AUTHORITY/ASSIGNMENTS OF RESPONSIBILITY
                                  TO THE
                        AIR FORCE SURGEON GENERAL


A1.1. Authority relating to the implementation of policy for eliminating the fraudulent use of
Identification Cards as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction 1000.24, Confiscation of Fraudulent Identification (ID) Cards at Military
Treatment Facilities.

A1.2. Authority relating to drug abuse urinalysis programs for military personnel as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1010.1, Military
Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program.

A1.3. Authority relating to enforcement of policies and implementation of programs established
by the DoD Coordinator for Drug Enforcement Policy and/or the Assistant Secretary of Defense
(Health Affairs) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Directive 1010.4, Drug and Alcohol Abuse by DoD Personnel.

A1.4. Authority relating to the DoD Civilian Employee Drug Abuse Testing Program as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1010.9,
DoD Civilian Employee Drug Abuse Testing Program.

A1.5. Authority relating to health promotion and disease and injury prevention as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 1010.10, Health
Promotion and Disease/Injury Prevention.

A1.6. Authority relating to ensuring testing programs meet requirements of Military Personnel
Drug Abuse Testing Program and that all personnel involved in the testing process receive
proper training as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 1010.16, Technical Procedures for the Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing
Program.

A1.7. Authority relating to authorizing special needs family members travel overseas at
government expense as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction 1315.19, Authorizing Special Needs Family Members Travel Overseas at
Government Expense.

A1.8. Authority relating to developing and sustaining comprehensive systems medical readiness
training as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 1322.24, Medical Readiness Training.

A1.9. Authority relating to providing medically-related services for eligible children with
disabilities and monitoring the provision of medically-related services to handicapped children in
DoD dependent schools as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
5                                                   HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011


Defense Instruction 1342.12, Provision of Early Intervention and Special Education Services to
Eligible DoD Dependents.

A1.10. Authority relating to medical program support for detainee operations as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 2310.08E, Medical
Program Support for Detainee Operations.

A1.11. Authority relating to using animals within Department of Defense laboratories as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
3216.01, Use of Laboratory Animals in DoD Programs.

A1.12. Authority relating to the rights and welfare of human subjects involved in Department of
Defense-supported or conducted research as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant
to Department of Defense Directive 3216.02, Protection of Human Subjects and Adherence to
Ethical Standards in DoD-Supported Research.

A1.13. Authority relating to forwarding the Air Force approved combat feeding research and
engineering requirements and engineering support to the Department of Defense Executive
Agent, appointing a representative to the Combat Feeding Research and Engineering Board and
the Department of Defense Nutrition Committee, and assigning a Joint Technical Staff Officer to
Army Combat Feeding Research and Engineering Agencies or installations as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 3235.02E, DoD Combat
Feeding Research and Engineering Program, DoD Combat Feeding Research and Engineering
Board, and DoD Nutrition Committee.

A1.14. Authority relating to providing the force structure to operate Class VIII support for Air
Force units as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 5101.9, DoD Executive Agent for Medical Material.

A1.15. Authority relating to assigning military personnel to the Armed Forces Radiobiology
Research Institute as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction 5105.33, Armed Forces Radiobiology Research Institute (AFRRI).

A1.16. Authority relating to coordinating with the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health
Affairs) on all matters relating to the mission and programs of the Uniformed Services
University of the Health Sciences as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 5105.45, Uniformed Services University of the Health
Sciences (USUHS).

A1.17. Authority relating to coordinating with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health
Affairs as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 5136.01, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs.

A1.18. Authority relating to the TRICARE Management Activity as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5136.12, TRICARE Management
Activity (TMA).
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               6


A1.19. Authority relating to the Executive Agency responsibilities as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5154.24, Armed Forces Institute of
Pathology (AFIP), and Department of Defense Instruction 5154.30, Armed Forces Institute of
Pathology Operations.

A1.20. Authority relating to the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
5154.25, DoD Medical Examination Review Board.

A1.21. Authority relating to programming, budgeting, and financing all pay, allowances and
permanent change of station costs for assigned uniformed service members as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5154.06, Armed Services
Medical Regulating.

A1.22. Authority relating to Anti-Fraud Program at Military Treatment Facilities (MTFs) as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
5505.12, Anti-Fraud Program at Military Treatment Facilities (MTFs).

A1.23. Authority relating to establishing Clinical Investigation Programs and ensuring
compliance as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 6000.08, Funding and Administration of Clinical Investigation Programs.

A1.24. Authority relating to providing the Armed Services Blood Program Office with accurate
requirements data for forecasting and sourcing the types and quantities of blood products to be
procured for the Military Services use for homeland defense; and during peacetime, wartime, and
contingencies as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 6000.12, Health Services Support.

A1.25. Authority relating to ensuring compliance as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6000.14, Patient Bill of Rights and
Responsibilities in Military Health System (MHS).

A1.26. Authority relating to administering the Military Health System policy as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6000.15, Joint Medical
Executive Skills Development Program.

A1.27. Authority relating to developing Military Stability Operations (MSO) capabilities by
organizing, equipping, and training medical personnel to effectively execute MSOs and
developing measure of effectiveness that evaluate progress as delegated to the Secretary of the
Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6000.16, Military Health Support for
Stability Operations.

A1.28. Authority relating to operating military treatment facilities of the Department of Defense
and making eligibility determinations as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive 6010.04, Healthcare for Uniformed Services Members and
Beneficiaries.
7                                                    HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011


A1.29. Authority relating to coordinating with the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health
Affairs and the Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness) the number of spaces in
each Medical Officer Candidate class to be allocated to the Air Force as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6010.07, Admission
Policies for the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS).

A1.30. Authority relating to selection of applicants to the F. Edward Hebert School of Medicine
programs and the Graduate School of Nursing as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6010.20, Admission Procedures for the
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS).

A1.31 Authority relating to ensuring that military treatment facility commanders develop and
execute marketing programs for their respective facilities as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6010.21, TRICARE Marketing Policy.

A1.32. Authority relating to the National Disaster Medical System as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6010.22, National Disaster
Medical System (NDMS).

A1.33. Authority relating to Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs Health
Care Resource Sharing Program as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 6010.23, Department of Defense and Department of Veterans
Affairs Health Care Resource Sharing Program.

A1.34. Authority relating to compliance as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant
to Department of Defense Instruction 6015.17, Planning and Acquisition of Military Health
Facilities.

A1.35. Authority relating to implementing policy, assigning responsibilities, and prescribing
procedures on provisions of care in the delivery of health care at military treatment facilities and
complying with international reciprocal healthcare agreements as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6015.23, Delivery of Healthcare at
Military Treatment Facilities: Foreign Service Care; Third-Party Collection; Beneficiary
Counseling and Assistance Coordinators, (BCACs).

A1.36. Authority relating to assigning responsibilities and prescribing procedures to close a
Graduate Medical Education program when a determination is made that such a program is no
longer needed as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 6015.24, Sizing of Graduate Medical Education (GME) and Program Closure
Procedures.

A1.37. Authority relating to the management of the personal service contracts program and
establishing a methodology, including audit procedures, to ensure that all personal service
contracts entered into are cost effective and/or neutral, when compared to other means of
delivering needed healthcare as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 6025.5, Personal Services Contracts (PSCs) for Health Care
Providers (HCPs).
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              8


A1.38. Authority relating to the issuing of documents to implement policies, responsibilities,
and procedures within the Department of Defense on the ambulatory procedure visit as delegated
to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6025.8,
Ambulatory Procedure Visit (APV).

A1.39. Authority relating to implementing procedures, including, but not limited to, standard-of-
care determinations by the Surgeon General and the reporting of those determinations as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
6025.13, Medical Quality Assurance (MQA) and Clinical Quality Management in the Military
Health System (MHS).

A1.40. Authority relating to ensuring compliance with subject Instruction and with the
Department of Defense Health Information Privacy Regulation as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6025.18, Privacy of Individually
Identifiable Health Information in DoD Health Care Programs.

A1.41. Authority relating to reporting Individual Medical Readiness metrics according to
requirements established by the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6025.19, Individual
Medical Readiness (IMR).

A1.42. Authority relating to establishing a comprehensive medical management program;
implementing a system for ongoing evaluation within military treatment facilities; appointing an
medical management chief/director to establish/oversee activities promoting targeted coordinated
medical management plans to improve access, cost, quality and readiness; following established
Direct Care System Review and Appeal Process for denial of care determinations; incorporating
beneficiary complaints regarding benefit determinations within the military treatment facility’s
grievance process; ensuring medical management plans identify and select at least one clinical
process each year for improvement via clinical practice guidelines; developing medical
management measures and monitoring outcomes that support goal attainment outlined in the
local business plans; and promoting coordinated medical management practice within the
medical treatment facility and between the military treatment facility and Managed Care Support
Contractors in accordance with regional policy to ensure uniform and integrated procedures and
programs as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 6025.20, Medical Management (MM) Programs in the Direct Care System (DCS)
and Remote Areas.

A1.43. Authority relating to forwarding approved blast injury medical R&E requirements to the
Department of Defense Executive Agent for consideration and integration; appointing a medical
general or flag officer representatives to the ASBREM Committee and appoint representatives to
any other coordination, oversight, or assessment board established by DDR&E or the
Department of Defense Executive Agent; and providing an appropriate system for identification,
verification, prioritization, and headquarters/staff-level approval of blast injury R&E
requirements before submission to the Department of Defense Executive Agency as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6025.21E, Medical
Research for Prevention, Mitigation, and Treatment of Blast Injuries.
9                                                   HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011


A1.44. Authority relating to ensuring compliance as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6040.40, Military Health System Data Quality
Management Control Procedures.

A1.45. Authority relating to ensuring compliance; establishing policies and procedures for the
control and retention of medical records; effectively meeting coding accuracy standards in
military and civilian performance reports; establishing and maintaining a medical records control
process; ensuring an outpatient and inpatient coding plan is available at each medical treatment
facility; incorporating external auditors as part of their compliance plan; providing in-house
auditors, trainers and coders and ensure they have appropriate resources; providing certified
coders with substantial experience to serve as advisors and mentors to coding instructors and
auditors as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 6040.41, Medical Records Retention and Coding at Military Treatment Facilities.

A1.46. Authority relating to ensuring compliance as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6040.42, Medical Encounter and Coding at
Military Treatment Facilities.

A1.47. Authority relating to ensuring compliance with, oversight and execution of the
procedures related to custody and control of outpatient medical records as delegated to the
Secretary of Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6040.43, Custody and
Control of Outpatient Medical Records.

A1.48. Authority relating to establishing a service treatment record and/or non-service treatment
record information management program and updating Service regulations as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6040.45, Service
Treatment Record (STR) and Non-Service Treatment Record (NSTR) Life Cycle Management.

A1.49. Authority relating to establishing procedures for payment of the monthly normal cost
contributions; providing current personnel end strength data, and conducting all fund transfers,
accounting, reconciliation and other administration relating to the operation of the Fund as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
6070.01, Department of Defense Medicare Eligible Retiree Health Care Fund.

A1.50. Authority relating to calculating the required normal cost contribution as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6070.2, Department of
Defense Medicare Eligible Retiree Health Care Fund Operations.

A1.51. Authority relating to implementing policies, processes, and programs to provide
adequate and appropriate nutrition to Service members in a cost-effective manner and providing
military-specific education and training to Service members on the benefits of adequate and
appropriate nutrition and the use of and potential harm from dietary supplements, and providing
appropriate representation to the Department of Defense Nutrition Committee, its
subcommittees, and any other subordinate organization as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6130.05, DoD Nutrition Committee.

A1.52. Authority relating to applying and uniformly implementing the medical standards;
authorizing the waiver of the standards in individual cases ensuring uniform waiver
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               10


determinations; authorizing changes in Service-specific visual standards and establish other
standards for special programs; notifying Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) of any
proposed changes in standards; ensuring accurate ICD codes are assigned to all medical
conditions resulting in personnel action; eliminating inconsistencies and inequities based on race,
sex, or examination location of these standards by the Air Force as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6130.03, Medical Standards for
Appointment, Enlistment, or Induction in the Military Services.

A1.53. Authority relating to ensuring compliance and implementing instructions issued by the
Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) and requirements established by the Lead
Component as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Instruction 6200.02, Application of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Rules to Department
of Defense Force Health Protection Programs.

A1.54. Authority relating to ensuring compliance, implementing instructions and reporting
metrics in accordance with requirements established by the Assistant Secretary of Defense
(Health Affairs); programming resources and developing doctrine, organization, training,
material, leadership, education, personnel and facilities; implementing effective quality
assurance and quality control systems; promoting healthy lifestyles, optimizing safety and health
of working conditions, facilitating access to healthcare and conducting periodic health
assessments; monitoring the physical, mental, and/or emotional health of personnel; providing
appropriate medical support, training, equipment and supplies; informing personnel of health
threats and countermeasures; and documenting and reporting workplace injuries, illnesses and
incidents, and occupational and environmental hazards and exposures as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6200.04, Force Health
Protection (FHP).

A1.55. Authority relating to implementing effective force health protection/quality assurance
systems to ensure compliance as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 6200.05, Force Health Protection (FHP) Quality Assurance
(QA) Program.

A1.56. Authority relating to developing and implementing general principles and specific
procedures to be followed in the prophylactic immunization programs of the Armed Forces;
using Air Force designated automated immunization tracking programs; implementing
Department of Defense policies to identify, report, and evaluate vaccine-associated adverse
events; providing an immunization healthcare capability to deliver medical specialty
consultation, case management, and clinical investigation; and identifying requirements and
resources necessary to execute assigned responsibilities and functions to be included as part of
the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution process as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6205.02E, Policy and Program for
Immunizations to Protect the Health of Service Members and Beneficiaries.

A1.57. Authority relating to implementing, monitoring, evaluating and documenting the
Department of Defense Immunization Program for Biological Warfare Defense and establishing
procedures for coordinating and reporting to the Executive Agent and transmitting instructions to
Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
11                                                   HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011


pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6205.3, DoD Immunization Program for Biological
Warfare Defense.

A1.58. Authority relating to implementing, monitoring, evaluating, and documenting biological
weapons vaccine programs and establishing procedures for coordinating and reporting
identification, and epidemiological evaluation of vaccine-associated adverse events and
establishing and implementing the administration of immunization, provision of information and
communication material, documentation requirements and immunization tracking as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6205.4,
Immunization of Other Than U.S. Forces (OTUSF) for Biological Warfare Defense.

A1.59. Authority relating to establishing broad policies on the development and implementation
of Family Advocacy programs; designating a family advocacy program manager; establishing
standardized criteria for the selection and certification of healthcare and social service personnel;
providing education and training to key personnel to alleviate problems associated with child and
spouse abuse; and ensuring military families living in the civilian community and on military
installations are included in the family advocacy program as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6400.1, Family Advocacy Program (FAP).

A1.60. Authority relating to ensuring compliance, establishing procedures, designating
nominees for the family advocacy command assistance team and encouraging timely and
comprehensive reporting, assigning responsibilities, and using the Department of Defense
Family Advocacy Command Assistance Team to assist in addressing extra familial child sexual
abuse allegations as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction 6400.3, Family Advocacy Command Assistance Team.

A1.61. Authority relating to establishing procedures; ensuring adequate funding and staffing
resourcing, developing strategies; issuing policies and procedures to increase awareness and
prevent child abuse and domestic abuse and promoting resilient families and health parenting
skills; and reporting metrics and achieving program outcomes as measured by the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel & Readiness) performance measures as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6400.05, New Parent
Support Program (NPSP).

A1.62. Authority relating to establishing policies and programs and evaluation at all levels of
military command; programming, budgeting and allocating funds and other resources; providing
annual education and training; establishing regulations implementing a restricted reporting policy
for victims for domestic abuse as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 6400.06, Domestic Abuse Involving DoD Military and
Certain Affiliated Personnel.

A1.63. Authority relating to providing the food inspection program at Air Force bases and
developing locally approved lists of food suppliers from which food products are procured only
for individual Air Force installations as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive 6400.4, DoD Veterinary Services Program.
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                12


A1.64. Authority relating to planning and programming for medical intelligence resources in
consonance with fiscal policy and guidance established by the Secretary of Defense and the
Under Secretary of Defense and providing military personnel consistent with National Center for
Medical Intelligence mission requirements as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6420.01, National Center for Medical
Intelligence (NCMI).

A1.65. Authority relating to participation in collaborative DoD medical materiel acquisition, life
cycle management, and standardization programs and the adoption of standardized medical items and
logistics management processes to support Service requirements to promote uniformity, efficiency,
and joint interoperability as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction 6430.02, Defense Medical Materiel Program.

A1.66. Authority relating to enacting Department of Defense Clinical Laboratory Improvement
program policy and Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments comparable to regulations
within the Air Force active and reserve components to include oversight, inspection, proficiency
testing, personnel standards, and training in clinical laboratories as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6440.2, Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Program.

A1.67. Authority relating to establishing uniform laboratory procedures for the detection of
Hemoglobin S and Erythrocyte Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase deficiency; developing
uniform procedures for counseling, programming resources, and conducting annual reviews of
the testing program as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction 6465.1, Hemoglobin S and Erythrocyte Glucose-6-Phosphate
Dehydrogenase Deficiency Testing Program.

A1.68. Authority relating to ensuring compliance with the Joint Commission on Accreditation
of Health Organizations guidelines on the procurement and donation of organs and other tissues,
as published in the Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for Hospitals; establishing organ/tissue
donation procedures as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of
Defense Directive 6465.3, Organ and Tissue Donation.

A1.69. Authority relating to establishing and maintaining a blood program that provides blood
and blood products to the maximum extent possible, to component military treatment facilities in
peacetime and wartime; serve as the Department of Defense Executive Agent for the Armed
Services Whole Blood Processing Laboratories and the blood transshipment centers and/or
transportable blood transshipment centers as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant
to Department of Defense Instruction 6480.4, Armed Services Blood Program (ASBP)
Operational Procedures.

A1.70. Authority relating to establishing Air Force policies, procedures and standards for
identification, surveillance, education and administration of personnel infected with Human
Immunodeficiency Virus-1; supporting the recommendations of the Department of Defense-wide
Sexually Transmitted Disease Prevention Committee; reporting Human Immunodeficiency
Virus-1 test results to the Defense Medical Surveillance System; ensuring personnel providing
medical care follow the Centers for Disease Control recommendations for preventing Human
13                                                  HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011


Immunodeficiency Virus-1 transmission in health care settings as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6485.01, Human Immunodeficiency
Virus-1.

A1.71. Authority relating to participating in global Human Immunodeficiency Virus
(HIV)/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) prevention support to foreign militaries
as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
6485.02E, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
(AIDS) Prevention: Support to Foreign Militaries.

A1.72. Authority relating to applying and uniformly implementing the standards by ensuring all
deploying personnel have a medical assessment to evaluate their medical status before
contingency deployments ensuring a high state of pre-deployment health and medical readiness
as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
6490.07, Deployment-Limiting Medical Conditions for Service Members and DoD Civilian
Employees.

A1.73. Authority relating to ensuring Air Force compliance and establishing procedures for
reporting to the Inspector General, Department of Defense, any assessments that a mental health
evaluation was used in violation of this directive as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6490.1, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of
the Armed Forces.

A1.74. Authority relating to implementing programs and procedures to ensure compliance;
evaluate and recommend changes or improvements to the overall health surveillance program;
assembling and archiving garrison occupational and environmental health surveillance data and
reports and supporting the Department of Defense Executive Agent by jointly resourcing the
AFHSC as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense
Directive 6490.02E, Comprehensive Health Surveillance.

A1.75. Authority relating to coordinating with other Military Departments and ensuring
compliance with implementation and application of joint medical surveillance for deployments
and evaluating and recommending changes or improvements to the overall medical surveillance
program; training, equipping, and providing staffing support to conduct OEH site assessments;
program and budgeting for necessary resources; and supporting OEH and medical surveillance
activities and follow-up medical care as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 6490.03, Deployment Health.

A1.76. Authority relating to implementing requirements for mental health evaluations of Armed
Forces members which provides for the rights and protection of service members as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6490.4,
Requirements for Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Armed Forces.

A1.77. Authority relating to ensuring compliance and developing a comprehensive Combat
Stress Control Program consistent with the Joint Service Combat Stress Control Program for Air
Force specific operations from garrison to battlefield as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                            14


Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 6490.5, Combat Stress Control (CSC)
Programs.

A1.78. Authority relating to assisting the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Force Health
Protection and Readiness) and the Joint Staff Surgeon to institutionalize a transparent,
comprehensive process for developing common, analytically rigorous methodologies used to
develop current and future joint operational medical force requirements as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 8260.04, Military
Health System (MHS) Support to DoD Strategic Analysis.

A1.79. Authority relating to establishing Air Force clinical case management policies and
processes and providing the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) the implementation
plans and timeliness for completion as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Directive-Type Memorandum 08-033, Interim Guidance for Clinical Case Management for the
Wounded, Ill, and Injured Service Member in the Military Health System.

A1.80. Authority relating to promulgating Air Force policies and providing guidance for the
management of concussion and mild traumatic brain injuries in the deployed setting to include
programming and budgeting resources and developing reporting guidelines for potential
concussive events as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Directive Type
Memorandum 09-033, Policy Guidance for Management of Concussion/Mild Traumatic Brain
Injury in the Deployed Setting.

A1.81. Authority relating to Department of Defense laboratories, programs, and activities with
analytic or response capabilities as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Instruction 6440.03, DoD Laboratory Network (DLN).

A1.82. Authority relating to ensuring compliance with DoD policy to foster a culture of support
in the provision of mental health care and voluntarily sought substance abuse education to
military personnel in order to dispel the stigma of seeking mental health care and/or substance
misuse education services, by implementing the guidance for healthcare provider notifications to
command and the protection of private information as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force
pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 6490.08, Command Notification Requirements to
Dispel Stigma in Providing Mental Health Care to Service Members.
15                                                           HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011


                                           ATTACHMENT 2

                              AIR FORCE SURGEON GENERAL



                                                       AF/SG
                                                  Surgeon General




                                                               AF/SG CAG
                                        AF/SGE
                                                            Commander's Action
                                   Executive Services
                                                                 Group



                                        AF/SG CCC
                                                                   AF/SGJ
                                 Chief, Medical Enlisted
                                                                Legal Advisor
                                          Force



                                        AF/SGL
                                 Congressional & Public
                                        Affairs


                                                                                AF/SG8
                           AF/SG1
                                                      AF/SG3               Strategic Medical
                         Medical Force
                                               Healthcare Operations       Plans, Programs &
                         Development
                                                                                Budget




A2.1. The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) serves as advisor to the Secretary of the Air
Force, Chief of Staff, and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs [ASD(HA)] on
Air Force health and medical matters. The AF/SG is responsible for the overall supervision of all
matters pertaining to Air Force formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs,
and budgets relative to carrying out the mission of the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) to
provide seamless health service support to United States Air Force and combatant commanders.
The AFMS assists in sustaining the performance, health and fitness of every Airman. It
promotes and advocates for optimizing human performance (sustainment and enhancement) for
warfighters, including the optimal integration of human capabilities with systems. The AFMS
operates and manages a worldwide healthcare system capable of responding to a full spectrum of
anticipated health requirements and provides an integrated healthcare system from forward
deployed locations through definitive care with an emphasis on continuity of care and the
prevention of illness and injury. It arranges for healthcare capabilities that it does not possess
organically. It directly supports United States Air Force operations and theater aeromedical
evacuation of joint and combined forces.

A2.2. Three-digit subordinate offices include:

       A2.2.1. Executive Services (AF/SGE). Manages and directs executive and
       administrative support functions for the AF/SG Office.
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              16


             A2.2.1.1. Commander’s Action Group (AF/SG CAG). Develops and
             implements AFMS-wide Strategic Communication Plan. Researches, creates, and
             integrates new concepts, ideas, and strategic messages. Builds strategic message
             in presentations and speeches. Advises the Air Force Surgeon General and
             Deputy Surgeon General on strategy formulation, critical issues, and
             organizational development issues. Mentors staff officers on tactics, techniques,
             and procedures on how to operate and succeed in fast paced complex
             environment. Aligns directors and staff to respond to requests for information
             from other Services and Interagency taskings. Supports medical operations center
             activities.

             A2.2.1.2. Chief, Medical Enlisted Force (AF/SG CCC). Principal enlisted
             advisor, and member of the AFMS Corporate Structure, to the Air Force Surgeon
             General for policy supporting Air Force expeditionary capabilities, national
             security strategy, business practices and enlisted force development. Serves as
             the AFMS Enlisted Corps director, providing guidance on all issues regarding the
             welfare, readiness, morale, and proper utilization and progression for the 32,000+
             Total Force medical enlisted community. Serves as the focal point for inquiries
             on medical policy and procedures to the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force.
             Defines, shapes, coordinates and executes health care policy in support of 43,000
             personnel, and 75 medical treatment facilities while leading a network of 225
             Chief Master Sergeants.

      A2.2.2. Congressional and Public Affairs (AF/SGL). Serves as spokesperson and
      communicator for AFMS policies, programs, personnel, beneficiaries, successes, and
      requirements; integrating Congressional liaison and public affairs functions for
      comprehensive public outreach.

      A2.2.3. Legal Advisor for SG (AF/SGJ). Provides legal counsel and support to the Air
      Force Surgeon General on matters of policy, operations, medical ethics, patient safety,
      and standards of practice. Coordinates activities of legal support at all facilities managed
      by the Surgeon General, and acts as liaison to Air Force Judge Advocate, Secretary of the
      Air Force General Counsel and the Department of Defense General Counsel.

A2.3. Directorates:

      A2.3.1. Directorate for Healthcare Operations (AF/SG3). Develops and executes Air
      Force Surgeon General policies and programs while providing consultative leadership for
      the AFMS related to dental, medical, and aerospace clinical capabilities, standards, and
      methodologies; integration of air reserve components, medical support and all aspects of
      medical readiness to include: Doctrine, Homeland Medical Plans, International Health
      Specialists, Expeditionary Plans and Operations, and Operational Support and Training.

             A2.3.1.1. Develops policy and drives AFMS peak clinical performance. Ensures
             system meets the highest clinical standards and is relevant to AFMS customers.
             Utilizes new and smarter care delivery methods and innovative use of technology
17                                              HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011


            and information. Reduces some of the complexities of health care and delivers
            full life-cycle care to the patient for the first time.

            A2.3.1.2. Develops dental policy and oversees dental operational activities. Acts
            as Chairman of the Dental Operations Panel, and executes dental policy. Provides
            advice to the AFMS corporate structure and MAJCOMs on dental personnel
            resources (over 4,000 military/civilian personnel) using the Team Dentistry model
            and all technology initiatives.

            A2.3.1.3. Develops policy to optimize the health, safety, and performance for the
            Air Force, including physical standards, force health protection, environmental
            safety, bioenvironmental engineering, public health, and occupational, operational
            and flight medicine programs. Leads several North Atlantic Treaty Organization
            (NATO) activities and oversees outreach programs worldwide. Serves as a
            critical interface between the Line of the Air Force and the AFMS.

            A2.3.1.4. Develops policy and leads the execution of comprehensive, integrated
            support and ancillary programs for the AFMS. Delivers essential
            pharmaceuticals, laboratory, dietetics, and administrative support of 75 MTFs
            worldwide for both peacetime and contingency operations. Provides consultation
            and essential support for VA-DoD health care programs across the AFMS.
            Ensures a quality and cost-effective healthcare continuum for 2.6 million
            beneficiaries worldwide.

            A2.3.1.5. Provides oversight, strategic direction, and policy and operational
            support for Air Force ground and air expeditionary medical capabilities used in
            agile combat support, homeland security, and humanitarian aid/disaster response
            operations. Directs and coordinates deliberate planning activities to include
            guidance for Medical Unit Type Code (UTC) and medical Chemical, Biological,
            Radiological, Nuclear (CBRN) program development, implementation and
            management for current and future requirements. Develops guidance, planning
            and programming requirements and tracking for War Reserve Materiel (WRM)
            and manpower submissions into the Program Objective Memoranda (POM)
            process. Provides medical readiness training and exercise oversight for
            expeditionary operational requirements.

     A2.3.2. Directorate for Strategic Medical Plans, Programs, and Budget (AF/SG8).
     Evaluates and analyses the AFMS Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) and Long-
     Range Plans/doctrine to support national security objectives and military strategy
     integrating, analyzing and defending the Defense Health Program (DHP) and medical
     elements of Air Force funding during the POM, Program Budget Decision and Program
     Decision Memorandum. Managed through four distinct divisions: Health Facilities,
     Programming, Plans, and Financial Management.

            A.2.3.2.1. Develops strategic policy, plans, programs, budgets, and executes
            assigned resources for the conduct of comprehensive medical operations for the
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                           18


            AFMS and within the Military Health System with its Sister Services and
            ASD(HA).

            A2.3.2.2. Evaluates a $5.1 billion annual portfolio to program resources into
            operational capabilities in terms of financial, manpower, and facility
            requirements.

            A2.3.2.3. Works closely with AF/A8 and Air Force Corporate Structure to ensure
            the AFMS is well integrated in all aspects of Air Force planned and programmed
            capabilities. In addition, AF/SG8 manages the AFMS Corporate Structure
            working closely with all other AF/SG Directorates (three-letters) in integrating
            and formulating a consistent policy and FYDP for AFMS global care capabilities
            for the AF/SG.

            A2.3.2.4. Serves as the principal contact for all joint basing and base realignment
            and closure activities working closely with MAJCOMs, the HAF, other
            Services, Joint Staff, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense.

     A2.3.4. Directorate of Medical Force Development (AF/SG1). Formulates and
     evaluates policies and programs related to the recruitment, retention, development, and
     utilization of the AFMS work force. Addresses full spectrum of medical force
     management, force sustainment, senior leader management, and education and training
     related activities.

            A2.3.4.1. Responsible for Total Force planning, particularly as it applies to
            personnel initiatives affecting recruiting, retention, education, and training.
            Ensures appropriate numbers of medical personnel are trained and developed to
            fulfill AFMS requirements, worldwide.

            A2.3.4.2. Responsible for formulating policy relating to the recruitment,
            retention, education, training, development and integration of civilian medical
            personnel.
19                                                  HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011


                                      ATTACHMENT 3

                       STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
                                    FOR THE
                     ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                  (INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT, & LOGISTICS)
                                    AND THE
                          AIR FORCE SURGEON GENERAL

These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to Assistant Secretary
of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, & Logistics (SAF/IE) and the Air Force Surgeon
General (AF/SG) who are responsible for developing policy, managing programs, and preparing
guidance on approved policies and plans for the field in the general area of occupational health.
These procedures are intended to facilitate routine staff actions and functions and reduce
duplication of effort between SAF/IE and AF/SG staff roles while increasing operating
effectiveness and efficiency.

A3.1. SAF/IE retains authority and responsibility for occupational health programs delegated
through public law, executive order and Department of Defense Directive and Instruction. These
include programs outlined in:

A3.1.1. DoD Directive 4715.01E, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH).

A3.1.2. DoD Instruction 6050.05, DoD Hazard Communication Program.

A3.1.3. DoD Instruction 6055.5, Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health.

A3.1.4. DoD Instruction 6055.08, Occupational Ionizing Radiation Protection Program.

A3.1.5. DoD Instruction 6055.11, Protecting Personnel From Electromagnetic Fields.

A3.1.6. DoD Instruction 6055.12, DoD Hearing Conservation Program.

A3.1.7. DoD Instruction 6055.15, DoD Laser Protection Program.

A3.2. Subject to the standard operating procedures that follow, a general description of the flow
of work between SAF/IE and AF/SG for the specific programs described in A3.1 is:

A3.2.1. AF/SG submits policies requiring Secretary of the Air Force approval to SAF/IE for
coordination and concurrence prior to publication.

A3.2.2. AF/SG executes approved policies and guidance, AF instructions, and strategic plans,
providing additional guidance to the field as necessary.
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                 20


A3.2.3. SAF/IEE (Deputy Assistant Secretary, Energy, Environment, Safety and Occupational
Health) coordinates policies that impact execution of the Air Force Occupational Health Program
with AF/SG prior to publication.

A3.3. Conditions for AF/SG to Exercise Delegated Secretarial Authorities. AF/SG is
authorized to act on the SECAF or IE’s behalf for programs outlined in A3.1 when such action:

A3.3.1. Provides data, analyses, information papers, etc., to OSD or congressional staff in
support of established policies, programs, or other initiatives that have been vetted through the
Air Force corporate structure, or other appropriate decision process; e.g. senior leader forum or
fully coordinated staff package.

A3.3.2. Implements an order or revised policy direction from the Secretary of the Air Force.

A3.3.3. Satisfies routine reporting requirements and requests for status reports on Air Force
programs/initiatives from OSD and Congress.

A3.4. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Action. SAF/IE review and concurrence are required
prior to implementing any policy, plan, and program when one or more of the following
situations or conditions apply for programs outlined in A3.1:

A3.4.1. Involves a controversial issue that will cause, or is likely to cause, significant reactions
among senior Administration officials, Members of Congress or key staff, the public, or the
press.

A3.4.2. Involves the breach of a performance parameter established in policy directives and/or
Air Force instructions.

A3.4.3. Informs SAF/IE of annual DHP occupational health programs and budget requirements
and any impacts to OH program execution.

A3.5. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Approval of AF/SG Actions. SAF/IE approval is
required prior to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity for programs
outlined in A3.1 when one or more of the following situations or conditions apply:

A3.5.1. Involves a Statute, Executive Order, or DoD policy that requires Secretary of the Air
Force review, coordination, and/or implementation. DoD policy requires SD Forms 106 be
signed by SAF/IE (a Senate confirmed position).

A3.5.2. Involves new policies or initiatives proposed by OSD officials, congressional staff, or
Air Force that would result in significant changes to Air Force programs that are the corollary to
DoD programs in A3.1.

A3.6. Conditions Requiring AF/SG Review of SAF/IEE Actions. AF/SG review is required
prior to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity for programs outlined in
A3.1, which may cause a resource impact as a result of execution.
21                                               HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011



A3.7. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may be
reviewed and revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Air Force. SAF/IE or AF/SG
may also initiate a revision in consultation with AF/SG or SAF/IE, respectively. OPRs must
follow revision procedures as mandated in HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission
Directives – Delegations of Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities.



//SIGNED, tay, 19 Sep 10//                       //SIGNED, cbg, 20 Sep 10//
TERRY A. YONKERS                                 CHARLES B. GREEN
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force             Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
(Installations, Environment & Logistics)         Surgeon General
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              22


                                       ATTACHMENT 4

                       STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
                                   FOR THE
                    ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                   (MANPOWER AND RESERVE AFFAIRS) (SAF/MR)
                                   AND THE
                      AIR FORCE SURGEON GENERAL (AF/SG)


These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to SAF/MR and
AF/SG who are responsible for developing policy, managing programs, and preparing guidance
on approved policies and plans. These procedures are intended to facilitate routine staff actions
and functions between SAF/MR and AF/SG while increasing operating effectiveness and
efficiency.

A4.1. Subject to the SOPs that follow, a general description of the flow of work between
SAF/MR and AF/SG is:

A4.1.1. AF/SG submits policies requiring Secretary of the Air Force approval to SAF/MR for
coordination and concurrence;

A4.1.2. AF/SG develops AF instructions and submits them to SAF/MR for coordination and
concurrence prior to AF/SG publication;

A4.1.3. AF/SG develops strategic plans and submits them to SAF/MR for coordination and
concurrence prior to SG implementation; and,

A4.1.4. AF/SG executes approved policies and guidance, AF instructions, and strategic plans,
providing additional guidance to the field as necessary.

Additionally, AF/SG and SAF/MR will jointly establish performance measurements so that
AF/SG will notify SAF/MR when required. This will be when conditions and measurement
parameters signal an issue or initiative requires the involvement of SAF/MR to fulfill inherent
policy oversight responsibility.

A4.2. AF/SG Support of the Chief of Staff in his Role as a Member of the Joint Chiefs:
AF/SG will act independently of SAF/MR when AF/SG is providing support to the Air Force
Chief of Staff or Vice Chief of Staff in their roles as members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
including the Joint Requirements Oversight Council. To the extent not inconsistent with the
direction of the Chief of Staff or the Vice Chief of Staff, AF/SG will keep SAF/MR informed of
significant matters in these areas.

A4.3. SAF/MR Responsibility to the Secretary of the Air Force: SAF/MR retains Secretarial
oversight responsibility for all aspects of the Air Force Active Duty, Reserve and Auxiliary
23                                                    HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011


Component Affairs concerning health program benefits and entitlements, and medical readiness
to include authorities delegated directly to AF/SG in HAF Mission Directive 1-48.

A4.4. Conditions for AF/SG to Exercise Delegated Secretarial Authorities. AF/SG is
authorized to act on the Secretary of the Air Force or SAF/MR’s behalf when such action:

A4.4.1. Implements and supports the POM, Budget Estimate Submission (BES), or President’s
Budget;

A4.4.2. Implements an order or revised policy direction from the Secretary of the Air Force;

A4.4.3. Provides a clear, unambiguous, quantitative link to and/or aligns program resources with
goals and objectives;

A4.4.4. Excluding formal reports, provides data, analyses, information papers, etc., to the Office
of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) or congressional staff in support of established policies,
programs, or other initiatives that have been vetted through the Air Force Corporate Structure or
other appropriate decision process: e.g., senior leader form or fully coordinated staff package.
SAF/GC will provide SAF/MR a copy of all material submitted to OSD or congressional staffs.

A4.5. Conditions Requiring SAF/MR Involvement. SAF/MR review and concurrence is
required prior to implementing any policy, plan, and program when one or more of the following
situations or conditions apply:

A4.5.1 Involves a disagreement among the components of the Air Force Total Force on a policy
over which SAF/MR has authority;

A4.5.2. Drives unprogrammed or budgeted resource demands ($50M or more across the FYDP)
to the federal government, or that requires Air Force Corporate Structure consideration and/or an
annual reprogramming action;

A4.5.3. Involves a controversial issue that will cause, or is likely to cause, significant reactions
among senior Administration officials, Members of Congress or key staff, the public, or the
press.

A4.5.5. Drives broad cultural changes crossing many Air Force functions that will take
concerted coordinated action over several years to achieve;

A.4.5.6. Involves an assessment of a program, falling with the portfolio of SAF/MR, that
suggests a significant problem or failure in the program, or an out of tolerance condition in a
performance measurements established in policy directives and/or Air Force instructions
requiring Secretary of the Air Force, OSD or Congressional attention.

A4.6. Conditions Requiring SAF/MR Approval of AF/SG Actions. SAF/MR approval is
required prior to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity when one or more
of the following situations or conditions apply:
HAFMD1-48 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               24



A4.6.1. Is an official report being submitted to OSD or Congress;

A4.6.2. Involves a change or perceived erosion of Air Force support for a key Secretary of the
Air Force or Administration agenda item about which the Principal speaks; likewise for a senior
Member of Congress or a member of a congressional committee with significant focus on
national defense-related issues (such as Armed Services, Appropriations, Ways and Means, or
Veterans Affairs);

A4.6.3. Involves process changes affecting the oversight roles or abilities of the Air Force
Secretariat, Office of the Secretary of Defense, other (non-Air Force) Administration officials, or
the Congress;

A4.6.4. Involves a Statute, Executive Order, or DoD policy that requires Secretary of the Air
Force review, coordination, and/or implementation. DoD policy requires all SD Forms 106 must
be signed by SAF/MR (a Senate confirmed position);

A4.6.5. Involves new policies or initiatives proposed by OSD officials, congressional staff, or
Air Force that would result in significant changes to Air Force personnel management practices
or programs and their outcomes.

A4.6.6. Involves decisions relating to SAF/MR operations, to include personnel assignments,
TDY and supply resource, and contract or research support.

A3.6. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may be
reviewed and revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Air Force. SAF/MR or
AF/SG may also initiate a revision in consultation with AF/SG or SAF/MR, respectively. OPRs
must follow revision procedures as mandated in HOI 90-1 Delegating Statutory Authority or
Assigning Responsibilities.



//SIGNED, dbg, 12 Apr 11//                          //SIGNED, cbg, 12 Apr 11//
DANIEL B. GINSBERG                                  CHARLES B. GREEN
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force                Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
(Manpower and Reserve Affairs)                      Surgeon General
