BY ORDER OF THE                                               HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-42
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                               27 JANUARY 2014

                                                            CHIEF OF AIR FORCE RESERVE




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
______________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                  http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________
OPR: AF/RE                                  Certified by: AF/RE (Lt Gen James F. Jackson)
Supersedes: HAFMD 1-42, 17 November 2009                                        Pages: 24
______________________________________________________________________________

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Attachment 2, Chief of Air Force Reserve, was revised. The Strategic Communications
Directorate was eliminated, the Comptroller, Policy Integration, and General Officer
Management Directorates received names changes, and a new section was added for the
Executive Services Office. Additionally, minor updates were provided for the offices of the
Deputy to the Chief of Air Force Reserve, the Mobilization Assistant to Chief of the Air Force
Reserve, the Medical, and Personnel Directorates. Lastly, additional responsibilities were
delineated for Office of Air Force Reserve when proposing changes to policies or guidance
affecting the Human Resource Domain (HRD).
1. Mission. The Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE), pursuant to Chapter 805 of Title 10 (10
USC §§ 8031-38), and prescribed by paragraph 4.3 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, assists
the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), and other
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) offices in carrying out the programs relating to the Office of Air
Force Reserve (AF/RE) matters and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) for the Department of
the Air Force (AF). The SECAF will retain ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the
Department of the AF. Within his/her areas of responsibility, the AF/RE prepares policies for
approval and issues guidance/procedures, via official Air Force publications, to ensure
implementation of those policies. The AF/RE also assists the CSAF in his/her role, pursuant to
10 USC § 151, as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS).

2. Organizational Relationships. The SECAF is responsible for, and has all legal authority
necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the AF. The Secretariat, the CSAF, and
Air Staff offices perform their Department of the AF functions subject to the authority, direction,
and control of the SECAF.
2                                                                   HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014

    2.1. The AF/RE reports directly to the CSAF, but provides support to the SECAF, the Under
    Secretary of the AF, other Secretariat offices, and other Air Staff offices. The SECAF may
    redelegate authority/assign responsibilities to AF/RE, but the SECAF, through the CSAF and,
    as appropriate, Assistant Secretaries of the AF, retains ultimate responsibility for all matters
    listed in Attachement 1 of this publication.

    2.2. The AF/RE is part of the Air Staff, and as such works closely with other HAF offices to
    assist the SECAF and the CSAF in carrying out their responsibilities. The AF/RE and the
    office of the AF/RE work in cooperation with the Assistant Secretary of the AF, Manpower
    and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR), and their respective offices, which are responsible, pursuant
    to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting
    the SECAF and the CSAF in carrying out their responsibilities. In addition to the close
    relationship with SAF/MR, AF/RE collaborates with the Deputy Chief of Staff for
    Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) and the Director of the Air National Guard
    (NGB/CF) on Human Resource Domain policies and processes that pertain to or in any way
    impact the Air Force Reserve.

       2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air
       Force Mission Directive – Delegations of Authority and Assignement of Responsibilities,
       two or more HAF two-letter organizations, Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), or Direct
       Reporting Units (DRUs) with responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged
       to develop “standard operating procedures (SOPs)” that set forth procedures enabling
       covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective missions, roles, and
       responsibilities. Any SOPs having been entered into between the AF/RE and SAF/MR are
       included at Attachment 3 of this HAF Mission Directive (HAFMD).

    2.3. There are no Field Operating Agencies reporting to AF/RE.

3. Responsibilities. AF/RE is specifically responsible for:

    3.1. Preparing, justifying, and executing the personnel, operations and maintenance, and
    construction budgets for the Air Force Reserve (AFR) to include responsibility as the director
    and functional manager of appropriations made for the AFR in those budget areas.

    3.2. Developing, managing, and implementing the Full-Time Support (FTS) program, a DoD-
    directed personnel program, for the AFR.

    3.3. Providing an annual report to the Secretary of Defense on the state of the AFR and the
    ability of the AFR to meet its missions. The annual report shall be prepared in conjunction
    with the CSAF.

    3.4. Optimizing the management of AFR capital and systems to fully support AF missions
    and/or those it supports for DoD.

4. Delegations of Authority/Assignments of Responsibility. Attachment 1 lists SECAF’s
delegated authorities and assigned responsibilities to the AF/RE. The authorities
delegated/responsibilities assigned to AF/RE by this HAFMD may generally be re-delegated to
HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                              3

other Department of the AF officials unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached
delegation or superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance. While the authorities are
delegated/responsibilities assigned to AF/RE, the exercise of the authorities/responsibilites
remains subject to the oversight and control of the SECAF, any Assistant Secretary of the AF
having oversight, and the CSAF. Any re-delegation of authority/assignment of responsibility
made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating authorities in
accordance with this Directive may further restrict or condition the authority being re-delegated.

5. Continuation of Prior Re-Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility. Re-
delegations of authorities/assignments of responsibilities made prior to the date of issuance of
this HAFMD remain effective insofar as such re-delegations/assignments of responsibilities are
not inconsistent with the terms of this HAFMD, or unless superseded by a new
redelegation/assignment of responsibility.



                                                    Deborah Lee James
                                                    Secretary of the Air Force

Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility for AF/RE
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter Responsibilities
3. Standard Operating Procedures
4                                                                 HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014

                                      ATTACHMENT 1

                 DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                 AUTHORITIES/ASSIGNMENTS OF RESPONSIBILITY
                                  TO THE
                        CHIEF OF AIR FORCE RESERVE

A1.1. Authority relating to the Contracted Civilian-Acquired Training for Reserve as given to the
Secretary of Defense under Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and Defense FAR
Supplement (DFARS), as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Directive 1200.16,
Contracted Civilian-Acquired Training (CCAT) for Reserve Components.

A1.2. Authority relating to the screening of Reservists, management of the Individual Ready
Reserve (IRR) and peacetime management and preparations for mobilization of the Standby
Reserve, as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Directive 1200.7, Screening the Ready
Reserve.

A1.3. Authority relating to the maintenance and reporting of Reserve personnel data and the
Reserve Components Common Personnel Data System, as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to
DoD Instruction 7730.54, Reserve Components Common Personnel Data System (RCCPDS).

A1.4. Authority relating to the management of the DoD Full-Time Support program,
participation requirements for Reserve and Ready Reserve, and management of the IRR as
delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Instruction 1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the
Reserve Components.

A1.5. Authority relating to the management of the Reserve Component Incentive Programs as
delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Directive 1205.20, Reserve Component Incentive
Programs, and DoD Instruction 1205.21, Reserve Component Incentive Programs Procedures.

A1.6. Authority relating to the Reserve component member participation as delegated to the
SECAF pursuant to DoD Instruction 1215.13, Reserve Component (RC) Member Participation
Policy.

A1.7. Authority relating to the management of a Reserve Officers Foreign Exchange Program as
delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Directive 1215.15, Reserve Officers Foreign Exchange
Program.

A1.8. Authority relating to the designation and use of uniform Reserve Component categories
and training, retired categories, the peacetime management and preparation for mobilization of
the Standby Reserve, and management of the IRR programs as delegated to the SECAF pursuant
to DoD Instruction 1215.06, Uniform Reserve, Training, and Retirement Categories, except for
the authority delegated to the Secretary in paragraph 6.1.2.6.4, which may not be re-delegated, to
provide a waiver to a maximum of 96 additional IDT periods for an aircrew member in a fiscal
year.
HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                             5

A1.9. Authority relating to the crediting of Active and Reserve Service for non-Regular
retirement as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Instruction 1215.07, Service Credit for
Non-Regular Retirement.

A1.10. Authority relating to the management of the IRR and administration of the IRR as
delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Instruction 1235.13, Administration and Management
of the Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) and the Inactive National Guard (ING).

A1.11. Authority relating to the management of the Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)
program and authorizing IMA positions as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Instruction
1235.11, Management of Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs).

A1.12. Authority relating to the peacetime management and preparation for mobilization of the
Standby Reserve as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Instruction 1235.09, Management
of the Standby Reserve.

A1.13. Authority relating to authorizing medical and dental care for members who incur or
aggravate an injury, illness, or disease in the line of duty and providing pay and allowances to
those members while being treated or recovering from a service-connected injury, illness, or
disease as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Instruction 1241.2, Reserve Component
Incapacitation System Management.

A1.14. Authority relating to the National Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and
Reserve as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Directive 1250.01, National Committee for
Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (NCESGR).

A1.15. Authority relating to the Montgomery GI Bill-Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR) as delegated
to the SECAF pursuant to DoD Instruction 1322.17, Montgomery GI Bill-Selected Reserve
(MGIB-SR). The authority to grant waivers to members who fail to participate satisfactorily in
required training shall not be re-delegated pursuant to DoDI 1322.17, paragraph 6.8.2.3.
   6                                                                              HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014


                                                   ATTACHMENT 2

                      OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF AIR FORCE RESERVE
                                       (AF/RE)




                                                     Chief of Air Force Reserve
                                                               AF/RE



                                                                      Mobilization Assistant to Chief of Air Force
                   Deputy to Chief of Air Force Reserve
                                                                                        Reserve
                               AF/RE (D)
                                                                                    AF/RE (MA)



            Financial Management & Comptroller Directorate                  Policy Integration Directorate
                              AF/REC                                                   AF/REI



                          Medical Directorate                      Plans, Programs, and Requirements Directorate
                              AF/REM                                                  AF/REX



                         Personnel Directorate                           Senior Leader Management Office
                               AF/REP                                                AF/REG



                       Executive Services Office
                               AF/REE




A2.1. AF/RE is responsible for the overall supervision of all matters pertaining to the AFR
Component.

       A2.1.1. Deputy to the AF/RE. The Deputy is responsible for matters pertaining to
       assisting AF/RE in realizing his/her vision for the AFR. Maintains a quality, customer-
       oriented relationship with HAF staff, Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), JCS,
       other branches of Service, other U.S. and foreign agencies, and Congress working in
       conjunction with AF/RE. Facilitates timely and accurate communications to/from
       AF/RE.

       A2.1.2. The Mobilization Assistant (MA) to AF/RE augments AF/RE in the
       performance of his/her duties. The MA also performs special studies and analysis, and
   HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                               7


     in time of mobilization of AF/RE, fulfills all duties and responsibilities bestowed on
     that position.

A2.2. Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include:

     A2.2.1. Directorate of Financial Management & Comptroller (AF/REC). AF/REC is
     responsible for matters pertaining to providing financial advice to AF/RE. The
     Comptroller provides guidance to the AFRC Financial Management Directorate
     (AFRC/FM), exercising control over matters concerning budget and funding,
     accounting and finance, internal controls, management and cost analysis, as well as
     audit-related matters associated with the worldwide mission of the AFR. The
     Directorate’s mission is to ensure adequate financial resources from planning through
     execution. AF/REC provides final approval authority on all funds allocations, and
     policy oversight and guidance for all finance and accounting activities. Provides direct,
     authoritative assistance and analysis on legislative, judicial and administrative
     interpretations related to budget issues of national scope. Develops and advises on
     financial policies, asset accounting, and cash flow analysis of financial databases for
     management and operational decisions and other designated comptroller activities.

            A2.2.1.1. Develops the AFR budget incorporating guidance and directives
            received from the HAF, OSD, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and
            Congress.

            A2.2.1.2. Prepares, presents, and defends AFR budget requests before HAF,
            OSD, OMB and congressional review authorities.

            A2.2.1.3. Controls AFR appropriated funds and allocates funds to operating
            offices.

            A2.2.1.4. Establishes financial management guidance and procedures for all
            AFR appropriated funds to include determinations on the proper use of funds
            and approval of upward adjustments of prior-year financial execution.

            A2.2.1.5. Reviews, establishes, represents, and provides AFR liaison on
            financial matters, accounting and entitlements to other Air Staff activities, the
            Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS), the Air Force Accounting
            and Finance Office (AFAFO) and the Air National Guard (ANG).

            A2.2.1.6. Administers the AFR Management Control Program and prepares the
            AFR annual Statement of Assurance required by the Federal Manager’s
            Financial Integrity Act.

            A2.2.1.7. Exercises technical supervision over the AFR segment of the DoD
            Budget.
8                                                     HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014



    A2.2.1.8. Forecasts AFR financial requirements in response to all Program
    Budget Review activities.

    A2.2.1.9. Acts as AFR focal point on all budget related issues within Resource
    Management Decisions.

    A2.2.1.10. Issues calls to AF/RE staff and AFRC/FM for estimates and other
    budget planning data.

    A2.2.1.11. Develops and submits AFR requests for supplemental appropriations
    and reprogramming actions through SAF/FMB Finanacial Management Budget
    Directorate.

    A2.2.1.12. Serves as the AFR central focal point for audits from the
    Government Accountability Office (GAO), the DoD Inspector General (IG),
    and the Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) audits.

    A2.2.1.13. Coordinates on financial system development and implementation
    and financial management modernization and transformation issues affecting
    the AFR.

    A2.2.1.14. Provides guidance to AF/RE and assists AF/RE staff and operating
    offices on financial resources matters.

    A2.2.1.15. Develops, establishes, reviews and implements AFR financial
    programs according to AF Financial Management policies and AFR programs
    and objectives.

    A2.2.1.16. Conducts analysis and prepares special studies on the execution of
    AFR appropriations.

    A2.2.1.17. Programs, budgets, and manages AF/RE financial resources and the
    Permanent Change of Station funding for AF Active Guard Reserve personnel;
    interfacing with accounting liaison and DFAS to ensure execution, compliance
    and accountability of all funds.

    A2.2.1.18. Monitors appropriation, distribution, and execution status of various,
    special interest, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs
    (OASD/RA) managed programs such as STARBASE IRR, and the Counter-
    Drug efforts accomplished by the AFR.

    A2.2.1.19. Manages the AF/RE portion of the DoD Government Travel Card
    Program.
HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                              9



        A2.2.1.20. Coordinates, facilitates and tasks the AF/RE staff on International
        Organization for Standardization issues. Briefs Deputy Assistant Secretary of
        Defense for Reserve Affairs (DASD/RA) annually on Equipment Management.

 A2.2.2. Directorate of Policy Integration (AF/REI). AF/REI is responsible for matters
 pertaining to policy integration for AF/RE and is responsible for advising and assisting
 AF/RE in carrying out responsibilities for the overall development of policies and
 planning for the AF/RE.

        A2.2.2.1. Develops, coordinates and integrates policy and provides guidance on
        legislative issues concerning the AFR.

        A2.2.2.2. Acts as the single focal point for legislative issues.

        A2.2.2.3. Reviews and integrates staff program requirements and policies to
        ensure that AFR strategic goals and objectives are consistent with DoD and
        Service policy.

        A2.2.2.4. Assists AF/RE in fulfilling statutory responsibility to Congress, as
        outlined in Title 10 USC, for maintaining and reporting the readiness of AFR
        forces and individuals with the assistance of other AF/RE directorates.

        A2.2.2.5. Assists AF/RE in integrating diverse and competing recommendations
        into a unified, prioritized position for the AFR.

        A2.2.2.6. Integrates AF/RE staff inputs and with the assistance of other AF/RE
        directorates, prepares material in defense of resources, force structure, and
        associated funding for Congress.

        A2.2.2.7. Submits and justifies proposed legislation through AF and OSD to be
        included in Defense Authorization and Appropriations bills, through the
        Omnibus and Unified Legislation and Budgeting (ULB) processes.

        A2.2.2.8. Prioritizes legislative initiatives and top AFR issues, and tracks
        relevant legislation.

        A2.2.2.9. Provides representation on the AF Posture team to prepare SECAF,
        Under SECAF (USECAF), CSAF, Vice CSAF (VCSAF), Chief Master
        Sergeant of the Air Force (CMSAF), and AF/RE for testimony to the Congress.

        A2.2.2.10. Drafts testimony for presentation                before   Congressional
        Authorization and Appropriations Committees.
10                                                     HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014


        A2.2.2.11. Prepares and delivers both formal and informal presentations to
        Congressional members and staffers, high level interest groups and government
        officials, and professional associations regarding AFR issues.

        A2.2.2.12. Interprets Congressional intent as contained in the language of
        Public Law and Congressional reports.

        A2.2.2.13. Interacts with the DoD, SECAF, HAF, Congressional members and
        staff, AFRC units, Reserve Officers Association (ROA), and other professional
        associations and non-governmental organizations, as required.

        A2.2.2.14. Responds in coordination with Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL), to all
        Congressional and high-level inquiries to include formal requests from the
        White House and Congressional members and their staffs.

        A2.2.2.15. Administers AFRC’s Congressional Outreach Program.

        A2.2.2.16. Interfaces directly with the AF Issues Team, CSAF Operations
        Group and the ANG Director’s Office to exchange information and to maintain
        continuity between the policies and public statements of all three service
        components.

        A2.2.2.17. Advises AF/RE and other organizations on all Military Construction
        (MILCON), real property maintenance, environmental, and Civil Engineer (CE)
        readiness and services issues.

           A2.2.2.17.1. Provides testimony for Congressional hearings and posture
           statements on the AFR. Monitors CE programs for compliance with
           legislative, OSD, OMB and AF guidance.

           A2.2.2.17.2. Provides installation and MILCON information to
           Congressional staffs and delegations through AF and AFR legislative liaison
           personnel.

           A2.2.2.17.3. Acts as lead for the AFR for Airport Joint Use Agreements,
           Nuclear, Biological and Chemical readiness, and Rapid Engineer
           Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron Engineers (RED HORSE)
           and Prime Base Engineer Expeditionary Force (Prime BEEF) units. Primary
           focal point for all AFR services issues.

 A2.2.3. Medical Directorate (AF/REM). AF/REM is responsible for developing policy,
 plans, programs and strategy to support the Air Force Reserve (AFR) Medical Service
 (AFRMS) and the AFR. AF/REM serves as a principle advisor to the Chief of Air
HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                             11


 Force Reserve and acts as the focal point on the Air Staff for medical issues affecting
 the AFR.

      A2.2.3.1. Provides oversight of guidance for AFRMS and AFR Aeromedical
      Evacuation (AE) programs and personnel.

      A2.2.3.2. Provides oversight of AFRC Surgeon General (AFRC/SG) and
      Readiness Management Group (RMG) Detachment 15 in its implementation of
      AFRMS policies and programs.

      A2.2.3.3. Provides oversight of AFRC AE (AFRC/A3TM) in its implementation
      of AFR AE policies and programs.

      A2.2.3.4. Coordinates with AF/RE, Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG), HQ
      AFRC, and other DoD organizations to ensure the following areas are addressed:

            A2.2.3.4.1. Appropriate manning standards are developed.

            A2.2.3.4.2. Mission statements reflect current requirements.

            A2.2.3.4.3. Mobilization logistics meet current requirements.

            A2.2.3.4.4. Training programs meet defined requirements.

      A2.2.3.5. Coordinates with the OASD/RA and the Office of the Assistant
      Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (OASD/HA), AF/SG, and major
      commands (MAJCOMs) to ensure existing and proposed authorizations are
      driven by wartime requirements.

      A2.2.3.6. Coordinates and actively participates with Task Forces, other Secretariat
      offices and organizations to ensure AFR representation for all policies and
      legislative bills pertaining to medical care affecting the AFR.

      A2.2.3.7. Monitors and staffs recruiting and retention policies related to medical
      unit and IMA personnel. Serves as a key member of the Reserve Medical
      Recruitment and Retention Working Group and the Reserve Component
      Individual Medical Readiness Working Group.

      A2.2.3.8. Develops and coordinates medical portions of financial plans and
      budgets within AF/RE, with the AF/SG, and with other DoD offices. Serves as
      Program Element Monitor (PEM) for AE units, Reserve Medical Units, IMAs,
      and Health Professions Scholarship Program.

          A2.2.3.8.1. Analyzes, formulates and justifies programs and budgets.
12                                                     HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014



        A2.2.3.8.2. Coordinates policies affecting Reserve medical personnel and
        programs with AFRC/SG, AF/SG, Air Force Reserve Readiness Management
        Group Detachment 15, AF/REX, Air Reserve Personnel Center, and Air Force
        Institute of Technology.

     A2.2.3.9. Coordinates, researches and provides medical expertise on all medical-
     related topics at the Air Staff level. Serves as Subject Matter Experts on
     processes/policies involving incapacitation pay, medical orders/entitlements, line
     of duty (LOD) determinations, and Integrated Disability Evaluation System
     (IDES) benefits.

        A2.2.3.9.1. Coordinates and processes exception to policy waivers involving
        age requirements, maximum service, and mandatory separation dates.

     A2.2.3.10. Liaises with Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, Veterans Affairs,
     and TRICARE offices in the interests of the AFR.

     A2.2.3.11. In conjunction with AF/REI and SAF/MR initiates legislative
     proposals and changes in legislation affecting key medical/healthcare
     policies/benefits including researching laws and DoD directives. Writes/revises
     AFR medical guidance and instructions, generates and reviews ULBand National
     Defense Authorization Act proposals.

     A2.2.3.12. Investigates and prepares responses to Congress pertaining to
     constituent inquiries regarding medical and dental care/entitlements and benefits.

     A2.2.3.13. On behalf of AF/RE and in collaboration with AF/REI, provides
     immediate response/medical expertise to the CSAF and SECAF regarding high-
     level interest inquiries that involve medical issues.

     A2.2.3.14. Identifies and tracks medical trends within the AFR community and
     proposes appropriate changes in policy, process and legislature as needed to
     enhance continuity of care and delivery/receipt of entitlements.

     A2.2.3.15. Facilitates dialogues with other Reserve Component Medical
     representatives for developing program initiatives, addressing concerns that have
     an impact on medical mission(s), and exploring areas where resources might be
     shared.

     A2.2.3.16. Monitors AFRC programs related to medical entitlements for
     compliance with legislative, OSD, OMB and AF guidance.
HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                            13


      A2.2.3.17. Reviews and coordinates on Department of Defense (DoD) studies that
      have an impact on AFR medical programs.

      A2.2.3.18. Facilitates comprehensive AFR representation and input on DoD and
      AF taskers; provides appropriate taskings to AFRC/SG; integrates staff input from
      AF/RE, AF/SG, AFRC/SG, SAF/MR, Air Force Medical Operations Agency, A1
      and other services as needed.

      A2.2.3.19. Develops and updates AF/RE plans for programs, in collaboration with
      AF/A3/5 Operations, Plans and Requirements, and RE Directors, related to the
      well-being of AFR members, e.g. pandemic infectious disease, resiliency, suicide
      prevention, and case management of wounded, ill and injured, etc.

 A2.2.4. Directorate of Plans, Programs, and Requirements (AF/REX). AF/REX is
 responsible for matters pertaining to formulating resource guidance, providing program
 direction for managing AFR resources, and developing, defining, advocating, and
 integrating operational capabilities requirements with AF/RE doctrine, plans, programs,
 and policies to enhance total AF, Joint, and combined air and space capabilities.
 AF/REX develops force structure proposals, to include aircraft, flying hours, and
 manpower for AF/RE and advises other Air Staff Directorates, Secretariat Offices and
 AF Service Core Function Lead Integrators on these proposals. AF/REX develops
 policy, strategy and funding justification for installations and logistics programs.
 AF/REX integrates AFR requirements into Air Force Service Core Function Master
 Plans (CFMP) and the AF Program Objective Memorandum (POM) and integrates and
 evaluates requirements across the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP). AF/REX
 provides execution analysis and oversight of program elements and resource categories,
 including funding, equipment and manpower. AF/REX is also the primary advisor to
 the AF/RE, and Air Staff and Secretariat Offices on the AF POM, the Quadrennial
 Defense Review, Base Realignment and Closure, Total Force Enterprise (TFE), and Air
 Reserve Component strategy, plan, and vision.

      A2.2.4.1. Establishes AFR resource allocation and Planning, Programming,
      Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) guidance. Functions as the Air Staff Office of
      Primary Responsibility (OPR) for all matters pertaining to developing, directing,
      and conducting AFR programming activities.

      A2.2.4.2. Maintains the integrity of the AF Corporate Structure (AFCS) process
      within RE. Provides information and briefings to the corporate structure for
      corporate decisions. Member of the AF Group, and alternate member to the AF
      Board.

      A2.2.4.3. Exercises close coordination with senior leadership and planning staffs
      at DoD, AF, and MAJCOMs, utilizing their critical expertise, ensuring full and
      timely input to the strategic planning process.
14                                                   HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014



     A2.2.4.4. Serves as Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR) to integrate the
     AFR Component Master Plan into the Regular Component Air Force’s Core
     Function Master Planning Force Proposals. Reviews and evaluates impacts caused
     by changes to the AFR Program and evaluates historical trends compared with
     current FYDP (by appropriation, mission panels, and service core functions).

     A2.2.4.5. Reviews, develops and evaluates funding options for the AF/RE to meet
     worldwide air and space requirements and balance force readiness and
     sustainability with force modernization.

     A2.2.4.6. Analyzes and evaluates programs and force projections for balance,
     phasing, and feasibility in relation to known and anticipated availability of
     resources and higher authority decisions.

     A2.2.4.7. Analyzes impact of programming decisions and force structure
     requirements on major AFR acquisition programs and assesses viability of AFR
     programs to meet national requirements and to provide warfighting capabilities.

     A2.2.4.8. Coordinates with Task Forces and other Air Staff and Secretariat
     Offices and organizations to ensure coherent AFR capabilities-based
     programming and efficient/effective resource allocation.

     A2.2.4.9. Functions as the OPR for all matters pertaining to formulating,
     directing, and amending the AFR Program to meet worldwide force requirements
     across the full spectrum of air and space combat capabilities.

     A2.2.4.10. Prepares AFR program briefings for senior AF leadership (AFCS,
     CSAF, and Secretary) decision-making on resource allocation, program issues,
     and defense of the combined AF POM.

     A2.2.4.11. Synchronizes TFE priorities in partnership with the Deputy Chief of
     Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs TFE office (AF/A8XF). Ensures the TFE
     review process advocates for AFR goals, objectives, and priorities. Articulates
     the AFR position on Total Force Integration (initiatives to HAF and advocates
     AFR positions on Defense Planning Guidance, Transformation Planning
     Guidance, APPG, Strategic Planning Studies Group and other national security
     policies. Serves as a member on the HAF TFE Evaluation Group.

     A2.2.4.12. Develops and administers the AFR manpower program as an integral
     element of the PPBE.
HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                          15


     A2.2.4.13. Responsible for the programming, justification, and tracking of AFR
     manpower in the FYDP; ensures consistency with program content and AFCS
     decisions.

     A2.2.4.14. Establishes and disseminates plans, policies, and procedures governing
     the effective and economical use of AFR manpower resources and the manpower
     management program.

     A2.2.4.15. Manages the AFR Joint Manpower Program and represents the AF/RE
     on joint, unified and agency manpower matters.

     A2.2.4.16. Develops policies, procedures, concepts and guidance on AFR
     organizational structures and nomenclature.

     A2.2.4.17. Develops and administers policy for the allocation of AFR and civilian
     manpower.

     A2.2.4.18. Provides program management for the AFR Strategic Sourcing
     Program to include Commercial Activities (A-76) and Core Competencies,
     Inherently Governmental/Commercial Activities and Federal Activities Inventory
     Reform Act inventories, as well as FYDP programming of manpower to reflect
     strategic sourcing actions.

     A2.2.4.19. Develops AFR Strategic Sourcing Strategy and Guidance and the
     annual Reserve Planning and Programming Guidance.

     A2.2.4.20. Provides oversight for AFR Competitive Sourcing & Pricing Funds
     Management.

     A2.2.4.21. Responsible for the development of manpower procedures, and
     guidance on manpower standards, macro manpower programming tools, military
     grades program, and manpower determinants.

     A2.2.4.22. Serves as the AFR manpower advisor to the AF Group, AF Board, and
     AF Council.

     A2.2.4.23. Establishes guidance, tracking and program control for Management
     Headquarters and Headquarters Support Activities. Defends AFR Management
     Headquarters program.

     A2.2.4.24. Establishes AFR requirements for manpower data systems.

     A2.2.4.25. Acts as focal point for AFR operational issues and requirements.
16                                                     HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014


        A2.2.4.25.1. Integrates AFR capabilities within the AFCS via panel
        membership and interfaces with concepts of operation champions.

        A2.2.4.25.2. Provides weapons system and area expertise to the corporate
        POM process in close coordination with their HAF and AFRC counterparts.

     A2.2.4.26. Develops and reviews operational policy as it applies to long-range
     planning actions to identify potential impact on force readiness and capabilities,
     and recommends courses of action to AF/RE for implementation.

        A2.2.4.26.1. Serves as AFR single point of contact for Air and Space
        Expeditionary Force (AEF) operational issues and war planning to include
        mobilization, demobilization and Crisis Action Team (CAT) actions and
        issues.

        A2.2.4.26.2. Responsible for establishing both CAT support (from within the
        AF/RE staff) and the AF/RE Continuity of Operations Plan. Supports, staffs,
        and analyzes DoD, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), HAF and AFRC
        initiatives to facilitate greater AFR participation in the AEF while ensuring
        proper implementation of war plans.

        A2.2.4.26.3. In coordination with AFRC, is responsible for developing AFR’s
        role in the Homeland Security mission to include security force requirements.

     A2.2.4.27. Defines, advocates and integrates the modernization and sustainment
     of AFR weapon systems and capabilities.

        A2.2.4.27.1. Serves as the AF focal point for AFR operational requirements
        issues. Supports the AFRC requirements process through oversight and
        monitoring requirements development and evaluation, mission need analysis,
        program management and funding execution.

        A2.2.4.27.2. Integrates validated AFR requirements to the AFCS, OSD and
        Congress through advocacy briefings, monitoring AFRC-led studies and
        analyses, technology insertion, training initiatives, and long range planning.

        A2.2.4.27.3. Facilitates the planning, resourcing, and integration of AFR
        modernization requirements as part of the Total Force, while pursuing cost-
        effective solutions to maximize limited modernization funding.

        A2.2.4.27.4. Monitors and provides oversight to the AFR requirements
        process in accordance with applicable AF policy and guidance.
HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                             17


      A2.2.4.28. Provides strategy and funding justification for AFR’s annual
      installations and logistics programs.

          A2.2.4.28.1. Develops POM budget strategy for all installation and logistics
          programs.

          A2.2.4.28.2. Coordinates with AF/A4/7 Logistics, Installations and Mission
          Support, OSD, JCS, AFRC and MAJCOMs on AF/A4/7 and AF/A7C Air
          Force Civil Engineer issues.

          A2.2.4.28.3. Coordinates manpower requirements for AF Specialty Codes in
          the CE, contracting, services, aircraft maintenance, supply, logistic plans,
          transportation, aerial port functions, and various other specialties.

          A2.2.4.28.4. Analyzes and provides program and budgetary assistance on
          AFR Real Property programs including sustainment, restoration, and
          modernization, Real Property services, and demolition.

          A2.2.4.28.5. Coordinates policies and budget requirements for environmental
          compliance, conservation and pollution prevention programs. Reports and
          advises on the AFR environmental restoration program.

 A2.2.5. Directorate of Personnel (AF/REP). AF/REP is responsible for providing the
 AFR Human Capital Management (HCM) enterprise and the Total Force (TF) with
 perspectives and information that ensure integrated strategy, policy management,
 resource management and oversight across the HCM domain. Also, responsible for
 AFR advocacy and Total Force integration related to the Total Force Human Resource
 Management (HRM) Domain governance. AF/REP influences the TF centralization,
 standardization and integration of HR Laws, policies, business processes, structures and
 information technologies.

      A2.2.5.1. Develops guidance in support of AF/RE on all matters relating to
      human resource strategic planning and oversight, AF/A1 total force
      transformation     and    integration/enterprise    efforts,    HCM      enterprise
      architecture/information technology efforts, and all HRM Domain life cycle
      activities (officer and enlisted reserve accessions, force development,
      developmental education, promotions, evaluations, retirement, separation,
      commissioning, recruiting, retention, equal opportunity, benefits, entitlements,
      compensation, quality of life and family issues). Interprets and makes policy
      recommendations concerning force structure including but not limited to:
      accessions, promotions, separations, retirements, end-strength, and retention.

      A2.2.5.2. Coordinates with OSD and SAF/MR, and collaborates with AF/A1 and
      NGB/CF, in development of policies involving the HRM Domain.
18                                                       HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014



     A2.2.5.3. Serves as PEM for recruiting, recruit advertising, and special pay and
     bonus programs. Coordinates with HQ ARPC and RMG for all IMA matters to
     include budget, assignments, developmental education and promotion selection,
     retention, and end strength.

     A2.2.5.4. In conjunction with AF/REI, initiates legislative proposals and changes
     in legislation affecting key personnel policies and programs, including
     researching laws and DoD directives. Writes/revises AFR human resource
     guidance and instructions.

     A2.2.5.5. Facilitates staffing of personnel policies and initiatives from subordinate
     headquarters.

     A2.2.5.6. Prepares the military personnel strength input for the AFR budget and
     operating programs for AFRC (units), MAJCOMs (individuals) and headquarters
     organizations; coordinates with AF/REX on out year programming.

     A2.2.5.7. Manages AFR military personnel and training programs and
     requirements for the operating and budget years [Personnel and Training) Panel].
     Provides PEM for Reserve Personnel Appropriations for special and school tour
     man-days (IMA, Unit), and management of AFR recruiting/recruiter training.

     A2.2.5.8. Develops officer and enlisted requirements, inventory projections and
     end strength reporting.

     A2.2.5.9. Forecasts the AFR military personnel gains and losses and the military
     personnel grade structure. Formulates procurement policies and develops and
     prepares budgets for enlistment/reenlistment incentives.

     A2.2.5.10. Prepares data and provides analyses to explain the AFR military
     personnel appropriations and programs to HAF, OSD, and Congressional review
     authorities.

     A2.2.5.11. Manages AFR HCM data and functional system requirements and
     oversees AFR interests in the development and deployment of all HCM
     information technology systems.

     A2.2.5.12. Develops, reviews, and implements personnel plans, policies, and
     objectives for strengths, personnel management, and training of Reserve
     personnel. Coordinates policy issues with OSD staff. Prepares and coordinates
     with other HAF OPRs in developing Reserve portions of AF personnel directives.
HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                             19


      A2.2.5.13. Monitors AFR personnel plans, policies, and procedures for policy-
      making bodies.

      A2.2.5.14. Responsible for current operations personnel wartime planning to
      include force accountability, Personnel Tempo, war plan development,
      mobilization policy, and mobilized resource accounting.

      A2.2.5.15. Chairs and facilitates the AFR Human Capital Management (HCM)
      Leadership Team. Responsible for the development and currency of the HCM
      domain governance and rules of engagement for the enterprise.

      A2.2.5.16. Develops (in collaboration with the AFR HCM enterprise) an
      integrated AFR HCM Strategy and Oversight of SECAF-directed HRM projects.

      A2.2.5.17. Collaborates and coordinates with the AFR HCM Enterprise on TF
      transformation, career field/organization design issues facilitating AFR’s “one
      voice” position.

      A2.2.5.18. Evaluates emerging concepts and provides strategic analysis/direction
      related to personnel matters; provides quick turn analysis as required.

 A2.2.6 Senior Leader Management Office (AF/REG). AF/REG is responsible for
 matters pertaining to supporting AF/RE in accessing, developing, sustaining, and
 utilizing a force of AFR General Officers (GOs) and line Colonel IMAs who provide
 the leadership, resource management, and strategic planning for AFR assets. The office
 provides coordinated and complementary career utilization and development for AFR
 GOs and Colonels assigned to GO positions enabling the Total Force to optimize the
 inherent strengths of each talent pool for building a senior leader objective force that
 will meet current and future institutional requirements.

      A2.2.6.1. Initiates, coordinates and tracks the assignment of AFR GOs and select
      CMSgts, as well as colonels assigned to GO billets and SMSgts assigned to
      CMSgt billets.

      A2.2.6.2. Responsible for all personnel actions to include promotions,
      retirements, training and force development of GOs and colonels assigned to GO
      billets. Responsible for force development of select CMSgts and SMSgts
      assigned to CMSgt billets.

      A2.2.6.3. Provides personnel policy implementation and central management of
      all AFR officers in GO positions and key CMSgt positions.
20                                                        HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014


      A2.2.6.4. Responsible for all actions regarding the Reserve Brigadier General
      Qualification Board to include memorandum of intent coordination, board
      preparation and SECAF approval of the results.

      A2.2.6.5. Responsible for all pre- and post-board actions concerning the AFR
      Brigadier and Major General Vacancy Promotion Boards.

      A2.2.6.6. Nominates to SECAF for approval AFR GOs for membership on
      Statutory Committees and Boards, Air Reserve Forces Policy Council (ARFPC)
      and the OSD Reserve Forces Policy Board (RFPB).

      A2.2.6.7. Identifies and screens senior officers for participation on select reserve
      and active duty promotion, special selection and developmental education boards.

 A2.2.7. Executive Services Office (AF/REE). AF/REE is comprised of two Divisions:
 Personnel Actions and Resource Management, and is responsible for the following:

      A2.2.7.1. Matters pertaining to quality control of correspondence in/out of
      AF/RE.

      A2.2.7.2. Control and editing of material ranging from routine staff actions and
      performance reports to sensitive GO communications.

      A2.2.7.3. Composition of correspondence for GO signature.

      A2.2.7.4. AF/RE manning to include military, civilian and reserve assignment
      actions.

      A2.2.7.5. Reviewing and processing all AF/RE Civilian Personnel actions
      pertaining to pay, time and attendance, and appraisals.

      A2.2.7.6. Supporting the mission by providing sound financial management
      advice to AF/RE and staff.

      A2.2.7.7. Monitoring and helping RE directorates prepare estimates for resources.

      A2.2.7.8. Monitoring the use of TDY funds and office supply funds for AF/RE
      and its directorates.

      A2.2.7.9. Providing Resource Management System (RMS) training to Directors.

      A2.2.7.10. Assisting comptroller during fiscal year-end closeout.
HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                    21


     A2.2.7.11. Responding to AFDW for all data calls produced by the accounting
     and supply systems.

     A2.2.7.12. Serving as the primary point of contact on resource management
     matters.

     A2.2.7.13. Managing and procuring MPA days for AF/RE personnel.

     A2.2.7.14. Managing AF/RE IMAs to ensure accuracy of assigned positions,
     proper leveling, training, and personnel actions.

     A2.2.7.15. Acting as primary contact for deploying personnel; consolidating
     deployment/redeployment training and processing; initiating pre- and post-
     deployment accountability tracking; coordinating Yellow Ribbon support for
     returning Reservists.
   22                                                         HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014


                                      ATTACHMENT 3

   STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
        OF THE AIR FORCE (MANPOWER AND RESERVE AFFAIRS)
               AND THE CHIEF OF AIR FORCE RESERVE

These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to SAF/MR and
AF/RE who are responsible for developing policy, managing programs, and preparing
guidance on approved policies and plans for the field. These procedures are intended to
facilitate routine staff actions and functions and reduce duplication of effort between
SAF/MR and AF/RE staff roles while increasing operating effectiveness and efficiency.

A3.1. Subject to the standard operating procedures that follow, a general description of the
flow of work between SAF/MR and AF/RE is:

   A3.1.1. AF/RE develops policies and submits them to SAF/MR for coordination and
   concurrence prior to SECAF approval;


   A3.1.2. AF/RE develops AF Instructions and submits them to SAF/MR for coordination
   and concurrence prior to AF/RE approval; and,


   A3.1.3. AF/RE executes approved policies and guidance, AF instructions, and strategic
   plans, providing additional guidance to the field as necessary.

Additionally, by establishing conditions and parameters that signal when an issue, initiative,
or performance measure requires the involvement of SAF/MR to fulfill inherent policy
oversight responsibilities (see paragraphs A3.3 thru A3.5), these standard operating
procedures will help prevent the development of a permission-seeking/permission-granted
dynamic between SAF/MR and AF/RE.

A3.2. AF/RE support of the CSAF in his role as a member of the JCS. AF/RE will act
independently of SAF/MR when AF/RE is providing support to the CSAF or Vice Chief of
Staff in their roles as members of the JCS, including the Joint Requirements Oversight
Council. To the extent not inconsistent with the direction of the CSAF or the Vice Chief of
Staff, AF/RE will keep SAF/MR informed of significant matters in these areas.

A3.3. Conditions for AF/RE to exercise delegated Secretarial Authorities. AF/RE is
authorized to act on the SECAF or SAF/MR’s behalf when such action:

   A3.3.1. Supports the POM or President’s Budget;
   HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014                                                               23


   A3.3.2. Provides data, analyses, information papers, etc., to OSD or congressional staff in
   support of established policies, programs, or other initiatives that have been vetted
   through the Air Force corporate structure, or other appropriate decision process; e.g.
   senior leader forum or fully coordinated staff package;

   A3.3.3. Provides a clear, unambiguous, quantitative link to and/or aligns program
   resources with its goals and objectives;

   A3.3.4. Implements an order or revised policy direction from the SECAF;

   A3.3.5. Satisfies routine reporting requirements and requests for status reports on Air
   Force programs/initiatives from OSD and Congress;

A3.4. Conditions requiring SAF/MR action. SAF/MR review and concurrence are
required prior to implementing any policy, plan, or program or submittal of a report outside
the Air Force when one or more of the following situations or conditions apply:

   A3.4.1. Involves a disagreement among the components of the Air Force Total Force on a
   policy over which SAF/MR has authority.

   A3.4.2. Drives un-programmed or budgeted resource demands ($50M or more across the
   FYDP) to the Air Force Reserve appropriation.

   A3.4.3. Involves a controversial issue that will cause, or is likely to cause, significant
   reactions among senior Administration officials, members of Congress or key staff, the
   public, or the press, such as, but not limited to, matters regarding sexual assault or
   religious preference.

   A3.4.4. Involves the breach of a performance parameter established in policy directives
   and/or Air Force instructions.

   A3.4.5. Drives broad cultural changes crossing many Air Force functions that will require
   concerted coordinated action over several years to achieve.

   A3.4.6. Involves an assessment of a program, falling within the portfolio of SAF/MR,
   which suggests a significant problem or failure in the program.

A3.5. Conditions Requiring SAF/MR Approval of AF/RE Actions. SAF/MR approval is
required prior to implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity when one or
more of the following situations or conditions apply:

   A3.5.1. Involves a change or perceived erosion of Air Force support for a key SECAF or
   Administration agenda item about which the Principal speaks; likewise for a senior
   member of Congress or a member of a congressional committee with significant focus on
   24                                                         HAFMD1-42 27 January 2014


   national defense-related issues (such as Armed Services, Appropriations, Ways and
   Means, or Veterans Affairs).

   A3.5.2. Involves process changes affecting the oversight roles or abilities of the Air Force
   Secretariat, Office of the Secretary of Defense, other (non-Air Force) Administration
   officials, or the Congress.

   A3.5.3. Involves a Statute, Executive Order, or DoD policy that requires SECAF review,
   coordination, and/or implementation. DoD policy requires all SD Forms 106 must be
   signed by SAF/MR (a Senate confirmed position).

   A3.5.4. Involves new policies or initiatives proposed by OSD officials, congressional
   staff, or Air Force that would result in significant changes to AFR related practices or
   programs and their outcomes.

   A3.5.5. Involves decisions relating to SAF/MR operations to include personnel
   assignments and contract or research support.

A3.6. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may be
reviewed and revised as deemed necessary by the SECAF. SAF/MR or AF/RE may also
initiate a revision in consultation with AF/RE or SAF/MR, respectively. OPRs must follow
revision procedures as mandated in HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives –
Delegations of Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities.



     //19 APRIL 2013//                                    //6 DECEMBER 2013//
DANIEL B. GINSBERG                                      JAMES F. JACKSON
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force                    Lieutenant General, USAF
(Manpower and Reserve Affairs)                          Chief of Air Force Reserve
