Administrative Change to, HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-10, Assistant Secretary of the Air
Force (Acquisition)

OPR: SAF/AQXA Acquisition Policy Management

Reference to “A2.2.4. Deputy Assistant Secretary for Product Support (SAF/AQD)” is hereby
changed to “A2.2.4 Deputy Assistant Secretary for Logistics and Product Support (SAF/AQD)”,
1 October 2014. NOTE: SAF/IEL will transition to SAF/AQD effective NET 1 October 2014

9 October 2014
BY ORDER OF THE                                                 HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-10
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                    24 JUNE 2014




                                              ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                      (ACQUISITION)


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/AQXA                                     Certified by: SAF/AQ (Dr. William A. LaPlante)
Supersedes: HAF MD 1-10, June 23, 2013                                                Pages: 16

SUMMARY OF CHANGES. Major changes to this document include the addition of the
Director for Scientific Advisory Board and the Director for Product Support organizations. The
document has also been modified throughout to identify the increased emphasis on product
support management.

1. Mission. The Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. §§ 8013-8016, may establish
offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the Secretary in carrying out his or her
responsibilities. As documented by paragraph 4.1 of Air Force Mission Directive (AFMD) 1,
Headquarters Air Force, and this Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD), the
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) is established as part of the
Secretariat. The SAF/AQ has overall responsibility for acquisition of systems, including product
support, for the Department of the Air Force; serves as the senior procurement executive; serves
as the single Service Acquisition Executive (SAE) for the Department of the Air Force; and is a
member of the Air Force Council, Air Force Space Board, and the Special Programs Oversight
Committee. The Secretary of the Air Force retains ultimate responsibility for all policies related
to the Department of the Air Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility, SAF/AQ prepares
policies for approval and issues official guidance/procedures via official Air Force publication to
ensure implementation of those policies.
2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and has all
legal authority necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The
Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Air Staff offices perform their Department of
the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air
Force.
2.1. The SAF/AQ reports to the Secretary of the Air Force, serves as an agent of the Secretary
2                                                                HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014

within assigned policy and program domains, and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for
all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and
budgets within his/her area of responsibility. The SAF/AQ is accountable to the Secretary for
results achieved within the policy and program domains assigned by this directive.
2.2. The SAF/AQ is part of the Secretariat and as such works closely with other HAF offices to
assist the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his or her responsibilities. SAF/AQ and the
Office of the SAF/AQ work in cooperation with the Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/US),
the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM),
the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics (SAF/IE),
the Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force International Affairs (SAF/IA), the Administrative
Assistant (SAF/AA), the Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6),
the Deputy Under Secretary for Space (SAF/SP), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower,
Personnel, and Services (AF/A1), the Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance (AF/A2), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans, and Requirements
(AF/A3/5), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support
(AF/A4/7), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8), the Director for
Studies and Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned (AF/A9), the Assistant Chief of Staff
for Strategic Deterrence & Nuclear Integration (AF/A10), the Director of Test and Evaluation
(AF/TE), the Directorate of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL), the Judge Advocate General (AF/JA),
the General Counsel (SAF/GC), the Surgeon General (AF/SG), the Inspector General (SAF/IG),
the Air Force Chief Scientist (AF/ST), the Director, Air Force Small Business Programs
(SAF/SB), and their respective offices, as well as other HAF organizations, which are
responsible, pursuant to chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 U.S.C. §§ 8013-8023, 8031-8038),
for assisting the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his or her responsibilities.
2.2.1. Pursuant to HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives-Delegations of
Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities, two or more HAF 2-letter organizations
with responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged to develop standard operating
procedures (SOP) that set forth procedures enabling covered organizations to fulfill and carry out
their respective missions, roles, and responsibilities.
2.3. Program executive officers (PEO) provide executive management to support the acquisition
mission, including product support, and report directly to SAF/AQ in his/her capacity as the
SAE. The PEOs are not part of the HAF but reside in various Air Force organizations; however,
acquisition execution and management responsibility flows directly, without intervention, from
the SAE to the PEOs to the program managers. Reporting to the SAF/AQ is the following Field
Operating Agency: the Air Force Installation Contracting Agency, whose mission will be
documented in a forthcoming Air Force Mission Directive.
3. Responsibilities.
3.1. The SAF/AQ is specifically responsible for the following:
3.1.1. Science and technology (S&T) matters further explained in paragraph A2.2.10.
3.1.2. Basic research, applied research, and advanced technology development, including the Air
Force portion of joint programs.
3.1.3. Technology integration into Air Force requirements and preacquisition program planning.
3.1.4. Oversight of, and policy related to, systems engineering and integration, to include human
HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014                                                                       3

system integration (HSI).
3.1.5. Management of, and policy related to, the Industrial Preparedness program.
3.1.6. Management of, and policy related to, the Air Force Manufacturing Technology program.
3.1.7. Air Force contracting, entering into, approving, terminating, and taking all other
appropriate actions with respect to Air Force contracts and agreements (e.g., grants, cooperative
agreements, and other transactions), and issuing, modifying, or rescinding contracting
regulations under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR).
3.1.8. The Air Force Competition Advocate Program, including justification and approval (J&A)
documents, competition goals and plans to increase competition and eliminate barriers, and the
annual report to Congress.
3.1.9. In direct collaboration with SAF/FM, management of the funds allocated for research and
acquisition programs within the research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E)
appropriation and those portions of the aircraft, missile, ammunition, and other procurement
appropriations falling under the purview of SAF/AQ.
3.1.10. Product support matters as further explained in paragraph A2.2.4.
3.1.11. In direct collaboration with AF/A4/7 and SAF/IE, the design, development, and delivery
of life cycle supportable and sustainable systems and appropriate support equipment that enhance
warfighter mission capabilities and minimize environment, safety, and occupational health risks.
3.1.12. Acquisition and technology workforce development and resource management.
3.1.13. Ensuring that prospective contractors’ equal employment opportunity programs are in
compliance with public law.
3.1.14. Providing assistance on foreign military sales, international armaments cooperation, and
security to applicable organizations and programs.
3.1.15. Providing technical and support data required by planning, programming, and budgeting
activities, congressional questions, and long-range plans and policy formulation implementation.
3.1.16. Managing appropriate system program elements.
3.1.17. Delivering inherently secure systems.
3.1.18. Participating in Air Force, DoD, and national space policy formulation, and space-related
arms control matters.
3.1.19. Directing multi-command, cross-program assessments of requirements to determine
system solutions.
3.1.20. Direct supervision of the Air Force program executive officers.
3.1.21. Research, development, and production of weapons, weapon systems, business systems,
weapon systems support, and military materiel. Development of programs to meet defined
operational needs and requirements for air and space systems and subsystems necessary to
perform military tasks.
3.1.22. Establishing the structure and processes to support the Air Force Chief Information
Officer in satisfying the Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) requirements for acquisition oversight,
economic efficiency, innovative contracting, strategic sourcing methods, and information
4                                                                  HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014

security as it pertains to the acquisition of information resources to include information
technology.
3.1.23. In direct collaboration with AF/TE, determining the adequacy of test & evaluation (T&E)
resources that are required to support weapon system development, to include early tester
involvement with the science & technology (S&T) community and resolving developmental and
operational test programmatic issues. Approving test and evaluation master plans (TEMP) for all
acquisition category (ACAT) I, IA, II, and other programs on Office of the Secretary of Defense
(OSD) T&E oversight.
3.1.24. Chairing the Integrated Life Cycle Management Executive Forum.
3.1.25. Serving as DoD executive agent for Anti-Tamper Program.
3.1.26. In collaboration with SAF/SB, supporting the attainment of DoD small business goals
and establishing a climate throughout the acquisition workforce to provide opportunities for
small business participation in Air Force procurements.
3.1.27. Designating the Air Force Competition Advocate General. This authority to designate the
Air Force Competition Advocate General may not be re-delegated.
4. Delegations of Authority/Assignments of Responsibility. Attachment 1 lists delegated
authorities and assigned responsibilities to SAF/AQ. The authorities delegated/responsibilities
assigned to SAF/AQ by this HAF MD may generally be redelegated, unless redelegation is
expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance.
While SAF/AQ may redelegate authorities to other Department of Air Force officials, he or she
will ultimately be responsible to the Secretary of the Air Force for all matters affecting
acquisitions, including product support. Any redelegation of authority/responsibility being
redelegated/reassigned shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person redelegating
authority in accordance with this HAF MD may further restrict or condition the
authority/assigned responsibility being redelegated.
5. Notifications to Congress. No redelegation of authority/assigned responsibility under this
HAF MD below the level of a deputy assistant secretary or 3-letter office shall include authority
to provide notifications or reports to Congress.
6. Revocation of Secretary of the Air Force Order. No additional Secretary of the Air Force
orders are being revoked by the issuance of this HAF MD revision. Re-delegations of
authorities/assignment of responsibilities made prior to the date of issuance of this HAF MD
remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF
MD, or unless superseded by a new re-delegation.


                                                      Deborah L. James
                                                      Secretary of the Air Force


Attachments:

1. Delegations of Authorities/Assignment of Responsibility for SAF/AQ
2. Organizational Chart/3-Letter Responsibilities
HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014                                                                        5


                                       ATTACHMENT 1

DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITY/ASSIGNMENT
                      OF RESPONSIBILITY

                                            TO THE

            ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE (ACQUISITION)

A1.1. Authority relating to implementing public-private ventures for specific revenue-generating
activities, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) pursuant to Department of
Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1015.13, DoD Procedures for Implementing Public-Private Ventures
(PPVs) for Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR), and Armed Services Exchange Category C
Revenue-Generating Activities.
A1.2. Authority relating to the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States, as
delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 2000.25, DoD Procedures for Reviewing and
Monitoring Transactions Filed with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States
(CFIUS).
A1.3. Authority relating to signing end use certificates on foreign defense items, as delegated to
the SecAF pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 2040.3, End Use Certificates
(EUC).
A1.4. Authority relating to development and use of autonomous and semi-autonomous functions
in weapons systems, including manned and unmanned platforms, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDD 3000.09, Autonomy in Weapon Systems.
A1.5. Authority relating to program management of contingency acquisition planning, as
delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 3020.49, Orchestrating, Synchronizing, and
Integrating Program Management of Contingency Acquisition Planning and Its Operational
Execution.
A1.6. Authority relating to activities of contractor personnel authorized to accompany the U.S.
Armed Forces, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3020.41, Operational Contract
Support (OCS).
A1.7. Authority relating to participation in the Technical Cooperation Program, as delegated to
the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3100.08, The Technical Cooperation Program (TTCP).
A1.8. Authority relating to the implementation of the Scientific and Technical Information
Program, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3200.12, DoD Scientific and Technical
Information Program.
A1.9. Authority and responsibilities relating to the procedures for a human effects
characterization process in support of the development of non-lethal weapons, non-lethal
weapons technologies, and non-lethal weapons systems, as delegated by the SecAF pursuant to
DoDI 3200.19, Non-Lethal Weapons (NLW) Human Effects Characterization.
A1.10. Authority and responsibilities relating to the integrity of scientific and engineering
activities that the Air Force conducts, and engineering information it uses, as delegated by the
6                                                               HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014

SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3200.20, Scientific and Engineering Integrity.
A1.11. Authority relating to the management of DoD research and development laboratories, as
delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3201.01, Management of DoD Research and
Development Laboratories.
A1.12. Authority relating to the implementation of in-house laboratory independent research and
independent exploratory development programs, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI
3201.04, In-House Laboratory Independent Research (ILIR) Program.
A1.13. Authority relating to the contractor recovery of independent research and development
(IR&D) costs, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 3204.1, Independent Research and
Development (IR&D) and Bid and Proposal (B&P) Program.
A1.14. Authority relating to DoD policy on administrative support of basic research, as delegated
to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3210.1, Administration and Support of Basic Research by the
DoD.
A1.15. Authority relating to the Defense Grant and Agreement Regulatory System, as delegated
to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 3210.06, Defense Grant and Agreement Regulatory System
(DGARS).
A1.16. Authority relating to the prevention of research misconduct, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDI 3210.7, Research Integrity and Misconduct.
A1.17. Authority relating to the DoD Science and Engineering Apprenticeship Program, as
delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3218.1, DoD Science and Engineering Apprenticeship
Program for High School Students.
A1.18. Authority relating to procedures for procurements using NAF, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDI 4105.67, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Procurement Policy and Procedure.
A1.19. Authority relating to implementation of a Defense Standardization Program, as delegated
to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 4120.24, Defense Standardization Program (DSP).
A1.20. Authority relating to supply chain management as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4140.01, DoD Supply Chain Materiel and Management
Policy.
A1.21. Authority relating to the maintenance of military materiel, organic maintenance for
inherently Governmental and core capability requirements, limitations on the performance of
depot-level maintenance of materiel, and public-private partnerships as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive 4151.18, Maintenance of Military
Materiel.
A1.22. Authority relating to depot maintenance core capability determination process as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4151.20, Depot
Maintenance Core Capabilities Determination Process.
A1.23. Authority relating to depot-level maintenance using public private partnerships as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Instruction 4151.21, Public-Private
Partnerships for Depot-Level Maintenance.
A1.24. Authority relating to Manufacturing Technology Program activities, as delegated to the
HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014                                                                        7

SecAF pursuant to DoDD 4200.15, Manufacturing Technology (ManTech) Program.
A1.25. Authority relating to the effective administration of the DoD Value Engineering Program,
as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 4245.14, DoD Value Engineering (VE) Program.
A1.26. Authority relating to governing the acquisition and management of industrial resources,
as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 4275.5, Acquisition and Management of Industrial
Resources.
A1.27. Authority relating to Defense Production Act programs, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDD 4400.01, Defense Production Act Programs.
A1.28. Authority relating to the management of acquisition programs, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System.
A1.29. Authority relating to defense acquisition programs, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System.
A1.30. Authority relating to the management and operation of the defense acquisition regulation
system, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5000.35, Defense Acquisition Regulations
(DAR) System.
A1.31. Authority relating to the career development program for acquisition personnel, as
delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5000.52, Defense Acquisition Technology, and
Logistics Workforce Education, Training, and Career Development Program.
A1.32. Authority relating to required reporting of management information, as delegated to the
SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5000.55, Reporting Management Information on DoD Military and
Civilian Acquisition Personnel and Positions.
A1.33. Authority relating to the Defense Acquisition University, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDI 5000.57, Defense Acquisition University.
A1.34. Authority relating to assessing defense industrial capabilities, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDI 5000.60, Defense Industrial Capabilities Assessments.
A1.35. Authority relating to impact assessments in the case of mergers or acquisitions involving
major suppliers, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5000.62, Impact of Mergers or
Acquisitions of Major DoD Suppliers on DoD Programs.
A1.36. Authority relating to the operation of the Defense Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
Workforce Education, Training, and Career Development Program, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDI 5000.66, Operation of the Defense Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
Workforce Education, Training, and Career Development Program.
A1.37. Authority related to mitigation of corrosion, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI
5000.67, Prevention and Mitigation of Corrosion on DoD Military Equipment and
Infrastructure.
A1.38. Authority related to weapon and laser system safety, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant
to DoDI 5000.69, DoD Joint Services Weapon and Laser System Safety Review Processes.
A1.39. Authority and responsibilities related to the fulfillment of combatant commander urgent
operational needs, as assigned to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5000.71, Rapid Fulfillment of
Combatant Commander Urgent Operational Needs.
8                                                                 HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014

A1.40. Authority relating to the Defense Contract Management Agency, as delegated to the
SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5105.64, Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA).
A1.41 Authority relating to the Defense Technical Information Center, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDD 5105.73, Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC).
A1.42. Authority relating to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
Logistics, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5134.01, Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT&L)).
A1.43. Authority relating to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, as delegated to
the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5134.10, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).
A1.44. Authority relating to logistics and materiel readiness policy as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5134.12, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and
Materiel Readiness (ASD(L&MR)).
A1.45. Authority relating to the position of Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Technology, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5134.13, Deputy Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and Technology (DUSD(A&T)).
A1.46. Authority related to the position of Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Systems
Engineering (DASD(SE)) pursuant to DoDI 5134.16, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Systems Engineering (DASD(SE)).
A1.47. Authority relating to the position of Assistant Secretary of Defense Research and
Engineering, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5134.3, Director of Defense Research
and Engineering (DDR&E).
A1.48. Authority to provide forces and resources, advice, and support, to include personnel, to
the Director, Missile Defense Agency, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5134.09,
Missile Defense Agency (MDA).
A1.49. Authority relating to acquisition security support for the identification and protection of
critical program information (CPI) and cyber vulnerabilities, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant
to DoDI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection Within the Department of
Defense.
A1.50. Authority relating to minimizing the risk that DoD’s warfighting mission capability will
be impaired due to vulnerabilities in system design, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI
5200.44, Protection of Mission Critical Functions to Achieve Trusted Systems and Networks
(TSN).
A1.51. Authority relating to policies and procedures for marking technical documents, as
delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical
Documents.
A1.52. Authority relating to the dissemination and withholding of technical data, as delegated to
the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data From Public
Disclosure.
A1.53. Authority relating to the consideration of national security in the dissemination of
scientific and technical information at conferences and meetings, as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDI 5230.27, Presentation of DoD-Related Scientific and Technical Papers at
HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014                                                                          9

Meetings.
A1.54. Authority relating to DoD domestic technology transfer activities as delegated to the
SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5535.3, DoD Domestic Technology Transfer (T2) Program.
A1.55. Authority relating to the implementation of DoD domestic T2 activities, as delegated to
the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5535.8, DoD Technology Transfer (T2) Program.
A1.56. Authority related to the implementation of transferring DoD technology to federal, state,
and local responders, pursuant to DoDI 5535.10, Coordination of DoD Efforts to Identify,
Evaluate, and Transfer DoD Technology Items, Equipment, and Services to Federal, State, and
Local First Responders.
A1.57. Authority related to the implementation of the availability of DoD information to non-
DoD persons and entities, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 5535.11, Availability of
Samples, Drawings, Information, Equipment, Materials, and Certain Services to Non-DoD
Persons and Entities.
A1.58. Authority relating to the implementation of leases and demonstration of DoD equipment,
pursuant to DoDI 7230.08, Leases and Demonstrations of DoD Equipment.
A1.59. Authority and responsibilities relating to post contract audit follow-up, including
resolution and disposition actions, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 7640.02, Policy
for Follow up Contract Audit Reports.
A1.60. Authority relating to implementation of unique identification (UID) standards for a net-
centric DoD, pursuant to DoDD 8320.03, Unique Identification (UID) Standards for a Net-
Centric Department of Defense.
A1.61. Authority relating to item unique identification (IUID) standards for tangible personal
property, as delegated to the SECAF pursuant to DoDI 8320.04, Item Unique Identification
(IUID) Standards for Tangible Personal Property.
A1.62. Authority and responsibility to designate the Air Force Competition Advocate General
and Procuring Activity Advocates for Competition under 41 U.S.C. § 1705, which authority and
responsibility may not be redelegated. The competition advocate is responsible for promoting
full and open competition, promoting the acquisition of commercial items, and challenging
barriers to such acquisition, including such barriers as unnecessarily restrictive statements of
need, unnecessarily detailed specifications, and unnecessarily burdensome contract clauses.
A1.63. Authority relating to equipping and maintaining the Air Force, as given to the SecAF
under 10 U.S.C. § 8013.
A1.64. Authority relating to quality assurance pursuant to Defense Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement (DFARS) 246.102 (1), Quality Assurance Policy.
A1.65. Authority relating to minimum capital investment for certain depots as given to the
Secretary of the Air Force under 10 U.S.C § 2476.
10                                                                HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014


                                       ATTACHMENT 2

                   THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                        (ACQUISITION)
                                            (SAF/AQ)




A2.1. The SAF/AQ is responsible for supervision of the Air Force acquisition system, including
product support, and serves as the senior procurement executive; the Service Acquisition
Executive (SAE); and a member of the Air Force Council, Air Force Space Board, and the
Special Programs Oversight Committee. The office of SAF/AQ ensures the Secretary of the Air
Force, the Air Force Chief of Staff (CSAF), and the Defense Acquisition Executive (DAE)
receives the support they require on acquisition matters, including product support. SAF/AQ
provides the leadership, direction, policy, and resources to enable the integrated life cycle
management of superior systems, supplies, and services to accomplish the Air Force mission.
The office of SAF/AQ is responsible for acquisition related investments, provides system life
cycle oversight, and facilitates integrated product life cycle support to ensure systems operational
effectiveness. SAF/AQ is responsible for the acquisition of nuclear weapons delivery systems
and specific non-nuclear component/subsystems for which the Air Force has life cycle
management responsibility. General responsibilities include direction, guidance, and supervision
over all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, approval, and execution of plans, policies,
and programs.
A2.2. Three-letter subordinate offices include:
A2.2.1. Executive Action Group (SAF/AQE). Functions as SAF/AQ Commander’s Action
Group including SAF/AQ operations support functions. Provides executive support and
independent recommendations on key acquisition issues that cut across all SAF/AQ
organizations for direct use by the assistant secretary and military deputy. Advises on policy for
HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014                                                                          11

the assistant secretary on all matters related to direction and management for the Air Force
research and development, test, production, and modernization programs. Reviews SAF/AQ
correspondence for content. Prepares positions and presentations for the assistant secretary and
the military deputy in dealing with Congress, senior DoD executives, senior Air Force
leadership, and corporate chief executive officers (CEO). The SAF/AQ-focal point for
congressional interface activities for the SAE and weapon system acquisition programs.
Produces written testimony for the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, and is
responsible for all hearing preparation materials. The SAF/AQ-focal point for Director, Budget
and Appropriations Liaison (SAF/FMBL), SAF/LL, and the Air Force posture team. Also serves
as the SAF/AQ-focal point for all four-star-level meetings. The SAF/AQ-focal point for all
media inquiries, serving as the primary interface with the Air Force Director of Public Affairs
(SAF/PA).
A2.2.2. Directorate for the Scientific Advisory Board (SAF/AQB). Provides direct support to the
Air Force Scientific Advisory Board (SAB), an independent Federal Advisory Committee (FAC)
that advises on matters of science and technology relating to the Air Force mission. Provides the
Designated Federal Officer for all Air Force SAB activities to ensure compliance with FAC laws
and regulations as well as OSD and Air Force FAC policies and instructions. Principle HAF
office for interactions between the SAB and Congress, SecAF, CSAF, other HAF offices,
MAJCOMs, laboratories, acquisition program offices, DoD, other government agencies,
industry, and academia. Facilitates all Air Force SAB activities including, but not limited to,
logistics and travel; report and outbrief preparation, editing, publishing and distribution; planning
and execution of quarterly board and information gathering meetings; and new member and new
study topic solicitation and staffing. Coordinates all direction from SecAF, SAF/AA, and
SAF/AQ to the SAB.
A2.2.3. The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Contracting) (SAF/AQC). The senior
contracting and business advisor to SAF/AQ. Ensures policy, processes, training, and
information technology for Air Force military and civilian contracting personnel worldwide, to
include the readiness of Air Force contingency contracting officers. Is the functional manager for
the development of all contracting personnel. Subject to designation by SAF/AQ as provided in
paragraphs 3.1.27 and A1.65, serves as the Competition Advocate General for the Air Force.
Develops, integrates, and promulgates all Air Force contracting policy and provides tools and
training to support its implementation. Issues the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation
Supplement (AFFARS). Assesses Air Force field operations to ensure that policy is adequate.
Represents the Air Force to the DAR Council. Interfaces daily with senior leaders in Air Force,
DoD, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA), other
federal agencies, and the defense industry to develop, present, and defend Air Force positions on
acquisition matters. Provides information, assistance, and business advice for programs at
product centers, logistic centers, MAJCOMs, and operational contracting squadrons. This
includes, but is not limited to: support of active source selections; acquisition strategy panels;
portfolio reviews; acquisitions teams for major systems, logistics and operational acquisitions;
acquisition plans; justification for other than full and open competition; business clearance; and
approval of other contract-related documentation. Provides government purchase card program
management and assistance with central contractor registration (CCR). Serves as the focal point
for all legacy and future information technology (IT) procurement and business systems and their
interfaces to other Air Force systems ensuring end-to-end auditability. Assists in the deployment
and provides support for DoD and Air Force business systems, the acquisition domain, and the
12                                                              HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014

Functional Requirements Board. Directs electronic commerce, improved customer-focused
service delivery and enterprise architecture for procurement. Represents the Air Force as
Strategic Sourcing Accountable Official to the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) and
supports implementation of Air Force commodity councils.
A2.2.4. Deputy Assistant Secretary for Product Support (SAF/AQD). Responsible for enterprise
oversight of all matters pertaining to product support, supply chain management, maintenance of
military materiel, and all support functions required to field and maintain the readiness and
operational capability of weapon systems, including all functions related to weapon system
readiness. Develops strategy, policy and guidance, and serves as the primary interface with
Congress, OSD and the other military Services. Provides programs with oversight, guidance and
assistance relative to product support, during the development of programmatic documentation
and the execution of program reviews throughout the life cycle. Responsible for enterprise
oversight of all matters pertaining to Air Force depots throughout the life cycle. Serves as the
Air Force lead for designating Centers of Industrial and Technical Excellence, and provides
oversight for the development of public-private partnerships related to depot operations. Ensures
compliance with Title 10 United States Code Section 2464, core logistics capability
requirements. Ensures compliance with Title 10 United States Code Section 2466, the limitation
on the performance of depot-level maintenance of materiel. Ensures compliance with Title 10
United States Code Section 2476, minimum capital investment for certain depots. Represents
Air Force product support enterprise equities in governance forums, to include the Enterprise
Logistics Governance, Centralized Asset Management-Executive Council, Maintenance
Executive Steering Committee and the Supply Chain Executive Steering Committee.
A2.2.5. Directorate for Personnel and Acquisition Career Management (SAF/AQH). Serves as
the Director, Acquisition Career Management (DACM)—the Air Force focal point for integrated
management of the acquisition workforce across all functional areas. The SAF/AQH directorate
develops, reviews, and coordinates policy and strategic plans for the Air Force acquisition
workforce. Responsible for leading the Air Force Acquisition Professional Development
Program (APDP), including implementing programs and policies mandated by the Defense
Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) and DoD directives. Supports Air Force
functional managers and career field managers by providing force development policies,
management tools, performance measures, and execution strategies. Responsible for personnel
data management systems and tools required to manage the acquisition workforce and ensure
accurate identification of acquisition position coding requirements. Manages the Air Force
acquisition training office. Manages Air Force funding to achieve strategic objectives for the
workforce in support of acquisition excellence, including the APDP budget, the Air Force share
of the Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund (DAWDF) established under Section
852 of the FY08 NDAA, and funding provided by Defense Acquisition University (DAU) for
certification, assignment-specific training, and continuous learning. Serves as the Air Force
Liaison to OSD and the President, DAU, on behalf of the SAE and functional managers.
Manages the Air Force acquisition awards program. Serves as the career field manager for
scientists, developmental engineers, and acquisition program managers. In coordination with Air
Force functional managers, AF/A1, Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC), and MAJCOMs,
manages the development of high potential acquisition professionals to achieve orderly
succession planning. Responsible for management of SAF/AQ-assigned personnel, including
liaison with the Air Force District of Washington (AFDW) staff who conduct personnel-related
actions in support of SAF/AQ. Manages the Acquisition Demonstration (AcqDemo)
HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014                                                                        13

Contribution-based Civilian Appraisal System (CCAS) annual review, the military officer
management level review (MLR) promotion processes, and enlisted test scheduling and
promotion board results. Assists SAF/AQ directorates with fill actions for civilian and military
positions in coordination with AFDW and AFPC. Manages the SAF/AQ unit awards program
and oversees military fitness testing. Resource manager for SAF/AQ headquarters operations and
centralized functional needs. Performs oversight of SAF/AQ manpower, FFRDC, and support
contractors.
A2.2.6. Directorate of Information Dominance Programs (SAF/AQI). Directs, plans, and
programs for development, procurement, and product support of information dominance
programs. Serves as the focal point within the HAF for matters associated with integrated
product life cycle management and facilitates information dominance stakeholder collaboration
in addressing lifecycle issues. The portfolio includes current and future: air and ground based
command and control (C2); business information and combat support; manned and unmanned
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and networks and datalinks systems from
concept and technology development through production, deployment, and sustainment.
Provides key support to steering committees and boards of directors for several NATO programs
to include: Airborne Warning and Control Systems (AWACS); Air Command and Control
System (ACCS); and Alliance Ground Surveillance. Participates in the defense planning,
programming, budgeting and execution (PPBE) process. Serves as the focal point for information
dominance program information requests from members of Congress, personal, and professional
staff members in both Congress and the White House, and other sources. Identifies information
dominance congressional requirements in defense committee reports, conference reports, and
appropriation and authorization Bills and tracks progress toward meeting requirements and
timelines.
A2.2.7. Directorate of Special Programs (SAF/AQL). Serves as the principal acquisition advisor
to the SecAF, CSAF, Under Secretary of the Air Force (USecAF), and SAF/AQ on all matters
involving special access programs (SAP), and liaises with other military Services, defense
agencies, and federal departments to ensure cross-fertilization of advanced technologies and
concepts to explore the potential for joint cooperation activities. Serves as the Chairman, Special
Programs Review Group and Executive Secretary, Special Programs Oversight Committee;
directly responsible to the SecAF as chair with oversight responsibility for all Air Force SAPs.
Serves as the DoD Executive Agent for the Anti-Tamper Program. Executes original
classification authority for designated SAPs. Coordinates congressional oversight of all Air
Force SAPs. Accomplishes research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) for promising
advanced air, space, and cyber capabilities. Analyzes proposed technical approaches to satisfy
operational needs of the combat and mobility forces. Develops and produces advanced aerospace
systems and subsystems for the combat and mobility forces. Provides acquisition technical
support for developing advanced aerospace systems and subsystems throughout all phases of the
life cycle. In coordination with SAF/AQR, directs SAP advanced technology development
programs and monitors new technologies, which may satisfy operational requirements or
capitalize on technological opportunities. Reviews and coordinates on system requirements
proposed by implementing and operating commands, field operating agencies (FOA), and direct
reporting units (DRU) for advanced technologies or sensitive intelligence. Represents SAF/AQ
at special topics sessions of the Air Force requirements oversight council (AFROC). Serves as
the Air Force representative to the tri-Service low observable/counter-low observable committee
and the tri-Service defensive systems committee. Provides programmatic support to SAF/IA
14                                                                HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014

international projects and facilitates SAF/IA participation in the tri-Service executive committee.
A2.2.8. Directorate of Global Power Programs (SAF/AQP). Directs, plans, and programs for
development, procurement, and product support of global power programs; focal point within the
HAF for matters associated with integrated product life cycle management and facilitates global
power stakeholder collaboration in addressing lifecycle issues. This includes fighters, bombers,
intercontinental ballistic missiles, nuclear and conventional air-to-ground weapons, air-to-air
weapons, weapons integration, advanced targeting pods, electronic attack systems, nuclear
command and control, engine component improvements, aircrew life support, agile combat
support, and chemical/biological defense programs. Advises on all conventional and nuclear
weapon delivery platform acquisition program issues from program initiation through
sustainment. Manages, monitors, and provides direction to field commands regarding global
power programs. Monitors force composition and quality for global power programs.
Participates in the PPBE process. Acts as principal capability area point of contact to SAF/LL
and SAF/FMBL. Monitors emerging and advanced technologies for potential application to Air
Force missions through coordination with other U.S. Services, non-DoD government agencies,
and appropriate NATO offices. Primary interface with NATO regarding U.S. and allied weapons
issues and maintains liaison with the SAE on NATO Air Weapons. Acts as the Air Force
executive agent for insensitive munitions (IM). Serves as the focal point for global power
programs acquisition information requests from members of Congress, personal and professional
staff members in both Congress and the White House, and other sources. Identifies global power
congressional requirements in defense committee reports, conference reports, and appropriation
and authorization Bills and tracks progress toward meeting requirements and timelines.
A2.2.9. Directorate of Global Reach Programs (SAF/AQQ). Directs, plans, and programs for
development, procurement, and product support of global reach programs; focal point within the
HAF for matters associated with integrated product life cycle management and facilitates global
reach stakeholder collaboration in addressing lifecycle issues. This includes: airlift; tanker;
special operations; combat search and rescue; trainers (to include distributed mission operations);
special mission aircraft (VIP special airlift missions); mobility support systems; large aircraft
defensive systems; and civil airspace access and navigation safety. Provides key support to the
NATO Air Force Armaments Group (NAFAG) board of advisors (BoA) and the United States
representative to Air Capability Group 5 (Global Mobility) and several sub-groups to include:
Joint Precision Air Drop Capability Working Group; Special Operations Capability Working
Group; and the Joint Precision Approach and Landing Systems Working Group. Works in
conjunction with United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM), United States
Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), developing commands, and MAJCOMs (as
applicable) to support global reach programs from inception through disposal, with a focus on
modification and modernization efforts. Serves as the focal point for global reach acquisition
information requests from members of Congress, personal and professional staff members in
both Congress and the White House, and other sources. Identifies global reach congressional
requirements in defense committee reports, conference reports, and appropriation and
authorization Bills and tracks progress toward meeting requirements and timelines.
A2.2.10. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Science, Technology and Engineering)
(SAF/AQR). Serves as the Air Force S&T Executive, Air Force Chief Engineer and Technical
Authority, the Air Force Corrosion Control and Prevention Executive, Air Force Standardization
Executive, and functional manager for the scientist and engineer (S&E) career field. Develops
HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014                                                                      15

and implements plans, policies, and procedures for Air Force S&T, technology transition (to
include Joint Capability Technology Demonstrations (JCTD)), technology transfer, and
development planning (DP). Establishes engineering, to include Human Systems Integration
(HSI), and modeling and simulation policy and guidance for Air Force systems, subsystems, end-
items and services. Advocates for S&T, DP, technology transition, technology transfer, and S&T
intelligence; defends these areas in the corporate Air Force planning, programming, and
execution system (PPBE) process; and serves as the primary interface with Congress, OSD, and
other government agencies for these investments. Provides oversight of the scientific and
technical information (STINFO). Develops the Air Force S&T strategy in consultation with
AF/ST; oversees S&T 6.1 through 6.3 program elements as well as assigned 6.4 program
elements, and ensures technology development supports warfighter needs. Serves as Air Force
lead for Manufacturing Technology (ManTech), Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR),
Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR), and the Independent Research and Development
(IR&D) programs. In coordination with SAF/AQL, integrates SAP RDT&E and non-SAP
RDT&E, S&T planning activities and strategy, directs advanced technology development
programs and monitors new technologies. Serves as principal advisor for S&T matters and
provides policy and advice on the above topics to SAF/AQ, USecAF, SecAF, Vice Chief of Staff
of the Air Force (VCSAF), CSAF, and OSD. Participates in international S&T planning
activities with SAF/IA. Provides systems engineering oversight and support for program
development, documentation, and reviews prior to and throughout the acquisition lifecycle. Focal
point for SAE environment, safety, and occupational health (ESOH) high risk acceptance.
Provides technical advice to the SAE for pre-acquisition investment decisions and acquisition
program technical and engineering integration program risk. Responsible for managing Air Force
S&E career field development teams and the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics
(STEM) initiatives. In collaboration with AF/A1, AF/ST, and other functionals, assesses the
health and well-being of the Air Force STEM workforce.
A2.2.11. Directorate of Space Programs (SAF/AQS). Directs, plans, and programs for
development, procurement, and product support of space programs; focal point within the HAF
for matters associated with integrated product life cycle management and facilitates space
stakeholder collaboration in addressing lifecycle issues. This includes communication,
navigation, launch vehicles, environmental monitoring, surveillance and warning, infrastructure,
interagency Global Positioning System (GPS) coordination, interagency launch coordination,
Navigation Warfare (NAVWAR), command and control, space test, and space control. Serves as
the SAF/AQ focal point for orbital debris, national space policy, and national security space
issues. Provides programmatic support to the SAF/IA international space projects. Participates in
the PPBE process. Works in conjunction with United States Strategic Command
(USSTRATCOM), developing commands, and MAJCOMs (as applicable) to support space
programs from inception through appropriate major milestones. Serves as the focal point for
space acquisition information requests from members of Congress, personal and professional
staff members in both Congress and the White House, and other sources. Identifies congressional
space requirements in defense committee reports, conference reports, and appropriation and
authorization Bills and tracks progress toward meeting requirements and timelines.
A2.2.12. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition Integration) (SAF/AQX).
Develops and implements plans, policies, and procedures related to Air Force acquisition
management, reporting, structure, and execution. SAE functional manager for all Air Force
acquisition program management personnel. Establishes integrated life cycle acquisition policy
16                                                                HAFMD 1-10 24 JUNE 2014

and guidance for Air Force systems, subsystems, end-items, and services. Integrates cyber and
acquisition security activities into the acquisition enterprise. Focal point for critical program
information, mitigation of supply chain vulnerability, and SAE environment, safety, and
occupational health (ESOH) high risk acceptance. Advises Air Force Major Defense Acquisition
Programs/Major Automated Information Systems going through the Air Force and DoD
Acquisition Oversight Process. Secretariat for all Air Force acquisition oversight meetings
including Acquisition Strategy Panels, Air Force Review Boards, and Configuration Steering
Boards. SAF/AQ representative to the Air Force Requirements Oversight Council and Air Force
Requirements Review Group providing acquisition insight and expertise in support of the
development of operational capability requirements. Serves as the Chief Process Officer
designing, approving, maintaining, standardizing, and analyzing Air Force acquisition enterprise
processes. Conducts performance assessments of the Air Force acquisition enterprise,
establishing, analyzing, and maintaining Air Force acquisition enterprise metrics for the SAE.
Leads AQ’s strategic management efforts, lessons learned processes, enterprise-wide continuous
process improvement (CPI) program, and implements acquisition change management. Serves as
the acquisition domain functional chief information officer developing and maintaining the
enterprise architecture, data strategy, and business information technology plans. Manages
SAF/AQ portfolio of business systems that support acquisition within the Air Force. Responsible
to assess corporate business health, capacity, leadership, motivation, organizational structure,
key operations, and sub-tier suppliers for the Air Force. Provides oversight and advocacy for the
Air Force industrial preparedness program, including industrial base preparedness investments,
studies and assessments, Air Force industrial facilities, and the Air Force implementation of the
Defense Production Act. Develops and provides the Air Force recommendation for the
disposition of cases under consideration by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.
(CFIUS). Provides SAF/AQ operational support to accomplish the Air Force-wide acquisition
mission (security, facilities, data systems, manpower, and contractor oversight). SAF/AQ
representative for HAF program budget reviews. Performs program authorization for acquisition
programs, including: distribution of funds after the signed appropriation bill; assessment of need,
priority, source, and executability of reprogramming actions; issues program authority for
recommended below and above threshold reprogramming actions; manages and tracks budget
rephasing and unfunded requirements during execution year, resulting in request for issuance of
budget authority, or notifications/requests to Congress by SAF/FMB. SAF/AQ representative for
the Air Force corporate process; serves as voting member on the Air Force group and board, and
RDT&E panel chair (responsible for a portfolio of program elements that includes S&T and
T&E). Provides independent analysis of cost, schedule, and technical program execution to
SAF/AQ leadership. Lead SAF/AQ organization for program budget and investment reviews;
Air Force-lead for spring execution reviews with SAF/FMB support; supports investment budget
reviews led by SAF/FMB. Develops and implements policy covering acquisition program
reporting and review, program integration, and should-cost initiative generation in accordance
with Air Force, DoD, and congressional direction. Program advisor and OSD interface for
determining program structure, establishing a program baseline, and predicting breaches.
Responsible for the development and implementation of earned value management (EVM)
policy and coordination with OSD on EVM issues.
