BY ORDER OF THE                                         HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-16
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                    10 FEBRUARY 2014

                                  DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE,
                                                    INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS




         COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
________________________________________________________________________

OPR: SAF/IAPX                            Certified by: SAF/IA (Ms. Heidi Grant)
Supersedes: HAFMD 1-16, October 24, 2012                             Pages: 13
________________________________________________________________________

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been revised since publication on October 24, 2012. Major changes
include: Paragraph 3.1: Added “and other cooperative.” Paragraph 3.8: Added “including
subordinate air, space and cyberspace domain strategies and guidance” after “implements
the AF Global Partnership Strategy (AFGPS).” Paragraph A1.31: Moved up to
Paragraph A1.28. Paragraph A1.35: Added to reflect delegated authority for SAF/IARA.
Paragraph A1.36: Added to reflect delegated authority for SAF/IAPQ for Defense
Personnel Exchange Programs (DPEP).

1. Mission. The Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to 10 United States Code (USC)
Section (§§) 8014, may establish offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the
Secretary in carrying out his/her responsibilities. Pursuant to the authority contained in
10 USC §§ 8014, the Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs
(SAF/IA) was established as part of the Secretariat. SAF/IA has overall responsibility for
international programs for the Department of the Air Force. The Secretary of the Air
Force retains ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the Air
Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility, SAF/IA prepares policies for approval and
issues official guidance/procedures via official AF publications to ensure implementation
of those policies.
2                                                         HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014



2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and
has all legal authority necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air
Force. The Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and Air Staff offices perform
their Department of the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control
of the Secretary of the Air Force.

    2.1. SAF/IA reports to the Under Secretary of the Air Force, serves as an agent of the
    Secretary within assigned policy and program domains, and provides guidance,
    direction and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review and
    execution of plans, policies, programs and budgets within his/her area of
    responsibility. SAF/IA is accountable to the Under Secretary for results achieved
    within the policy and program domains assigned by this Directive.

    2.2. SAF/IA is part of the Secretariat and, as such, works closely with other HAF
    offices to assist the Under Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his/her
    responsibilities. SAF/IA works in cooperation with the Deputy Under Secretary of
    the Air Force for Space (SAF/SP) and the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force,
    Acquisition (SAF/AQ), and their respective offices, as well as other HAF
    organizations, which are responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10
    (10 USC §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting the Secretary of the Air
    Force in carrying out his or her responsibilities.

       2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters
       Air Force Mission Directive – Delegations of Authority and Assignment of
       Responsibilities, two or more HAF two-letter/digit organizations with
       responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged to develop “standard
       operating procedures (SOPs)” that set forth procedures enabling covered
       organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective missions, roles and
       responsibilities. There are no SOPs between SAF/IA and any other organization.

3. Responsibilities. SAF/IA is specifically responsible for:

    3.1. Building, sustaining, expanding and guiding relationships that are critical
    enablers for expeditionary air, space and cyberspace forces through: politico-military
    affairs, security cooperation programs, armaments cooperation and other cooperative
    programs, international cooperative research and development efforts, classified and
    controlled unclassified information disclosure policy, technology transfer, export
    control, attaché and security cooperation officer affairs.

    3.2. Managing officer/enlisted/civilian personnel exchange programs; the USAF
    International Affairs Specialist program; Civilian International Affairs Career Field;
    air attaché screening and selection; selection of International Partners to attend Air
    Force Professional Military Education programs (Air War College, Squadron Officer
HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014                                                                 3


  College, Air Command and Staff College, and Senior Enlisted Courses); management
  and administration of the International Professional Military Education (IPME)
  program as it pertains to sending selected Airmen to attend vetted IPME
  opportunities; Aviation Leadership Program; and Administration Professional
  Exchange Program (APEP).

  3.3. Coordinating senior Air Force officials’ international travel, foreign visits to
  USAF installations, International Air and Trade shows and all other international
  programs and activities.

  3.4. Serving as the Air Force office of primary responsibility for matters involving
  Air Force international interests except for those involving operational matters and
  being the focal point for such matters to the Office of the Secretary of Defense
  (OSD), the military departments, Department of State and other US Government
  agencies.

  3.5. Formulating the Air Force position on joint, interdepartmental and interagency
  matters relating to international activities, except for global defense posture and
  operational matters.

  3.6. Developing and implementing policy, guidance and strategies for the direction,
  global integration and management of Air Force international programs and activities.

  3.7. Advising and supporting the Office of the Under Secretary of the Air Force, the
  Office of the Air Force Chief of Staff and civilian and military officials of the
  Department of the Air Force concerning international activities and political-military
  analysis.

  3.8. Oversight and advocacy of Air Force international programs and policies.
  Development, dissemination and oversight of execution of the Air Force Global
  Partnership Strategy (AFGPS), including subordinate air, space and cyberspace
  domain strategies and guidance. Coordination of development and oversight of its
  execution in support of the COCOMs and in coordination with HAF organizations,
  MAJCOMs, and the Air Reserve Component. Acting as the Capability Portfolio
  Manager (CPM) for building partnerships.

  3.9. Providing oversight of all USAF-related Foreign Military Sales (FMS) and
  Direct Commercial Sales (DCS) license applications. Additionally, development of
  export policies for all USAF-related weapon systems.
4                                                         HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014


4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility: Attachment 1 lists
delegated authorities to SAF/IA. The authorities delegated to SAF/IA by this HAF
Mission Directive may generally be re-delegated unless re-delegation is expressly
prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding law, regulation or DoD issuance.
While SAF/IA may re-delegate authorities to other Department of Air Force officials,
he/she will ultimately be responsible to the Under Secretary of the Air Force for all
matters affecting international programs. Any re-delegation of authority made shall not
be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating authority in accordance with
this HAF Mission Directive may further restrict or condition the authority being re-
delegated.

5. Notifications to Congress: No re-delegation of authority under this HAF Mission
Directive below the level of an Assistant Deputy Under Secretary or three-letter/digit
office shall include authority to provide notifications or reports to Congress.




                                                     Eric K. Fanning
                                                     Acting Secretary of the Air Force

Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authorities/Assignment of Responsibility for SAF/IA
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter Responsibilities
HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014                                                                  5


                                    ATTACHMENT 1

             DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
             AUTHORITIES / ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY
                  TO THE DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY
                      INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

A1.1. Authority relating to the design, development, resourcing and sustainment of and
reporting to the Department of Defense (DoD) on Service Foreign Area Officer programs
as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD Directive (DoDD)
1315.17, Military Department Foreign Area Officer (FAO) Programs.

A.1.2. Authority relating to building and maintaining FAO management programs to
meet the needs of the DoD as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoD
Instruction (DoDI) 1315.20, Management of Department of Defense (DoD) Foreign Area
Officer (FAO) Programs.

A1.3. Authority relating to establishing and administering the Aviation Leadership
Program as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 2010.12,
Aviation Leadership Program (ALP).

A1.4. Authority relating to negotiating and concluding information exchange program
annexes as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 2015.4, Defense
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) Information Exchange Program
(IEP).

A1.5. Authority relating to the international transfer of dual-use and defense-related
technology, articles and service transfer matters, matters, as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 2040.02, International Transfers of Technology, Articles
and Services.

A1.6. Authority relating to training and recommending qualified Air Force personnel for
security cooperation organization program assignments as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5132.13, Staffing of Security Cooperation Organizations
(SCOs) and the Selection and Training of Security Cooperation Personnel.

A1.7. Authority relating to military critical technologies list as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 3020.46, The Military Critical Technologies List
(MCTL).

A.1.8. Authority relating to managing or administering programs that transfer or export
defense articles to Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan as delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to DoDI 4140.66, Registration and End-Use Monitoring of Defense
Articles and/or Defense Services.
6                                                          HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014


A1.9. Authority relating to the nominating of personnel for assignment to staff and
attend courses for the Center for Hemispheric Defense Studies as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 3200.13, Center for Hemispheric Defense
Studies.

A1.10. Authority relating to the formal proposal of atomic information for disclosure to
foreign governments and regional defense organizations as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5030.14, Disclosure of Atomic Information to Foreign
Governments and Regional Defense Organizations.

A1.11. Authority relating to providing support, within the Air Force’s field of
responsibility, to the Director, Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA), to assist in
carrying out assigned responsibilities and functions of DSCA as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5105.65, Defense Security Cooperation
Agency.

A1.12. Authority relating to coordinating on all matters related to the functions and
responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs
(ASD(ISA)) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5111.07,
Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs.

A1.13 Authority relating to coordinating on all matters related to the functions and
responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Security
Affairs (ASD(APSA)) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD
5111.17, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs.

A1.14. Authority relating to providing support and assistance to Defense Attaché Offices
(DAOs) and Security Assistance Organizations (SAOs) as delegated to the Secretary of
the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5132.12, Consolidations and Reductions of U.S. Defense
Attaché Offices and Security Assistance Organizations.

A1.15. Authority relating to coordinating on security cooperation policy guidance and
allocating resources to achieve security cooperation objectives; complete campaign
support plan assessments and contribute to combatant command campaign plans, as
appropriate, in accordance with Title 22, United States Code; providing advice,
information reports, records and recommendations to the DoD on matters relating to
security cooperation; conducting international armaments cooperation with eligible
friendly foreign countries and international organizations in accordance with DoD
policies and criteria; conducting military education and training and sales of defense
articles and defense services to eligible foreign countries and international organizations;
providing qualified military and civilian personnel to carry out security cooperation
assignments; ensuring conformance with technology transfer, classified military
information release and disclosure policies for the Air Force’s areas of responsibility
while conducting security cooperation activities; and assisting the DoD, as requested, in
HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014                                                                    7


government-to-government or interdepartmental discussions or negotiations involving
security cooperation programs as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
DoDD 5132.03, DoD Policy and Responsibilities Relating to Security Cooperation.

A1.16. Authority relating to the nomination of personnel for assignment to staff and
attend courses of the George C. Marshall European Center for Security Studies as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5200.34, George C.
Marshall European Center for Security Studies.

A1.17. Authority relating to the nomination of personnel for assignment to staff and
attend courses of the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5200.38, Asia-Pacific Center for Security
Studies.

A1.18. Authority relating to providing resources for the operation, maintenance and
administration of the Foreign Disclosure and Technical Information System (FORDTIS),
as well as responsibilities referenced in paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2, as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military
Information to Foreign Governments and International Organizations.

A1.19. Authority relating to establishing procedures and processes to approve or deny
requests for visits or assignments of foreign nationals, administering the Military
Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP) within the Air Force, and coordinating, negotiating
and concluding agreements or annexes for MPEP assignments, as well as responsibilities
listed in paragraph 5.6, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD
5230.20, Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals.

A1.20. Authority relating to establishing, staffing, operating and monitoring Field
Studies Programs at Air Force installations and military schools as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5410.17, United States Field Studies
Program (FSP) for International Military and Civilian Students and Military- Sponsored
Visitors.

A1.21. Authority relating to personnel receiving International Cooperative
Administrative Support Services as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant
to Department of Defense Instruction 7060.06, International Cooperative Administrative
Support Services (ICASS).

A1.22. Authority relating to Materiel Interoperability with Allies and Coalition Partners
as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 2010.06, Materiel
Interoperability and Standardization with Allies and Coalition Partners.

A1.23. Authority relating to incorporating considerations of United States materiel
interoperability and standardization with allies and coalition partners in Air Force in the
8                                                         HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014


development, production and product improvement of all systems and equipment
intended for use in coalition operations and reporting to the DoD on the same; ensuring
applicable U.S. ratified materiel international standardization agreements are complied
with to the greatest extent feasible; ensuring that Air Force weapon system design takes
into account potential future transfers to allied nations, incorporates needed anti-tamper
features and accommodates modifications that make export possible and affordable;
establishing and maintaining relationships with NATO allies, major non-NATO allies,
friendly foreign nations and organizations within NATO and The Technical Cooperation
Program (TTCP) for developing compatible doctrine and operational concepts; providing
Air Force representation at appropriate NATO and other fora as required by the DoD; and
providing Air Force coordination on interoperability and standardization matters
developed within NATO and on matters developed within other fora in which the Air
Force is represented supporting the USD(P) in the implementation of the DoD
Technology Security Program as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
DoDD 5105.72, Defense Technology Security Administration (DTSA).

A1.24. Authority relating to conduct of DoD contacts with the People’s Republic of
China (PRC) (title unclassified) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
DoDI C-2000.23, Conduct of DoD Contacts with the People’s Republic of China (PRC)
(U), marked as a confidential document.

A.1.25. Authority relating to nominating military personnel for assignment as a Senior
Defense Official/diplomatically accredited Defense Attaché (SDO/DATT) and providing a
qualified military personnel performance rating scheme for use with that position as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5105.75, Department of
Defense Operations at U.S. Embassies.

A.1.26. Authority relating to implementing instructions at U.S. embassies as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI C-5105.81, Implementing Instructions
for DoD Operations at U.S. Embassies (U), marked as a confidential document.

A1.27. Authority relating to responsibilities for air attaché screening and selection as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI C-5105.32, Defense Attaché
System (U), marked as a confidential document.

A.1.28. Authority relating to support to the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (USD
(P)) as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5200.41, DoD
Centers for Regional Security Studies.

A1.29. Authority relating to establishing policy and approving payment for travel,
subsistence and special compensation of officers and students of Latin American
countries and other expenses that the Secretary through SAF/IA considers necessary for
Latin American cooperation pursuant to 10 USC §§ 1050, Latin American Cooperation:
Payment of Personnel Expenses.
HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014                                                                   9


A1.30. Authority relating to supporting policy of economic cooperation with Canada as
conferred upon the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 2035.01, Defense
Economic Cooperation with Canada.

A1.31. Authority as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to DoDI S-
2000.24, Conduct of DoD Contacts with the Government of the Hong Kong, Special
Administrative Region (HKSAR) of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) (U), marked as
a Secret document.

A1.32. Authority relating to developing, maintaining and institutionalizing the
capabilities of service members and Civilian Expeditionary Workforce (CEW) personnel
to support DoD efforts to organize, train, equip and advise foreign military forces and
relevant supporting institutions, including during periods of armed conflict, up to the
host-country military-department level in order to meet the geographic CCDR-forecasted
annual Security Force Assistance (SFA) requirements; supporting the identification of
required joint SFA capabilities across all domains and acquiring both standard and non-
standard equipment required to conduct SFA-related activities on the tactical and operational
levels; establishing personnel, training, education and reporting requirements for military and
DoD civilian personnel to conduct SFA-related activities and developing incentives for
military and DoD civilian personnel to obtain relevant critical language and cultural skills;
including geographic combatant commander-validated U.S. military SFA capability
requirements in acquisition programs; developing Air Force-specific strategy, doctrine,
training, education and proficiency standards for SFA capabilities; expanding, standardizing
and mandating training for SCO personnel; coordinating in efforts to develop global joint
sourcing solutions that recommend the most appropriate forces for validated SFA
requirements to the Global Force Management Board; and providing pre-deployment training
for all CEW personnel mobilized to support SFA missions as required and when resourced as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5000.68, Security Force
Assistance.

A1.33. Authority relating to procuring equipment and training for approved Section 1206
programs, to the extent provided for through pseudo-FMS cases; identifying and
accomplishing matters that must be resolved before case development or implementation;
providing accurate and timely cost data within Section 1206 pseudo-LOAs; identifying
potential funding risks to Section 1206 programs; managing assigned Section 1206 pseudo-
LOAs after implementation; ensuring all Section 1206-funded pseudo-FMS cases are closed
by the date designated by DSCA; and providing information necessary for program
assessments and reports as requested by the ASD(SO/LIC&IC) as delegated to the Secretary
of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5111.19, Section 1206 Global Train-and-Equip
Authority.

A1.34. Authority relating to establishing policy and approving payment for travel,
subsistence and special compensation of officers and students of African countries and
other expenses that the Secretary through SAF/IA considers necessary for African
10                                                     HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014


cooperation pursuant to 10 USC § 1050a, African Cooperation: Payment of Personnel
Expenses.


A.1.35. Authority for the assignment of military and civilian USAF and foreign Air
Force personnel in Defense Personnel Exchange Program (DPEP) in accordance with
DoDD 5230.20, Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals.
HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014                                                                             11


                                   ATTACHMENT 2

                              DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY
                               INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
                                      (SAF/IA)




                                        Deputy Under Secretary,
                                          International Affairs
                                                SAF/IA




                   Policy                   Regional Affairs      Strategy, Operations and Resources
                Directorate                   Directorate                     Directorate
                 SAF/IAP                       SAF/IAR                          SAF/IAG




A2.1. The Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA) is
directly responsible for oversight and advocacy of Air Force international programs and
policies. SAF/IA will develop, disseminate and implement policy/guidance for Air Force
international programs and activities, including politico-military policies and all matters
pertaining to the formulation, review and execution of strategies, plans, policies,
programs and budgets within its area of responsibility except regional operational issues
such as global posture matters, Operations Plan (OPLAN) reviews, Operator Engagement
Talks, Unified Command Plan reviews, and bilateral and multilateral exercises.

A2.2. Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include:

     A2.2.1. Policy Directorate (SAF/IAP). Ensures Air Force international
     programs/activities comply with U.S. laws and regulations, national and
     Department of Defense (DoD) security policy, DoD Directives and DoD
     Instructions. Evaluates the effectiveness of policy/guidance for direction,
     integration, supervision and evaluation of international programs/activities.
     Develops policies, plans and guidance on matters pertaining to International
     Armaments Cooperation (IAC), Foreign Military Sales (FMS), international
     training and education, international space and cyberspace matters and selection and
     support for Air Force Attachés, Exchange Officers and International Affairs
     Specialists. Oversees and implements programs involving export licenses and
     transfer of sensitive military technology abroad. Identifies, develops and oversees
12                                                         HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014


     IAC projects and other cooperative programs, and prepares and negotiates required
     international agreements. Represents SAF/IA on multidisciplinary resource boards
     and committees. Interfaces with DoD, Joint Staff, Military Departments,
     Department of State (DoS) and other U.S. Government agencies on matters
     involving USAF international interests.

     A2.2.2. Regional Affairs Directorate (SAF/IAR). Advises, assists and supports the
     Office of the Under Secretary of the Air Force, the Office of the Air Force Chief of
     Staff and all principal civilian and military officials of the Department of the Air
     Force concerning international policies and programs. Interfaces with DoD, Joint
     Staff, Military Departments, DoS and other U.S. Government agencies on matters
     involving USAF international interests. Performs technical and operational weapon
     system analysis to support decisions regarding FMS and Direct Commercial Sales
     (DCS) license applications of USAF weapon systems. Provides oversight required
     to integrate plans, programs and requirements in all areas involving politico-
     military and security cooperation aspects of Air Force international affairs.
     Interacts with foreign air forces on matters related to security cooperation activities,
     including FMS. Facilitates USAF participation in international air and trade shows.

     A2.2.3. Strategy, Operations, and Resources Directorate (SAF/IAG). As the Air
     Force Capability Portfolio Manager (CPM) for building partnerships (BP),
     promotes, advocates, and defends the BP portfolio and develops the USAF Global
     Partnership Strategy in coordination with the Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations,
     Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5). Conducts assessments and studies as directed
     by SAF/IA. Coordinates international politico-military review of strategy, doctrine,
     and policy documents. Assures liaison with the Air Staff and Secretariat, Joint
     Staff, Office of the Secretary of Defense and interagency security cooperation
     stakeholders. Serves as the strategic communications representative on Air Force
     international affairs issues by ensuring harmonization with overall U.S. government
     efforts to understand and engage key audiences to create, strengthen or preserve
     conditions favorable for the advancement of U.S. government interests, policies and
     objectives through the use of coordinated programs, plans, themes, messages and
     products synchronized with the actions of all instruments of national power.
     Provides functional oversight for all Air Force FMS and SAF/IA Information
     Technology (IT) assets and related services. Advises senior leadership on policies,
     procedures and investments of both, Air Force-wide and SAF/IA-specific security
     cooperation-related information technology/systems. Responsible for developing
     policy for the use and maintenance of the Air Force International Affairs Link
     website. Responsible for management and implementation of Air Force Theater
     Security Cooperation Management Information System (TSCMIS). Manages AF
     FMS/FMF Program Objective Memorandum (POM) development and submission
     to the Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) for the USAF security
     cooperation community. Manages SAF/IA’s FMS/FMF and Operations and
     Maintenance (O&M) budget development and execution of funds. Exercises
HAFMD1-16 10 February 2014                                                           13


    fiduciary responsibility to ensure SAF/IA’s credibility in the USAF corporate
    structure to defend BP resources and serves as the SAF/IA representative to the Air
    Force Group and the Air Force Board. Supports the Campaign Support Plan and
    the BP Core Function Master Plan (CFMP).
