BY ORDER OF THE                                              HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-46
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                            10 DECEMBER 2013



                                                                                 Chief of Safety



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at:
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/SE                               Certified by: AF/SE (Maj Gen Kurt F. Neubauer)
Supersedes: HAF MD 1-46, February 4, 2011                                     Pages: 12


SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This rewrite provides clarity concerning responsibility for the space safety mission and release
authorities for safety privilege information. New Standard Operating Procedures (SoP) with the
Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) and Air Force Chief, Information Dominance and Chief
Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6) are attached.

1. Mission. The Chief of Safety (AF/SE), pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8031-8038, and as
documented by paragraph 4.3 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this Headquarters Air
Force (HAF) Mission Directive, assists the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF), other Secretariat
offices, and the Chief of Staff (CSAF) in carrying out the safety and nuclear surety programs of
the Department of the Air Force. The SecAF retains ultimate responsibility for all policies
related to the Department of the Air Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility, the AF/SE
prepares policies for approval and issues guidance/procedures to ensure implementation of those
policies. The AF/SE also assists the CSAF in his/her role, pursuant to 10 USC § 151, as a
member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS).

2. Organizational Relationships. The SecAF is responsible for, and has all legal authority
necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The Secretariat, the CSAF,
and Air Staff offices perform their Department of the Air Force functions subject to the
authority, direction and control of the SecAF.

    2.1. The AF/SE reports directly to the CSAF, but provides support to the SecAF, the Under
    Secretary of the Air Force (USecAF), other Secretariat offices, the CSAF, and other Air
    Staff offices. The SecAF may re-delegate authority/assign responsibilities to the AF/SE, but
2                                                          HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013


    the SecAF, through the CSAF and, as appropriate, Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force,
    retains ultimate responsibility for all matters listed in Attachment 1 of this publication.

    2.2. The AF/SE is part of the Air Staff and as such works closely with other HAF offices to
    assist the SecAF and the CSAF in carrying out his or her responsibilities. The AF/SE and
    the Office of the Chief of Safety work in cooperation with the Assistant Secretary of the Air
    Force, Installations, Environment and Logistics (SAF/IE), The Inspector General of the Air
    Force (SAF/IG), Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (Space Programs) (SAF/SP), The
    Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5),
    The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG), Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for
    Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7), Assistant Chief of Staff of the Air
    Force for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10) and their respective
    offices, which are responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§
    8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting the SecAF and the CSAF in carrying out his or
    her responsibilities.

         2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air
         Force Mission Directive – Delegations of Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities,
         two or more HAF two-letter organizations with responsibilities in the same functional
         area are encouraged to develop “standard operating procedures (SoPs)” that set forth
         procedures enabling covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective
         missions, roles, and responsibilities. Therefore, any SOPs entered into between AF/SE
         and SAF/IE, are included at Attachment 3 of this HAF MD; between AF/SE and
         AF/TE, are included at Attachment 4 of this HAF MD; and between AF/SE and
         SAF/CIO A6, are included at Attachment 5 of this HAF MD.

    2.3. Reporting to the AF/SE is a Field Operating Agency, the Air Force Safety Center,
    whose mission is documented in AFMD 44, Air Force Safety Center.

3. Responsibilities. The AF/SE is specifically responsible for:

    3.1. Formation of safety and nuclear surety policy, the execution of plans, and the
    establishment of programs to implement Air Force safety policies and plans. The AF/SE
    provides instructions for field level programs and feedback on effectiveness of mishap
    prevention efforts.

    3.2. Formation of munitions safety policy, the execution of plans, and the establishment of
    programs to implement Air Force safety policies and plans. The AF/SE provides
    instructions for field level programs and feedback on effectiveness of mishap prevention
    efforts.

    3.3. Formation of flight safety policy, the execution of plans, and the establishment of
    programs to implement Air Force safety policies and plans. The AF/SE provides
    instructions for field level programs and feedback on mishap prevention effectiveness of
    efforts.
HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013                                                                      3


    3.4. Formation of ground safety policy, the execution of plans, and the establishment of
    programs to implement Air Force safety policies and plans. The AF/SE provides
    instructions for field level programs and feedback on mishap prevention effectiveness of
    efforts.

    3.5. Formation of space safety policy, the execution of plans, and the establishment of
    programs to implement Air Force safety policies and plans. The AF/SE provides
    instructions for field level programs and feedback on mishap prevention effectiveness of
    efforts.

    3.6. Formation of proactive Air Force occupational safety policies, standards and programs.
    The AF/SE provides instructions for field level programs and feedback on mishap
    prevention effectiveness of efforts.

    3.7. Formation of Air Force mishap prevention and investigation policy and direction
    require assessment of operational safety, suitability, and effectiveness where system or end-
    item failures or deficiencies are contributory to a mishap. The AF/SE provides instructions
    for field level programs and feedback on effectiveness of mishap prevention efforts.

4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility: Attachment 1 lists delegated
authorities and assigned responsibilities to AF/SE. The authorities delegated/responsibilities
assigned to AF/SE by this HAF Mission Directive may generally be re-delegated to other
Department of Air Force officials unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached
delegation or superseding law, regulation, or Department of Defense (DoD) issuance. While the
authorities are delegated/responsibilities assigned to the AF/SE, the exercise of the
authorities/responsibilities remain subject to the oversight and control of the SecAF, any
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force having oversight, and the CSAF. Any re-delegation of
authority made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating authorities
in accordance with this Directive may further restrict or condition the authority being re-
delegated.

5. Continuation of Prior Re-Delegations of Authority: Re-delegations of authorities made
prior to the date of issuance of this HAF Mission Directive remain effective insofar as such re-
delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF Mission Directive, unless superseded
by new issuances.




                                                    ERIC K. FANNING
                                                    Acting Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                        HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013




Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility to the Chief of Safety
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter Responsibilities
3. Standard Operating Procedures between SAF/IE and AF/SE
4. Standard Operating Procedures between AF/TE and AF/SE
5. Standard Operating Procedures between SAF/CIO A6 and AF/SE
HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013                                                                       5


                                       ATTACHMENT 1


                 DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                  AUTHORITY/ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY

                                            TO THE

                                      CHIEF OF SAFETY



A1.1. Authority relating to formation of safety and surety policy of all nuclear weapons systems
for which the SecAF has DoD life-cycle management responsibility as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3150.02, DoD Nuclear Weapon System
Surety Program.

A1.2. Authority relating to contractor safety requirements as delegated to the SecAF in
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4145.26, DoD Contractor’s Safety Requirements for
Ammunition and Explosives.

A1.3. Authority relating to establishing programs to reduce deaths, injuries, and property
damage caused by vehicular accidents as delegated to the SecAF in DoDI 6055.04, DoD Traffic
Safety Program.

A1.4. Authority relating to establishing procedures to adopt the accident categories,
classification criteria, and reporting formats and procedures on accidents and occupational
illnesses as delegated to the SecAF in DoDI 6055.07, Mishap Notification, Investigation,
Reporting, and Record Keeping.

A1.5. Authority to withhold from release and assert the safety privilege for portions of reports
that contain privileged safety information pursuant to DoDI 6055.07, Encl 5, para 10.a. This
delegation does not include authority to release privileged material to a party of a court
proceeding whether civil or criminal. This authority may not be further re-delegated.

A1.6. Authority to release privileged material upon a court order to the presiding judge in a
pending criminal case for the sole purpose of permitting the judge to conduct an IN CAMERA
review pursuant to DoDI 6055.07, Encl 5, para 10.c. Any such release must be subject to
appropriate protections and handling. This authority may not be further re-delegated. This
authority is limited to release of the information to the presiding judge as required by law and
does not include the authority to further permit the release of limited portions of privileged
material after the IN CAMERA review should the presiding judge order that the disclosure of the
information is required as a matter of due process.

A1.7. Authority relating to assignment of one qualified officer (O-6) to the DoD Explosives
Safety Board staff; and regarding developing and maintaining a comprehensive and effective
6                                                          HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013


explosives safety program as delegated to the SecAF in DoDD 6055.9E, Explosives Safety
Management and the DoD Explosives Safety Board.

A1.8. Authority relating to the Explosives Safety Management Program as delegated to the
SecAF pursuant to DoDI 6055.16, Explosives Safety Management Program.

A1.9. Authority relating to the control and management of Material Potentially Presenting an
Explosive Hazard to prevent its unauthorized use, transfer, or release as delegated to the SecAF
pursuant to DoDI 4140.62, Material Potentially Presenting an Explosive Hazard.
HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     7


                                       ATTACHMENT 2


                                      CHIEF OF SAFETY
                                          (AF/SE)


                                         Chief of Safety
                                             AF/SE

                                      Safety Issues Division
                                             AF/SEI


A2.1. The Chief of Safety (AF/SE) is responsible for the overall supervision of all matters
pertaining to Air Force safety and nuclear surety policy, plans, and programs. These programs
cover aviation, ground, conventional, nuclear weapons, directed energy, space, and other
emerging technologies to include safety education and training support of the Air Force mission.
The overall goal of these policies, plans, and programs is to conserve Air Force resources by
eliminating mishaps through proactive hazard identification and risk management consistent with
operational requirements. The AF/SE serves both as the Air Force Chief of Safety and as the
Commander, Air Force Safety Center (AFSEC) – reference AFMD 44. Within the office of the
AF/SE there is an executive officer, who performs executive administrative functions for the
Chief of Safety.

A2.2. Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include:

    A2.2.1. Safety Issues Division (AF/SEI). AF/SEI acts as an executive staff, responsible for
the formation and review of issues, policy, and plans in all safety and nuclear surety disciplines
(aviation, ground, nuclear weapons, explosives, missile, directed energy, space, and occupational
illness and injury reporting and mitigating strategies). AF/SEI reviews all departmental plans
and policies to ensure integration of safety, hazard identification and operational risk
management principles. AF/SEI executes plans, establishes management systems, and executes
programming activities to implement Air Force safety and nuclear surety policies.
8                                                                 HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013

                                            ATTACHMENT 3

                          STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
                                    BETWEEN THE
                        ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE,
                  INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT, AND LOGISTICS (SAF/IE)
                                       AND THE
                           AIR FORCE CHIEF OF SAFETY (AF/SE)

These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to Assistant Secretary of the
Air Force for Installations, Environment, & Logistics (SAF/IE) and the Air Force Chief of Safety
(AF/SE) who are responsible for developing policy, managing programs, and preparing guidance on
approved policies and plans for the field in the general area of safety. These procedures are intended to
facilitate routine staff actions and functions and reduce duplication of effort between SAF/IE and AF/SE
staff roles while increasing operating effectiveness and efficiency.

A3.1. SAF/IE retains authority and responsibility for safety programs assigned or otherwise delegated
directly to it by public law, executive orders or Department of Defense Directives and Instructions. It
also retains authority and responsibility for any additional safety programs that the Secretary of the Air
Force has or will re-delegate to it.

A3.2. Subject to the standard operating procedures that follow, a general description of the flow of work
between SAF/IE and AF/SE for the specific programs described in A3.1 is:

    A3.2.1. AF/SE submits policies requiring the Secretary of the Air Force approval to SAF/IE for
    coordination and concurrence prior to publication.

    A3.2.2. AF/SE executes approved policies in guidance (AF instructions) providing additional guidance
    to the field as necessary.

    A3.2.3. SAF/IEE (Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environment, Safety and Occupational Health)
    coordinates policies and guidance that impact execution of the Air Force Safety Program with AF/SE
    prior to publication.

A3.3. Conditions for AF/SE to Exercise Delegated Secretarial Authorities. AF/SE is authorized to act
on the Secretary of the Air Force or SAF/IE's behalf as outlined in HAF MD 1-46, Attachment 1, and
for programs outlined in A3.1 when such action:

    A3.3.1. Provides data, analyses, information papers, etc., to OSD or congressional staff in support of
    established policies, programs, or other initiatives that have been vetted through the Air Force
    corporate structure, or other appropriate decision process; e.g. senior leader forum or fully coordinated
    staff package.

    A3.3.2. Implements an order or policy direction from the Secretary of the Air Force.

    A3.3.3. Satisfies routine reporting requirements and requests for status reports on Air Force
    programs/initiatives from OSD and Congress.

A3.4. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Action. SAF/IE review and concurrence are required prior to
implementing any policy, plan, and program when one or more of the following situations or conditions
apply for programs outlined in A3.1:
HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013                                                                                9


   A3.4.1. Involves a controversial issue that will cause, or is likely to cause, significant reactions among
   senior Administration officials, Members of Congress or key staff, the public, or the press.

   A3.4.2. Involves the breach of a performance parameter established in policy directives and/or Air
   Force instructions.

A3.5. Conditions Requiring SAF/IE Approval of AF/SE Actions. SAF/IE approval is required prior to
implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity for programs outlined in A3.1 when one or
more of the following situations or conditions apply:

   A3.5.1. Involves a Statute, Executive Order, or DoD policy that requires Secretary of the Air Force
   review, coordination, and/or implementation. DoD policy requires SD Forms 106 be signed by SAF/IE
   (a Senate confirmed position).

   A3.5.2. Involves new policies or initiatives proposed by OSD officials, congressional staff, or Air
   Force that would result in significant changes to Air Force programs that are the corollary to DoD
   programs in A3.1.

A3.6. Conditions Requiring AF/SE Review of SAF/IEE Actions. AF/SE review is required prior to
implementing any policy, plan, program, practice or activity for programs outlined in A3.1, which may
cause a resource impact as a result of execution.

A3.7. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may be reviewed and
revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Air Force. SAF/IE or AF/SE may also initiate a
revision in consultation with AF/SE or SAF/IE, respectively. OPRs must follow revision procedures as
mandated in HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives – Delegations of Statutory Authority
and Assignment of Responsibilities.



//signed, kfn, 17 Sep 13//                                //signed, kif, 17 Sep 13//
KURT F. NEUBAUER                                          KATHLEEN I. FERGUSON, P.E.
Major General, USAF                                       Acting Assistant Secretary
Chief of Safety                                           Installations, Environment & Logistics
10                                                              HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013

                                           ATTACHMENT 4

                            STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
                                      BETWEEN THE
                             AIR FORCE CHIEF OF SAFETY (AF/SE)
                                         AND THE
                         DIRECTOR OF TEST AND EVALUATION (AF/TE)

These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to the Air Force Chief of
Safety (AF/SE) and Directorate of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) who are responsible for developing
policy, managing programs, and preparing guidance on approved policies and plans for safety in the
Major Range and Test Facility Base. These procedures are intended to facilitate routine staff actions and
functions and reduce duplication of effort between AF/SE and AF/TE staff roles while increasing
operating effectiveness and efficiency.

A4.1. AF/TE retains authority and responsibility for management and operation of the Major Range and
Test Facility Base as delegated through public law, executive order or Department of Defense Directive
and Instruction including DoDI 3200.18 Management and Operation of the Major Range and Test
Facility Base (MRTFB). AF/SE retains authority and responsibility for safety and nuclear surety as
delegated or re-delegated through public law, executive order or Department of Defense Directive and
Instruction including DoDD 4715.1E, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health.

A4.2. Subject to the standard operating procedures that follow, a general description of the flow of work
between AF/SE and AF/TE for the specific programs described in A3.1 is:

     A4.2.1. AF/TE submits MRTFB policies that impact safety to AF/SE for coordination and concurrence
     prior to publication.

     A4.2.2. AF/SE submits safety policies that impact the MRTFB to AF/TE for coordination and
     concurrence prior to publication.

A4.3. Conditions Requiring AF/SE Review of AF/TE Actions. AF/SE review and concurrence are
required prior to implementing any policy, plan, and program which involves nuclear surety or flight,
ground, explosive, directed energy, or space safety.

A4.4. Conditions Requiring AF/TE Review of AF/SE Actions. AF/TE review and concurrence are
required prior to implementing any policy, plan, and program which involves the management or
operation of the MRTFB.

A4.5. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may be reviewed and
revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Air Force. AF/SE or AF/TE may also initiate a
revision. OPRs must follow revision procedures as mandated in HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force
Mission Directives – Delegations of Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities.



//signed, kfn, 30 Sep 13//                              //signed, rgw, 30 Sep 13//
KURT F. NEUBAUER                                        RANDALL G. WALDEN
Major General, USAF                                     Director, Test and Evaluation
Chief of Safety
HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013                                                                           11

                                           ATTACHMENT 5

                    STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
                              BETWEEN THE
AIR FORCE CHIEF, INFORMATION DOMINANCE AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
                                (SAF/CIO A6)
                                  AND THE
                     AIR FORCE CHIEF OF SAFETY (AF/SE)

These standard operating procedures (SOPs) apply to individuals assigned to the Chief, Information
Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6) and Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) who are
responsible for developing policy, managing programs, and preparing guidance on approved policies and
plans concerning munitions certification authority for Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Ordinance
(HERO). These procedures are intended to facilitate routine staff actions and functions and reduce
duplication of effort between SAF/CIO A6 and AF/SE staff roles while increasing operating effectiveness
and efficiency.

A5.1. SAF /CIO A6 retains authority and responsibility for the Air Force Electromagnetic Environment
Effects (E3) program and Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Ordinance (HERO), as it relates to E3,
as delegated through public law, executive order or Department of Defense Directive and Instruction
including Department of Defense Directive DoDD 3222.3. AF/SE retains authority and responsibility for
safety and nuclear surety as delegated or re-delegated through public law, executive order or Department
of Defense Directive and Instruction.

A5.2. Subject to the standard operating procedures that follow, a general description of the flow of work
between AF/SE and SAF/CIO A6 for the specific programs described in A5.1 is:

A5.2.1. SAF/CIO A6 submits E3 policies that impact HERO certification to AF/SE for coordination and
concurrence prior to publication.

A5.2.2. AF/SE submits HERO policies that impact the E3 program to SAF/CIO A6 for coordination and
concurrence prior to publication.

A5.2.3. AF/SE executes HERO certification authority for munitions tested in accordance with DoD
Standard 6055.09-STD, during acquisition and subsequent phases of life-cycle management.

A5.3. Conditions Requiring AF/SE Review of SAF/CIO A6 Actions. AF/SE review and concurrence
are required prior to implementing any policy, plan, and program which involves HERO.

A5.4. Conditions Requiring SAF/CIO A6 Review of AF/SE Actions. SAF/CIO A6 review and
concurrence are required prior to implementing any policy, plan, and program which involves the
management or execution of the AF E3 program to include HERO.
12                                                           HAF MD 1-46 10 DECEMBER 2013

A5.5. Revisions to Standard Operating Procedures. These operating procedures may be reviewed and
revised as deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Air Force. SAF/CIO A6 or AF/SE may also initiate a
revision. OPRs must follow revision procedures as mandated in HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force
Mission Directives – Delegations of Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities.




//signed, kfn, 20 Sep 13//                           //signed, mjb, 20 Sep 13//
KURT F. NEUBAUER                                     MICHAEL J. BASLA
Major General, USAF                                  Lieutenant General, USAF
Chief of Safety                                      Chief, Information Dominance and
                                                       Chief Information Officer
