BY ORDER OF THE                                                              HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-22
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                                   24 August 2011

                                                                                                           Director

                                                                                               Legislative Liaison




                     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/LLZ                                                                               Certified by: SAF/LL
                                                                                   (Major General Lori Robinson)
Supersedes: HAF MD 1-22, 3 October 2007                                                                 Pages: 7


1. Mission. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8013-8016, may establish
offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the Secretary in carrying out his or her responsibilities. As
documented by Paragraph 4.1 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this Headquarters Air Force (HAF)
Mission Directive, the Director of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL) is established as part of the Secretariat. The
SAF/LL has overall responsibility for legislative affairs and congressional relations for the Department of the
Air Force. The SECAF retains ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the Air
Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility, the SAF/LL prepares policies for approval and issues official
guidance/procedures via official AF publications to ensure implementation of those policies.

2. Organizational Relationships. SECAF is responsible for, and has all legal authority necessary to conduct,
the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF),
and Air Staff offices perform their Department of the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction
and control of the Secretary of the Air Force.

         2.1. The SAF/LL reports to the SECAF, serves as an agent of the Secretary within assigned policy
         and program domains, and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to
         the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets within his/her area
         of responsibility. The SAF/LL is accountable to the Secretary for results achieved within the policy
         and program domains assigned by this Directive.

         2.2. The SAF/LL is part of the Secretariat and as such works closely with other HAF offices to assist
         the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his or her responsibilities. The SAF/LL and the Office
         of the SAF/LL work in cooperation with other HAF organizations, which are responsible, pursuant
         to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8024 and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting the
         Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his or her responsibilities.
2                                                                      HAFMD1-22 24 AUGUST 2011

                2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air Force
                Mission Directives – Delegations of Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities,
                two or more HAF two-letter/digit organizations with responsibilities in the same functional
                area are encouraged to develop “standard operating procedures (SOPs)” that set forth
                procedures enabling covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective missions,
                roles, and responsibilities. SAF/LL has not entered into any SOPs at this time.

        2.3. There are no Field Operating Agencies reporting to the SAF/LL.

3. Responsibilities. The SAF/LL is specifically responsible for:

        3.1. Developing, coordinating and supervising the Air Force legislative program.

        3.2. Evaluating and reporting legislative matters about the Air Force, including issuing pertinent
        legislative information to proper Air Force officials and offices.

        3.3. Preparing and coordinating reports, testimony and related statements on legislation with the
        Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Office of Management and Budget and the Congress
        including scheduling and other arrangements for presentation of legislative testimony before
        Congressional Committees.

        3.4. Preparing reports and arranging for presentation of testimony regarding real-estate and
        construction projects for approval of the Armed Services Committees.

        3.5. Preparing responses to inquiries from Committees of Congress and arranging for presenting
        testimony at Congressional hearings.

        3.6. Preparing responses to correspondence and inquiries from Members of Congress, the Executive
        Office of the President and the Office of the Vice President.

        3.7. Releasing classified information to the Congress according to policies prescribed by the SECAF.

        3.8. Supervising travel arrangements for Congressional travel designated an official responsibility of
        the Air Force.

        3.9. Keeping members and committees of Congress advised of Air Force activities within their area
        of interest.

        3.10. Maintaining direct liaison with the Congress, the Executive Office of the President, OSD and
        other government agencies on matters mentioned above.

        3.11. Managing preparation and support of SECAF and the CSAF annual Congressional testimony.

        3.12. Organizing, directing and monitoring the Air Force Staff Posture Team.

        3.13. Monitoring and tasking the Air Force Issue Papers.

        3.14. Coordinating and managing all Congressional Reporting Requirements for the Air Force.
HAFMD1-22 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                                       3

4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility. Attachment 1 lists delegated authorities and
assigned responsibilities to the SAF/LL. The authorities delegated/responsibilities assigned to the SAF/LL by
this HAF Mission Directive may generally be re-delegated unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the
attached delegation or superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance. While the SAF/LL may re-delegate
authorities to other Department of Air Force officials, he or she will ultimately be responsible to the Secretary
of the Air Force for all matters affecting legislative affairs and Congressional relations. Any re-delegation of
authority/assigned responsibilities made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating
authority in accordance with this HAF Mission Directive may further restrict or condition the
authority/assigned responsibility being re-delegated.

5. Notifications to Congress: No re-delegation of authority/assigned responsibility under this HAF Mission
Directive below the level of a Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-letter/digit office shall include authority to
provide notifications or reports to Congress.

6. Revocation of Secretary of the Air Force Order: No additional Secretary of the Air Force Orders have
been revoked.




                                                                       Michael B. Donley
                                                                       Secretary of the Air Force




Attachments:

1. Delegations of Authorities/Assignment of Responsibility for SAF/LL

2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter/digit Responsibilities
4                                                                        HAFMD1-22 24 AUGUST 2011


                                                 Attachment 1


                      DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                    AUTHORITY/ASSIGNMENTS OF RESPONSIBILITY TO THE
                           DIRECTOR OF LEGISLATIVE LIAISON


A1.1. Authority relating to DoD support for travel by members and employees of Congress as delegated to
the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 4515.12, Department of Defense
Support for Travel of Members and Employees of Congress.

A1.2. Authority and responsibilities relating to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5142.01, Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs (ASD(LA)).

A1.3. Authority and responsibilities relating to the provision of classified and unclassified information to
Congress as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
5400.04, Provision of Information to Congress.

A1.4. Authority relating to processing of legislation, executive orders, proclamations, and reports as
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5500.01,
Preparation, Processing and Coordinating Legislation, Executive Orders, Proclamations, Views Letters, and
Testimony.

A1.5. Authority relating to authorization and appropriations reporting requirements as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 5545.02, DoD Policy for
Congressional Authorization and Appropriations Reporting Requirements.
HAFMD1-22 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                                      5


                                                 Attachment 2

                                              DIRECTOR,
                                         LEGISLATIVE LIAISON
                                               (SAF/LL)




A2.1. The Directorate of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL) is responsible for the overall supervision of all
matters pertaining to Air Force legislative affairs and congressional relations, and for advising the Secretary
and all other principal civilian and military officials of the Department of the Air Force thereon. Except for
appropriation matters, SAF/LL provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the
formulation, review and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets relative to the Air Force
legislative program.
6                                                                      HAFMD1-22 24 AUGUST 2011

A2.2. Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include:

        A2.2.1. House Liaison Office (SAF/LLH). SAF/LLH functions as the initial point of contact between
        the United States Air Force and the United States House of Representatives. SAF/LLH deals with all
        facets of legislative activity and performs as primary military escort for House delegations.
        SAF/LLH also works directly with members and personal staff to satisfy congressional requirements
        including travel escort support.

        A2.2.2. Senate Liaison Office (SAF/LLS). SAF/LLS functions as the initial point of contact between
        the United States Air Force and the United States Senate. SAF/LLS deals with all facets of
        legislative activity and performs as primary military escort for Senate delegations. SAF/LLS also
        works directly with members and personal staff to satisfy congressional requirements including
        travel escort support.

        A2.2.3. Air Operations Division (SAF/LLO). SAF/LLO serves as the single point of contact to
        receive, coordinate, and process all travel requirements for Members of Congress, Congressional
        Committees, and Congressional Staff members when such travel is assigned to the Air Force by the
        DoD, or at the invitation of the SECAF. SAF/LLO is the validating office for Operational Support
        Airlift (OSA) Milair for Air Force-sponsored congressional travel.

        A2.2.4. Programs and Legislation Division (SAF/LLP). SAF/LLP is responsible for liaison between
        the Air Force and Congress for authorization of all Air Force programs, legislation, and associated
        program budget requests (excluding weapon systems and appropriation matters). SAF/LLP develops
        and implements strategy within the Air Force to facilitate congressional authorization and works
        directly with members and staff to satisfy congressional requirements including travel escort support.
        The division prepares Air Force leaders for testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee,
        House Armed Services Committee, and other committees as required, and prepares Hearing
        Resumes and other products to reflect outcomes of the engagements. SAF/LLP is a direct link
        between field commanders and Congress. The division assigns, monitors, and expedites Secretariat
        and Air Staff actions to formulate responses to members’ inquiries and those on behalf of
        constituents concerning Air Force policies. SAF/LLP also coordinates and makes these
        congressional announcements: base closure, force structure, competitive sourcing studies and results,
        civilian reductions-in-force, contract awards greater than five million dollars, environmental impact
        assessments and results, military construction efforts, and accident investigations.

        A2.2.5. Congressional Inquiries Division (SAF/LLI). SAF/LLI serves as the single point of contact
        for constituent inquiries from the White House, members of Congress, state and local elected
        officials. SAF/LLI monitors, and expedites inquiries addressed to the Secretary of Defense, SECAF,
        and CSAF. SAF/LLI is the Secretariat and Air Staff Liaison to the White House Military Liaison
        Office and manager for the Legislative Fellows Program. SAF/LLI is the single point of contact for
        directorate level archiving of all congressional & White House inquiries.

        A2.2.6. Congressional Action Division (SAF/LLZ). SAF/LLZ is responsible for matters pertaining to
        developing and executing Air Force legislative strategies on major national security issues. SAF/LLZ
        prepares the AF Senior Leadership for any engagement with congressional members or Professional
        Staff Members (PSMs), ranging from short meetings to testimony before Congress. The division
        leads the Air Force Posture Team in numerous events requiring inputs from other offices. SAF/LLZ
        advises SAF/LL and Top 4 leadership on legislative issues impacting Air Force plans, policies, and
        programs, monitors progress of Air Force programs through Congressional budget processes, and
        acts as necessary to support the President’s Budget. Lead division for Chief of Staff-directed Wing

        HAFMD1-22 XX XXX 2011                                                                         7
HAFMD1-22 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                                7

     Commander Capitol Hill Visit program. SAF/LLZ provides legislative research and analysis and
     disseminates Air Force-wide information on Congressional issues and activities.

     A2.2.7. Weapons Systems Liaison Division (SAF/LLW). SAF/LLW is responsible for liaison
     between the Air Force and Congress for authorization of all Air Force weapons systems programs
     and associated program budget requests (excluding appropriation matters). SAF/LLW develops and
     implements strategy within the Air Force to facilitate congressional authorization and works directly
     with Members and staff to satisfy congressional requirements including travel escort support. The
     division prepares Air Force leaders for testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee,
     House Armed Services Committee, and both the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, and
     prepares Hearing Resumes. SAF/LLW is a direct link between field commanders and Congress. The
     division assigns, monitors, and expedites Secretariat and Air Staff actions in formulating responses
     to members’ inquiries and those on behalf of constituents concerning Air Force programs.
