BY ORDER OF THE                                                       HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-34
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           30 MAY 2013



                                                                                CHIEF OF CHAPLAINS



                            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/HC                                                                         Certified by: AF/HC
                                                                      (Ch, Maj Gen Howard D. Stendahl)
Supersedes HAF MD1-34, September 13, 2010                                                       Pages: 6

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Removed the Executive Support (AF/HCE) sub-organization and updated the 3-letter subordinate
office descriptions at Attachment 2.

1. Mission. The Chief of Chaplains (AF/HC), pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8031-8038 and as documented
by paragraph 4.3 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this Headquarters Air Force Mission
Directive HAF MD, assists the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), other Secretariat offices, and the
Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) in carrying out the religious, ethical, and quality of life
programs of the Department of the Air Force. The Secretary of the Air Force retains ultimate
responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the Air Force. Within his/her areas of
responsibility, the AF/HC prepares policies for approval and issues official guidance/procedures to
ensure implementation of those policies. The AF/HC also assists the CSAF of the Air Force in his
role, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 151, as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS).

2. Organizational Relationships. The SECAF is responsible for and has all legal authority necessary
to conduct the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air
Force, and Air Staff offices perform their Department of the Air Force functions subject to the
authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force.

   2.1. The AF/HC reports directly to the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force but provides
   support to the SECAF, the Under Secretary of the Air Force, other Secretariat offices, the CSAF,
   and other Air Staff offices. The SECAF may re-delegate authority/assign responsibilities to the
   AF/HC, but the SECAF, through the CSAF and, as appropriate, Assistant Secretaries of the Air
   Force, retains ultimate responsibility for all matters affecting religious, ethical, and quality of life
   programs.
2                                                                           HAFMD1-34 30 MAY 2013

    2.2. The AF/HC is part of the Air Staff and as such works closely with other HAF offices to assist
    the SECAF and the CSAF in carrying out their responsibilities. The AF/HC works in cooperation
    with the other HAF officials and their respective offices which are responsible, pursuant to Chapters
    803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting the SECAF and
    the CSAF in carrying out their responsibilities.

    2.3. There are no Field Operating Agencies reporting to the AF/HC.

3. Responsibilities. The Chief of Chaplains is specifically responsible for:

    3.1. Providing spiritual care and the opportunity for Air Force members and their families to
    exercise their constitutional right to freedom of religion consistent with Department of Defense
    policy.

    3.2. Leading the Chaplain Corps Council in accomplishing the Air Force Chaplain Corps mission
    Air Force-wide.

    3.3. Managing Air Force chaplains and chaplain assistants.

    3.4. Planning, researching, developing, and initiating professional program support, financial
    management, and administrative procedures to support Chaplain Corps ministry to the Air Force
    community.

    3.5. Serving as a member of the Armed Forces Chaplains Board of the Office of the Secretary of
    Defense (OSD) and as a liaison officer with the chiefs of chaplains of allied nations.

    3.6. Establishing and maintaining cooperative relationships with the ecclesiastical endorsing
    agencies representing the religious organizations of America.

4. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility: Attachment 1 lists delegated authorities
and assignments of responsibility to the AF/HC. The authorities delegated to the AF/HC by this HAF
MD may generally be re-delegated to other Department of the Air Force officials unless re-delegation
is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance.
While the authorities are delegated/responsibilites assigned to the AF/HC, the exercise of those
authorities remains subject to the oversight and control of the SECAF, any Assistant Secretary of the
Air Force having oversight, and the CSAF. Any re-delegation of authority/reassignment of
responsiblity made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating authorities in
accordance with this Directive may further restrict or condition the authority being re-delegated.
HAFMD1-34 30 MAY 2013                                                                               3

5. Continuation of Prior Re-Delegations of Authority: Re-delegations of authorities made prior to
the date of issuance of this HAF MD remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not
inconsistent with the terms of this HAF MD, unless superseded by new issuances.




                                            Michael B. Donley
                                            Secretary of the Air Force


Attachments:
1. Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility for AF/HC
2. Organizational Chart/Three-Letter Responsibilities
4                                                                        HAFMD1-34 30 MAY 2013

                                            Attachment 1

    DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITY/ASSIGNMENT OF
                          RESPONSIBILITY TO THE
                           CHIEF OF CHAPLAINS

Al.1. Authority relating to the accommodation of religious practices within the Department of the Air
Force as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction
1300.17, Accommodation of Religious Practices Within the Military Services.

A1.2. Authority and responsibilities related to the Armed Forces Chaplains Board as delegated to the
Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 5120.08, Armed Forces
Chaplains Board.
HAFMD1-34 30 MAY 2013                                                                                       5

                                             Attachment 2

                                       CHIEF OF CHAPLAINS
                                             (AF/HC)


                                           Chief of Chaplains
                                               (AF/HC)




          Personnel, Budget, and           Plans and Programs             Chaplain Assistant
           Readiness Division                   Division                 Career Field Manager
               (AF/HCP)                        (AF/HCX)                       (AF/HCC)


A2.1. The Chief of Chaplains (AF/HC): The AF/HC is responsible for the overall supervision of all
matters pertaining to the religious, ethical, and quality of life concerns of Air Force personnel,
including guidance, direction, and oversight for all religious and ethical policies and programs. The
Chief of Chaplains serves as a member of the Armed Forces Chaplains Board of the Office of the
Secretary of Defense (OSD), serves as the liaison officer with the chiefs of chaplains of allied nations,
and establishes and maintains cooperative relationships with the ecclesiastical endorsing agencies
representing the religious organizations of the United States of America.

A2.2. Three- letter subordinate offices include:

   A2.2.1. Personnel, Budget, and Readiness Division (AF/HCP). AF/HCP is responsible for
   developing guidance, plans, and procedures effecting the strategic development and operation of
   Chaplain Corps personnel, readiness, and reserve affairs. Guides the development, participation,
   and submission of functional-wide, long-range plans, policies, and procedures dealing with
   Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE). Manages the Office of the Chief of
   Chaplains’ Strategic Fund and facilitates the Chaplain Corps Strategic Fund Review Board
   (SFRB). Serves as a liaison between the AF/HC and the Air Force Colonels' Group (AF/DPO) for
   the colonels' game plan. Provides functional oversight of the Air Force Personnel Center, Chaplain
   Force Development Branch (HQ AFPC/DPANH) and Chaplain Recruiting (HQ AFRS/RSOCC)
   regarding recruiting, accessions, and assignments. Serves as the Career Field Manager providing
   functional guidance to the Chaplain Corps Development Team. Also, oversees all aspects of career
   field education and training in coordination with AETC/HC, Air University (AU), Air Force
   Institute of Technology (AFIT), and the Chaplain Corps College. Serves as the Functional Area
   Manager (FAM) and manages the Crisis Action Team (CAT) and Readiness Working Group
   (RWG).
6                                                                         HAFMD1-34 30 MAY 2013

    A2.2.2. Plans and Programs Division (AF/HCX). AF/HCX is responsible for developing
    policies, instructions, and program guidance for religious observances, pastoral and spiritual care,
    and advising leadership. AF/HCX is the office of primary responsibility for public relations and
    guidance for chaplain professional standards and functions. AF/HCX oversees the Chaplain Corps
    history program. AF/HCX provides operational and administrative supervision of the Air Force
    Chaplain Corps Resource Development Center (HCXR).

    A2.2.3. Chaplain Assistant Air Force Career Field Manager (AF/HCC). AF/HCC organizes
    and manages the Chaplain Assistant career field by overseeing all aspects of career field education
    and training. AF/HCC manages manpower and personnel actions to ensure the effective utilization
    of chaplain assistants. The Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) provides functional
    direction for the Chaplain Corps College regarding issues affecting the career field. The AFCFM
    also chairs the Chaplain Assistant Force Development Team, Chaplain Assistant Functional
    Advisory Council, Chaplain Assistant Utilization and Training Workshops, and Specialty Training
    Requirements Team.
