BY ORDER OF THE                                                         HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-56
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           25 SEPTEMBER 2007



                                                              DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF STRATEGIC
                                                                         PLANS AND PROGRAMS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A8ES                                                Certified by: AF/A8 (Lt Gen Raymond Johns)
                                                                                             Pages: 9




1. Mission. The Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS) of the Air Force, Strategic Plans and Programs, (AF/A8),
pursuant to Chapter 805 of Title 10 (10 U.S.C. §§ 8031-38), and prescribed by the Secretary of the Air
Force in paragraph 3.2.6 of AFMD 1 Headquarters Air Force, assists the Secretary of the Air Force, other
Secretariat offices, and the Chief of Staff in carrying out the establishment of Air Force resource alloca-
tion and Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) System Policy, all matters pertaining
to development, direction and conduct of Air Force planning and programming activities as well as the
provision of guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review and
execution of plans, policies, programs and budgets within its area of responsibility, Air Force Strategic
Planning, the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR), and Air Force Transformation of the Department of
the Air Force. As Secretary of the Air Force, I retain ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the
Department of the Air Force. Within his/her areas of responsibility, the AF/A8 prepares policies for my
approval and issues official guidance/procedures to ensure implementation of those policies. The AF/A8
also assists the Chief of Staff of the Air Force in his role, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 151, as a member of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS).

2. Organizational Relationships. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and has all legal
authority necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air Force. The Secretariat, the Chief
of Staff of the Air Force, and Air Staff offices perform their Department of the Air Force functions subject
to the authority, discretion, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force.
   2.1. The AF/A8 reports directly to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, but provides support to the Sec-
   retary of the Air Force, the Under Secretary of the Air Force, other Secretariat offices, the Chief of
   Staff of the Air Force, and other Air Staff offices. The Secretary of the Air Force may re-delegate
   authority to the AF/A8, but the Secretary of the Air Force, through the Chief of Staff of the Air Force
   and, as appropriate, Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force, retains ultimate responsibility for all mat-
2                                                                  HAFMD1-56 25 SEPTEMBER 2007


    ters affecting PPBE System Policy, all matters pertaining to developing, directing and conducting Air
    Force planning and programming activities as well as providing guidance, direction, and oversight for
    all matters pertaining to the formulation, review and execution of plans, policies, programs and bud-
    gets within its area of responsibility, Air Force Strategic Planning, the QDR, and Air Force Transfor-
    mation.
    2.2. The AF/A8 is part of the Air Staff and as such works closely with other HAF offices to assist the
    Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff in carrying out his or her responsibilities. The AF/A8
    and the Office of the AF/A8 work in cooperation with the other HAF officials, and their respective
    offices, which are responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 U.S.C. §§ 8014-8023
    and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff in carrying out
    his or her responsibilities.
       2.2.1. Pursuant to Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, two or more HAF two-letter
       organizations, Field Operating Agencies, and/or Direct Reporting Units with responsibilities in
       the same functional area are encouraged to develop “standard operating procedures (SOPs)” that
       set forth procedures enabling covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective mis-
       sions, roles, and responsibilities. There are no SoPs between AF/A8 and any other organization.

3. Responsibilities. The AF/A8 is specifically responsible for:
    3.1. Establishing Air Force resource allocation and Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execu-
    tion System (PPBE) policy. AF/A8 functions as the Air Staff Office of Primary Responsibility for all
    matters pertaining to developing, directing, and conducting Air Force planning and programming
    activities.
    3.2. Maintaining the integrity of the Air Force Corporate Structure process. AF/A8 provides informa-
    tion and briefings to the corporate structure for corporate decisions and is a member of the Air Force
    Council, Air Force Planning Board of Directors, and Defense Medical Review Committee.
    3.3. Developing and managing the process for institutionalized long-range strategic planning. AF/A8
    generates a coherent, strategic vision for the Air Force and articulates the vision and the contributions
    of air and space power to joint warfighting capabilities.
    3.4. Exercising close coordination with senior leadership and planning staffs at DoD, Air Force, and
    MAJCOMs, utilizing their critical expertise, and ensuring full and timely input to the long-range/stra-
    tegic planning process.
    3.5. Coordinating a modernization planning process that aggressively and objectively evaluates and
    incorporates future warfighting concepts.
    3.6. Implementing the strategic vision and providing direction for planning and programming through
    a continuously updated Air Force Strategic Planning Directive.
    3.7. Reviewing, developing, and evaluating proposed options to change the Air Force Program prior
    to, during, and following periods of major exercises to determine impacts on balance, integration, and
    mission areas. AF/A8 develops Program Change Guidance.
    3.8. Developing, compiling and submitting the Air Force Program Objective (POM); coordinating
    and defending the POM, Budget Estimate Submission (BES) and President’s Budget (PB) and all
    related documentation.
HAFMD1-56 25 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                              3


   3.9. Reviewing and evaluating impacts caused by changes to the Air Force Program and evaluating
   historical trends compared with current Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) by appropriation,
   mission panels, etc.
   3.10. Receiving and tracking fiscal guidance from OSD and providing a comparison of fiscal
   resources (funding and real growth) between the Air Force and other Services.

4. Delegations of Authority : Attachment 1 lists my delegated authorities to the AF/A8. The authorities
delegated to the AF/A8 by this HAF Mission Directive may generally be re-delegated to other Depart-
ment of the Air Force officials unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or
superseding law, regulation, or DOD issuance. While the authorities are delegated to the AF/A8, the exer-
cise of the authorities remain subject to the oversight and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, any
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force having oversight, and the Chief of Staff. Any re-delegation of author-
ity made shall not be effective unless it is in writing. Any person re-delegating authorities in accordance
with this Directive may further restrict or condition the authority being re-delegated.

5. Continuation of Prior Re-Delegations of Authority: Re-delegations of authorities made prior to the
date of issuance of this HAF Mission Directive remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not
inconsistent with the terms of this HAF Mission Directive, unless superseded by new issuances.



                                               MICHAEL W. WYNNE
                                               Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                HAFMD1-56 25 SEPTEMBER 2007


                                             Attachment 1

             DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITY
                                     TO THE
             DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF, STRATEGIC PLANS AND PROGRAMS

A1.1. Authority relating to commercial activities delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to
Department of Defense Directive 4100.15, Commercial Activities Program.

A1.2. Authority relating to the assignment of commercial activities, delegated to the Secretary of the Air
Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4100.33, Commercial Activities Program Proce-
dures.

A1.3. Authority relating to standardizing references to military aerospace vehicles, delegated to the Sec-
retary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 4120.15E, Designating and Naming
Military Aerospace Vehicles.

A1.4. Authority relating to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity
Conflict, delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
5111.10, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict (ASD(SO/
LIC).

A1.5. Authority relating to the directorship of Program Analysis and Evaluation, delegated to the Secre-
tary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5141.01, Director, Program Analysis
and Evaluation (PA&E).

A1.6. Authority relating to the Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System, delegated to the Secre-
tary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 7045.14, The Planning, Programming,
and Budgeting System (PPBS).

A1.7. Authority relating to the implementation of the Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System,
delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 7045.7, Imple-
mentation of the Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS).
HAFMD1-56 25 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                              5


                                             Attachment 2

                                  DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF,
                              STRATEGIC PLANS AND PROGRAMS
                                          (AF/A8)




A2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) is responsible for the overall
supervision of all matters pertaining to Air Force resource allocation and Planning, Programming, Bud-
geting and Execution System policy. AF/A8 functions as the Air Staff Office of primary responsibility for
all matters pertaining to developing, directing, and conducting Air Force planning and programming
activities. The AF/A8 provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formu-
lation, review and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets relative to:
   A2.1.1. Establishing Air Force resource allocation and Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Exe-
   cution System (PPBE) policy.
   A2.1.2. Maintaining the integrity of the Corporate Structure process. AF/A8 provides information
   and briefings to the corporate structure for corporate decisions and is a member of the Air Force
   Council, Air Force Planning Board of Directors, and Defense Medical Review Committee.
   A2.1.3. Developing and managing the process for institutionalized long-range strategic planning. AF/
   A8 generates a coherent, strategic vision for the Air Force and articulates the vision and the contribu-
   tions of air and space power to joint warfighting capabilities.
   A2.1.4. Exercising close coordination with senior leadership and planning staffs at DoD, Air Force,
   and MAJCOMs, utilizing their critical expertise, ensuring full and timely input to the long-range/stra-
   tegic planning process.
   A2.1.5. Coordinating a modernization planning process that aggressively and objectively evaluates
   and incorporates future warfighting concepts.
   A2.1.6. Implementing the strategic vision and provides direction for planning and programming
   through a continuously updated Air Force Strategic Planning Directive.
6                                                                HAFMD1-56 25 SEPTEMBER 2007


    A2.1.7. Reviewing, developing, and evaluating proposed options to change the Air Force Program
    prior to, during, and following periods of major exercises to determine impacts on balance, integra-
    tion, and mission areas. AF/A8 develops Program Change Guidance.
    A2.1.8. Developing, compiling and submitting the Air Force Program Objective (POM); coordinat-
    ing and defending POM, Budget Estimate Submission (BES) and President’s Budget (PB) and all
    related documentation.
    A2.1.9. Reviewing and evaluating impacts caused by changes to the Air Force Program and evaluat-
    ing historical trends compared with current Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) (by appropriation,
    mission panels, etc.).
    A2.1.10. Receiving and tracking fiscal guidance from OSD. Provides a comparison of fiscal
    resources (funding and real growth) between the Air Force and other Services.

A2.2. Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include:
    A2.2.1. The Directorate of Executive Services (AF/A8E). AF/A8E is the single point of contact
    for providing staff services, information technology services, resource management, management of
    AF Reserve Component programs, and civilian human resource liaison for all members under Strate-
    gic Plans and Programs. AF/A8E functions include:
       A2.2.1.1. The Staff Services Division (AF/A8ES). The Division manages administrative, secu-
       rity, manpower, and personnel matters for the DCS and serves as the single point of contact for all
       organizational structure changes within the DCS.
           A2.2.1.1.1. Functions as liaison with 11WG Military Personnel Flight for assignments, enlist-
           ment, tour extensions, duty information changes, separation/retirements, decorations, officer/
           enlisted evaluation performance reports, sponsor program, and performs all in/out-processing.
           The division manages the DCS’ military promotion programs, oversees the Management
           Level Review (MLR) boards and prepares associated promotion release products and informa-
           tion.
           A2.2.1.1.2. Manages the manpower program including Unit Manning Document (UMD) and
           Unit Personnel Management Roster (UMPR) and associated actions/changes.
           A2.2.1.1.3. Responsible for officer and enlisted evaluation programs within the DCS.
           A2.2.1.1.4. Manages the Government Travel Card Program.
           A2.2.1.1.5. Manages and administers the Defense Travel System (DTS) within the DCS.
           Grants permissions to Organizational Defense Travel Administrators (ODTAs) and loads
           Directorate budget information into DTS.
           A2.2.1.1.6. Functions as the Primary Security Manager for AF/A8.
               A2.2.1.1.6.1. Responsible for Personnel Security actions; such as security clearance veri-
               fication, visit request and Pentagon badges.
               A2.2.1.1.6.2. Functions as liaison with 11 SFS as well as primary AF/A8 POC for all
               information and industrial security matters.
               A2.2.1.1.6.3. Administers the AF/A8 COMSEC program.
           A2.2.1.1.7. Manages miscellaneous programs as deemed appropriate by the AF/A8.
HAFMD1-56 25 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                         7


     A2.2.1.2. The Technology Services Division (AF/A8ET). The Division provides comprehensive
     Information Technology (IT) support to AF/A8.
        A2.2.1.2.1. The Division is comprised of 3 branches: Requirements/Analysis, Web Develop-
        ment and Helpdesk support. The branches perform software development, hardware/software
        procurement and life cycle management; design/maintain AF/A8-/A8E-/A8X web pages, and
        provide front line user assistance.
     A2.2.1.3. Providing Resource Management for the DCS.
        A2.2.1.3.1. The AF/A8 Resource Manager (RM) assists the commander in determining finan-
        cial policies/procedures, establishing spending priorities for the Directorate, obtaining
        required resources, preparing financial plans and fiscal year close-out.
        A2.2.1.3.2. The RM prepares and answers all of 2-Ltr A-Staff request for data and briefs
        Commanders or Agency Chiefs as required.
        A2.2.1.3.3. The RM ensures primary and alternate Resource Advisors are appointed and the
        appointment is documented and signed by the Commander.
     A2.2.1.4. Providing a single point of contact for the administration of AF Reserve Component
     personnel for the DCS.
        A2.2.1.4.1. Administering the DCS’ Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA) program to
        include management of accessions, in-processing, and completion of annual requirements.
        A2.2.1.4.2. Providing a Unit Reserve Coordinator (URC) that acts as a liaison with 11WG
        Military Personnel Flight, AFDW and the Reserve Management Group (RMG Det 11) for:
        officer/enlisted evaluation performance reports, duty information changes, separation/retire-
        ments, and decorations.
        A2.2.1.4.3. Managing the Military Personnel Appropriations (MPA) “Manday” program. The
        Directorate provides guidance across the DCS on requests for, allocations of and the distribu-
        tion of Mandays. Additionally, keeps AF/A8 senior leadership informed during all phases of
        DCS Manday execution.
     A2.2.1.5. The Civilian Human Resource Liaison. This office manages civilian manpower and
     personnel matters for the DCS, to include:
        A2.2.1.5.1. Conducting annual civilian appraisal and performance plan reviews.
        A2.2.1.5.2. Conducting management level civilian incentive award boards.
        A2.2.1.5.3. Providing quality control of civilian time sheets.
        A2.2.1.5.4. Managing the civilian training program.
        A2.2.1.5.5. Auditing civilian positions and employee control files.
        A2.2.1.5.6. Maintaining unit information records on all civilian employees.
     A2.2.1.6. Managing the facilities program and acting as the AF/A8 Space Coordination, Reallo-
     cation and Utilization Board (SCRUB) representative.
     A2.2.1.7. Coordinating, facilitating and managing miscellaneous projects as needed and approved
     by the AF/A8.
8                                                                 HAFMD1-56 25 SEPTEMBER 2007


    A2.2.2. Directorate of Programs (AF/A8P). AF/A8P is responsible for matters pertaining to inte-
    grating, evaluating, and analyzing the USAF program across the FYDP. The Directorate of Programs
    consists of six divisions: Combat Forces Division (AF/A8PC), Program Integration Division (AF/
    A8PE), Information Superiority Division (AF/A8PI), Combat Support and Analysis Division (AF/
    A8PL), Global Mobility Division (AF/A8PM), and Space Superiority Division (AF/A8PS). AF/A8P
    functions include:
       A2.2.2.1. Reviewing, developing and evaluating funding options for the Secretary of the Air
       Force and Chief of Staff of the Air Force to meet worldwide air and space requirements and bal-
       ances force readiness and sustainability with force modernization.
       A2.2.2.2. Analyzing and evaluating programs and force projections for balance, phasing, and fea-
       sibility in relation to known and anticipated availability of resources and higher authority deci-
       sions.
       A2.2.2.3. Analyzing impact of programming decisions and force structure requirements on major
       acquisition programs and assessing viability of these programs to meet national requirements and
       to provide warfighting capabilities.
       A2.2.2.4. Establishing Air Force policy for resource allocation and Planning, Programming, Bud-
       geting and Execution System (PPBE).
       A2.2.2.5. Coordinating with the CONOPS organizations and other Air Staff organizations to
       ensure coherent capabilities-based programming and efficient/effective resource allocation.
       A2.2.2.6. Functioning as the Air Staff Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for all matters per-
       taining to formulating, directing, and amending the Air Force Program to meet worldwide force
       requirements across the full spectrum of air and space combat capabilities.
       A2.2.2.7. Providing a comprehensive and overall assessment of the total Air Force Program from
       both a programming and budgeting perspective. Provides recommendations and information to
       strengthen the Air Force defense of resource allocation decisions.
       A2.2.2.8. Preparing program briefings for senior Air Force leadership (Air Force Corporate
       Structure, CSAF, and Secretary) on resource allocation, program issues, and defense of the com-
       bined AF POM/BES.
       A2.2.2.9. Chairing the Air Force Group and Board. Maintains the integrity of the AF Corporate
       Process. Provides information and briefings to the Air Force Council for corporate decisions and
       recommendation to the CSAF/Secretary.
       A2.2.2.10. Developing annual Programming Guidance in accordance with overarching National
       and Defense guidance, policy, and objectives.
    A2.2.3. Directorate of Strategic Planning (AF/A8X). AF/A8X is responsible for matters pertain-
    ing to defining Air Force strategy, policy, air power theory and distinctive capabilities. Coordinating
    Air Staff activities and working with the MAJCOMS, the Air National Guard Directorate and
    National Guard Bureau and the Air Force Reserve to develop initiatives that utilize the Total Force
    concept. The Strategic Planning Directorate consists of six divisions: The Future Concept Develop-
    ment Division (AF/A8XC), the Outreach Division (AF/A8XO), the Total Force Integration Division
    (A8XF), the Long-Range Plans Division (AF/A8XP), the Air Force Quadrennial Defense Review
    Division (AF/A8XS), and the Directors Action Group Division (A8XZ). AF/A8X functions include:
HAFMD1-56 25 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                            9


     A2.2.3.1. Developing strategies, concepts and plans for all future Air Force activities with special
     emphasis on long-range strategic planning as an input to Air Force programming.
     A2.2.3.2. Articulating the Air Force position on strategic planning issues before the Joint Chiefs
     of Staff and the National Security Council to include Joint Strategic Planning System (JSPS),
     National Military Strategy (NMS), Joint Strategy Review (JSR), Chairman’s Program Assessment
     (CPA) and National Security Strategy (NSS).
     A2.2.3.3. Providing and implementing planning guidance by developing the Air Force Planning
     Directive Air Force Capabilities Investment Strategy (AFCIS), and publishes AFPD 90-11, Plan-
     ning System.
     A2.2.3.4. Sponsoring AF Future Capabilities War Game (FG), developing Air Force Toolbox
     (AFT) and linking theoretical and future concepts, capabilities and weapons systems to actual pro-
     grams while advocating the funding of promising technologies and concepts.
     A2.2.3.5. Advocating Air Force positions on Joint/Strategic Planning Guidance (JPG/SPG),
     Transformation Planning Guidance (TPG), Annual Planning and Programming Guidance
     (APPG), Strategic Planning Studies Group (SPSG) and other national security policies.
     A2.2.3.6. Serving as Executive Secretariat for the AF Transformation Senior Steering Group
     (TSSG), authoring the AF Transformation Flight Plan (TFP) and interfacing with other Services,
     the joint community, and OSD to ensure compatibility of initiatives across the department.
     A2.2.3.7. Serving as Executive Secretariat for RAND’s Project Air Force (PAF), the Air Force's
     Federally Funded R&D Center (FFRDC) for Studies & Analysis.
     A2.2.3.8. Developing strategic environmental assessment (technological, economic and political)
     and strategic priorities.
     A2.2.3.9. Supplying analytic support through the Enhanced Tradespace Tool (ETT), the Recapi-
     talization Analysis and the Information and Resource Support System (IRSS).
     A2.2.3.10. Managing the Total Force initiative (TFI), addressing new organizational constructs
     and new personnel policies to maintain our combat capability and to retain our high quality per-
     sonnel.
     A2.2.3.11. Developing missions and initiatives for the TFI utilizing the results of Base Realign-
     ment and Closure (BRAC) proceedings, QDR recommendations and self initiated actions.
     A2.2.3.12. Advocating for and leading the implementation of TFI concepts, initiatives and poli-
     cies for the Air Force.
     A2.2.3.13. Working with Air Staff, MAJCOMs, AF Guard and Reserve components to develop
     the optimal force mix for various locations.
     A2.2.3.14. Monitoring current and emerging mission areas to ensure an appropriate fit of role to
     component in the Air Force.
     A2.2.3.15. Ensuring new requirements are presented to and supported in the corporate structure.
     A2.2.3.16. Communicating the TFI message to the DoD, Air Force, Congress and public.
