BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                      HANSCOMAIR FORCE BASE
HANSCOM AIR FORCE BASE                                                                             INSTRUCTION 36-2706

                                                                                                                            17 JULY 2012

                                                                                                                                   Personnel

                                                                        GUIDANCE FOR SPECIAL OBSERVANCE
                                                                         COMMITTEE AND HERITAGE MONTH
                                                                                           CELEBRATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication


OPR: ESC/EO                                                                                               Certified by: 66 ABG/CC
                                                                                                            (Col Lester Weilacher)
                                                                                                                           Pages: 27
Supersedes:    HANSCOMAFBI 36-2706,
               21 October 2009


This instruction is designed to provide procedural guidance to personnel participating in the
special observance programs at Hanscom Air Force Base (HAFB). It applies to each observance
awareness activity and all individuals assigned to HA FB. It is furnished as an informational tool
to assist in the planning, organizing, and administrative execution of ethnic observance
programs/activities on the installation and to ensure proper protocol procedures are made
available to all prospective participants. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm




       1.      Overview ................................................................................................................   2
       2.      Budgetary Requirements. .......................................................................................             4
       3.      Program Management and Support. ......................................................................                      5
 2                                                   HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES                                                           9

Attachment 2—SPECIAL OBSERVANCE PLANNING TIMELINE                                            10

Attachment 3—MEMORANDUM REQUESTING PARTICIPATION                                             17

Attachment 4—TENTATIVE PROGRAM OUTLINE                                                       18

Attachment 5—INTRODUCTORY MESSAGE                                                            19

Attachment 6—LETTER TO PROPOSED KEYNOTE SPEAKER                                              20

Attachment 7—NEWS RELEASE                                                                    21

Attachment 8—LETTER OF APPRECIATION                                                          22

Attachment 9—AWARDS NOMINATION                                                               23

Attachment 10—POINT PAPER                                                                    24

Attachment 11—A SELF-HELP GUIDE TO FUNDRAISING ON HANSCOM AFB                                26


1. Overview
     1.1. Purpose of Special Observances:
        1.1.1. Conducted to enhance cross-cultural awareness, mutual respect, and understanding
        among all Department of Defense (DoD) military and civilian employees, their family
        members, and retirees.
        1.1.2. To promote harmony, pride, teamwork, and “esprit de corps” among all groups,
        not just within the specific group being honored.
        1.1.3. Activities are an extension of leadership’s equal opportunity education and
        training objectives.
        1.1.4. Annual celebrations recognize the achievements and contributions made by
        members of specific racial, ethnic, religious, or gender groups in society.
        1.1.5. The focus of the observance is directed towards encouraging interaction, not just
        recognition. Success is best measured by the degree of cross-cultural and cross-gender
        participation.
     1.2. Authority for Special Observances:
        1.2.1. Special observances are held annually in support of Joint Congressional
        Resolution, Presidential Proclamation, and achievements of all groups that comprise the
        society of the United States.
        1.2.2. Since 1968, the DoD has proudly supported special observances through the
        development of local recognition programs and many diverse activities.
     1.3. Individual Observance Background:
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                               3


     1.3.1. Every year, the United States, DoD, and the Department of the Air Force hold
     various special observances to commemorate contributions that all Americans have made
     to our country. Since 1968, ethnic observances have been mandated by Joint
     Congressional Resolution, Presidential Proclamation, and/or Chief of Staff Directives.
     The objective is to foster teamwork and awareness by exhibiting pride in past and present
     contributions made by the various social, ethnic, and cultural groups. During the 1970’s,
     racial unrest, riots, social inequalities, etc., accelerated social awareness and change in
     the United States. Within the Armed Forces, formal education and training programs
     were developed to counter the social and cultural conditions and problems having a
     negative impact on mission effectiveness. In 1974, the DoD implemented the Special
     Observance Program as the Installations Commander’s program and encouraged all bases
     to conduct functions that acknowledged the cultural and historical contributions of their
     diverse populations. Major observance recognized by the DoD and Air Force that
     promote this type of awareness and education are as follows:
     1.3.2. Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday: Observed annually on the 3rd Monday of
     January. Public Law 98-144 establishes this day as a federal holiday. Chapel services,
     community educational projects, and other appropriate activities commemorate the
     anniversary of birth on 15 January 1929 of the slain clergyman, civil rights advocate, and
     Nobel Peace Prize recipient. Activities should promote harmony and a universal pursuit
     of excellence among all people.
     1.3.3. African American/Black History Month: 1-28/29 February. First observed by
     Presidential Proclamation in 1976. Dr. Carter G. Woodson, founder of the Association of
     the Study of Negro Life and History (now the Association for the Study of Afro-
     American Life and History) launched the celebration of Negro History Week in 1926. It
     was originally observed during the week including the 12th and 14th of February (the
     birth dates of Abraham Lincoln and 19th century abolitionist Frederick Douglas).
     Planned events should educate the base populous on the significant impact African
     American achievements and cultures have had on shaping American history and culture.
     1.3.4. Women’s History Month: 1-31 March: Congress passed a resolution in 1981
     establishing National Women’s History Week. The week was chosen to coincide with
     International Women’s Day on 8 March. In 1987, Congress expanded the week to a
     month and has issued a resolution every year since for Women’s History Month.
     Activities focus on recognizing greater freedom of choice for women, particularly in the
     areas of equal opportunity, compensation, and responsibility. Federal agencies have used
     the occasion to promote the goals of the Federal Women’s Program. Opportunities for
     recruitment, training, and advancement are also emphasized.
     1.3.5. Days of Remembrance of the victims of the Holocaust: April/May. Begins the
     Sunday preceding the Jewish observance of Yom Hashoah and continues through the
     following Sunday. First observed by Public Law 96-388 in 1980. The purpose of the
     observance is to reflect upon, learn about, and never forget what happened to the millions
     silenced during the Holocaust.
     1.3.6. Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month: 1-31 May. Presidential Proclamation in
     1978 established Asian/Pacific American Heritage week beginning on 4 May. In May
     1990, the holiday expanded when President George H.W. Bush designated May to be
 4                                                     HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


        Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month. May was chosen to commemorate the first
        Japanese immigrants to the United States on 7 May 1843 and to mark the anniversary of
        the completion of the transcontinental railroad on 10 May 1869, where the majority of
        workers were Chinese immigrants. All contributions and cultures of diverse Asian/Pacific
        Americans should be recognized.
        1.3.7. Women’s Equality Day: 26 August. In 1971 the Joint Resolution of Congress
        authorized 26 August as Women’s Equality Day. This day is observed to commemorate
        the 26 August 1920 passing of the 19th Amendment which granted women the right to
        vote. The day was also chosen because of the Women’s Strike for Equality, a
        strike/protest held on   26 August 1970.
        1.3.8. Hispanic Heritage Month: 15 September to 15 October. In 1968, Public Law 90-
        498 designated Hispanic Heritage Week to be observed during the week embracing the
        dates 15 and 16 September. In 1988, Public Law 100-402 changed the observance to be
        celebrated for the 30-day period between 15 September and 15 October. 15 and 16
        September are dates that have particular significance, because five Central American
        countries (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Mexico)
        became independent on these dates. The observance should highlight diverse Hispanic
        contributions and cultures.
        1.3.9. National Disability Employment Awareness Month: 1-31 October. 36 US Code
        121 authorized the month of October as National Disability Employment Awareness
        Month in January 1988. This observance was originally conceived in 1945 as National
        Employ the Physically Handicapped Week as a campaign to actively promote the
        employment of disabled but otherwise qualified Americans. Since then the scope has
        been revised and expanded. The current intent of this observance is to increase the
        public’s awareness of the contributions and skills of Americans with disabilities and
        highlight the specific employment barriers that still need to be addressed and removed.
        1.3.10. National American Indian Heritage Month: 1-30 November. The first "American
        Indian Day" was declared by the State of New York in 1916. A month long recognition
        of Native Americans was not achieved until 1990 when President George H.W. Bush
        declared the first National American Indian Heritage Month on 3 August. Similar
        proclamations have been issued each year since 1994. American Indians were the original
        people of the American land when settlers first came to this country. American Indians
        across the United States have made many significant contributions to the growth of our
        nation. There are many tribes of American Indians spanning across almost every state.
        The observance should recognize the significant contributions and the plethora of
        American Indian tribes and peoples.
2. Budgetary Requirements.
     2.1. Use of Appropriated Funds:
        2.1.1. Appropriated funds in the context of this instruction refer to the use of installation
        operations and maintenance (O&M) funds. Investment appropriations (e.g.; program
        office Program Management Administration funds -- PMA) are not to be used for these
        types of activities.
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                                 5


      2.1.2. In accordance with (IAW) AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and
      Procedures, sec. 4K, para. 4.26.1, Air Force organizations at all levels may spend
      appropriated funds, as authorized by the host or installation commander, to carry out
      activities that recognize the contributions that minorities and women have made to
      society. As with any DoD supported program, thorough forethought and planning must
      be accomplished well in advance of the target date of the observance.
      2.1.3. Funds may be spent on activities and publications intended to promote cross-
      cultural harmony and awareness. Examples of permissible expenditures include guest
      speakers, artistic or cultural activities, food exhibits or samples (samples cannot be
      intended as meals or refreshments).
      2.1.4. Funds may be allocated to commercial entertainment as part of an educational
      awareness program. Commanders will ensure that projected events amplify the
      contributions made to the DoD and to society by the featured group.
      2.1.5. All funds requests will be coordinated through the 66th Comptroller Squadron (66
      CPTS) and Electronic Systems Center Judge Advocate (ESC/JA) prior to expenditure.
   2.2. Fundraising:
      2.2.1. It is essential that private organizations/heritage committee chairs fully understand
      the budgetary constraints contained in AFI 65-601, Volume I, Budget Guidance and
      Procedures, , Sect. 4K (para. 4.26.1) prior to attempting to fund a special observance.
      Depending on the scope of the observance and the extravagance of the event, it may be
      necessary to organize fundraisers to help support financial requirements.
      2.2.2. It is the responsibility of each observance group to raise any additional funds
      needed to supplement funds budgeted by the Installation Commander for activities they
      wish to sponsor. On-base fundraising activities will be coordinated through the 66th
      Force Support Squadron (66 FSS).
3. Program Management and Support.
   3.1. Assigned Observances:
      3.1.1. Chairperson assigned by host organization will be responsible for planning and
      executing the observance activities.
      3.1.2. Any person assigned to HAFB (i.e., active duty, retiree, family member, civilian,
      contractor) may participate as a member in any heritage committee, regardless of gender,
      race or ethnic background, mission permitting.
   3.2. Location of Observance Activities: All observance-related activities should be held on
   HAFB when practical. Any exceptions must be routed through the 66th Air Base Group
   Commander (66 ABG/CC).
   3.3. Installation Commander:
      3.3.1. Senior leadership involvement/attendance is the key to successful special
      observances.
6                                                    HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


       3.3.2. Acknowledges special observances as official functions and authorizes personnel
       official time to work on committees and to participate in and attend observances as
       mission requirements allow.
       3.3.3. In the event that a special observance group is not in place, the Installation
       Commander may appoint a working group made up of military and civil service
       personnel to plan relevant activities for a special observance. The committee
       composition may consist of the chairpersons of recognized ethnic heritage
       clubs/committees chartered on base and representatives from staff agencies that normally
       participate in the planning process. In addition, different organizations may be tasked
       (mission permitting) to develop organization programs to foster a spirit of competition
       and team building.
       3.3.4. Program necessary funding into organizational budgets for annual observance
       activities.
       3.3.5. Approves requests initiated to solicit interest and support, e.g., announcements in
       the base newspaper, information bulletin, Senior Staff Meetings and/or
       Commander’s/Director’s calls.
       3.3.6. Encourages all members of the military and civilian community to contribute to
       and participate in the planning, implementation, and conduct of the observance activities.
    3.4. Equal Opportunity Office:
       3.4.1. Maintains close liaison with special observance groups and serves as an advisor
       only.
       3.4.2. Will maintain special observance groups’ continuity books/binders.
       3.4.3. Research and provide national observance themes to committee chairperson(s).
       3.4.4. Providing guidance on appropriateness of the types of events/activities held.
       3.4.5. Reviewing all correspondence prior to the start of the official coordination
       process.
    3.5. Special Observance Committee Chairperson:
       3.5.1. Will coordinate with the EO office for guidance to ensure proper planning of
       events.
       3.5.2. Ensure committee meetings are scheduled and advertised publicly to permit
       maximum participation/attendance by interested base personnel. Publicizing meetings
       can be accomplished through the 66th ABG Public Affairs Office (66 ABG/PA).
       3.5.3. Notifies the installation commander of any proposed dates/events where
       attendance is requested at least 45 days in advance. All events will be coordinated with
       the ESC & 66 ABG Executive Officers (ESC/CCE & 66 ABG/CCE) for scheduling on
       leadership’s calendars. No events (luncheons, banquets, etc.) will be formally scheduled
       without prior coordination.
       3.5.4. Maintains close liaison with 66 ABG/CC. Meets with 66 ABG/CC two weeks
       prior to the start of the observance period in order to present proposed observance
       activities for approval.
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                                7


     3.5.5. Chair organizational meetings to work out details for program activities, appoint
     program subcommittees, and plan a comprehensive program of educational events.
     3.5.6. Prepare a budget estimate for the Installation Commander's approval prior to
     committing funds. Budget must be routed through ESC/EO, 66 CPTS and ESC/JA prior
     to sending to the Installation Commander for approval.
     3.5.7. Will coordinate invitations, flyers, scripts, programs and seating charts through the
     66 ABG Protocol Office (66 ABG/CCP).
     3.5.8. Will coordinate all forms in reference to audio, visual and public address requests
     with the 66 ABG/PAV (Public Affairs).
     3.5.9. Will coordinate all fundraising requests through the 66 FSS.
     3.5.10. Ensures an appropriate theme is chosen for the observance consistent with the
     spirit of the event and the needs of the local community. Note: National or DoD themes
     are often published which may be used to augment the activities.
     3.5.11. Ensures all associated events are publicized in base newspaper, bulletins and
     postmaster emails to provide widest dissemination possible.
     3.5.12. Ensures personnel desiring to participate on observances committees are given a
     reasonable opportunity to do so.
  3.6. 66 ABG/PA:
     3.6.1. Provides information and guidance when requested for publicizing activities.
     3.6.2. Provides overall information coverage, as appropriate (e.g., base/local newspaper
     articles, radio/TV coverage and photographic support).
     3.6.3. Coordinates information regarding scheduled activities with higher headquarters
     and local news media, as appropriate.
     3.6.4. Provides photo, video, and graphics support when requested and authorized
     (ESC/PAV).
  3.7. 66 ABG/CCP: Reviews all invitations, scripts, programs and seating charts to ensure
  protocol policies are followed.
  3.8. Communications Division (Information Management and Audiovisual Services):
     3.8.1. Provides public address systems support when requested and authorized.
     3.8.2. Will support DV events over observance functions if planned at the same time.
     3.8.3. Will not support off-base functions.
  3.9. 66 ABG/HC:
     3.9.1. Serves as consultant/advisor for Invocation requests when needed.
     3.9.2. Coordinates the use of resources/facilities for religious (commemorative) activities
     when requested.
  3.10. 66 CPTS:
8                                                     HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


       3.10.1. Will serve as financial consultants/advisors to observance committees should
       appropriated funds be used.
       3.10.2. Will review projected committee budget estimate of appropriated funds for
       planned/proposed activities prior to Installation Commander approval.
    3.11. 66 FSS:
       3.11.1. Coordinates the use of resources/facilities for planned activities as appropriate.
       3.11.2. Will review and approve requests for committee fundraisers as appropriate.
       3.11.3. Provide Honor Guard support if available.
    3.12. ESC/JA: Provides legal information, guidance, support and technical advice
    concerning committee planned events and contracts as required.
    3.13. 66 MDG/SGOAM:
       3.13.1. Conducts inspections and approves/disapproves requests for activities involving
       temporary food services (i.e. barbecues, food sales, food tasting events, etc.)
       3.13.2. Will coordinate with Public Health regarding all food events. Approval of food
       source and preparation must be given prior to planning/ordering food for event.
       3.13.3. Will provide food handler training to Heritage Committee Chairperson. The
       chairperson must provide training to all other food handlers. Training will be documented
       and returned to Public Health upon completion.
    3.14. Assignment of Host Organizations.
       3.14.1. Each organization will assign a chairperson & committee senior advisor to
       assemble a committee and organize events for each observance period. Committee senior
       advisors will provide oversight and a senior voice to their committee's program when
       needed.
       3.14.2. Ensure program development is fully coordinated IAW this instruction prior to
       finalizing any plans.
       3.14.3. Encourage maximum use of recreational and base facilities to include the base
       library, community center, theater, etc. for use during observation of the special events.
       3.14.4. Ensure events are properly coordinated and placed on the ESC and ABG
       calendar.




                                             LESTER A. WEILACHER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                                9


                                         Attachment 1
                              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES

References
36 U.S.C. § 121, provides designation of National Disability Employment Awareness Month
Public Law 96-388, establishes United States Holocaust Memorial Council
Public Law 98-144, recognizes the birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. a legal public holiday
Public Law 99-244, provides designation of National Black (Afro-American) History Month
Public Law 100-402, provides designation of National Hispanic Heritage Month
Public Law 101-283, provides designation of Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month
Public Law 101-343, provides designation of National American Indian Heritage Month
AFI 36-2706, Equal Opportunity Program Military and Civilian, 5 October 2010
AFI 36-3101, Fundraising within the Air Force, 12 July 2002
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
 10                                                HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


                                       Attachment 2
                  SPECIAL OBSERVANCE PLANNING TIMELINE

Figure A2.1. Special Observance Planning Timeline
TIMELINE TASK                                OPR        OPR    COMPLETE    NOTES

                                             OFFICE     NAME   (DATE)

120 DAYS     SET EVENT DATES

OUT          (clear with 66
             ABG/CC/CD/DD calendar,
             if possible to avoid schedule
             conflicts with DVs)

             Secure Speaker(s) if possible
             (Speaker bio is mandatory)

             - provide speaker with
             theme,

             appropriate length of speech,
             topic, taboo subjects

             - inquire if special
             communication equipment is
             needed

             - note from 66 ABG/CC if in
             lodging

             Start Award Nominations-

             Start Staff Summary Sheet to
             call for nominations (If
             applicable)

             Determine subcommittees:
             tickets, decorations,
             fundraising, awards,
             entertainment, etc.

             Plan fundraisers - coordinate
             with 66th Force Support
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012           11


           Squadron for approval



100 DAYS   Obtain information for
           completion of Staff
OUT        Summary Sheet:

           Biography (Speaker)

           Event(s) date(s), time(s)
           location(s) – make
           reservations

           Contact Honor Guard for
           colors presentation or
           posting

           ** Honor Guard MUST
           know the rank of the guest

           speaker so the appropriate
           flag can be posted **

           Determine DV Roles in
           program(s) – provide
           suggested remarks (If
           applicable)

           Award Info- What (if any)
           awards will be presented



90 DAYS    Staff Summary Sheet
           completed and forwarded to
OUT        appropriate agencies for
           review and/or approval.

           Prepare additional funds
           request if fundraising goals
           are not met *Funds may or
           may not be approved, so
           plan accordingly
 12                                           HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012




60 DAYS      Send out "SAVE THE
             DATE" Cards to DVs
OUT

             Begin publicity campaigns:

             Base Paper

             Org Calendars

             Slides for weekly/monthly
             staff meetings

             Display posters / distribute
             flyers

             Schedule audio/visual
             support

             Schedule Chaplain (required
             for invocation)

             Coordinate with 66
             MDG/PH if food is involved
             with event



30-40    Contact 66 ABG/CCP for
DAYS OUT assistance with invitations,
         scripts, programs, seating,
         etc. no later than 30 days out

             Reconfirm reservations -
             facility, guest speaker(s),
             emcee(s)

             Work speech issues -
             coordinate with Public
             Affairs or other appropriate
             office to obtain remarks, etc.

             Guest speaker – verify that
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                  13


            speaker is still available

            Emcee/Narrator script

            Publicity push



            Send out invitations to DVs
            after 66 ABG/CCP approval




21-28
DAYS
OUT



15 DAYS     Pre-Brief Org Chair/Advisor on
            status of planned activities
OUT



5-10 DAYS   Send script, program to 66
            ABG/CCP final for
OUT         review/approval - do not make
            changes after approval / do
            not ad lib scripts

            Inform all participants of correct
            uniform to wear (Uniform of the
            day or Service Dress)

            Verify correct flags needed with
            66 ABG/CCP

            Double check DV R.S.V.P.s
            with secretaries prior to seating
            chart development

            Send DV R.S.V.P. listing to 66
            ABG/CCP for DV seating chart
14                                           HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


         development assistance

         Off-base guest lists to 66 SFS
         Pass and ID section (complete
         EAL)



2 DAYS   Dry Run Script (narrator/emcee)
         with 66 ABG/CCP
OUT

         Dry Run National Anthem
         Singer with 66 ABG/CCP

         Inform DVs if reserved parking
         is being provided

         Inform DVs who has reserved
         parking and its location (provide
         map if necessary)

         Inform DVs of where seating is
         in advance (provide diagram if
         necessary)



1 DAY    Double check R.S.V.P.s with
         DV's secretaries
OUT

         Inform presenters of proper
         positions, how many awards
         being presented, order of events,
         etc.



DAY OF   Check out sound system, CDs,
         videos, etc. prior to event to
EVENT    ensure working properly - have
         back up readily available

         Have back-up CD of national
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                 15


          anthem in case any problems
          occur

          Meet off-base guest(s) at gate
          for escort to function (if
          necessary)

          Ensure correct/approved script
          is in use

          Check with 66 ABG/CCP for
          correct DV introductions just
          prior to event start - ensure
          narrator/ other speakers do
          not introduce those DVs not
          present and do not ad lib any
          portion of the script

          Ensure water is at podium for
          narrator and speaker(s)

          Provide handouts/programs to
          guests

          Ensure awards/thank you’s are
          presented

          Provide necessary instructions
          to DVs prior to event start - i.e.,
          position to stand to give awards

          NOTE: Do not proceed/march
          DVs to seats - use escorts to
          take them to their seats prior
          to event start

          Introduce speaker at
          appropriate time (ensure
          speaker is not introduced until
          after he/she finishes

          eating)
 16                                                 HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


NOTE: If any deviations from this timeline occur without the acknowledgment of the
Installation Commander, the celebrations may not be approved to take place on the installation.
This timeline is highly recommended. Questions regarding DV calendar’s and invitation
processes/lists can be addressed to the 66 ABG/CCP.
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                              17


                                        Attachment 3
                   MEMORANDUM REQUESTING PARTICIPATION

Figure A3.1. Memorandum Requesting Participation
MEMORANDUM FOR

FROM:

SUBJECT: (Name of Observance)

1. The XX Heritage Month Committee requests your participation in subject ceremony.
Traditionally, the President has declared (month/week) as (name of observance) month/week,
and has supported this event by issuing a Presidential Proclamation.* Accordingly, we have
prepared a memorandum for your signature to be placed in the program to be distributed at this
observance.

2. Your participation in the (date), (name of observance) observance would greatly enhance the
program. The theme of this year's observance is ______________________________________.
We would appreciate it if your opening remarks addressed the (importance of the subject/theme).
If (name of speaker) accepts our invitation to attend as our special guest, we would also
appreciate you introducing (speaker).

3. We propose to invite (name of speaker) as the guest speaker, who is the (brief identification
of guest speaker). His/her biography and photograph are attached. The (approving office) has
been apprised of this proposal and approves. If you approve, please sign the attached letter of
invitation to (name of speaker).

4. The observance is scheduled (date) at (time) at (place). We recommend you host a reception
immediately following the ceremony to be held from (time) to (time). Request your
concurrence.




                                                   (Signature Block)


Attachments: (as stated)



* HQ AFMC will provide a copy of the proclamation upon request.
 18                                              HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


                                     Attachment 4
                        TENTATIVE PROGRAM OUTLINE

Figure A4.1. Tentative Program Outline
                         (Name of Organization Hosting Event)

                                 (Name of Observance)

                                          Date

                             Master/Mistress of Ceremonies

                        (Name of Master/Mistress of Ceremonies)

                               SCHEDULE OF EVENTS

                                 Pre-Program Concert

                                 Welcoming Remarks

                                 Presentation of Colors

                                   National Anthem

                                       Invocation

                               Introduction of Dignitaries

                                   Musical Interlude

                             Introduction of Guest Speakers

                                   Speaker's Message

                           Presentation and Closing Remarks

                                Retirement of the Colors
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                              19


                                        Attachment 5
                               INTRODUCTORY MESSAGE

Figure A5.1. Introductory Message
A MESSAGE FROM
(Name and Title)

FOR
(Name of Observance) (Year)

I am pleased to welcome all that have joined us today to celebrate the very special contribution
of (ethnic group) to our nation's defense. The theme for this year's (observance) is
_______________.

This ceremony is dedicated to the commemoration of all (ethnic groups) that have contributed to
our nation and our American culture. Contributions made by (ethnic group) - Americans have
been truly outstanding and the nation acknowledges these contributions by honoring them today.

Please join us as we salute our fellow (ethnic group) - Americans and pay tribute to all the
aspects of their lives, which have been interwoven and deeply enriched the fabric of the United
States of America.
 20                                                    HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


                                          Attachment 6
                      LETTER TO PROPOSED KEYNOTE SPEAKER

Figure A6.1. Letter to proposed Keynote Speaker
Requester's Name
Title
Address
City, State and Zip Code


Speaker's Name
Title
Address
City, State and Zip Code

Dear Mr./Mrs. _______________,

On (date), the (name of organization sponsoring observance) is sponsoring an observance in
honor of (ethnic group). This will mark the (number) annual national celebration of the role of
(ethnic group) in all segments of life in this nation and the (number) annual observance by this
organization.

The (name of organization) has suggested the theme: ____________.

On behalf of (host organization), it is my privilege to invite you to be our guest speaker. It will
be a great honor if you are able to accept our invitation.

The program will take place (day/date), from (time) to (time), with a reception to follow. The
(person/office) is coordinating this effort and is available to provide additional details. They can
be reached at (area code and phone number).

I look forward to your participation in the celebration of (observance), (year).

                                                     Sincerely,



                                                     (Installation Commander)
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                                   21


                                          Attachment 7
                                        NEWS RELEASE

Figure A7.1. News Release
Air Force Base

(Name of Organization Hosting Event)


(Rank/name of senior officer officiating), (title/organization) will participate in a
commemorative ceremony observing (observance), (day/date) at (time) in the (location).

Joining (rank/name) in this year's observance is (name), who is the (brief identification of guest).

This observance will incorporate the theme "(title of theme)." The theme was selected by (name
of organization).
 22                                                  HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


                                         Attachment 8
                               LETTER OF APPRECIATION

Figure A8.1. Letter of Appreciation
Requester's Name
Title
Address
City, State and Zip Code


Speaker's Name
Title
Address
City, State and Zip Code

Dear (speaker),

I would like to personally thank you for your interest, support, and participation in our
observance of (observance) on (date), and for sharing your personal thoughts and sincere and
warm concern for the men and women in the (sponsoring organization).

Your inspiring and educational speech was the highlight of this year's observance. You were
able to help us understand and feel the grandeur and importance of the historical times in which
we live. It enhanced our comprehension of (group)'s participation in contemporary American
society. We are indeed fortunate to have citizens such as you who are willing to give their
personal time and lend their talents to ensure the success of such programs. Your participation
attests to your character and professionalism.

Again, many thanks for your interest, support, and outstanding presentation.

                                                           Sincerely,




                                                    (Installation Commander)
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                                23


                                         Attachment 9
                                 AWARDS NOMINATION

Figure A9.1. Awards Nomination
Nomination Form (Include the award name xxxxx - award)

NOMINEE’S NAME: Mrs. Jenny Smith, Capt John Doe, etc..
CATEGORY OF NOMINATION: Officer, NCO, Airman, Civilian - GS 08 and below GS9 and
above
SUBMITTER’S NAME/TITLE: Col James Doe/Comptroller, etc.
SUBMITTER’S OFFICE SYMBOL: 66 ABG/CCE
SUBMITTER’S PHONE NUMBER: (781) 123-4567

A. LEADERSHIP AND/OR JOB PERFORMANCE
Explain how the nominee’s job performance contributed to the xxxx Community (i.e. had a great
rapport with xxxxx coworkers; set up training programs that benefited all in the unit, including
xxxxx, etc.).

B. SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT
Explain how the nominee’s self-improvement efforts contributed to the xxxxx community (i.e.
took language classes then used what he/she learned to teach English as a 2nd language,
completed a degree in xxxx studies or in human relations, or public administration etc.).

C. WORK-RELATED AND/OR COMMUNITY AWARDS
List award name, date awarded, and brief description

D. OTHER ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Explain how the nominee participated in work-related or community events that contributed to
the xxxxx Community or explain any other accomplishments of significance (i.e. Coordinated
cultural observance, scheduled guest speakers, provided tutoring, work on school projects,
volunteered in the community, etc.).

Note to supervisors:
Include only those accomplishments from 01 Jan to 31 Dec 20XX (calendar year)

All nominations are limited to 13 single-spaced (including headings), typed lines on an AF
Form 1206, Nomination for Award (most current IMT Version).
 24                                                 HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


                                       Attachment 10
                                       POINT PAPER

Figure A10.1. Point Paper
            AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) HERITAGE MONTH
                                         THEME:
            “Building a Brighter Future for Our Children and Our Community”

PURPOSE OF AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) HERITAGE MONTH
    To carry out activities that recognize the contributions AMERICAN INDIANs (NATIVE
    AMERICANs) have made to society

AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) HERITAGE MONTH AGENDA

The following are events scheduled during the month of November to honor AMERICAN
INDIANs (NATIVE AMERICANs):
24 Oct 05: Native American Heritage Month Proclamation Signing
66 ABG/CC will sign proclamation at 1400hrs in his office to show support of the month’s
activities.

1 – 24 Nov 05: AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) Heritage Month Essay Contest.
Open to all students of Hanscom Middle School. Students are encouraged to submit an essay of
at least 500 words discussing a major historical aspect of AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE
AMERICAN) life in America.

08 & 19 Nov 05: “AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) Folk Reading”. Folklore
will be read at the Base Library, 8 Nov/6:30 -7:30pm & 19 Nov/10:30 – 11:15am.

09 Nov 05: “AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) Arts & Crafts”. An educational
seminar conducted by Col Robert Rennie, 66 MDG/CC, who will read a passage about the
significance of the “medicine bag” and participate in a craft exercise making and decorating
bags. Seminar will be held at the Youth Center, 2:30 – 3:30pm.

14, 15, or 16 Nov 05: “AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) Hanscom School
Reading”. General Eichhorn, ESC/DC, will read a story to designated classes and students of
Hanscom Elementary and Middle Schools. Date & Time TBD.

16 Nov 05: “AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) Friendship Arts & Crafts”. An
educational and artistic seminar conducted by Mara Moore, 66 MDOS/SG, will speak on the
subject of friendship relevant to the AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) culture and
its importance during times of holidays and deployment. The attendees will also create
AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) friendship bracelets. This will be held at the
Youth center, 2:30 -3:30pm.
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                       25


18 Nov 05: “AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) Canoe Race” (weather permitting)
An informative session about the significance canoes played in the AMERICAN INDIAN
(NATIVE AMERICAN) culture with regard to teamwork and survival. A canoe race at the Base
Pool will follow. Time: TBD.

30 Nov 05: “AMERICAN INDIAN (NATIVE AMERICAN) Heritage Month Luncheon”. 1st
Annual Native American Heritage Month Luncheon to be held in the Minuteman Club Ballroom,
at 11:30am. Tentative keynote speaker is Marvin J. Burnette, member of the Rosebud Sioux
Tribe South Dakota, the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation South Dakota.
 26                                                   HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012


                                         Attachment 11
             A SELF-HELP GUIDE TO FUNDRAISING ON HANSCOM AFB

Figure A11.1. A Self-Help Guide to Fundraising on Hanscom AFB
                     A Self-Help Guide to Fundraising on Hanscom AFB
                                     ESC Legal Office

With the Combined Federal Campaign season rapidly approaching, Private Organizations (POs)
and unofficial activities may find themselves under more scrutiny when requesting to fundraise
than usual. Private organizations and unofficial activities are self-sustaining special interest
groups, set up by people acting exclusively outside the scope of any official capacity as officers,
employees, or agents of the Federal Government. They operate on Air Force installations with
the written consent of the Installation Commander. It is recommended that those interested in
POs and unofficial activities review AFI 36-3101, Fundraising within the Air Force, and AFI 34-
223, Private Organizations Program.

POs and unofficial activities generally rely on fundraising to generate the money needed to
support their activities. However, on Hanscom fundraising activities may only be conducted
pursuant to written approval of the Installation Commander or his/her designee. The first step in
any fundraising request is to complete a staff summary sheet, or Air Force Form 1768, detailing
the activities of your proposed fundraiser along with a letter requesting authorization to conduct
the fundraiser. Samples of both are available from the Force Support Squadron. Next, submit
the package to the 66 FSS, Chief, Resource Management Flight, for coordination. The request
will then be routed via the 66 FSS Director and the ESC Legal Office to the 66 ABG/CC for
approval.

Due to the fact that fundraising packages must be approved at multiple levels, fundraising
requests must be received by the FSS at least two weeks prior to the proposed fundraiser. Below
are some helpful suggestions for formulating a successful fundraising request:

A PO or unofficial activity may have a maximum of two fundraising activities within a calendar
quarter. Only a local internal program fundraiser away from the workplace is authorized during
the Combined Federal Campaign or the Air Force Assistance Fund campaign (see AFI 36-3101,
table 1, column E).

Fundraising can only be conducted in non-work areas, such as lobbies, concourses, and break
rooms, or other areas as designated by the Installation Commander.

E-mail, letterhead publications, and other official channels may not be used to promote the
fundraising event or effort.

POs and unofficial activities are prohibited from using Air Force resources, such as copy
machines, paper, or other materials and supplies to advertise or host the fundraiser.

Fundraisers may not duplicate or compete with a Base Services or AAFES activity nor can they
HANSCOMAFBI36-2706 17 JULY 2012                                                                 27


sell alcoholic beverages.

Military personnel may participate in fundraisers only in their personal capacity during off duty
time; they may not wear their uniform while participating in a fundraiser. Civilian personnel
may participate in fundraisers on base but only when off duty.

Military and civilian personnel may not use their official title, position or organization name in
connection with the fundraising event; and the fundraising activity may not imply Department of
Defense or Air Force endorsement.

Please submit your requests in a timely manner and contact the ESC legal office at (781) 225-
1410 for any questions.
