BY ORDER OF THE                                             HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 61-101
CENTER COMMANDER HILL AIR
FORCE BASE                                                                   20 OCTOBER 2009
                                                                  Certified Current, 6 June 2012
                                                           Scientific/Research and Development

                                                         SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL
                                                  INFORMATION (STINFO) INSTRUCTION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: OO-ALC/ENSN                                            Certified by: Col Janet C. Augustine
                                                                                      Pages: 20



This Instruction implements AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information,
AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific and Technical Information; Department of Defense
(DoD) Directive 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents; and DoD Directive
5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure. This instruction
explains how to mark, manage, disseminate, and destroy scientific and technical information
(STINFO). This Instruction describes the coordination process for public release data, release of
data under Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), and protecting export controlled technical data.
It applies to any medium that transfers information; including paper, microfilm, electronic
storage, and video recordings. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This instruction also prescribes the use of HILLAFB
Form 554, Hill AFB STINFO Distribution A Coordination Form.

OVERVIEW

The Air Force’s participation in information exchange conserves diminishing resources and
promotes progress by enabling us to leverage the efforts of others. The intent of Hill AFB is to
share all information that can safely and reasonably be shared, while protecting all information
that should be protected. This operating instruction provides clarification and guidance to the
2                                                                                HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009


STINFO processes and procedures and explains the relationship between the different markings
and the handling requirements under STINFO, FOIA, Export-Control, etc.


       1.        Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................    2
       2.        Marking Scientific and Technical Documents. ......................................................                         3
Figure 2.1.      Full Warning. .........................................................................................................    5
Figure 2.2.      Abbreviated Warning. ............................................................................................          5
Figure 2.3.      Unclassified Limited Documents (i. ......................................................................                  6
Figure 2.4.      Classified Documents. ...........................................................................................          6
Figure 2.5.      Distribution Statement Example. ...........................................................................                6
       3.        Distribution Statements: ........................................................................................          7
Table 3.1.       Distribution Statement Reasons .............................................................................              10
       4.        Dissemination of STINFO. ....................................................................................             11
       5.        Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) Repository. .................................                                 13

ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             15


1. Responsibilities.
    1.1. The weapon system(s) (W/S) Technical Content Manager (TCM) or controlling
    authority who originates or is responsible for the technical documents must determine their
    distribution availability and mark them appropriately before dissemination. The controlling
    authorities are responsible for properly handling, securing, disseminating, and disposing of
    STINFO.
    1.2. The TCM/controlling authority that originates or is responsible for the technical
    documents must:
       1.2.1. Ensure that all documents, including drafts, are marked with the proper
       distribution statements before dissemination. The distribution statements also apply to
       documents being used as part of a conference, symposium, briefings, hand outs to co-
       workers, etc., where there is a possibility that recipients might pass the documents to
       others.
       1.2.2. Periodically review all Distribution Statements, verifying the currency and
       accuracy. The date of determination is updated when a change is made to the distribution
       statement per the review. A review of the Distribution Statement is required when any
       one of the following occurs:
              1.2.2.1. Unclassified technical documents have been updated/changed.
              1.2.2.2. Unclassified technical documents have not been updated for five years for
              currency, distribution limitation, and destruction.
              1.2.2.3. Classified technical documents have been updated.
HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                    3


           1.2.2.4. Classified technical documents have not been updated for one year for
           currency and possible reclassification.
           1.2.2.5. Cross referencing JEDMICS/JCALS/ETIMS index data to verify accuracy.
       1.2.3. Authorize release of documents to requestors who have an appropriate need-to-
       know (classified/export-controlled documents/data) and in the case of export-control,
       have been certified through the Joint Certification Office (JCO), DD Form 2345, Military
       Critical Technical Data Agreement. In the case of requestors falling outside the
       description of the distribution statement, approval for release or denial for release will be
       made by the TCM/controlling authority on a case-by-case basis.
       1.2.4. Advise the respective repositories storing the documents of all changes to the
       document markings.
   1.3. The Public Affairs (PA) office approves all Distribution A (publicly releasable)
   markings before disseminating information. Use the STINFO process for PA approval
   provided in paragraph 2.9 before marking STINFO with Distribution A. This process can be
   found on HillNet (see STINFO icon).
   1.4. The TCM/controlling authority must process all FOIA requests in accordance with
   DoDR 5400.7/Air Force Supplement 1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program.
   1.5. The Foreign Disclosure Office (FDO) assists the TCM/controlling authority in
   identifying, reviewing, releasing, and other handling of technical documents covered by
   export control.
   1.6. The Center’s STINFO officer and organizational STINFO officers assist TCM,
   controlling authorities, contractors, committees, panels, boards, Integrated Product Teams
   (IPTs), working groups, etc. to identify the appropriate distribution of scientific and technical
   information.
   1.7. Any organization that shares export-controlled information outside the U.S.
   Government must provide the recipient a copy of AFI 61-204, Attachment 7, with the
   information. AFI 61-204 can be accessed at:
   http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI61-204.pdf.
2. Marking Scientific and Technical Documents. Per AFI 61-204, it is the intent of the Air
Force to disseminate scientific and technical information to the widest level possible, consistent
with the appropriate limitations. This instruction is not to be used as a basis to obstruct release
of scientific and technical information when dissemination is appropriate.
   2.1. Mark all STINFO documents before dissemination, whether hard copy or digital format.
   2.2. Mark with the appropriate Distribution Statement: Identify the applicable audience
   code of A, B, C, D, E, F, or X (see paragraph 3 for full explanation). Also identify the
   appropriate reason or reasons, date of determination, and the TCM/controlling authority.
   NOTE: Distribution statements apply only to secondary distribution and do not apply to
   primary distribution from the TMC/controlling authority.
   2.3. When marking and controlling STINFO documents, the following should be considered:
4                                                      HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009


       2.3.1. Contractor-imposed limited rights legends. When STINFO contains contractor’s
       proprietary rights, each page containing proprietary information will be identified by
       marking ―proprietary‖ and the name of the company. This will be done in addition to
       marking with distribution statement B or E. NOTE: Although contract proposals are not
       included in the STINFO process, no further dissemination and distribution of a
       contractor’s proposal will be allowed. Distributions statements are not required. NOTE:
       Do not make proprietary information available outside the Government without written
       permission from the owner of the proprietary information. This includes government
       contractors, even when the contractors support the Government under a government
       contract.
       2.3.2. Contractor restricted rights legends noted on computer software. If the software
       has such notes, follow policy outlined in the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
       Supplement                 [DFARS]              227.72           (located            at
       http://farsite.hill.af.mil/regpdf/dfars/227/227_72.pdf
    2.4. Distribution statements remain in effect until the TCM/controlling authority changes or
    removes them. The following information is provided for use when adding, reviewing, and
    changing the distribution statements:
       2.4.1. As noted in paragraph 2.2, a distribution statement has four parts: audience,
       reason(s), date of determination, and controlling office. When reviewing, changing, or
       adding a distribution statement, consider more than the intended audience; also consider
       the reason(s) identified. It is highly recommended to use more than one reason -- perhaps
       two or more reasons -- in the distribution statement. Since the Technical Order (T.O.)
       repositories (CITOMS and ETIMS) as well as drawing repositories (JEDMICS) currently
       allow only one reason to be entered in their metadata fields, identify the most compelling
       reason first. It is also highly recommended to add a sentence or two after the distribution
       statement that elaborates on the reasons for the distribution statement.
       2.4.2. Any document shall only have one distribution statement on it. If a distribution
       statement is changed, the previous distribution statement will be removed when the
       updated statement is added.
       2.4.3. Check the Military Critical Technologies List (MCTL) to identify technologies
       that would make a significant contribution to the military potential of another country or
       combination of countries that may prove detrimental to the security of the United States.
       The information in this MCTL can be added to the Distribution Statements B, C, D, E, F,
       and X to support the distribution determination.
       2.4.4. There are other areas that can assist in determining the applicable Distribution
       Statement and appropriate reason(s).
           2.4.4.1. International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) controls the export of
           defense articles specified in the U.S. Munitions List and the technical data directly
           related to them. ITARs implement the U.S. Arms Export Control Act. This Act has
           jurisdiction over information (including classified) relating to defense articles and
           services; information covered by an invention secrecy order; and information directly
           related to designing, engineering, developing, operating, overhauling, maintaining,
           modifying, etc. weapon systems.
HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 5


          2.4.4.2. The U.S. Munitions List identifies information that advances the state-of-the-
          art and includes the technology used to procure or maintain this capability. It does
          not include information concerning general scientific, mathematical, or engineering
          principles or theory.
          2.4.4.3. The Commerce Control List identifies items in the Export Administration
          Regulations at 15 CFR 399. Licenses from the Department of Commerce are
          required to export such items and the technical data relating to them.
       2.4.5. When a request for technical data is submitted, it can be submitted through
       Freedom of Information Act office, Public Sales, Contracting, and/or directly to the
       subject matter expert/controlling authority. When the request is received by the
       controlling authority, distribution statements shall be reviewed and if necessary updated
       before release. When reviewing a FOIA request, keep in mind that once the technical
       data is released through FOIA, it cannot be denied to any additional requestors. Consider
       making contact, through FOIA or to the requestor, suggesting the requestor withdraw the
       FOIA request and resubmit a STINFO request directly to the subject matter
       expert/TMC/controlling authorities, public sales, etc. NOTE: Per 22 United States Code
       (U.S.C.) 2778(e), ―Control of Arms Export,‖ any export-controlled information is exempt
       from release under Exemption 3 of the FOIA.
   2.5. Mark Export-Control STINFO with appropriate warnings (see Figures 2.1 and 2.2).
   The abbreviated warning is only to be used when there is not enough room on the medium
   for the full warning.

Figure 2.1. Full Warning.


WARNING – This document contains technical data whose export is restricted by the Arms
Export Control Act (Title 22, U.S.C., Sec. 2751 et seq.) or the Export Administration Act of
1979, as amended, Title 50, U.S.C. App 2401 et seq. Violations of these export laws are
subject to severe criminal penalties. Disseminate in accordance with provisions of DoD
Directive 5230.25.

Figure 2.2. Abbreviated Warning.


                          WARNING – EXPORT CONTROLLED




   2.6. Mark STINFO with appropriate destruction notice (see Figures 2.3 and 2.4).
6                                                         HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009




Figure 2.3. Unclassified Limited Documents (i. e. documents not approved for public release).




DESTRUCTION NOTICE – Destroy by any method that will prevent disclosure of
contents or reconstruction of the document.


Figure 2.4. Classified Documents.


DESTRUCTION NOTICE – Follow the procedures in DoD 5220.22-M, National Industry
Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), Section 5-705, or DoD5200.1-R,
Information Security Program, Chapter VI.

    2.7. When STINFO is exempt by law from automatic release under FOIA and intended for
    Government use ONLY, it can be marked with: For Official Use Only (FOUO). NOTE:
    Marking information with FOUO does not make it so. Information marked with FOUO must
    meet at least one of the legislative exemptions from FOIA (see Air Force Supplement to
    DoDR 5400.7). FOUO marking is optional on STINFO documents, and is used to call
    attention to FOUO content. A Distribution Statement is mandatory.
    2.8. When ―local‖ activities need to indicate a document is for internal use only; e.g.
    planning, budget, draft, notional information, etc., dissemination of the information may or
    may not be the intent; mark with a ―local‖ distribution statement (see Figure 2.5) for
    example:

Figure 2.5. Distribution Statement Example.

Distribution authorized to (organization) only, (reason, such as planning, budget, etc.).
Refer other requests for this Document to (organization).

NOTE: Do not use this local marking on technical documents sent to Defense Technical
Information Center (DTIC). This statement is not intended to be the basis for not sending
technical documents to DTIC and is not sufficient to exempt the document from release under
FOIA.
NOTE: Documentation does not need to be STINFO to receive a distribution statement.
Distribution statements are a useful tool to assist in the distribution process, regardless of the
nature of the document.
    2.9. Before marking STINFO with Distribution A, the following process must be followed to
    ensure the information does not require control:
HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                  7


      2.9.1. Document originator will send document to colleagues for preliminary review.
      The initial reviewers must as a minimum include the supervisor, applicable program
      offices, and the organization’s security function. The request for review should include
      the name, organization, and role of each person on the review list (i.e. clarify in the body
      of the request who the supervisor is, who the security function is, etc.); where the
      document will be shared and when; date of requested feedback; and Hill AFB Form 554.
      A courtesy copy of this information will be sent to the Center STINFO office, Foreign
      Disclosure Office (FDO), and PA office. This process can be facilitated by using email
      for the correspondence and including the appropriate offices in the cc field.
      2.9.2. Document originator will address the feedback from the reviewers.
      2.9.3. Document originator will send document to Center STINFO office and FDO,
      including. the signed Form 554 (or copy of comments and agreement to release), outline
      of comments received, and explanation of how comments were addressed. Document
      originator will send a courtesy copy of this information to the PA office.
      2.9.4. STINFO officer will review the comments and how they were addressed, will
      verify the document’s information is not included in the Military Critical Technologies
      List, and will ensure the coordination is complete. Once this is complete, the STINFO
      officer will forward the information to the Engineering Directorate (EN) Director,
      recommending concurrence that the material is suitable for public release.
      2.9.5. EN Director will provide concurrence via Hill AFB Form 554 or feedback
      addressing concerns.
      2.9.6. The steps listed in paragraphs 2.9.2 through 2.9.5 will be repeated until the EN
      Director concurs with public release of the document. If it is ultimately concluded that
      public release is not appropriate, the STINFO must be marked with a distribution
      statement other than Distribution A.
      2.9.7. STINFO officer will inform PA of the EN Director’s recommendation for public
      release, providing a copy of Hill AFB Form 554.
      2.9.8. If the PA office has any concerns, these will be shared with the document
      originator to be addressed. If the PA office does not have any concerns, approval for
      Distribution A will be provided.
      2.9.9. The STINFO office will provide a tracking number for public release of the
      information.
      2.9.10. The document originator will mark the cover of the document with Distribution
      A and the tracking number.
3. Distribution Statements:
   3.1. Distribution Statements are used to mark technical data in order to signify the extent of
   availability for distribution, release, and disclosure without additional approvals or
   authorizations. Distribution Statement markings are used in conjunction with classified
   markings (DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program). The following distribution
   statements and notices are authorized for use on DoD technical documents:
8                                                       HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009


       3.1.1. Distribution Statement A.      ―Approved for public release; distribution is
       unlimited.‖ This distribution statement can be used on documents that have been cleared
       for public release by PA. The Hill AFB process to obtain PA approval for public release
       can be found in paragraph 2.9
       3.1.2. Distribution Statement B. ―Distribution authorized to U.S. Government Agencies
       only (fill in reason[s]), (date of determination). Other requests for this document shall be
       referred to (insert controlling DoD office’s formal name [not symbol] and address).‖
       This distribution statement can be used on unclassified and classified technical
       documents. There are nine reasons for assigning Distribution Statement B. (See Table
       3.1 for a list and explanation of reasons.)
       3.1.3. Distribution Statement C. ―Distribution authorized to U.S. Government Agencies
       and their contractors (fill in reason[s]), (date of determination). Other requests for this
       document shall be referred to (insert controlling DoD office’s formal name [not symbol]
       and address).‖ This distribution statement may be used on unclassified and classified
       technical documents. There are five reasons for assigning Distribution Statement C.
       (See Table 3.1 below for a list and explanation of reasons.)
       3.1.4. Distribution Statement D. ―Distribution authorized to Department of Defense and
       U.S. DoD contractors only (fill in reason[s]), (date of determination). Other request shall
       be referred to (insert controlling DoD office’s formal name [not symbol] and address).‖
       This distribution statement may be used on unclassified and classified technical
       documents. There are five reasons for assigning Distribution Statement D.
       3.1.5. Distribution Statement E. ―Distribution authorized to DoD Components only (fill
       reason[s]), (date of determination). Other requests shall be referred to (insert controlling
       DoD office’s formal name [not symbol] and address).‖ This distribution statement may
       be used on unclassified or classified technical documents. There are ten reasons for
       assigning Distribution Statement E.
       3.1.6. Distribution Statement F. ―Further dissemination only as directed by (insert
       controlling DoD office’s formal name [not symbol] and address), (date of determination)
       or higher DoD authority.‖ This distribution statement is normally used on classified
       technical documents but may be used on unclassified technical documents when specific
       authority exists (e.g., designation as direct military support as in Distribution Statement
       E). This distribution statement is also used when DoD originator determines that
       information is subject to special dissemination limitations specified by paragraph 4-505,
       DoD 5200.1-R (reference (h)).
       3.1.7. Distribution Statement X. ―Distribution authorized to US Government agencies
       and private individuals or enterprises eligible to obtain export-controlled technical data in
       accordance with DoD Directive 5230.25. Controlling office is (insert controlling DoD
       office’s formal name [not symbol] and address).‖ This distribution statement shall be
       used on unclassified documents when Distribution Statements A, B, C, D, E, or F do not
       apply, but the technical document contains technical data with export control.
NOTE: Recommend the controlling authority named in the distribution statements use the
weapon system, commodity, trainer, etc. identifier instead of identifying the office symbols,
which regularly change. This will limit future changes and provide better traceability.
HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                               9


  3.2. Table 3.1. Identifies the distribution statement reasons, gives a brief description, and
  indicates which reasons are ―tied‖ to each distribution statement.
10                                          HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009


Table 3.1. Distribution Statement Reasons




.
HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 11


4. Dissemination of STINFO. Do NOT disseminate any STINFO, including drafts or
preliminary information, that does not have a clearly marked distribution statement. The
controlling authority can release STINFO as desired (primary distribution). All other
organizations can only release STINFO as directed by the distribution statement (per secondary
distribution). NOTE: Do NOT release documents marked with Distribution Statement F
without getting the originator’s approval first. However, Distribution Statement A has no
dissemination limitations; an unmarked document should never be interpreted as being approved
for public release. Do NOT forget that PA approval is required to mark a document with
Distribution Statement A per AFI 61-204.
   4.1. Primary distribution: Distribution of STINFO by the controlling authority/activity,
   including initial distribution and any distribution during the life of the technical data.
   4.2. Secondary distribution: The distribution of technical data made by any source that is
   not the controlling authority/activity. Secondary distribution may not exceed the authority of
   each document’s distribution statement without prior consent of the controlling authority.
   4.3. When technical information is presented at conferences, symposia, etc., confirm that all
   those in attendance are within the limitations of the distribution statement. This is important
   when presenting classified, export-controlled, or proprietary information. No contractors can
   be present when another contractor’s proprietary information is contained in the presentation.
   4.4. Requests for STINFO documents may be received through the Base FOIA office. These
   requests will not require a DD Form 2345, Military Critical Technical Data Agreement, and
   must be worked using the AF Supplement to DoD 5400.7.
   4.5. Requests for technical data shall be processed in accordance with DoDD 5230.25 and
   this Instruction. Requests for technical document(s) may be received through Public Sales,
   TCM/controlling authorities, FOIA office, the Center’s STINFO office, or other
   organizations on base.
NOTE: Software release guidance is provided in AFI 33-114, Software Management.
   4.6. Upon receipt of request for technical data from a contractor, the decision authority shall
   make the following determinations:
       4.6.1. Does the requesting contractor have valid and current DD Form 2345, (verification
       can be made through:              Defense Logistics Information Service [DLIS],
       http://www.dlis.dla.mil/jcp/ or DSN 661-7766)? DD Form 2345 is not an automatic
       approval for release of technical data. In Block 4 of this form is a narrative of the
       contractor’s business purpose. As part of the request process, there should be a company
       letter providing the specific reason(s) for the technical document(s) identified in the
       request. The specific reason(s) for the information as noted in the letter and Block 4 of
       DD Form 2345 should be compatible, but the specific reason(s) should be more detailed
       than what is noted on DD Form 2345. The letter should be on formal letterhead, and
       include the company’s name, phone number, POC, document number, weapon system,
       justification for needing information, and (if applicable) the contract number or request
       for proposal (RFP) number.
12                                                    HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009


       4.6.2. Is the technical document marked in accordance with DoDD 5230.24 and AFI 61-
       204? This includes all appropriate markings, including a distribution statement, an
       export-control warning, a destruction notice, or other notices.
          4.6.2.1. Does the technical document require approval, authorization or license for
          export under E.O. (executive order) 12470 or the Arms Export Control Act? (ref:
          DoDD 5230.25, para 5.2.1).
          4.6.2.2. Does the technical document disclose critical technology with military and
          space application? Use the MCTL as guidance to determine whether a technical
          document includes critical technology.
       4.6.3. The following are the steps the TCM/controlling authority, STINFO POCs,
       Technical Order Managers (TOMAs), and anyone receiving a request from a contractor
       uses for processing STINFO documents:
NOTE: Anyone can share a STINFO document, if the requestor falls within the audience listed
in the document’s Distribution Statement. Requests received at Hill AFB are still normally
forwarded to the TCM/controlling authority as a courtesy.
          4.6.3.1. Requests for information that will be used to support a Foreign Military
          Sales effort will be directed to the Technical Coordination Group (TCG) or case
          manager. If a TCG or case manager does not exist for this information and country,
          forward the request to the TCM/controlling authority.
          4.6.3.2. Requests for technical document(s) that identify a solicitation, contract or
          request for proposal (RFP), that calls out the specific technical document(s), shall be
          approved and the document(s) provided to Procurement Contract Officer (PCO) in
          support of the procurement process with no fees charged to the requestor. This
          covers all AF procurement.
          4.6.3.3. Requests for technical document(s) that identify a solicitation, contract or
          RFP, that does not call out the specific technical document(s), shall be coordinated
          with the contract officer. If the request is approved, the documents will be provided
          to the PCO in support of the procurement process with no fees charged to the
          requestor. This covers all AF procurement actions. NOTE: FedBizOps is the
          avenue for which a request for information (RFI), RFP, solicitation, and contract
          information, whether it is the Statement of Work (SOW), Performance Work
          Statement, Requirements Document, or technical documents in support of a
          contracting effort (T.O.s, engineering drawings, bidders library, etc.), etc., can be
          accessed by contractors having an interest in the information for developing a
          proposal, qualifying for, or all the above STINFO document requests.
          4.6.3.4. If necessary, contact the requesting organization for additional information
          concerning clarification of need, additional information about business purpose, or
          any other information required for an informed decision.
          4.6.3.5. Requests for technical documents may be received by the TCM/controlling
          authority from subcontractors/vendors supporting an Original Equipment
          Manufacturer (OEM). After verification of information need and permission from
          OEM to release, the TCM/controlling authority should release the STINFO
HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                      13


           documents.        These subcontractors/vendors are indirectly supporting AF
           modifications, repairs, spares, etc. They have a contract with OEM but may or may
           not have a direct contract with the TCM/controlling authority.
           4.6.3.6. If the information is classified, do not release it unless there is a valid need to
           know.
           4.6.3.7. If the information is proprietary to an organization outside the requestor, do
           not release the information without the permission of the proprietary organization.
           This includes government contractors, even when the contractors support the
           Government under a government contract. If the request does not support a
           government contract, it is the responsibility of the requestor to get this permission.
           4.6.3.8. Do not release STINFO documents that may be so significant that release for
           other than direct support of DoD activities would jeopardize important U.S. technical
           or operational military advantages.
           4.6.3.9. When STINFO documents do not jeopardize technical or operational
           military advantages, release the document(s).
           4.6.3.10. Controlling authority will advise requestor (both verbally and in writing) of
           any potential for adverse impact from document’s use. Example scenarios include,
           but are not limited to the following:
               4.6.3.10.1. Requested document discusses a different version of a part than
               accessed by requestor.
               4.6.3.10.2. Requested document contains time sensitive information.
               4.6.3.10.3. Requested document discusses technology with special handling
               instructions.
       4.6.4. If STINFO is disapproved for release, the controlling authority will write the
       denial letter per AFI 61-204 with the assistance of the OO-ALC’s STINFO office, stating
       the justification for denial.
       4.6.5. If export-controlled information is approved for release outside the U.S.
       Government, a copy of AFI 61-204, Attachment 7 must be provided with the information.
NOTE: Processing all requests in a timely manner is critical. FOIA allows 20 days for
processing their requests. STINFO suggests 20 days for processing requests. The turn-around
time will depend on the number of technical documents requested, repository (digital or paper),
and how the request for technical documents was received.
NOTE: When the TCM/controlling authority has any questions, concerns, problems, etc. with
how to manage, control, identify, disseminate, etc. STINFO documents; contact the controlling
authority’s STINFO POC, Wing’s STINFO POC, or Center’s STINFO office.
5. Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) Repository. DTIC is a repository of
scientific and technical documents for the Department of Defense. DTIC is the largest central
resource for DoD- and government-funded scientific, technical, engineering, and business related
information available. DTIC documents are available to DoD personnel and defense contractors.
The majority of the documents in DTIC are unclassified. DTIC provides the warfighter and
14                                                        HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009


researchers, scientists, engineers, laboratories, and universities access to publications covering
over 250 subject areas.
     5.1. Program offices should submit any research and development, test and evaluation,
     technical reports, engineering reports, weapons materials/processes, modeling/simulation,
     etc. to DTIC. The Center’s STINFO Office can assist the program office in uploading this
     information.
     5.2. When a program office initiates any procurements that involve items listed in paragraph
     5.1, a search of DTIC for similar efforts and results may aid in determining the level of effort
     needed for the current program procurement.
6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
6.1. Prescribed Forms.
HILLAFB FORM 554, Hill AFB STINFO Public Release Coordination
6.2. Adopted Forms.
DD Form 2345, Military Critical Technical Data Agreement




                                               ANDREW E. BUSCH, Major General, USAF
                                               Commander, Ogden Air Logistics Center
HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                              15


                                      ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, January 1997
DoDD 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information to Foreign Governments &
International Organizations
DoDD 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents, 18 March 1987
DoDD 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure, 6
November 1984
DoDR 5400.7/Air Force Supplement 1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 24 June
2002.
DoD 5400.7R, Air Force Supplement, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFI 61-2, Management of Scientific and Technical Information, 7 April 1993
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 August 2002;
AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International
Organizations
AFPD 31-4, Information Security
AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management
Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.) 130, Authority to Withhold from Public Disclosure Certain
Technical Data
Title 22, U.S.C. 2571, et seq., Arms Export Control Act

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCAL—Certified Contractor Access List
CCL—Commercial Control List
CITOMS—Comprehensive Integrated Technical Order Management System
DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
DLIS—Defense Logistics Information Ser
DOD—Department of Defense
DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center
EAR—Export Administration Regulations
ETIMS—Enhanced Technical Information Management System
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
16                                                    HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009


FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
FOUO—For Official Use Only
IPT—Integrated Product Team
ITAR—International Traffic in Arms Regulations
JCALS—Joint Computer aided Acquisition and Logistics Support
JCO—Joint Certification Office
JEDMICS—Joint Engineering Data Management Information Control System
MCTL—Military Critical Technology
OO ALC—Ogden Air Logistics Center
OEM—Original Equipment Manufacturer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Affairs
PCO—Procurement Contracting Officer
POC—Point of Contact
RFI—Request for Information
RFP—Request for Proposal
SOW—Statement of Work
STINFO—Scientific and Technical Information
TCM—Technical Content Manager
TOMA—Technical Order Manager
U.S.C.—United States Code
W/S—Weapon System

Terms
Arms Export Control—The law set out in 22 U.S.C. 2751-2794. This requires obtaining a
license from the Department of State for exporting defense articles, and services; including
technical data related to weapons. It is implemented by the International Traffic in Arms
Regulations (ITAR) set out in 22 CFR 112-130.
Certified Contractor—Private individual or enterprise located in the United States and Canada,
who is certified and registered with the DLSC for access to export controlled technical data.
Certified Contractor Access List (CCAL)—A listing of U.S. and Canadian contractors, who
are registered and certified to receive export-controlled technical information. The JCO at DLSC
maintains the CCAL. (http://www.dlis.dla.mil/jcp/)
Commerce Control List (CCL)—List of items in the Export Administration Regulation at 15
CFR 399. Licenses from the Department of Commerce are required to export such items and the
technical data relating to them.
HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 17


Controlling Authority/Activity—The authority/activity that sponsored the work that generated
the technical data or receives the technical data on behalf of a Government agency, which has the
responsibility for distributing the data to eligible recipients.
Distribution Statement—A statement used in the marking of technical documents, regardless of
publication media or form, to denote the extent of its availability for distribution, release, and
disclosure without additional approvals or authorizations from the controlling authority/activity.
Export Administration Act—Any of the laws codified at 50 U.S.C. Appendix 2401-2420.
These laws were the original basis for the Export Administration Regulation (EAR)(15 CFR
368-399), which require obtaining a license from the Department of Commerce for exporting
certain items and related technical data.
Export Controlled Technical Data—Technical data that cannot be lawfully exported without
the approval, authorization, or license under U.S. export control laws. The controlling
regulations and documents are the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), the International
Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR), and the U.S. munitions list.
Export Administration Regulations (EAR)—The EAR controls export of dual-use items
(materials with both civilian and military use) specified on the commodity control list. The EAR
is administered by the Bureau of Export Administration, Department of Commerce, and
implements the Export Control Act of 1979 as amended, and Executive Order 12730.
Initial Distribution—Distribution of STINFO by the document controlling authority/activity at
the time of publication.
International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR)—ITAR controls the export of defense
articles specified in the U.S. Munitions List and technical data directly related to them. ITAR is
administered by the Office of Defense Trade Controls, Department of State, and implements the
U.S. Arms Export Control Act. The ITAR has jurisdiction over:
1. Information, including classified, relating to defense articles and services.
2. Information covered by an invention secrecy order.
3. Information directly related to designing, engineering, developing, producing,
processing, manufacturing, using, operating, overhauling, repairing, maintaining,
modifying, or reconstructing defense articles. ITAR also information that advances the
state—of-the-art of articles in the U.S. Munitions List, including technology used to procure or
maintain these components. ITAR does not include information concerning general scientific,
mathematical, or engineering principles or theory.
Limited Data—Any technical data not approved for public release.
Military Critical Technology—Technologies having significant contribution or value to the
military potential of any country or combination of countries and may prove detrimental to the
security of the United States. Critical technology is defined in the Export Administration Act (50
U.S.C. Appendix 2404(d). Critical technology is defined as:
1. Array of design and manufacturing know—how, including technical data.
2. Keystone manufacturing, inspection, and test equipment.
3. Goods accompanied by sophisticated operation, application, and maintenance know—
how.
18                                                     HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009


4. Keystone equipment that would reveal or give insight into the design and manufacture of U.S.
military systems.
Military Critical Technology List (MCTL)—Issued by DoD under authority of the Export
Administration Act of 1979 as amended and Executive Order 12730. The MCTL provides
descriptions of technologies that DoD accesses to be critical to the development, production, and
use of military capabilities of significant value to potential adversaries. Corresponding to the
Export Administration Act categories:
1.   Technology.
2.   Test, Inspection, and production equipment.
3.   Materials.
4.   Software.
5.   Systems, equipment, subassemblies, and components.
The MCTL also includes technologies significant to the proliferation of nuclear, chemical,
and biological weapons and missile delivery systems— weapons of mass destruction.
Note: The MCTL is not a control list, nor is it a substitute for, nor an addition to the
current export—control lists. The MCTL is a detailed and structured technical statement of
development, production, and use technologies that DoD determines to be crucial to given
military capabilities, and of significant value to potential adversaries. (The MCTL website:
http://www.dtic.mil/mctl/, use in lieu of printed version.)
Note: Confusion can arise from the title of the DD Form 2345, Military Critical Technical
Data Agreement. Actually, this form should be titled “Export—Controlled Technical Data
Agreement‖ and all references in it to the MCTL should be ignored. The MCTL cannot be
substituted for the Munitions List and the Commerce Control List (per AFI 61-204).
Primary Distribution—Distribution of STINFO by the controlling authority/activity, including
initial distribution and any distribution during the life of the technical data.
Qualified U.S. Contractor—A private individual or enterprise that, in accordance with
procedures established by the Director of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&E),
certifies, as a condition of obtaining export-controlled technical data, that:
1. The individual who will act as recipient of the export—controlled technical data on behalf
of the individual or enterprise is a U.S. citizen or a person admitted lawfully into the United
States for permanent residence and is located in the United States.
2. The export—controlled data are needed to bid or perform on a contract with the Department
of Defense or other U.S. Government agency, or for other legitimate business purposes in which
the individual or enterprise is engaged, or plans to engage.
Note:—This does not require a contract with or a grant from the U.S. Government.
3. The individual or enterprise acknowledges its responsibilities under U.S. export control
laws and regulations (including the obligation, under certain conditions, to obtain an
export license prior to the release of technical data within the United States) and agrees
that it will not disseminate any export—controlled technical data in a manner that would
violate applicable export control laws and regulations.
HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                   19


4. The individual or enterprise also agrees that it will not provide access to export controlled
technical data subject to this instruction to persons other than its employees or persons acting on
its behalf, without the permission of the DoD component that provided the data.
5. To the best of its knowledge and belief, the individual or enterprise knows of no person
employed by it or acting on its behalf, who will have access to such data, who is debarred,
suspended, or otherwise ineligible from performing on U.S. Government contracts; or has
violated U.S. export—control laws or a certification previously made to the Department of
Defense.
6. The individual or enterprise itself is not debarred, suspended, or otherwise determined
ineligible by any agency of the U.S. Government to perform on U.S. Government contracts, has
not been convicted of export control law violations.
Note: When the certifications cannot be made truthfully, the individual or enterprise may
request the certification be accepted on its description of extenuating circumstances.
Scientific and Technical Information (STINFO)—STINFO is data relating to research,
development, engineering, testing, evaluation, production, operation, use and maintenance for
military products, services, and equipment for military systems. This includes production,
engineering, and logistics information.
Secondary Distribution—The distribution of technical data made by any source that is not the
controlling authority/activity.
STINFO Document—Any document that contains STINFO. This can include, but is not
limited to, working papers, memoranda, and preliminary reports, engineering drawings,
standards, specifications, technical manuals, blueprints, drawings, plans, instructions, computer
software and documentation, photographs, technical orders, databases, and any information that
can be used or adapted for use to design, engineer, produce, manufacture, operate, repair,
overhaul, or reproduce any military or space equipment or technology concerning that
equipment. It applies to any medium that transfers such a document, including paper, microfilm,
electronic storage, and video recordings. It does not apply to cryptographic and communications
security documents, communications and electronic intelligence, and other categories that the
Director, National Security Agency, or the Chief, Central Intelligence Agency, designates. It
does not apply to classified technical documents containing ―restricted data‖ and ―formerly
restricted data‖ as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (see joint Department
of Energy and DoD directives for distribution, control, and marking requirements).
Technical Content Manager (TCM)—DoD activity responsible for the technical accuracy,
adequacy, currency, modification, classification review, and release of STINFO.
Technical Data—Recorded information related to experimental, developmental, or engineering
works that can be used to define an engineering or manufacturing process or to design, procure,
produce, support, maintain, operate, repair, or overhaul material. The data may be graphic or
pictorial delineations in media, such as drawings or photographs, text in specifications or related
performance or design type documents, or computer printouts. Examples of technical data
include research and engineering data, engineering drawings, and associated lists, specifications,
standards, process sheets, manuals, technical reports, catalog-item identifications, and related
information and computer software documentation.
20                                                      HILLAFBI61-101 20 OCTOBER 2009


US Munitions List—This list designates defense articles and defense services that are subject to
the ITAR, where:
1. Defense articles are those items designated in the U.S. Munitions List that must be export
controlled and include models, mock—ups, and any other devices that reveal technical data
related directly to those articles.
2. Defense services means:
       a. Furnishing assistance, including training to foreign persons, in the design, engineering
       development, production, processing, manufacture, use, operation, overhaul, repair,
       maintenance, modification, or reconstruction of defense articles, whether in the United
       States or abroad.
       b. Furnishing any technical data to foreign persons, whether in the United States or
       abroad.
