BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 36-802
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              6 NOVEMBER 2009
                                                                   Certified Current, 8 November 2011
                                                                                          Personnel

                                                          ENVIRONMENTAL DIFFERENTIAL
                                                                      AND HAZARD PAY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil on AF Link

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: OO-ALC/DPCC                                                     Certified by: OO-ALC/DPCC
                                                                                     (Gary Higgs)
Supersedes:    HILLAFBI36-802, 8 December 1996                                          Pages: 7



This instruction implements AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements, and provides
guidance for requesting and approval of Hazard and Environmental Pay rates for full-time
civilian employees. It applies to all civilian employees serviced by Hill AFB Civilian Personnel
Flight (CPF). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at ttps://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates functional address symbols and changes resulting from sunsetting the
Federal Personnel Manual FPM.
1. General. The following information describes Ogden Air Logistics Center (OO-ALC)
procedures for requesting and managing Environmental Differential Pay (EDP) and Hazard Pay
(HP).
2. Environmental Differential Pay (EDP) and Hazard Pay (HP) For Federal Wage System
(FWS) Employees. EDP is a monetary consideration given to wage employees for working
situations involving unusual hazards, physical hardships, or severe working conditions. Each
situation must be reviewed and approved for EDP under the provisions of Operating Manual,
Federal Wage System Supplement 532-1 (formerly FPM Supplement 532-1), Subchapter 8. It is
2                                                      HILLAFBI36-802 6 NOVEMBER 2009


Air Force policy to eliminate or reduce to the lowest possible level all hazards, physical
hardships, and working conditions of an unusually severe nature. When a hazard cannot be
practically eliminated, payment of appropriate differential may be warranted. The authorization
of a differential is not to be interpreted as condoning the situation which warrants the pay.
Rather, continuing positive action will be taken to eliminate the risks which cause the position to
be eligible for differential pay.
    2.1. Relation to Other Pay. EDP is included as part of the employee’s basic rate of pay and
    shall be used to compute premium pay (overtime, holiday, or Sunday work), the amount from
    which retirement deductions are made, and on which group life insurance is based.
    2.2. Identification of Categories for which Payable.
       2.2.1. The Classification Flight (OO-ALC/DPCC) will distribute a copy of Operating
       Manual, Federal Wage System (formerly FPM Supplement 532-1), Appendix J, which
       provides descriptions of situations for which EDP is payable, to each member of the EDP
       and HP Committee. Also included will be a list of situations approved for use at Hill
       AFB.
       2.2.2. Supervisors and interested individuals may review such information by contacting
       a member of the committee. Copies will be available in OO-ALC/DPCC for review or
       issuance on a hand receipt for short periods.
    2.3. Determining Situations that Warrant EDP.
       2.3.1. When a supervisor identifies a new work situation which appears to warrant
       payment of EDP, AF Form 683, Request of Approval of Environmental Differential Pay,
       will be submitted to OO-ALC/DPCC describing the problem. The request will include an
       explanation of the measures that have been taken to alleviate the hazard, physical
       hardship, or working condition of an unusually severe nature; a statement on compliance
       or noncompliance with Air Force safety and health standards; and a list by name, Civilian
       Position Control Number (CPCN), and position title of employees affected. Instructions
       for completing the request are contained in Attachment 2.
       2.3.2. Upon receipt of a request, OO-ALC/DPCC will assign a work situation number,
       enter it in a control register, and forward the request through the Safety Office (OO-
       ALC/SE) and/or Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (75 AMDS/SGPB) for evaluation.
       2.3.3. When it is considered advisable, OO-ALC/DPCC will convene appropriate
       members of the EDP and HP Committee to consider the request. This will usually be
       done when the work situation is not routine, and thorough coordination of the request is
       necessary. The purpose of the committee is to advise the chairperson. It will consist of a
       representative from:
           2.3.3.1. OO-ALC/DPCC (Chairperson).
           2.3.3.2. 75ABW/SE.
           2.3.3.3. 75 AMDS/SGPB.
           2.3.3.4. 309th Maintenance Wing (309 MXW).
           2.3.3.5. 84th Combat Sustainment Wing (84 CSW).
HILLAFBI36-802 6 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                  3


           2.3.3.6. 508th Aerospace Sustainment Wing (508 ASW).
           2.3.3.7. 75th Air Base Wing (75 ABW).
           2.3.3.8. 388th Fighter Wing (388 FW).
           2.3.3.9. AFGE Local 1592.
       2.3.4. A list of committee representatives’ names will be published periodically in the
       OO-ALC Bulletin or Civilian Personnel Newsletter.
       2.3.5. A representative from the organization submitting the request, supervisors, and
       other concerned individuals may be invited to committee meetings at the discretion of the
       chairperson. Also, regular members may be excused when work situations on the agenda
       are not applicable to their areas of responsibility.
       2.3.6. The request will be approved or disapproved by the chairperson, using evaluations
       and committee recommendations as a basis. Copies of the approval or disapproval will
       be provided to the originating supervisor and to each member of the committee with an
       interest in the action.
   2.4. Rate of Differential. The amount of the EDP is determined by multiplying the
   percentage rate authorized for the described exposure by the current day-shift non
   supervisory wage schedule rate of a WG-10, step 2. The resulting cents-per-hour amount
   (count fractions of one-half cent and over, as one cent) will be the EDP rate paid to each
   employee who qualifies for the differential, regardless of grade level or wage-rate schedule.
   2.5. Work Assignments. Supervisors will distribute the assignments for which
   environmental differential is paid equitably among qualified employees in accordance with
   workload requirements and skills available. The cost of EDP shall be minimized wherever
   possible by using the same personnel on a job for one entire shift rather than rotating
   employees.
   2.6. EDP Classification. Environmental differential has two classifications for payment:
   Part I -
Actual Exposure and Part II - Hours in Pay Status.
       2.6.1. Part I - Actual Exposure:
           2.6.1.1. Part I differentials are paid on an actual exposure basis. An employee
           receives a minimum of one hour differential for each exposure. When entitlement
           continues beyond one hour, EDP is paid in one fourth hour increments for each 15
           minutes. If the employee is exposed to a hazard on an intermittent basis during a
           single hour (beginning from the time first exposed to the hazard) the employee will
           receive only one hour EDP. It is not intended that an employee earn five or six hour’s
           differential for exposures that occur during any single hour. Neither is it intended
           that the employee will be denied pay merely because the exposure does not last a full
           15 minutes. For example, during the first and second hours of the shift, an employee
           is exposed to a hazard six times, intermittently, during a period of one hour and eight
           minutes. The employee is paid one hour and 15 minutes EDP for these exposures.
           Then during the fourth hour of the shift, the employee is exposed to a hazard for a
           period of seven minutes. The employee is paid one hour EDP for such exposure.
4                                                       HILLAFBI36-802 6 NOVEMBER 2009


           2.6.1.2. An employee does not receive a Part I differential while on leave because
           there is no exposure to the work hazard
           2.6.1.3. An employee is entitled to an overtime rate based on regular pay, plus EDP,
           only if exposed to a Part I hazard during the period the employee would be in an
           overtime status. If exposed during a 15 minute overtime period, the employee
           receives one hour EDP even though entitled to only 15 minutes overtime pay. The
           maximum EDP on a Part I hazard for an eight hour day, plus 15 minutes overtime,
           would be eight hours and 15 minutes because pay for the environmental differential
           may not exceed the number of hours of active duty by the employee on the day of
           exposure.
           2.6.1.4. During one continuous hour, an employee exposed to two Parts I exposures
           for which different rates are warranted is paid one hour EDP at the higher rate.
       2.6.2. Part II - Hours of Pay Status:
           2.6.2.1. Part II differentials are paid for all hours of the day the employee is in a pay
           status. Therefore, an employee exposed to a Part II hazard on a particular day
           receives the differential for hours of paid leave (sick or annual) taken that day. An
           employee cannot receive EDP for any period in a leave-without-pay (LWOP) status.
           2.6.2.2. An employee exposed to a Part II hazard, either during the regular shift or
           during a period of overtime, is entitled to the EDP for all hours of the regular shift
           and all hours of overtime, but not in excess of the total hours in a pay status. This
           means that an employee exposed to a Part II hazard during a work period that
           includes eight hours regular pay and two hours overtime receives ten hours EDP. If
           the overtime pay in the foregoing example were one hour and 15 minutes, the
           environmental pay would be nine hours and 15 minutes, unless the employee were on
           call-back overtime, in which case, the employee would be paid ten hours EDP.
           2.6.2.3. When an employee is exposed to a Part II hazard, and during the same shift
           is exposed to a Part I hazard for which a higher rate is authorized, the employee will
           be entitled to the higher rate for the time of the actual exposure. Part II differential
           will be paid for the remaining hours.
           2.6.2.4. Additional information concerning EDP can be found in Operating Manual,
           Federal Wage System (formerly FPM Supplement 532-1), Subchapter 8, located in
           OO-ALC/DPCC.
3. HP for General Schedule (GS) Employees. HP, as distinguished from EDP, is pay for
irregular or intermittent duty by GS employees involving a physical hardship or hazard. HP is in
addition to any other pay or allowance to which the employee is entitled, but is not a part of basic
pay, and is not to be used to compute any additional pay such as holiday premium, overtime or
night differential. It is not subject to retirement or life insurance deductions.
    3.1. Payment of HP. An employee who is assigned to and performs duty for which HP has
    been authorized is entitled to the prescribed differential for all hours in pay status on the day
    such duties are performed.
    3.2. Identifying Situations Warranting Payment. The procedures outlined in 2.3 will be
    followed for identifying and requesting approval of situations warranting HP for GS
HILLAFBI36-802 6 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                 5


   employees. HP will be paid only for hazardous duty or duty involving physical hardships
   listed in 5 CFR 550, Subpart I, Appendix A, at the rate designated. Information provided by
   OO-ALC/DPCC for committee members is available for review and will include this
   reference.
4. Review Requirements EDP or HP. Each approved work situation will be reviewed
biennially at the request of OO-ALC/DPCC, to make sure that the status is current. At the
conclusion of the review and at the end of interviewing years, a list of EDP of HP work
situations will be prepared by OO-ALC/DPCC and sent to each member of the EDP/HP
Committee. A copy will also be provided to the OO-ALC Commander, affected directorates,
tenant organizations, OO-ALC/SE, 75 AMDS/SGPB, and HQ AFMC/DPCC.
5. Entry in Personnel Data System-C (PDS-C). Approved EDP situations will be coded into
the Personnel Data System. As new situations are approved, and at least quarterly, a listing will
be prepared indicating name, pay-plan, series, grade, social security number, CPCN,
organization, HP indicator, or EDP-situation code, case number, and date of last review. This
listing will be for identifying employees who are in EDP or HP work situations.
6. Adopted and Prescribed Forms.
   6.1. Adopted Forms.
   AF Form 683, Request of Approval of Environmental Differential Pay
   AF FORM 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication




                                            ANDREW E. BUSCH, MAJ GEN (Select), USAF
                                            Commander, OO-ALC
6                                                 HILLAFBI36-802 6 NOVEMBER 2009


                                      Attachment 1
       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION

References
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements (10 February 2009)
Operating Manual, Federal Wage System Supplement 532-1 (formerly FPM Supplement 532-1)
(Undated document)

Acronyms
CPF— Civilian Personnel Flight
CPCN— Civilian Position Control Number
EDP— Environmental Differential Pay
FPM— Federal Personnel Manual
FWS— Federal Wage System
GS— General Schedule
HP— Hazard Pay
LWOP— Leave Without Pay
OO—ALC/DPCC - Personnel Classification Flight
PDS— Personnel Data System
MXW— 309th Maintenance Wing
FW— 388th Fighter Wing
ASW— 508th Aerospace Sustainment Wing
ABW— 75th Air Base Wing
ABW/SE— Safety Office
AMDS/SGPB— Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
CSW— 84th Combat Sustainment Wing
HILLAFBI36-802 6 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                7


                                        Attachment 2
EXAMPLE OF COMPLETION OF ENVIRONMENTAL DIFFERENTIAL OF HAZARD
                 PAY AUTHORIZING DOCUMENT

                                       (AF FORM 683)

EXAMPLE OF COMPLETION OF ENVIRONMENTAL DIFFERENTIAL OR HAZARD
                 PAY AUTHORIZING DOCUMENT

Part I.
The requester will complete the following items on AF Form 683:
Item 1 – OO-ALC/DPCC.
Item 2 – Organizational symbol of requester.
Item 3 – Self explanatory.
Item 4 – Self explanatory.
Item 5 – Self explanatory.
Item 6 – Enter a clear concise description of the work being accomplished, including the nature
of the hazard.
Item 7 – Self explanatory.
Item 8 – This information will be taken from the appropriate regulation (Operating Manual,
Federal Wage System, Appendix J, for Wage Grade employees; 5 CFR 550, Subpart I, Appendix
A, for GS employees).
Item 9 – Taken from Appendix A or J depending on the type of position.
Item 10 – Self explanatory.
Item 11 – Individual who is authorized to sign time cards of employees in item 4.
Item 12 – Signed by the section or higher level supervisor.
Item 13 – Self explanatory.

Part II.
Any comments from 75 ABW/SE or 75 AMDS/SGPB may be entered on the reverse or on a
separate piece of paper.

Part III.

To be completed by OO-ALC/DPCC.
