                                                    HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER
                                                                              33-404
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                    10 FEBRUARY 2009
                                                              Communication and Information

                                                     SOFTWARE LICENSE MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Pulishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

                                                                         Certified by: 75CG/CL
OPR: 75CG/SCX
                                                                          (Ms. Essye B. Miller)
                                                                                      Pages: 13



This Hill Air Force Base Instruction (HAFBI) implements Executive Order (E.O.) 13103,
Computer Software Piracy, September 30, 1998; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD)
5000.2-R, Mandatory Procedures For Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPS) and
Major Automated Information System (MAIS) Acquisition Programs, April 5, 2002; and Air
Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4)
Systems, September 17, 1993. It identifies responsibilities for management of commercial off-
the-shelf (COTS) and Air Force-unique software acquired by the Air Force (other than software
internal to a weapon system; see AFPD 63-1, Capabilities-Based Acquisition System, 10 July
2003). This instruction applies to all organizations on Hill Air Force Base using the Air Force
Network. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Send recommended changes or comments to the designated Base
Software License Manager (BSLM), 75th Communications Group (P) (75CG (P)), 6090 Gum
Lane, Bldg 1211, Hill AFB UT 84056, through appropriate channels, using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication.

1. Hill AFB Software Licensing Program Roles and Responsibilities:
   1.1. The 75th Communications Group (P), Director (75 CG/CL) is responsible for the Base
   Software License Management Program. The 75 CG/CL will:
       1.1.1. Appoint primary and alternate Base Software License Managers (BSLM).
2                                                    HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009


       1.1.2. Notify HQ AFMC/A6 Command Software License Manager (CSLM) and
       individuals of their appointment. This notification will include a signed copy of the
       appointment letter.
       1.1.3. Ensure each organizational Commander designates primary and alternate Unit
       Software License Managers (USLMs).
       1.1.4. Review BSLM Program and provide CSLM program status as warranted by higher
       authority.
       1.1.5. Certify and submit an annual inventory of all unit computer software and licenses.
       Accomplish certification by signing the annual inventory spreadsheet or memorandum
       and to indicate accomplishment of the base’s annual software license inventory.
    1.2. Unit Commanders are responsible for Software License Management activities within
    their unit. Commanders will:
       1.2.1. Appoint Primary and Alternate USLMs to manage the unit and base software
       license program, and forward appointment memorandums to the BSLM.
       1.2.2. Annually certify and document to the BSLM a software inventory was
       accomplished for all unit computer software. Accomplish certification by signing the
       annual inventory list or memorandum and indicate the unit’s annual software license
       inventory has been accomplished. Complete this certification each year no later than the
       day the USLM was officially appointed.
       1.2.3. Ensure outgoing and incoming software license managers conduct a joint
       inventory of all licensed software and endorse all inventories.
       1.2.4. Ensure software acquisitions are coordinated through the respective USLM and
       BSLM prior to purchase.
       1.2.5. Ensure USLM is notified of all deliveries of new software licenses and copies of
       licensing material is provided to the USLM. Ensure software is added to the unit’s
       software inventory.
       1.2.6. Ensure necessary training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique
       software purchased or developed by the unit.
       1.2.7. Ensure Air Force Enterprise license agreement contracts are used to procure
       common-user desktop/laptop software on new Personal Computer (PC) orders.
    1.3. The BSLM is responsible for the Base Software License Management Program and acts
    as representative for the 75 CG/CL. The BSLM reports directly to the 75 CG/CL and is
    Liaison to HQ AFMC/A6 CSLM for Hill Air Force Base Software License Management
    Program. The BSLM will:
       1.3.1. Track primary and alternate USLMs to manage the unit and base software license
       program.
       1.3.2. Annually certify and document to 75 CG/CL a software inventory was
       accomplished for all unit computer software. Accomplish certification by signing the
       annual inventory list or memorandum and indicate the base’s annual software license
HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                              3


     inventory has been accomplished. Complete this certification each year no later than the
     day the BSLM was officially appointed.
     1.3.3. Conduct a joint inventory of all licensed software and endorse all inventories for
     outgoing and incoming USLM.
     1.3.4. Validate software acquisition is coordinated through the respective software
     license manager prior to purchase.
     1.3.5. Validate deliveries of new software licenses and copies of licensing material is
     provided to the USLM. Validate software is added to the unit’s software inventory.
     1.3.6. Validate necessary training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique
     software purchased or developed by the unit.
     1.3.7. Validate Air Force Enterprise license agreement contracts are used to procure
     common-user desktop/laptop software on new PC orders.
  1.4. Unit Software License Manager Responsibilities.
     1.4.1. Ensure properly trained Functional System Administrators (FSAs), Client Support
     Administrators (CSAs), and other approved personnel install, upgrade, manipulate
     settings, or assist others on software operations. A trouble ticket via the Help Desk will
     be opened for any anomalies identified.
     1.4.2. Familiar with license number, total number of each, user, and type software
     license agreement purchased for use in organizations.
     1.4.3. Coordinate with the BSLM, FSAs, CSAs, users, and/or purchasers of software.
     1.4.4. Monitor acquisition of all new software, update software inventory list, inform the
     BSLM in a timely manner, and become familiar with software license agreements prior to
     software installations. Validate only authorized personnel install software on computers
     or computer systems connected to or residing on the base network.
     1.4.5. Store evidence of authorized back-up copies and license agreements or licenses
     (e.g. user manuals, purchase documentation, CD-ROMs, etc.) and physical software
     media in a secure centralized location (e.g., locked drawer, file cabinet, room, etc.).
     1.4.6. Ensure the legal use of all software. Contact OO-ALC/JA for additional guidance
     when necessary and appropriate.
     1.4.7. Each COTS application must have a license.
     1.4.8. Use of software corresponds to the applicable license agreement.
     1.4.9. Identify software that does not have associated licenses, assemble proofs-of-
     purchase, and request replacement licenses from publishers, as needed. Develop plan of
     action to obtain compliance within 120 days.
     1.4.10. Coordinate training with the BSLM, as needed.
     1.4.11. Coordinate with the Unit Commander/Director for training of newly appointed
     Unit Software License Managers with the BSLM, as needed.
     1.4.12. USLM to ensure unit’s in-processing/out-processing procedures requires
     members to process through the USLM. USLM will maintain a record of member’s
4                                                     HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009


       name, date, types of action (incoming/outgoing briefing) as it relates to software license
       management duties. Ensure incoming personnel are scheduled and receive software
       license training within 30 days after initial software license briefing. Ensure members are
       provided annual software license training as prescribed by the BSLM or local directives,
       but not less than annually.
       1.4.13. Circulate software licensing information, as needed/requested, throughout the
       organization.
       1.4.14. Support and implement the Base Software License Program.
       1.4.15. Maintain a copy of the software license inventory and ―Proof-of-License
       Ownership‖ of all government owned/COTS software in use within their unit. Proof may
       consist of copy of documentation from the supplier such as manual, purchase
       documentation, email, or distribution media. Inventory must include:
          1.4.15.1. ―Purchase Data‖ (Vendor Name, Purchase Order or Delivery Order
          Number),
          1.4.15.2. Description,
          1.4.15.3. Version,
          1.4.15.4. Cost,
          1.4.15.5. Quantity Purchased,
          1.4.15.6. License ID Number(s),
          1.4.15.7. Funding Data,
          1.4.15.8. Date Purchased,
          1.4.15.9. Expiration/Renew by Date(s).
       1.4.16. Perform an annual inventory of all software licenses and cross check with
       installed software. Complete certification each year no later than the anniversary date of
       the USLM’s official appointment. Ensure unit commander or director endorses the
       report.
       1.4.17. Perform a joint inventory of all software licenses and cross check with installed
       software before transferring responsibility to another software license manager. Ensure
       unit commander or director endorses the report.
       1.4.18. Properly redistribute or destroy excess or superseded software.
    1.5. FSA and CSA Responsibilities.
       1.5.1. Maintain a record or establish a database on non-enterprise licensed software
       installed, uninstalled, upgraded, or when any action is performed that will change the
       amount of license software products installed. Notify the USLM as required, of actions
       taken.
       1.5.2. Ensure software covered by an enterprise license agreement is not transferred with
       hardware when performing automated data processing equipment (ADPE) transactions.
       1.5.3. Do not purchase or obtain software without prior coordination of the USLM.
HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                               5


      1.5.4. Monitor computers to ensure computer users do not install or remove any software
      application. Monitoring may be periodically accomplished by using an automated
      software tool.
   1.6. Computer User Responsibilities.
      1.6.1. Assist USLMs with software inventories on PCs as required.
      1.6.2. Do not install or remove any software application without specific authorization of
      the CSA in coordination with the USLM.
      1.6.3. Do not make illegal copies of copyrighted software.
      1.6.4. Complete initial software license training within 30 days of arrival and annual
      thereafter.
2. Hill AFB Software Licensing Program Process.
   2.1. The Hill AFB Software Licensing Program establishes policy for managing COTS and
   Air Force-unique software applications. Program is established to ensure Hill Air Force Base
   educates and trains appropriate personnel regarding software management and use.
   2.2. The software management overall process includes performing software inventory,
   matching software with licenses, reviewing policies and procedures and developing a plan.
   The plan consists of how the program will be implemented and procedures used within Hill
   Air Force Base.
      2.2.1. Initiate Unit Software procedures.
      2.2.2. Software requestor checks the Approved Software Listings. May request support
      from the appropriate USLM.
      2.2.3. Review Approved Software Listings sources: AF-APL, Transitional AFMC-APL,
      AFWay, i-TRM, etc. May request support from the appropriate USLM and/or BSLM.
      2.2.4. If software is contained on Approved Software Listing, Software Request submits
      a digitally signed Information Technology/National Security Systems (IT/NSS
      Document) Air Force Form 3215 (formerly known as Communications-Computer
      Requirements Document (CSRD)), to their Squadron Commander/Director Level for
      approval (or above).
      2.2.5. Once approved, the Squadron Commander/Director Level (or above) submits a
      digitally signed AF Form 3215 to the Help Desk for initial Software Compliance,
      Compatibility, Authorization and Recording.
      2.2.6. If software is not contained on Approved Software Listing, USLM provides user
      with documented Software Request Worksheet and guidance ―how to proceed‖.
      2.2.7. USLM provides user documented instructions (checklist, web site) of all user
      required actions from the initial software request through its final disposition.
      2.2.8. Help Desk receive, record, and distribute the AF Form 3215 to the appropriate
      functional organization within the Communications Squadron – Network, Information
      Assurance, Land Mobile Radio, etc.
6                                                   HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009


       2.2.9. Functional organizations perform/review checks and complete net worthiness,
       security, compatibility, compliance, etc. Make a determination based on available
       information at the time of submission. Functional notified Help Desk whether the AF
       Form 3215 is approved or disapproved.
       2.2.10. Help Desk records AF Form 3215 approval status. Help Desk notifies software
       requestor and USLM.
       2.2.11. Software request procures approved AF Form 3215 software and opens Remedy
       Ticket with Help Desk upon delivery to install newly acquired software.
       2.2.12. Remedy Ticket notifies applicable FSA/CSA and USLM.
       2.2.13. FSA/CSA provides software license number, total number of each, user, and type
       software license agreement purchased for use in the unit to the USLM.
       2.2.14. USLM updates inventory and reports as directed to the BSLM.
    2.3. Software Management.
       2.3.1. The USLM will conduct a software inventory annually to ensure compliance with
       all licensing agreements. All non-compliances will be sent to the USLM and the
       Unit/CC. Discrepancies will be corrected prior to BSLM forwarding the report to the
       CSO for certification. BSLM will compile the reports and forward to CSO for
       certification. The CSO will provide CSLM with an annual compliance report including
       the database information for all of the licensed software at Hill Air Force Base. Random
       audits will be performed to ensure compliance with all licensing agreements and
       regulations. A list of all non-compliant software will be sent to the USLM and Unit/CC.
       2.3.2. Software Identification. The software identification is the process of selection,
       creation and specification of the software products that will be added to the Air Force
       Approved Products List (AF APL). A standard software naming convention will be used
       in order to easily identify the software commonality. The AF APL is a listing of all
       allowed software and the implementation status of each package. The BSLM office will
       compile and validate the list as the approved Hill AFB Software Standard Products List.
       The List will be located in a shared file location to which all software requestors will
       have access. All software used must be identified on the List. Software requestors will
       initiate the ―Software Request Process‖ for any required but unapproved software loaded
       to a government computer through the BSLM who will forward the package to the 75 CG
       Information Assurance Office (75 CS/SCBS-IA).
       2.3.3. License Agreements. The BSLM will review licensing agreements to ensure that
       best value is used in acquiring software. Unused software licenses will be pooled within
       the license agreement and reassigned as required. The purchasing unit has priority in
       reassignment of licenses.
       2.3.4. The BSLM will review licensing agreements to ensure that best value is used in
       acquiring software. Unused software licenses will be pooled within the license
       agreement and reassigned as required. The purchasing unit has priority in reassignment
       of licenses.
       2.3.5. The BSLM/USLM will properly destroy or redistribute excess software.
HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                               7


     2.3.6. Computers for disposal are coordinated with the USLM. The USLM will remove
     non-standard software (especially software eligible for reuse) from the computer and will
     update the database and notify the BSLM of the software changes. Software media
     disposal will be processed according to the license agreement of the software vendor. All
     computers are to have the disc drive either removed or erased of all data prior to
     disposing of the computer. The USLM will maintain a log of software media (including
     manuals and license information) not in use and will log this information into the
     database and provide to the BSLM as part of their annual inventory.
     2.3.7. Prohibition against Unlicensed Software Use. No employee shall install,
     reproduce, distribute, transmit or otherwise use software for which this Agency lacks the
     appropriate license, unless such software is properly licensed to the employee and used in
     accordance with Agency policy and the applicable license. If an employee becomes
     aware of the reproduction, distribution or use of unauthorized software in this Agency,
     he/she should promptly notify the BSLM; install, reproduce or use any software upgrade
     on a computer that does not already have resident on it the original version of the
     software; or loan, distribute or transmit Agency software to any third party, unless the
     employee is expressly authorized to do so by his/her supervisor and the applicable
     license.
     2.3.8. Authorization to Use Agency Software on Home Computers. The licenses for
     some Agency software permit employees of the Agency to make a copy of the software
     for home use. In such event, employees may make a copy of Agency software for home
     use only if they demonstrate a need to conduct Agency business from their homes and
     receive express authorization from the BSLM. Under no circumstances, however, may
     an employee use Agency software for purposes other than the business of this Agency.
     2.3.9. Downloading of Software from the Internet or Other Sources on to Agency
     Computers. A variety of software is available on the Internet. Some of this software,
     called "freeware" or "shareware," is available free of charge for limited uses and may be
     downloaded by an employee with the prior approval of his/her supervisor. Other
     software available on the Internet and from other electronic sources, however, requires
     the user to obtain a license for its use, sometimes for a fee. No employee shall download
     licensed software to his/her work station without the prior approval of the BSLM.
  2.4. Database. An initial inventory of all software will be gathered as part of a baseline
  software inventory. A database will be provided and updated to track the name of the
  software applications, the number of software applications installed, and the number of
  software licenses purchased. The USLM will be responsible for maintenance of the
  database. The database will use a metering mechanism to prevent exceeding the authorized
  number of copies and users. It will record network manager or system administrator
  inventory of licensed client and network software as part of the annual installation licensed
  software inventory.
  2.5. Training and Awareness. A training program will be established to promote user
  awareness of the on-going software license program and their responsibilities. The USLM
  will ensure that training and reminders are properly provided to all software requestors using
  the base intranet, SharePoint, bulletin boards, and e-mails. The training and awareness
  program will include but not be limited to:
8                                                    HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009


       2.5.1. Software license basics.
       2.5.2. Copyright Act.
       2.5.3. Policies and processes developed for the program.
       2.5.4. Information Assurance Awareness.
       2.5.5. Roles and responsibilities.
       2.5.6. On-line Training. Air Education and Training Command has training available
       on-line for Software License Management and Anti-piracy which includes information
       dealing with copyright laws, regulations, and users’ responsibilities. All other personnel
       with elevated network and/or PC access permissions will complete this training as a
       prerequisite to receiving their ―.adm‖ account. All personnel with duties connected with
       this process will complete this training as soon as possible.
3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
    3.1. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
    3.2. AF Form 3215, Information Technology/National Security Systems Document




                                            LINDA R. MEDLER , Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                           9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
E.O. 13103, Computer Software Piracy, September 30, 1998
Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. Section 552, as amended by Public Law No. 104-231, 110
Stat. 3048
The Copyright Act
The Information Technology Management Reform Act (Division E of Public Law 104-106)
The Privacy Act
CJCSI 6212.01E, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National
Security Systems, 15 December 2008
DFAR Supplement, Part 208, Required Sources of Supplies and Services, Subpart 208.74,
Enterprise Software Agreements, 25 October 2002
DoDD 3405.1, Computer Programming Language Policy, April 2, 1987
DoDD 4630.5, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National
Security Systems (NSS), May 5, 2004
DoDI 4630.8, Procedures for Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command,
Control, Communications, and Intelligence (C3I) Systems, November 18, 1992
DoD 5400. 7-R/AFSUP, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 24 June 2002
DoDD 8320.1, DoD Data Administration, September 26, 1991 (Certified Current as of
November 21, 2003)
DoD 8320.1-M, Data Administration Procedures, March 29, 1994
DoD 8320.1-M-1, Data Standardization Procedures, Apri1 2, 1998
AFPD 63-1, Capability-Based Acquisition System, 10 July 2003
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems, 27 June 2006
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA)Program, 19 April 2007
AFI 21-116, Maintenance Management of Communications-Electronics (IC 1), 7 December
2006
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 November 2008
AFI 33-114, Software Management (IC-2), 23 Oct 2008
AFI 33-115, Volume 1, Network Management (NETOPS), 24 May 2006
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging (IC through 4), 2 September 2008
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use (IC-2), 30 Oct 2008
10                                                 HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009


AFDIR 33-121, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology (will convert to
AFDIR 33-303)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCA—Air Force Communications Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIND—Air Force Index
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
C4—Command, Control, Communications, and Computers
C4I—Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence
CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
COTS—Commercial Off-The-Shelf
CRADA—Cooperative Research and Development Agreements
CSA—Client Support Administrator
CSLM—Command Software License Manager
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
CSRD—Communications-Computer Requirements Document (see IT/NSS below)
DFAR—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
E.O.—Executive Order
ESA—Enterprise Software Agreement
ESI—Enterprise Software Initiative
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
FSA— Functional System Administrator
HAFBI—Hill Air Force Base Instruction
ISSO— Information Security Systems Officer
HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                             11


ITA—AF—Joint Technical Architecture-Air Force
IT/NSS— Information Technology/National Security Systems Document (AF Form 3215)
JTA—Joint Technical Architecture
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PC—Personal Computer
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SPI—Software Process Improvement
STSC—Software Technology Support Center
TCNO—Time Compliance Network Order
USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
USLM—Unit Software License Manager

Terms
Certification—For purposes of this instruction, the act of determining that software performs
without defects and viruses, and does what the supporting documentation says it will do in
accordance with any specified acceptance criteria.
Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4)—Systems--Integrated systems of
doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment, facilities, and
communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and control, across
the range of military operations. Also called ―communications and information systems.‖
Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Software—Software developed, tested, and sold by
commercial companies to the general public. Examples include word processors, databases,
application generation, drawing, compiler, graphics, communications, and training software.
Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO)—Identifies the supporting CSO at
all levels. At base level, this is the commander of the communications unit responsible for
carrying out base communications and information systems responsibilities, the base CSO.
Tenant organizations may also have CSOs. At MAJCOM, and other activities responsible for
large quantities of communications and information assets, it is the person designated by the
commander as responsible for overall management of communications and information assets
budgeted and funded by the MAJCOM or activity. The CSO function, when under the base
communications unit, uses the office symbol ―SC‖ that expands to three and four digits to
identify specific functional areas.
Computer Security (COMPUSEC)—l. The protection resulting from all measures to deny
unauthorized access and exploitation of friendly computer systems. See also ―communications
security‖. 2. Measures and controls that ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
information systems assets including hardware, software, firmware, and information being
processed, stored, and communicated.
12                                                     HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009


Copyright—Without a license that specifies otherwise, the purchaser’s use of software is
restricted to making an archival copy and installing the computer program onto a single
computer, in accordance: with the 1976. Do not reproduce or use copyrighted software in any
other manner.
Documentation—Records required to plan, develop, operate, maintain, and use electronic
records and software. Included are systems specifications, file specifications, codebooks, record
layouts, user guides, and output specifications.
DoD Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI)—A DoD Chief Information Officer-led joint DoD
project to develop and implement a DoD enterprise process to save money and improve
information sharing on COTS products. The objective is to reduce problems identified with
procuring software for DoD (including price, acquisition cost, distribution, training,
maintenance, and support) for common-use, standards-compliant software.
Enterprise License—Allows the purchasing organization to use a specific COTS software
program across the organization for a set price. This is usually a more cost effective acquisition
strategy than purchase of individual copies for widely used software. The user should refer to
the contract terms and conditions to determine if the enterprise license is limited or unlimited.
Either the Air Force Enterprise Software License Program or DoD ESI should be considered for
commonly used software.
Enterprise Software Agreement (ESA)—Agreements, such as contracts or blanket purchase
agreements, by which organizations acquire software or software maintenance under specified
terms and conditions.
Hardware—The physical equipment and devices forming a computer and peripheral
components.
Interoperability—The ability of systems, units, or forces to provide services to and accept
services from other systems, units, or forces and to use the services so exchanged to enable them
to operate effectively together. The condition achieved among communications-electronics
systems or items of communications-electronics equipment when exchanging information or
services directly and satisfactorily between them and/or their users.
License Agreements—Contracts between the software publisher and the user that instruct and
limit the software use. When purchasing software, the buyer only acquires a license to use it.
The publisher retains the full rights to the software and has the sole right to its further
distribution and reproduction. The user should refer to the contract terms and conditions to
determine if, and under what conditions, the user is authorized to copy and distribute software.
Maintenance—Any job described as one that eliminates faults or keeps hardware or software
running in satisfactory working condition falls into the maintenance category. (See AFI 21-116,
.)
Network—Two or more computers connected to each other through a multi-user system or by
other electronic means to exchange information or share computer hardware or software.
Requirement—A need for a new or improved information processing capability that, when
satisfied, increases the probability of operational mission success or decreases the cost of mission
support.
HILLAFBI33-404 10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                13


Reuse—The process of developing or supporting a software intensive system using existing
software assets.
Sensitive Information—The loss, misuse, unauthorized access to, or modification of
information that could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of federal programs,
or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under Title 5 U.S.C. Section 522a , but that has
not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an E.O. or an Act of Congress to be
kept SECRET in the interest of the national defense or foreign policy. (See Air Force Directory
[AFDIR] 33-303, .)
Shareware—Privately or commercially developed software that users receive free of charge but
pay a fee for continued or extended use. Normally, implied or promised support by the author is
minimal or nonexistent. (See AFDIR 33-303.)
Software—A set of computer programs, procedures, and associated documentation concerned
with the operation of a data processing system (for example, compilers, library routines, and
manuals).
User—The individual who operates the computer or uses application software.
