BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                HILL AIR FORCE BASE
HILL AIR FORCE BASE (AFMC)                                                INSTRUCTION 13-202

                                                                                      1 APRIL 2009

                                                           Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                                AIRFIELD VEHICLE CONTROL

                           COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

______________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.epublishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions for release on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________
OPR: 75 OSS/OSAM                                                        Certified By: 75 OSS/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Matthew R. Dana)
Supersedes HILLAFBI13-202, 5 August 2004                                                Pages: 50
______________________________________________________________________________
This instruction implements AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, Airfield, and Range
Management. This instruction outlines responsibilities and procedures for controlling ground
vehicles operating in the flight line environment. It sets forth requirements for training and
authorization based on need, necessary knowledge, safety and other considerations. It applies to
all organizations having a need to drive on the Hill AFB flight line. This publication prescribes
the use of Hill AFB Form 528, Flight Line Training Record and Request. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Duty titles have been
updated. Airfield drivers are required to complete the Computer-Based Training (CBT) provided
by the Airfield Manager. Augmentees assigned to another unit are the responsibility of the using
unit. Only the Air Base Wing Commander (75 ABW/CC) may authorize reinstatement of
airfield driving privileges to perform critical mission essential duties after base driving privileges
have been revoked. The Unit Vehicle Control Officers/Airfield Driving Program Manager will
be responsible for training and monitoring contractors as well as individuals in their unit.
Refresher training now includes mandatory completion of flight line driver CBT.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                       2


                                            Chapter 1

 AIRFIELD DRIVING TRAINING PROGRAM CONCEPT AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Concept.
1.1.1. The goal of the airfield driving program is to create a safe airfield environment. Safe
operation of motor vehicles on the airfield is essential to normal aircraft operations and
maintenance. Motor vehicles present a clear and definite danger, both to aircraft and ground
personnel. Carelessness, haste, and a disregard for established safety standards are the primary
sources of aircraft or vehicle collisions, incidents, and personnel injury with motor vehicles on
the airfield.
1.1.2. All personnel operating a vehicle must be trained on local driving procedures and possess
a valid AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency, or a home station/country equivalent, endorsed
for airfield driving before operating any vehicle on the airfield. This requirement applies to both
military and civilian employees who are either assigned to, visiting, or on temporary duty to this
base, and applies to drivers of military, commercial, and private wheeled vehicles.
1.1.3. The standards set in this Instruction are to control airfield vehicle operations and must be
used in conjunction with Hill AFB Instruction 13-201, Airfield and Air Traffic Control
Operations.
1.1.4. Only trained personnel will be assigned duties that require driving on the airfield. All
base assigned personnel who operate a vehicle on the airfield must complete all training and
testing requirements. Airfield experience (e.g., operating vehicles or aircraft) is not a substitute
for completion of airfield driving training and testing requirement. Trained personnel must be
knowledgeable of and comply with this instruction. The use of vehicles and the number of
authorized drivers on the airfield will be limited to the absolute minimum necessary to
accomplish the mission.
1.1.5. Unit commanders, Airfield Driving Program Managers (ADPM), Security Forces and
Airfield Management (AM) personnel have the authority to revoke airfield driving privileges. If,
for any reason supervisors are aware or are made aware of unsafe behavior of individuals
licensed to drive on the airfield, they will suspend the individuals driving privileges and report
the incident immediately to the ADPM.
1.1.6. All personnel on the airfield are responsible for monitoring airfield vehicle safety,
detecting unauthorized vehicles, and immediately reporting airfield driving violations to Airfield
Management Operations (AM Ops).
1.1.7. If necessary, AM will notify the Security Forces. The Security Forces will dispatch a
patrol and assist AM in apprehending violators and issuing citations if appropriate.
1.1.8. AM will investigate all airfield driving violations and take appropriate action per AFI13-
213 Airfield Management.
1.1.9. The following definitions must be followed:
1.1.9.1. “Will” means a procedure is mandatory.
1.1.9.2. “Should” means a procedure is recommended
1.1.9.3. “May” or “need not” means a procedure is optional.

1.2. Responsibilities. The Airfield Manager, commanders, supervisors and safety officers will
enforce this publication. Any person violating procedures should be reported to the security
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                        3

forces and Base Operations. If at all possible, obtain vehicle registration/plate number and/or
driver information, time, place and violation witnessed.
1.2.1. Host Wing Commander.
1.2.2. Designate personnel and agencies to support the Airfield Driving Program.
1.2.3. Upon suspension/revocation of base driving privileges only the 75 ABW/CC can
authorize re-instatement of airfield driving privileges to perform critical mission essential duties.

1.3. Unit Commanders or Directors.
1.3.1. Ensure a primary and alternate unit ADPM, (normally the vehicle control officer (VCO)
or vehicle control noncommissioned officers (VCNCO) are appointed according to AFI 13-213,
Airfield Management. An electronic appointment letter on squadron letter head with
commander’s signature will be e-mailed to the Assistant Airfield Manager (AAFM). New
appointees should be placed into training 30 days prior to assuming duties. Note: The unit’s
airfield driving program requires a great amount of attention to run properly. Problematic unit
program trends have stemmed from the unit ADPM being over tasked with additional duties.
Commanders are cautioned not to assign duties that could interfere with accomplishing their
responsibilities as outlined in this instruction.
1.3.2. Certify through their signature that the requested person have a need to be qualified to
drive on the airfield. Authority may be delegated in writing to individual unit Airfield Driving
Program managers. A copy of the delegation letter will be forwarded to Airfield Management
(75 OSS/OSAM).
1.3.3. Be solely responsible for airfield drivers owned or controlled by the unit, including
contractor personnel, by signing Hill AFB Form 528 prior to testing. Authority may be
delegated in writing to individual unit ADPMs, an electronic copy of the delegation on squadron
letter head should be forwarded to the AAFM. Augmentees temporarily assigned to another unit
are the responsibility of the receiving unit. Drivers should be emotionally, mentally, and
physically able to perform these duties.
1.3.4. Limit the number of personnel authorized to drive on the airfield to the absolute minimum
necessary to accomplish the mission.
1.3.5. Ensure all assigned personnel are fully aware that operations of Privately Owned Vehicles
(POVs) on Hill AFB airfield are strictly prohibited, unless authorized by the 75 OSS/CC or his
designated representative.
1.3.6. Certify POV justification letters. Certification may only be authorized by the unit
commander on an electronic unit letter head and forwarded to 75 OSS/OSAM.
1.3.7. Through the ADPM, establish a training program designed to meet the needs of the unit.
Ensure the proper administration of the unit's airfield driver training program.
1.3.8. Upon suspension/revocation of a unit member’s base driving privileges, suspend/revoke
the member’s airfield driving authorization and notify the unit ADPM and the Assistant Airfield
Manager in writing. Only the 75 ABW/CC may authorize reinstatement of airfield driving
privileges to perform critical mission essential duties.
1.3.9. Suspend an individual’s airfield driving privileges and order retraining when appropriate.
1.3.10. IAW AFI 13-213 Airfield Management, Airfield Management will inspect the unit’s
Airfield Driving Program annually or as requested by unit commanders. Inspection will focus on
program integrity, compliance, and support. Results will be briefed at the Airfield Operations
Board (AOB).
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                       4

1.4. The Airfield Manager (AFM) or Assistant Airfield Manager (AAFM).
1.4.1. Manage Hill AFB airfield driving program and will ensure the quality of each unit's
airfield driver training program and procedures periodically.
1.4.2. As delegated by the 75 Operations Support Squadron (75 OSS/CC). Control and
identifies POVs that are sponsored through a unit signed letter by on-base units and are
authorized access to the airfield. AFM, AAFM, and designated representatives are authorized to
terminate POV pass privileges at when deemed appropriate.
1.4.3. Provide ADPMs with the minimum Hill AFB familiarization requirements.
1.4.4. Coordinate on all airfield unit specific training programs.
1.4.5. Provide a specific training and a written examination for all first-time, Hill AFB stationed,
airfield drivers. Training can be found on the Hill AFB web site under 75ABW/75OSS/Airfield
Operations/Airfield Management. The AAFM will conduct a closed book competency written
test to all new and expired airfield driving applicants. Delegation for test administration may be
approved by the AAFM to the unit ADPM with an approved unit CC signed letter on file with
the AAFM. Letters should be sent electronically to the AAFM
1.4.6. Provide orientation and certify newly appointed unit ADPMs on airfield driving program
requirements and provide information needed to train personnel operating vehicles on the
airfield. Training of new unit ADPMs is the responsibility of the previous unit ADPM.
1.4.7. Validate with the unit ADPM a current list of authorized airfield drivers assigned to the
unit each quarter during the year.
1.4.8. Have the authority to revoke airfield driving privileges.
1.4.9. Notify Unit ADPMs of any changes to airfield operations by sending or posting to the
Airfield Driving Web Site a change in operations or procedures to be used by the unit for their
annual airfield driver refresher training.
1.4.10. Inspect each unit’s airfield driving program annually or as requested by unit
commanders. Inspection will focus on program integrity, compliance, and support. Results will
be briefed at the Airfield Operations Board (AOB).
1.4.11. Review required training documentation and endorse all AF Form 483s for airfield
driving at Hill AFB. The AFM, AAFM or designated AM representative may endorse AF Form
483s.

1.5. Unit Airfield Driving Program Manager (ADPM) and Unit Trainers Responsibilities.
1.5.1. Must be certified to drive on Hill AFB airfield, appointed by their unit commander and
received a local airfield orientation by the AAFM. Appointment letter must be forwarded to
Airfield Management within 7 days. A unit VCO appointment letter will not suffice. ADPM
must receive Airfield Management orientation before taking over their unit program. The
current ADPM will schedule training for their replacement with the AAFM at least 30 days prior
to relinquishing unit duties.
1.5.2. Administers the unit airfield driver’s training program IAW the Wing Airfield Driving
Program Directive; Hill AFB Instruction 13-202. The ADPM must, as a minimum, provide
airfield driving training outlined in Attachment 2. Additional and unique unit requirements
training program. Other sources of information are AFI 24-301 Vehicle Operations, AFJMAN
24-306 Manual for Wheeled Vehicle Driver, AFI 31-204 Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic
Supervision, Hill AFB Instruction 13-201 Air Traffic Control and Flight Operations,
AFOSHSTD 91-100 Aircraft Flightline – Ground Operations and Activities and the Airfield
Management Web Site at
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                        5

https://hillnet.hill.af.mil/HAFB/ALC/75ABW/75oss/air_field_mgt.htm . NOTE: The Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) has runway safety awareness material to download and/or order
free. Airfield driving program managers are highly encouraged to use this supplemental material
to enhance their unit programs. Visit http://www.faa.gov/runwaysafety/ for further information
and a list of available material. Note: Individuals not receiving night orientation/training check
rides will have their AF Form 483 restricted (e.g., “AUTHORIZED DAYLIGHT HOURS
ONLY”). If the individual later requires a nighttime authorization, the unit ADPM will ensure
training is provided (night orientation) and documented. The AM, AAFM or designated AM
representative will update the AF Form 483, as required.
1.5.3. Ensure all trainees are licensed or certified to operate either a privately, government, or
contractor owned or leased vehicle.
1.5.4. Ensure all trainees are qualified to drive the vehicle they will be operating on the airfield.
Ensure trainee possesses a valid state or government driver’s license. Ensure trainee possesses a
“Controlled Area Z” badge prior to testing.
1.5.5. Ensure the unit's contracted personnel are airfield trained and monitored. If escorted the
escorting individual must be in the same vehicle or leading the individuals with a government
vehicle, and have a current competency card and line badge. The escort must stay with the
individuals escorted until they leave the airfield area. Escorts must also notify airfield
management operations of who, what, where, and when these operations will occur. Once the
operation is complete the escort will ensure airfield management operations are notified.
Airfield Management Operations is not responsible for escort of any organization except when
designated by the Airfield Manager.
1.5.6. Ensure all unit assigned and sponsored vehicles operating on the airfield have an AFVA
11-240 Airport Signs and Markings decal in the vehicle. See Figure 1.2.

Figure 1.1. Airport Signs and Markings Decal.




1.5.7. Maintain records, associated forms and listing of all unit personnel authorized to drive on
the airfield. Review and update the listing of all unit personnel authorized to drive on the
airfield.
1.5.8. Suspend, retrain, or revoke driving privileges when necessary of those drivers in the unit.
1.5.9. Ensure all personnel accomplish the annual airfield driver refresher CBTs. Additions or
changes to the unit certified training program are approved only by the AM or AAFM. Annotate
completion of refresher training and date on the back side of each individual’s AF Form 483 and
on the original Hill AFB Form 528. Refresher training must be completed by the last day of the
anniversary month and not before the first day of the same month. Since the back side of the AF
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                     6

Form 483 is a record of refresher training, a lost or destroyed card requires an individual to be
retrained and tested unless the unit ADPM can show the necessary current and valid training
documentation from the original Hill AFB Form 528 and signs off all past refresher entries on
the recreated “Certificate of Competency”. See 2.13.4 for lost or destroyed AF Form 483
procedure.
1.5.10. Send upcoming refresher notices to all supervisors of personnel 5 days prior to 1st day of
that individual’s anniversary month, via e-mail.
1.5.11. Maintain an Airfield Driving Program Continuity Binder in the TAB format below.
NOTE: When approved by the AAFM, contents from a TAB may be maintained in another
location or electronically. Use the DD Form 2861, Cross-Reference to identify location.
1.5.11.1. TAB A: Unit ADPM appointment letter.
1.5.11.2. TAB B: Airfield Driving Instruction (ADI) HILL AFBI 13-202.
1.5.11.3. TAB C: Annual Program Inspection Results.
1.5.11.4. TAB D: Airfield Drivers Training and Certification letters (HILL AFB Form 528).
1.5.11.5. TAB E: List of unit assigned airfield drivers.
1.5.11.6. TAB F: Airfield Driving CBT, Training Curriculum, Test/Answer Key.
1.5.11.7. TAB G: Unit airfield driving safety requirements as applicable.
1.5.11.8. TAB H: Airfield Violations/Corrective actions.
1.5.11.9. TAB I: References (e.g., AFJMAN 24-306, Chapter 25 Operation of Motor Vehicles
on Air Force Flight Lines, and AFOSHSTD 91-100, Chapter6 Flight Line Vehicle Operations,
AFI 21-101 , etc.) and other miscellaneous information. Note: References may be a paper or
electronic copy.

1.6. Security Forces Squadron (75 SFS).
1.6.1. Enforce all traffic rules and directives on the airfield, ensure unauthorized vehicles are
prohibited from operating on the airfield, and inform base operations of violations. Note:
Special attention should be directed toward the area in front of Base Operations (Building 1) and
Airfield Gates 1, 2, 45 and 48.
1.6.2. Ensure all airfield areas are routinely patrolled and of airfield driving violations are
addressed and reported through the chain of command and base operations. Random spot checks
may be conducted by Security Forces at the request of Airfield Management.
1.6.3. Be alert for FOD items in the airfield environment. When possible pick up FOD. If large
volumes of FOD are encountered, report it to Base Operations for sweeper dispatch.

1.7. Civil Engineer Squadron, Army Corps of Engineers, Environmental Management
Directorate (75 CEG/CEV) or other contracting organizations.
1.7.1. Ensure all contracts for activities within the airfield environment contain a requirement
for airfield safety and airfield driving training before starting work. All driving routes to/from
construction sites must be approved by the AM or AAFM.
1.7.2. Ensure all base assigned (annual) contractors are trained IAW this instruction and receive
an AF Form 483 endorsed by AM before driving on the airfield. All annual contractors that do
not operate in a Government Owned Vehicles (GOV) or General Services Administration (GSA)
vehicle on the airfield must obtain a flight line POV pass.
1.7.3. Ensure all temporary contractors working on the airfield are escorted by an airfield
qualified escort or are trained, certified, and issued a valid AF Form 483 card by the CE ADPM
before operating any vehicles or equipment on the airfield. All temporary contractor vehicles
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                     7

must obtain a POV pass. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Project Manager (PM) must coordinate
all work on the airfield with AM. The AM or AAFM will clarify the level of training required
for contractors and coordinate issuance of POV passes through the Civil Engineer Squadron
ADPM.
1.7.4. Temporary contractors who will be required to drive across active taxiways, taxilanes, or
the runway require local airfield drivers training and a temporary AF Form 483. All contractor
vehicles operating within the CMA must be equipped with a rotating yellow beacon or
emergency flashers and have two-way radio contact with the Control Tower.
1.7.5. Temporary contractors that will not be required to drive across active taxiways, taxilanes,
or the runway must receive a briefing tailored to AM approved contractor vehicle routes to/from
the construction site. ALC Contract Agency PM will coordinate driving routes with AM during
the pre-construction meeting and document a briefing sheet as shown on Attachment 3.

1.8. 75 Medical Group (MDG).
1.8.1. Evaluate individuals that fail the color vision screening test required by unit ADPM
(Refer to 2.5.). Determine individual's ability to distinguish between red, green, white, yellow,
and blue. Report results of evaluation to requesting unit commander.

1.9. Control Tower Responsibilities.
1.9.1. Control vehicles operating on the airfield in accordance with FAAO 7110.65, Air Traffic
Control, Hill AFB Instruction 13-201, AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL AND FLIGHT OPERATIONS,
and this instruction.
1.9.2. Immediately report violations of this instruction to Airfield Management Operations. File
an AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report, or AF Form 651, Hazardous Air Traffic Report, as
required and provide a copy to Airfield Management Operations.
1.9.3. When unable to establish communications with personnel in the Radio Monitor Area
(RMA).
1.9.3.1. Immediately notify Airfield Management Operations of the situation.
1.9.3.2. Attempt to contact the vehicle by using light gun signals.
1.9.3.3. If on the runway, raise or lower the intensity of the runway edge lights. This signal
directs personnel to immediately observe light gun signals, exit the runway and establish
communication with tower.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                        8


                                            Chapter 2

       AIRFIELD DRIVING TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES

2.1. General.
2.1.1. The unit commander, through the unit ADPM, is responsible for the unit’s overall training
program.
2.1.2. All personnel having a requirement to drive on the Hill AFB airfield must be trained and
certified in accordance with this instruction. Unit ADPM will provide AM an appointment letter
for all airfield driving trainers.
2.1.3. Unit ADPM are responsible for training personnel within their respective organizations, to
include assigned, hosted, augmentee, and temporary duty (TDY) personnel.

2.2. Unit Airfield Driving Program Manager Responsibilities.
2.2.1. The unit ADPM will ensure accomplishment of all phases of airfield driver training.
ADPM will review each individual’s driving record and security credentials. The initial review
will ensure the individual possesses a valid state driver’s license and control area badge. A final
assessment of the driver’s need to be on Hill’s airfield would be warranted at this point; call the
Assistant Airfield Manager (AAFM) for further direction if unsure.
2.2.2. After the individual successfully completes the unit’s training, the ADPMs will ensure the
unit commander signs the Hill AFB Form 528, indicating completion of all requirements and
obtain a testing date with 75 OSS/OSAM or their designated unit representative. Testing will be
completed within 30 days of first training received.
2.2.3. The individual will take their completed Hill AFB Form 528 to 75 OSS/OSAM (Airfield
Management) or their designated unit representative to be tested. Trainee must score 85 percent
or higher to obtain an AF Form 483, stamped “Authorized Airfield Driving” with applicable
restrictions.
2.2.4. Ensure additional training is conducted and documented on personnel who fail a test or
commit a violation.
2.2.5. All unit driver’s information will be entered into the Master Airfield Driving Database.

2.3. Unit Airfield Driving Trainers Responsibilities.
2.3.1. Unit trainers will be assigned and trained by their unit ADPM. It is recommended that
units have one trainer for every 20 airfield drivers.
2.3.2. Minimum requirements for all unit airfield driving trainers:
2.3.2.1. Are designated by their unit commander.
2.3.2.2. Have a current AF Form 483 stamped “AUTHORIZED HILL AFB AIRFIELD
DRIVING” with no restrictions.
2.3.2.3. Are assigned duties involving driving on the airfield.
2.3.2.4. Be highly qualified and knowledgeable in all aspects involving unit operations and
airfield procedures.
2.3.2.5. Remain qualified on tasks for which they train or certify others. Competency in the use
of radio terminology/ phraseology with the Air Traffic Control Tower and driving on the runway
are of the upmost importance. Trainers must train all trainees in all aspects of airfield operations.
2.3.2.6. Conduct training in accordance with the unit’s training program and this instruction.
2.3.2.6.1. Annotate all training on the Hill AFB Form 528.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                    9



2.4. Trainee.
2.4.1. Provide feedback to trainer and unit ADPM on training received.
2.4.2. Comply with requirements in this instruction.
2.4.3. Complete the Airfield Driving CBT and written tests.

2.5. Color Vision Screening.
2.5.1. Personnel must have the color vision ability to distinguish between red, green, white,
yellow, and blue.
2.5.2. The 75th Medical Group will review an individual’s medical records or conduct color
vision screening to ensure the individual is not color blind. Annotate color vision status in
Section 7a on Hill AFB Form 528.
2.5.3. If an individual’s AFSC requires the individual not to be color blind for award of AFSC,
individual’s supervisor may sign off Section 7a. Under these circumstances, the individual is
exempt from testing provided previous results are favorable.
2.5.4. Coordination with hospital and safety officials is required to evaluate those cases where
individuals fail to distinguish the required colors during the color vision test to determine if
issuance of a "limited access" permit should be approved. Individuals who fail color vision
requirements must obtain wavier from the Airfield Manager. Per AFI13-213, Airfield
Management, waivers to color vision requirements can only be approved for non-radio
controlled areas.
2.5.4.1. If approved by the AM, the individual will be issued a restricted access AF Form 483
through the AAFM.

2.6. Qualification Training.
2.6.1. As a minimum, airfield driving training will consist of:
2.6.1.1. Academic Classroom Training. Reading of this instruction, Hill AFBI 13-202,
AFJMAN24-306 CH25, AFOSHSTD 91-100, and any additional material particular to the
assigned unit. Training must cover vehicle operating principles as well as local airfield layout.
Ensure special attention is placed on radio terminology/phraseology (Attachment 5), CMA
markings (Chapter 5) and driving procedures. Trainees must be familiar with operating
procedures in this instruction before conducting day or night orientation training. Unit Airfield
Driving Program Managers are responsible for checking with the AAFM to ensure the material
used for training is current before issuing this material to the trainee.
2.6.1.2. Airfield Driving Computer Based Training (CBT). A short-cut to the airfield driving
CBT          is       located     on       the       Airfield       Management     Web       Site
https://hillnet.hill.af.mil/HAFB/ALC/75ABW/75oss/air_field_mgt.htm .            Personnel must
complete the CBT with a minimum passing score of 80%. If a person fails the exam, the CBT
locks them from retesting for 3 days. Once a passing score is obtained, be sure to e-mail and
print a copy of the results. Attach these results to the Hill AFB Form 528.
2.6.1.3. Light Gun Signal Recognition Test. Practical training for light gun signals and required
actions will be accomplished using actual signal recognition from the ATC Tower. During
practical drivers training, the trainer should request a light gun signal test with the Control
Tower. This will give the trainee the ability to recognize actual light gun signals. See Figure
2.1.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      10


Figure 2.1 Light Gun Signal Chart.




2.6.1.4. One daytime orientation tour (practical). As a minimum, day orientation training must
include practical driving on the airfield. In addition to general procedures in this instruction,
emphasis should be placed on vehicle operating procedures in the vicinity of aircraft (see Figure
4.1) and airfield layout (Attachment 7). Ensure the markings used to define the boundaries of the
CMA markings and signs are emphasized (Chapter 5). Also ensure proper radio terminology/
phraseology and, if training for unrestricted license, an actual runway drive around must be
performed.
2.6.1.5. One nighttime orientation tour (practical) on training items in the unit’s airfield driving
training program guide. In addition to general procedures in this instruction, emphasis should be
placed on airfield lighting and signs used to augment daytime airfield markings. Individuals who
have not received a night orientation ride will not be able to operate the vehicle at night. AAFM
will annotate “Not authorized to drive at night” on the reverse side of the AF Form 483 before
airfield access will be permitted. Ensure proper radio terminology/ phraseology and, if training
for unrestricted license, an actual runway drive around must be performed.
2.6.1.6. Day and night check rides. Regardless of the hours trained during day and night
practical training, this check ride should not be accomplished until the trainee is confident in
their airfield driving abilities. Trainees must be able to demonstrate proper driving techniques
and answer verbal questions regarding general airfield driving procedures prescribed in this
instruction.
2.6.2. Document completed training on Hill AFB Form 528. The trainee and the trainer will
sign off all of the required training blocks and the date training was completed. Trainee will
report to the unit ADPM for the written airfield driving examination. Only those personnel that
have completed all training requirements will be scheduled for testing.

2.7. Written Airfield Driving Examination.
2.7.1. The trainee must complete all of the unit’s airfield driving training program requirements
and Hill AFB Form 528 before being administered an airfield driving closed book, 45 multiple
choice question test developed by the AAFM.
2.7.2. When reporting to the AAFM or to the unit A DPM for testing, the trainee will hand carry
the Hill AFB Form 528 and the CBT score sheets to the testing session. All documentation must
be complete, with all signatures, prior to administering the test.
2.7.3. Minimum passing score is 85% Scores will be annotated on the Hill AFB Form 528.
2.7.4. Trainees who fail the examination must:
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      11

2.7.4.1. First Time Failures: Receive additional training by the unit ADPM. Drivers can be
rescheduled for testing upon completion of additional training but no earlier than 7 days from the
failure.
2.7.4.2. Second Time Failures: Require complete re-training with documentation noted on a new
Hill AFB Form 528.
2.7.4.3. The written airfield test is a controlled document. Unit ADPM are responsible for
protecting the integrity of the test and safeguarding it against compromise. In the event that a
test is compromised, the Unit ADPM must suspend all testing and immediately notify AM or
AAFM.

2.8. Trainer, Trainee, and Unit Airfield Driving Program Manager Certification.
2.8.1. After completion of all airfield driving qualification training and written airfield driving
examination, the trainer will sign their initials in all applicable blocks in section 7 of Hill AFB
Form 528 certifying that the trainee has been fully trained on airfield driving IAW this
instruction.
2.8.2. The trainee will sign their initials in all applicable blocks in section 7 of Hill AFB Form
528 certifying they have received training as required and are considered qualified to drive on
the Hill AFB airfield. Trainee’s initials certify they have received the proper training and trainee
is confident they have received thorough instruction on the subject. Only initials signed in ink or
official electronic digital signatures are acceptable, initials typed in will not be accepted.
2.8.3. The unit ADPM certifies on Hill AFB Form 528 that a qualified trainer for airfield driving
has trained the trainee.
2.8.4. Unit Commander or Designated Representative Authorization. The trainee’s unit
commander or designated representative (authority may be delegated, in writing, to authorize the
unit ADPM to sign on their unit commander’s behalf) certifies in the applicable section of the
Hill AFB Form 528, that the individual has successfully completed airfield driver’s training and
approves airfield driving authorization. Delegation letters are required to be forwarded to the
AAFM to be effective.

2.9. AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency.
2.9.1. Only the Unit ADPM or AM will complete the AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency.
See Attachment 6 for procedures to properly fill out an AF Form 483.
2.9.2 AF Form 483 may either be typed or hand-written.
2.9.3. Airfield Management is the only agency authorized to endorse AF Form 483s.
2.9.4. The AAFM approves and validates Airfield Driving Authorization in Section 13.
2.9.5. The AAFM will verify training, testing documentation, and endorse/stamp the AF Form
483 with “AUTHORIZED HILL AFB AIRFIELD.” The over stamped AF Form 483 indicates
the bearer has completed all required airfield driving training and is authorized to drive on the
Hill AFB airfield.
2.9.6. Return all paperwork to the unit ADPM via the trainee for filing.

2.10. Annual Refresher Training.
2.10.1. The unit ADPM will conduct refresher training once a year at a minimum. Annual
training will include review and testing on all applicable CBTs and special interest items
provided by AM. While Unit ADPMs will help facilitate the tracking and administration of
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                     12

refresher training, it is the individual driver’s responsibility to keep current. Airfield driving
certificate of competency will be revoked when refresher training is overdue by 30 days.
2.10.2. Annotate completion of refresher training and date on the back side of each individual’s
AF Form 483 and on the original Hill AFB Form 528. The AF Form 483 will be valid from
issue date to end of the month of the 1-year anniversary. The annual refresher training will be
accomplished and annotated on the back of the card by the unit ADPMs for up to and including
7-years total. If annual refresher is not annotated the card becomes invalid and all driving
privileges are revoked until initial training is reaccomplished. The AF Form 483 certificate
number will be recorded by the program manager on the Master Airfield Driving Data Base.
2.10.3. Refresher training must be completed by the last day of the anniversary month and not
before the first day of the same month.

2.11. Disposition of Documentation.
2.11.1. The Hill AFB Form 528 is the only source document to be used for annotating airfield
driving training and certification. Units retain this document until the individual no longer works
on Hill AFB or is no longer authorized to drive on the airfield.
2.11.2. The losing unit ADPM will give the driver all training and certification documentation
(e.g., Hill AFB Form 528, CBT certificates, etc.) and update their unit’s list on the database.
2.11.3. Members who PCS or separate must turn their AF Form 483 into their unit ADPM. This
is to ensure the unit listing and database is updated. Training and certification documentation
may be given to the individual or destroyed.
2.11.4. Since the back side of the AF Form 483 is a record of refresher training, a lost or
destroyed card requires an individual to be retrained and tested unless the unit ADPM can show
the necessary current and valid training documentation and signs off all past refresher entries on
the recreated “Certificate of Competency”. Members who lose their AF Form 483 will do the
follow:
2.11.4.1. For units conducting their own testing, the unit Airfield Driving Program Manager will
complete a new, blank AF Form 483 with the old sequence number obtained from the drivers
Hill AFB Form 528. Verify the number of years refresher training has occurred and draw a
diagonal line through the same amount of previously used lines on the back of the AF Form 483.
Write “REISSUE” along the diagonal line and initial/date with the latest refresher training
received.
2.11.4.2. Those tested by the AAFM will hand carry their original Hill AFB Form 528 and
certifying documents to the AAFM for re-issue of new AF Form 483.
2.11.5. Members who PCA/PCS will do the follow:
2.11.5.1. Bring their AF Form 483 to the losing unit ADPM.
2.11.5.2. The losing unit ADPM will give the driver all training and certification documentation
(e.g., Hill AFB Form 528, CBT certificates, etc.) and update their unit’s list in the data base.
2.11.5.3. The driver will then turn in the training and certification documentation to the gaining
unit ADPM.
2.11.5.4. Gaining unit ADPM will verify training and certification information, complete a new
AF Form 483 with next squadron number, determine the number of times refresher training has
occurred from Hill AFB Form 528 then apply a diagonal line through the appropriate number of
proceeding blocks, initial the back of the AF Form 483 and update their unit’s list.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                     13

2.12. TDY and Contractor Training. TDY and contractor airfield driver requests must obtain
a sponsoring unit to conduct or arrange a local area briefing as outlined in this instruction.
2.12.1. TDY Personnel. Visiting unit TDY personnel, prior to driving on Hill AFB, Airfield
will do the following:
2.12.1.1. Have in their possession a valid home-station AF Form 483, Certificate of
Competency, stamped “Airfield Authorized” or authorized equivalent. Visiting foreign units
will provide proof of airfield driver training from their home station. Assistant Airfield Manager
or designated representative will issue airfield drivers from visiting foreign units a temporary AF
Form 483 for the duration of the TDY.
2.12.1.2. Have in their possession a home-station “Controlled Area “Z” badge or an authorized
equivalent.
2.12.1.3. Receive from the AAFM or designated representative an airfield safety briefing and
receive from their sponsoring units a unit-specific briefing.
2.12.2. Non-Airfield Qualified personnel that are TDY to Hill AFB must complete the entire
airfield drivers training course through their Hill AFB sponsoring ADPM. If visiting personnel
are not licensed or do not possess the home station AF Form 483 card they will not be authorized
to drive on Hill AFB Airfield.
2.12.3. The sponsor or representative will submit a unit commander signed electronic request to
the AAFM to request POV passes for all non-GOV vehicles, see chapter 4. Requests will
include the driver’s name, the year, make, model, color, and vehicle license number for each
vehicle request along with the AF Form 483 number for each driver.
2.12.4. Any unit deployed to Hill AFB without a sponsor unit will provide an ADPM to the
AAFM to receive full training. This person will in turn be responsible for their unit’s training.
2.12.5. Contractors. Contractor representative must ensure each person requiring access onto
the flight line possess a “Controlled Area Z” badge prior to training.
2.12.5.1. At least 72 hours prior to project start, the project officer, and contractor(s) must
receive and sign an Airfield Construction Briefing given by the AAFM/AM, see Attachment 3.
AAFM will keep a copy of the signed briefing. Records will be maintained for 30 days after
completion of the contract.
2.12.5.2. The contractor will brief any subordinates and sub-contractors and have each
subordinate/sub-contractor sign and keep a copy of the briefing.
2.12.5.3. Each contractor will carry a signed copy of the airfield briefing while working on the
airfield.
2.12.5.4. When working within the Radio Monitoring Area, contractors will have radios with the
Airfield Operations and ATC frequencies. Sponsoring unit/project engineers will ensure
contractor radio requirements are met.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                     14


                                            Chapter 3

RADIO MONITORING AREA (RMA) and CONTROLLED MOVEMENT AREA (CMA)
                         PROCEDURES

3.1. Operating a Vehicle in the Radio Monitoring Area (RMA).
3.1.1. Any work to be accomplished within the RMA (see Attachment 8) must be approved by
Airfield Management Operations or the Airfield Manager.
3.1.2. At Hill AFB the RMA is defined as 1000’ each side of the runway centerline to the end of
the runway, then the area from the threshold to 3,000 feet beyond the threshold 1.500 feet either
side of centerline. The RMA line falls just west of Taxiway Alpha. Personnel need not ask
permission into the RMA but must closely monitor VHF 121.6 or or trunking network “tower”
net for any instructions from “Hill Ground”. NOTE: Exception to the 1000’ RMA is for aircraft
towing operations. Vehicles towing aircraft on any taxiway will contact Hill Ground for
permission prior to moving the aircraft.
3.1.3. In accordance with Hill AFB Instruction 13-201, no vehicle or person may enter the RMA
(Attachment 8) without manually tuning their radio to the tower net or ground frequency.
Monitor tower continually while in the RMA. Direct communication with the tower ground
controller is not necessary; monitor the radio for tower to communicate with the vehicle if
needed. You must obtain approval from the Control Tower if entering the CMA.

3.2. Operations in the Controlled Movement Area (CMA).
3.2.1. The CMA is defined as, any portion of the airfield requiring aircraft, vehicles, and
pedestrians to obtain specific Hill Air Traffic Control approval for access . At Hill AFB, the
CMA is defined as the runway, overruns, ILS critical area (when active) and those portions of
the airfield within 100 feet of the runway edge line (either side). Permission into these areas can
only be obtained through the VHF 121.6 or trunking network “tower” net radio. Call sign: “Hill
Ground”. See Attachment 8.
3.2.2. Crossing the runway shall be kept to an absolute minimum. Do not cross the runway for
convenience. Perimeter Road shall be used to travel to the opposite side of the airfield.
Crossings are limited to vehicles engaged in continuous operation on the airfield (Airfield
Management, Barrier Maintenance, Airfield Lighting, etc.). Airfield Management will ensure
the number of drivers with this permission will be kept to an absolute minimum.
3.2.3. The control tower is responsible for the control of vehicles crossing or operating on the
runway.
3.2.4. Vehicles entering the CMA must have two-way radio contact with the tower or be
escorted by a vehicle, meeting this requirement (see attachment 5). Vehicle operators shall
remain in radio contact with the tower while in the CMA. Vehicle operators under escort in the
CMA shall remain within 25ft of the escort vehicle and shall adhere to any escort instructions.
After obtaining control tower approval for crossing, the escort vehicle will ensure all vehicles
cross the runway. The escort vehicle will notify the control tower when all vehicles are outside
of the CMA.
3.2.5. In certain situations, the Control Tower may grant access to the CMA but limit the areas
that may be accessed. For example, grass mowing equipment may receive approval within the
CMA but told to hold short of the runway; often referred to as "...approved up to but not on the
runway...". Barrier Maintenance personnel may be approved in barrier shacks but told to hold
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      15

short of the runway. In these situations, it is imperative that the drivers fully understand and
acknowledge Control Tower’s instructions. The runway edge lights are the defining boundary
when given permission “up to, but not on” the runway. Prior coordination and permission
through the Airfield Manager to work in this area must be obtained before requesting permission
to proceed into this area from the Control Tower.
3.2.6. Vehicles approaching the CMA will stop at the VFR/Instrument hold lines (see Figure
5.2) and obtain approval prior to crossing.
3.2.7. Vehicles that normally operate within the CMA must use rotation beacon lights. Vehicles
not equipped with beacon lights must use emergency flashers. Vehicles will turn lights on prior
to contacting the Control Tower and requesting access onto the CMA. Upon exiting the CMA,
vehicles will leave the lights on until the Control Tower has acknowledged they are off the
CMA.
3.2.8. Vehicles requesting to cross the runway at a specific location shall do so expeditiously
after receiving the control tower’s approval. Vehicles requesting access onto the runway to a
specific location shall remain in the immediate vicinity of that location unless later requested and
authorized by the control tower to move. Vehicles anticipating travel along the length of the
runway shall advise tower upon initial request.
3.2.9. Anytime the Control Tower directs vehicles or personnel to exit the CMA, they will
depart the CMA by the most direct route and fall back to a position outside of the CMA
boundary as defined by the hold lines.

3.3. Radio Procedures.
3.3.1. Vehicles and personnel will contact the Control Tower via the base land mobile radio
Tower net, call sign; Hill Ground. Again, access to any portion of the CMA requires Tower
approval. Radio must be monitored and contact with Ground Control maintained the entire time
a vehicle or person is within the CMA.
3.3.2. If radio contact is lost, or suspected to be lost, while operating on the runway, the tower
should be monitored for light gun signals while the driver immediately exits the runway at the
nearest exit. The driver will then contact the Control Tower as soon as possible to report they
are off the CMA. Repeated changes of intensity of runway lights indicate a need for tower to
communicate with the driver by either radio or light gun signals. If radio failure is known or
suspected proceed to Base Operations and brief them of the incident.
3.3.3. Strict radio discipline is mandatory. No Citizen Band (CB), sarcastic, superfluous,
obscene, or deceptive transmissions shall be made. Never use the phrase “clear” when
communicating on the Tower net. Call signs shall be used at all times.
3.3.4. To eliminate miscommunications and possibly compromising safety, it is imperative Air
Traffic Control terminology/phraseology is adhered to. Refer to Attachment 5 for authorized
transmission terminology/phraseology. Under no circumstances shall the vehicle be driven onto
the runway if there is any uncertainty concerning approval.
3.3.5. Vehicle operators shall look both ways for aircraft landing/departing/taxiing prior to
calling the tower.
3.3.6. Normal communications to the tower will be initiated with call sign (who you are),
present location (where you are), and request (what you want to do). (Refer to Attachment 4 for
callsign assignments)
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      16

3.3.7. The only words authorizing a vehicle to operate near, enter, or cross any CMA are
“PROCEED” or “APPROVED AS REQUESTED”. The words “PROCEED” or APPROVED
AS REQUESTED” may be accompanied with other words or phrases.
3.3.7.1. “HOLD SHORT” will indicate disapproval of an operator’s request. “HOLD SHORT”
may be accompanied with other words or phrases; however, if these words are used, the vehicle
operators will NOT ENTER the CMA.
3.3.8. All vehicle operators will ensure the tower uses their exact call sign. Hearing the correct
location of your vehicle but the wrong call sign does not give approval for your request. For
example, if your vehicle’s call sign is Maintenance 1 and you are requesting access on the
runway and Ground gives approval for Maintenance 01 to proceed on the runway, you do not
have approval to cross until Ground states the correct call sign, even if it appears obvious you are
the only vehicle at that location.
3.3.9. Vehicle operators will repeat all instructions verbatim back to the tower prior to moving
the vehicle. Due to the complexity of air traffic control, other instructions may be given. It is
important vehicle operators listen carefully and repeat the instructions, as they understand them.
When reporting off of a movement area, the vehicle operator will ensure a response indicating
Hill Ground understands the vehicles have exited the movement area. NOTE: The control tower
is often busy on other frequencies and may take some time to respond. Vehicle operators should
be patient and wait at least one full minute before calling again.
3.3.10. If other vehicles will accompany the vehicle requesting access to an area, the vehicle
operator must say the word, “plus” and the number that will accompany, for example; “OPS 1
plus 2”.
3.3.11. Never use the phrases “CLEAR”, “CLEARED”, OR “CLEARANCE”. These words are
used strictly by air traffic control in communication with an aircraft only.
3.3.12. Vehicles will only use approved call signs described in Attachment 4. AM may approve
other temporary call signs in coordination with the Control Tower on a case-by-case basis.

3.4. Control Tower Light Gun Signals.
3.4.1. Light gun signals from the tower are used to control vehicle traffic on the airfield during
communication outages.
3.4.2. All vehicles will have a light gun placard or decal displayed in plain view of the driver.
Decals may be obtained from the AAFM. Drivers will know and comply with the following
signals:
3.4.2.1. Steady Green Light: “Proceed Across”.
3.4.2.2. Steady Red Light: “STOP! Vehicle will not be moved”.
3.4.2.3. Flashing Red Light: “Immediately exit the runway”.
3.4.2.4. Flashing White Light: “Return to starting point”.
3.4.2.5. Red and Green Light: “General warning. Exercise extreme caution”. Note: The
warning signal is not a prohibitive signal and can be followed by any other light signal, as
circumstances permit.
3.4.3. In the event vehicles on the runway do not respond to light gun signals, the tower will
raise and lower the intensity of the runway lighting. This signal means to immediately observe
light gun signals, exit the runway and establish communications with the tower.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      17


                                            Chapter 4

                       VEHICLE OPERATIONS ON THE AIRFIELD

4.1. Obstacle Criteria.
4.1.1. An obstacle is anything posing a threat to aircraft movements, e.g.; fire bottles,
maintenance stands, vehicles, AGE, etc.
4.1.2. Obstacles must remain at least 1,000 feet from runway centerlines, 200 feet from taxiway
centerlines, and will vary from the edge of aprons, IAW UFC 3-260-01, when not directly
supporting aircraft.
4.1.3. Equipment and vehicles directly supporting aircraft must be parked or placed at the nose
of the aircraft with the driver’s side closest to the aircraft.
4.1.4. Equipment may be pre-staged on parking aprons or hardstands no earlier than three hours
before aircraft arrival and must be removed no later than three hours after aircraft departure.

4.2. Authorized Vehicles.
4.2.1. Government Vehicles. All flight mission support, GSA vehicles, and special purpose
vehicles are easily recognizable as government vehicles and are not required to display a flight
line Personally Owned Vehicle (POV) pass.
4.2.2. Bicycles can be used on the parking aprons in the performance of assigned duties
provided the operator has an AF Form 483 for airfield driving and the following guidelines are
followed:
4.2.2.1. Operators will wear a bicycle helmet with chin strap fastened while in motion.
4.2.2.2. Tricycles will have a suitable braking device engaged when parked on the airfield.
4.2.2.3. Night operation requires operators of bicycles and tricycles to wear a reflective belt or
vest and have an operational headlamp and reflectors or reflector tape.
4.2.2.4. Park bicycles near the nose of parked aircraft and in plain view of personnel inside the
aircraft. Position bicycles upright, using a kickstand, and parked in a position not interfering
with aircraft maintenance or servicing.
 4.2.2.5. Bicycles or tricycles are not allowed in the RMA or CMA. See Attachment 8.
4.2.3. Golf-type carts or similar utility vehicles will follow all rules established for general and
special purpose vehicles and will be equipped with forward and rear lamps if operated at night.
The operator will have an AF Form 483.

4.3. Unauthorized Vehicles.
4.3.1. Motorcycles, mopeds, and two-wheeled scooters are not authorized on the Hill AFB
airfield.

4.4. Speed Limits.
4.4.1. No vehicle will be operated at a speed in excess of that deemed reasonable and prudent
for existing traffic, road, and weather conditions.
4.4.2. The speed limit in the general airfield area is 15 MPH for general purpose vehicles and 10
MPH for special purpose vehicles.
4.4.3. The speed limit on the runway is a safe and prudent speed.
4.4.4. The speed limit for all vehicles is 5 MPH when:
4.4.4.1. Within 25 feet of an aircraft.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                    18

4.4.4.2. Within 50 feet of an airfield facility.
4.4.5. Aircraft, Equipment, and Trailer Towing:
4.4.5.1. Towing speed is 5 MPH for all aircraft and two or more maintenance stands. When
towing an aircraft on any taxiway, individuals must be in radio contact with Hill Ground and get
prior approval before towing.
4.4.5.2. Towing speed for one maintenance stand is 10 MPH.
4.4.5.3. The maximum towing speed for AGE is 15 MPH.

4.5. Speed Limit Exceptions.
4.5.1. Emergency response vehicles responding to an emergency may operate at a prudent speed
commensurate with safety. Emergency vehicles are cautioned to slow down when approaching
the corner of a building.
4.5.2. When necessary to accommodate the optimum safe taxiing speed of aircraft, Follow Me
vehicles will be permitted to exceed the normal 15 MPH speed limit.
4.5.3. Any time the control tower advises to “expedite” or uses the term “immediately”.
4.5.4. Snow Removal vehicles engaged in snow removal operations.

4.6. FOD Control and Prevention.
4.6.1. Drivers shall not operate a vehicle on the airfield without first stopping and thoroughly
checking tires for stones and other foreign objects. During winter conditions, FOD checks will
include removal of snow and ice from vehicle tops, bumpers, and wheel wells. Rollover checks
are mandatory. See Attachment 9 for locations of airfield FOD check points.
4.6.2. General and special purpose government motor vehicles which routinely require access to
the airfield will carry a covered container clearly marked with letters no less than 2 inch in
contrasting colors for deposit of FOD. These containers will be securely fastened to the vehicle
and will be emptied frequently.
4.6.3. Vehicle operators will make sure all the equipment carried on their vehicle is properly
stored and secured before operating their vehicle on the airfield. Operators will ensure the cargo
bed and the passenger compartment floor are clean to prevent debris from falling onto the
airfield. Vehicles utilizing the airfield at night will carry a flashlight to accomplish the FOD
check.
4.6.4. Anytime a vehicle is driven off a paved surface, the driver will remove any rocks, mud, or
other foreign objects from the tires before proceeding onto the paved surface again. Immediately
after returning to the paved surface from an unpaved surface, another tire check must be
accomplished to ensure no FOD is left in the tires or on the paved surface. A rollover check is
mandatory.
4.6.5. Vehicle operators will be constantly alert for and will pick up any FOD. If the debris is
too small or too abundant to be thoroughly picked up by hand, the individual will notify Airfield
Management Operations (75 OSS/OSAM), Control Tower (75OSS/OSAT), or Maintenance
Operation Control Center. Provide location of debris so an airfield sweeper can be dispatched.
4.6.6. Located on all airfield access roads are FOD CHECK signs. These are painted on the
pavement with red letters with a white background or on signs. All drivers will ensure that they
stop at these signs and perform a FOD check. See Figure 5.10.

4.7. Passengers in Vehicles.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      19

4.7.1. Vehicle drivers will ensure all passengers are seated with seat belts fastened while the
vehicle is in motion.
4.7.2. Passengers will not ride on any part of the vehicle not intended for carrying passengers
nor will they ride on any part of moving equipment not designed to carry passengers.
4.7.3. Passengers will not ride in the doorways or sit on the engine cover of metro/step vans.
Rear door nets will be in place while passengers are transported with the doors open.
4.7.4. Side doors on passenger vans will be closed when the vehicle is in motion.

4.8. Vehicle Traffic.
4.8.1. When operating on the airfield, operators will follow the basic “rules of the road”.
Vehicles will not be driven diagonally across a parking apron or ramp, but at a 90-degree angle
to the driving lanes.
4.8.2. All vehicles will be driven in a single file right of the taxiway centerline and to the right
side of stressed pavement edge markings. Vehicles will not be driven on the dirt shoulder.
4.8.3. All drivers will monitor the tower net when within 1000’ of the runway centerline. This
area is defined as from the west side of Taxiway Alpha extending 3000’ past the end of the
runway and 1500’ each side of the runway centerline from the end of the runway. The driver
will stop and visually check area to ensure the taxiway is clear before proceeding.
4.8.4. When driving on the runway drive to the right of the runway centerline. When crossing
the runway, proceed directly across using the most direct route possible.
4.8.5. All vehicles must approach parked aircraft with the driver’s side of the vehicle toward the
aircraft.
4.8.6. Do not drive between parked aircraft, unless there is a vacant aircraft parking space
between them.
4.8.7. Emergency response vehicles (e.g., Airfield Management, Civil Engineering, Supervisor
of Flying, Flight Safety, etc.) are exempt from normal traffic flow patterns while responding to
an emergency.
4.8.8. Emergency response vehicles will adhear to emergency procedures IAW HAFBI 13-201
(AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL AND FLIGHT OPERATIONS) Chapter 7.
4.8.9. Passing explosive-laden vehicles is prohibited.

4.9. Jet Blast Safety Requirements.
4.9.1. An aircraft with landing and/or taxi lights operating or operational rotating beacon
indicates it is about to start engines or has engines running or is about to taxi:
4.9.1.1. Vehicles will not be operated within 25 feet to the front or 200 feet to the rear of
running aircraft.
4.9.1.2. Vehicles will not be operated within 300 feet to the rear of MD-11, B-747, E-3B, E-4B,
C-5, C-17, KC-10, or KC-135 type aircraft when engines are running at low power settings and
within 800 feet to the rear when the engines are running at high power settings.
4.9.2. Vehicles will not be operated within 100 feet of a helicopter with rotors turning.

4.10. Right of Way Priorities.
4.10.1 Alert Launches. During an actual alert, the alert vehicle has priority over all ground
traffic, including taxiing aircraft or emergency vehicles responding to a declared emergency.
4.10.2. Arriving and departing aircraft.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                     20

4.10.3. Emergency response vehicles responding to an aircraft emergency, in-flight or ground.
No vehicle will be driven in front of an emergency response vehicle responding to an emergency.
4.10.4. Snow removal equipment engaged in snow removal operations.
4.10.5. Any vehicle towing weapons/explosives.

4.11. Taxiing/Towed Aircraft.
4.11.1. Drivers will give way to taxiing or towed aircraft. Do not overtake and/or pass a taxiing
aircraft. Vehicle drivers may cautiously overtake an aircraft under tow if the vehicle stays
outside of 25 feet of the wing tips and passes at no more than 10 MPH. Vehicle operators may
never pass between an aircraft wing walker and the aircraft itself – remember the “Circle of
Safety”. The responsibility to avoid the aircraft and its maintainers rests solely with vehicle
operators (see Figure 4.1.).
4.11.2. To the maximum extent possible, vehicles will be driven on the paved shoulder of the
taxiways and within the painted ramp roadways. Vehicle operators will not “cut corners” or
drive off the paved surfaces to take short cuts. Vehicles encountering an aircraft coming from
behind or in front within 100 feet will stop until the aircraft passes. If the aircraft has a large
wingspan, the driver will reverse course well ahead of, or quickly move out of the way of, the
aircraft and drive back along the edge of the taxiway to a point where the vehicle can turn off the
shoulder onto a prepared surface and avoid the aircraft wing tip having to pass in the vicinity of
the vehicle.
4.11.3. Except for "Follow Me" vehicles, vehicles will not be parked in front of, or driven into
the path of taxiing aircraft. No vehicles will be driven between a taxiing aircraft and its Follow
Me Guide.
4.11.4. Vehicles will be driven on a paved surface by the shortest route. No vehicle is allowed
past the hold line without radio transmitted tower approval. Only as a last resort will the vehicle
be driven off the paved surface to ensure adequate clearances for aircraft. Minimum wing tip
clearance is 25 feet - remember the “Circle of Safety”. Never drive under any part of a taxiing
aircraft.
4.11.5. When approaching an aircraft at night, headlights will be immediately turned off so the
pilot’s night vision is not affected. The vehicle parking lights or emergency flashers will be
turned on so its position will be known. The headlights on the vehicle will remain off until the
aircraft is out of range. Headlights will be turned ON prior to putting the vehicle back in motion.
Note: Vehicles equipped with daytime running lights will park in a safe location with ignition
off parking brake set, and emergency flashers on.

4.12. Vehicle Parking Procedures.
4.12.1. Vehicles will not be left unattended on runways or taxiways.
4.12.2. Vehicles may be left unattended on service aprons, ramps, and hardstands under the
following conditions:
4.12.2.1. Vehicle is located beyond the “Circle of Safety” minimum wing tip clearance of 25 ft
(see Figure 4.1.).
4.12.2.2. Ignition is turned off and keys left in the ignition.
4.12.2.3. The transmission is placed in park (automatic transmission) or the reverse gear
(manual transmission).
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                       21

4.12.2.4. Parking brake set. Vehicles not equipped with an internal braking system will have
chocks placed both in front and behind one of the rear wheels. One chock will be placed
between the tandem wheels of dual (tandem) axle vehicles.
4.12.2.5. The doors remain unlocked.
4.12.2.6. At night, when parked unattended, the parking lights and/or emergency flashers shall
be turned on.
4.12.3. With the exception of emergency response vehicles that must remain in operation at the
scene of the emergency, no other vehicles will be left with the engine running and unattended
while on the airfield. Emergency response vehicles will have the parking brake set, have the
transmission in neutral or park, and the rear wheels chocked when the driver’s seat is not
occupied.
4.12.4. Vehicles will not be parked within the “Circle of Safety” - 25 feet of any aircraft, except
as authorized, for operations such as unloading, loading, servicing, or towing (See Figure 4.1.).
4.12.5. A spotter will be posted when a vehicle is backed towards an aircraft and pre-positioned
wheel chocks will be used to prevent vehicles from striking the aircraft when the vehicle is
within 10 feet. The spotter will pre-brief the operator on the standard signals used (See Figure
4.1.).
4.12.6. Park vehicles with the driver’s side toward the aircraft. Never park a vehicle facing
toward an aircraft.
4.12.7. Vehicles parked at the side of an aircraft will be located clear of the wing tips and clearly
visible to personnel in the aircraft cockpit.
4.12.8. Vehicles will not be parked/stopped directly in front of or behind an aircraft loaded with
forward firing ordnance.




Figure 4.1. Aircraft Circle of Safety.

4.13. Nighttime and Inclement Weather Driving Conditions.
4.13.1. Headlights will be used during hours of darkness and restricted visibility (example: haze,
fog, rain, etc.). Headlights will not be pointed toward a moving aircraft. Parking lights will be
left on so the vehicle position will be known. This is done to preserve the aircrew’s night vision
while allowing them to observe your position. Headlights will be turned on prior to putting the
vehicle in motion. : Vehicles with daytime running lights will park in a safe location with
ignition off, parking brake set, and emergency flashers on.
4.13.2. When visibility is less than 300 feet, refueling and explosive loaded (laden) vehicles will
not be operated unless directed by the wing or installation commander.
4.13.3. When visibility is less than 100 feet, airfield vehicles (except emergency and alert
vehicles) will not be operated on the airfield. Flashing lights will be used on all vehicles
temporarily parked on the aircraft parking ramps during the periods of lowered visibility.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                   22

4.13.4. When visibility is less than 50 feet, it is recommended that a walking guide equipped
with a flashing or luminescent wand be used during emergency movement of alert vehicles.

4.14. Vehicle Operations on the Airfield with Snow or Ice Present.
4.14.1. Vehicle traffic compacts snow making it hard to remove. Airfield vehicle operators will
remain off freshly fallen snow to the maximum extent possible while snow removal operations
are underway. If mission priorities necessitate traveling on the airfield, vehicles will stay off
aircraft movement surface as much as possible by traveling along the shoulder of taxiways and
aprons.
4.14.2. All airfield snow removal priority requests will be made through the Airfield
Management (75 OSS/OSAM). Base street requests will be called in to Civil Engineer
Squadron.
4.14.3. When towing or parking aircraft with snow or ice present anywhere on the parking ramp
or towing surface, sand bags and chocks will be available and used. Heavier tow vehicles with
chains can be used to improve starting and stopping traction during tow operations on ice- or
snow-covered towing surfaces. Note: Tire chains may only be used after obtaining coordination
and approval from AM, Safety, and Civil Engineering. The requesting agency will conduct an
operational risk assessment with the above agencies when evaluating the need for tire chains to
minimize pavement damage and FOD hazards.

4.15. Convoy and Escort Responsibilities.
4.15.1. Personnel acting as escorts must be authorized and certified to drive on the Hill AFB
airfield and be fully aware of associated responsibilities.
4.15.2. Brief drivers on route, speed, procedures, etc.
4.15.3. Convoys or escorts will not exceed five vehicles at one time. Fire Department and
munitions convoys are exempt.

4.16. Accident/Vehicle Breakdowns on Airfield.
4.16.1. In the event of an accident or vehicle breakdown on the airfield, the Control Tower (75
OSS/OSAT), Security Forces Control (75 SFS/SFCC), and Airfield Management (75
OSS/OSAM) must be notified by the fastest means possible.
4.16.2. A vehicle malfunction, preventing operations under its own power, must make every
attempt not to block a taxiway. Try to move the vehicle beyond the wing tip clearance distance
of 25ft.
4.16.3. Leave the vehicle parking lights or emergency flashers ON, if the malfunction occurs
during the hours of darkness.
4.16.4. If the vehicle has two-way radio capability, make the following transmission: "All
agencies BREAK, BREAK. This is (call sign) with an emergency for Airfield Management
Operations, and Tower." State the nature of your problem and your position on the airfield.
4.16.5. Operators of other radio-equipped vehicles (Security Forces, Civil Engineers, etc.) will
contact their control center and have the information relayed to Airfield Management Operations
for relay to the Control Tower.
4.16.6. If a vehicle is not equipped with a radio, stay with the vehicle and continue attempts to
get the attention of the taxiing aircraft or other vehicle operators.
4.16.7. Emergency flashers should be on, and hood open as appropriate. Drivers will stay with
the vehicle until the situation is resolved.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                    23

4.16.8. Vehicles involved in accidents on the airfield shall not be moved until released by Wing
Flight Safety (75 ABW/SEF), Airfield Management (75 OSS/OSAM), and Security Forces (75
SFS/SFCC).
4.16.9. All individuals involved in an accident will have their Airfield Driving privileges
suspended immediately until liability is determined. If investigation determines individual is not
found liable, their driving privileges will be re-instated immediately. The duration of the
suspension for liable parties will be determined by Airfield Management.

4.17. Controlled and Restricted Area Access.
4.17.1. Vehicle operators must have a Hill AFB issued AF Form1199CD, USAF Restricted Area
Badge with the proper area designated to enter a restricted area or a home station equivalent. An
AF Form 483 alone does not grant access into a restricted area.
4.17.2. When approaching an entry control point of a restricted area, it is the responsibility of
the operator to inspect and ensure the vehicle is not transporting personnel or materials which
constitute a threat to the security of the resources.
4.17.3. Jogging on the Airfield. Jogging on the airfield is prohibited along with all recreational
sports activity unless waived by the 75 ABW/CC.
4.17.4. Blackout/NVD Driving Conditions. Blackout/NVD Driving Conditions will not be
conducted on Hill AFB Airfield. Driving on the airfield with MOPP mask and over boots is
strictly prohibited without a MOPP4 Driver Qualification AF Form 483. Unit ADPMs are
responsible to ensure their drivers are properly trained and documented.

4.18. POV Pass Requests.
4.18.1. POV/Rental Vehicle Airfield Access. Privately-owned vehicle to include rental vehicle
operation on the airfield is discouraged for several reasons (including security, safety, FOD and
liability). Use of Hill AFB employee POVs to access places of work on the airfield is prohibited.
Unit commanders who wish to request a waiver to this rule must submit their request to the 75
OSS/CC validating the request based on mission support.
4.18.2. Deployed units requesting rental vehicle access on the airfield for deployed unit
missions, inspection teams, etc., may be authorized by the Airfield Manager or the designated
representative on a case-by-case basis.
4.18.3. Contractor representative/project engineer requesting access for airfield maintenance or
repairs must submit a signed electronic request to the AAFM to request a POV pass for each
contractor vehicle. Final approval is granted by the airfield manager or the designated
representative on a case-by-case basis based on route of travel and mission priority.
4.18.4. Requests will include the year, make, model, color, vehicle license number along with
the name and AF Form 483 number for each driver.
4.18.5. Upon validation of a legitimate need; AAFM will issue POV Flightline Authorization
Pass for each vehicle for the duration required. Passes will be hung on the mirror of the vehicles
while on the airfield and secured out of site while off the airfield.
4.18.6. POV passes are a controlled item. Passes will be signed out to the unit making the
request, it is the unit’s responsibility to ensure passes are returned as soon as possible to the
AAFM upon expiration and/or when no longer required.
4.18.7. All passes will be reviewed annually to validate contractor requirements.
4.18.8. All personnel must ensure POVs driving on the airfield are displaying a current calendar
year Hill AFB POV Flightline Pass. Figure 4.2.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009   24



Figure 4.2. POV Pass.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      25


                                            Chapter 5

                     AIRFIELD MARKINGS, LIGHTING AND SIGNS

5.1. Airfield Signs and Markings. All airfield signs and markings will be properly observed
with strict compliance.
5.1.1. Edge of Stressed Pavement Marking: A double yellow line used to mark the edge of the
pavement stressed to support aircraft. Vehicles should drive to the right of this line (no faster
than 15 MPH) whenever possible. See Figure 5.1.

Figure 5.1 Taxiway Edge Stripe.




5.1.2. VFR Hold Line: A solid yellow line adjacent to a dashed yellow line, located 100 feet
from the edge of the runway at each interesting taxiway and the north and south EORs. This line
serves as the entrance to the CMA area and is also define by signs             at the edge of the
taxiway. Vehicles and aircraft must contact the control tower and obtain permission prior to
proceeding beyond the hold line. See Figure 5.2.

Figure 5.2. VFR Hold Line.




5.1.3 Instrument Landing System (ILS) Hold Line: These lines are located on taxiways and
consist of two parallel solid yellow lines with vertical stripes and the letters “INST” stenciled on
the movement surface facing the driver. Drivers must stay behind these lines and request
permission from Hill Ground to proceed beyond during periods of inclement weather. The line
is complemented by signs            off to the side of the taxiway. There is only one Instrument
Hold Line at Hill AFB and it is located on the Alert taxiway. See Figure 5.3.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      26


Figure 5.3. Instrument Hold Line.


            (Runway Side)




5.1.4. Instrument Landing System (ILS) Hold Line (Vehicle Roads): These lines are located on
roads and consist a white stop bar with the word STOP painted on the roadway. The stop bar is
also accompanied with a sign and a set of guard lights (Wig-Wags). Drivers must stay behind
this line and request permission from Hill Ground to proceed beyond during periods of inclement
weather. There is only one Instrument Hold Line on vehicle roads at Hill AFB and it is located
on the north perimeter access road. See Figure 5.4.

Figure 5.4. Instrament Hold Line for Vehicle Roads.




5.1.5. Taxiway Centerline Marking: Solid yellow line used to designate the center of the
taxiway for aircraft traffic. Vehicle drivers should remain off this line and well to the right side
of the taxiway. See Figure 5.5.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                   27


Figure 5.5. Taxiway Centerline Marking.




5.1.6. Restricted Area Boundary Markings: A solid red line used to designate restricted areas.
Vehicles requiring access to or from restricted areas will do so in designated entry/exit control
points (ECP). All personnel entering restricted areas must have a valid restricted area badge
authorizing access to the area in question or an escort who has proper access. Warning: Lines
obscured by snow are still in effect! See Figure 5.6.

Figure 5.6. Restricted Area Boundary Markings.




5.1.7. Stop Bars: Single white stripe located on all vehicle access roads leading to the runway
and taxiways. Vehicles must stop and obtain permission from the tower before proceeding into
any CMA via an access road. Stop Bars intersecting taxiways are used to ensure vehicles stop
and look before proceeding. Located on all vehicular access roads leading to the runway (e.g.,
barrier cable access roads) and serves as the normal positions for the FOD, VFR or instrument
hold line. See Figure 5.7.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                     28


Figure 5.7. Stop Bars.




5.2.4. Runway Hold Position Sign. This sign is located off the taxiway edge or shoulder edge to
further identify the runway VFR Hold Line marking location. These signs serve as a lighted
visual reference to the VFR hold           line. Vehicles must stop and obtain permission
from the tower before proceeding beyond this point. See Figure 5.8.

Figure 5.8. Runway Hold Position Sign.




5.2.5. Instrument Landing System (ILS) sign. A sign with the letters “ILS” painted white on a
red background is located at the taxiway edge or shoulder to serve as a lighted visual reference to
the Instrument hold line. Drivers must stay behind this sign and associated                “INST”
line and request permission from Hill Ground to proceed beyond during periods of inclement
weather. The Alert Taxiway is the only location on Hill airfield with this sign. See Figure 5.9.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                 29


Figure 5.9 Instrument Landing System (ILS) sign.




5.2.6. Taxiway Information Sign. Drivers should observe these signs to know their location on
the airfield. The yellow letter on black background    indicates which taxiway the driver is
currently on, the black letter on yellow background  indicates the direction of an intersecting
taxiway. Remember: Drivers will stop at each intersection to look for oncoming aircraft. See
Figure 5.10.

Figure 5.10 Taxiway Information Sign.




5.2.7. FOD Check Point Signs: Located on all airfield access roads. These are found painted on
the pavement with red letters with a white background or on signs on vehicle access gates.
Vehicle FOD checks are located on airfield entry points. Drivers must stop at this sign and
perform a rollover FOD Check. See Figure 5.11.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009          30


Figure 5.11 FOD Check Point Signs.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      31


                                            Chapter 6

                             AIRFIELD DRIVING VIOLATIONS

6.1. General.
6.1.1. All personnel qualified to drive on the airfield are responsible for identifying and
reporting violations to Airfield Management or Security Forces immediately.
6.1.2. Airfield Management, Safety, and Security Forces personnel (regardless of rank) have the
authority to confiscate an individual’s AF Form 483 pending an investigation of the violation.
6.1.3. Security Forces have the authority to issue a DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket
to any vehicle observed violating provisions of this instruction.
6.1.4. Unit Airfield Driving Program Managers should use violation trend data to validate the
unit’s training program.
6.1.5. Contractor vehicle operators violating the rules of this instruction can be banned from
operating vehicles on the airfield. Replacement driver(s) will be the contractor’s responsibility.
6.1.6. Willful violation of established procedures may result in administrative, judicial, or non-
judicial actions, including action pursuant to Article 92, UCMJ, at the discretion of the
individual’s commander and or the 75 ABW/CC.

6.2. Controlled Movement Area (CMA) Violation.
6.2.1. A CMA violation is entering the CMA, as defined in 1.1.9.4.6 definition of terms, without
authorization from the Control Tower. A runway intrusion is entering the runway without
Control Tower authorization and is the most serious CMA violation. Failure to obtain
permission onto the runway is a serious offense and jeopardizes human lives and valuable
assets.
6.2.2. All CMA violations must be immediately reported to Airfield Management. The
Assistant Airfield Manager will notify the 75OSS/CC, 75 ABW/SE Flight Safety, and applicable
unit commander and ADPM. AM will take immediate action to correct a problem or apply
interim control measures to prevent CMA violations.
6.2.3. A CMA violation that adversely impacts flight operations must be submitted by the
Control Tower to Wing Safety on an AF Form 651, Hazardous Air Traffic Report, within 24-
hours of the violation.
6.2.4. A CMA violation that did not impact an aircraft operation must be submitted to Wing
Safety on an AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report, within 24-hours of the violation.
6.2.5. All drivers accused of committing a CMA violation will immediately report to or be
escorted to AM Ops. Drivers will surrender their AF Form 483 and provide a written (signed)
statement to AM providing the who, what, when, where, and how regarding the event.
6.2.6. AM and Flight Safety will conduct an investigation. If the driver is found at fault, airfield
driving privileges will be revoked for a minimum of 30 days. The driver must be completely
retrained per this instruction and obtain a new AF Form 483 before driving privileges are
reinstated. Unit commanders must thoroughly evaluate the individual and provide a written
statement in addition to required retraining paperwork stating the individual is safe to drive on
the airfield to the Assistant Airfield Manager.
6.2.7. Any driver committing a second CMA violation within a 12 month period will have
driving privileges revoked for a minimum of six months.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      32


6.3. Runway Intrusions.
6.3.1. A runway intrusion is the most serious form of CMA violation. It is the result of an
unauthorized entry or erroneous occupation of a runway or other surface used for takeoff and
landing of aircraft regardless of impact on aircraft safety. Aircraft, vehicles, pedestrians, or
communication errors may cause these incidents. Runway intrusions/incursions or CMA
violations will result in an automatic 30-day airfield driving privilege revocation. After the 30-
day revocation period, reinstatement of airfield driving privileges requires complete retraining
and a letter of reinstatement from the individual’s unit commander.
6.3.2. For a runway intrusion that had an adverse affect on flight operations (arrivals, departures,
etc.) the reporter of the intrusion will submit an AF FORM 651, Hazardous Air Traffic Report, to
75 ABW Safety. Drivers committing a runway intrusion will lose their airfield driving privileges
and revocation of their AF Form 483 for a period of 30 days.
6.3.3. For runway intrusions and other CMA violations that did not impact aircraft operations,
the reporter of the intrusion will use an AF FORM 457, USAF Hazard Report, and a copy will be
sent to the Airfield Manager to take immediate action to correct the problem or apply interim
control measures. Drivers will lose their driving privileges for a period of 30 days.

6.4. Incident Investigations.
6.4.1. Drivers will immediately notify their supervisor and unit Airfield Driving Program
Manager.
6.4.2. Drivers are encouraged to submit a statement describing the incident to their unit Airfield
Driving Program Manager.
6.4.3. Airfield Management will notify applicable unit Airfield Driving Program Manager,
supervisor, and 75 ABW/SE of the violation.
6.4.4. The Airfield Manager and 75 ABW/SE will conduct investigations by gathering data from
involved agencies.
6.4.5. After the investigation, the Airfield Manager will determine the corrective course of
action and notify all appropriate agencies.
6.4.6. Any further action is at the discretion of the unit commander.

6.5. Enforcement.
6.5.1. General. Gross or repeated violations of safety or of airfield driving rules or overall
demonstrated lack of ability on the part of the certificate holder will result in suspension of
privileges through surrender or revocation of the certificate without comment.              All
suspended/revoked certificates require written correspondence from the individual’s unit
commander/director to be reissued. The Airfield Manager, 75 OSS/OSAM, or designated
representative is authorized to confiscate military vehicle keys, AF Form 483, Certificate of
Competency, and flightline POV passes from any individual committing an airfield violation.
6.5.2. Suspension. Any supervisor in the driver’s chain of command, the driver’s Airfield
Driving Program Manager, unit commander/director, the airfield manager or the designated
representative may suspend a driver’s certification. All suspensions will be reported to the
Assistant Airfield Manager. Failure to complete annual refresher training or AF Form 483 not
dated and signed is cause for competency card suspension. Length of suspension will be
determined by Assistant Airfield Manager based on the circumstances of the event.
6.5.3. Revocation. Revocation of driving privileges is reserved for drivers committing serious
infractions including a CMA incident. The AF Form 483 can be revoked by the certificate
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                     33

holder’s Airfield Driving Program manager, unit commander, airfield manager or the designated
representative. Once revoked another certificate will not be reissued without the explicit
approval of the Airfield Manager. Individuals having their driving privileges revoked must be
completely retrained and recertified in accordance with this instruction and placed on a 30 day
mandatory suspension. Only the 75 OSS/OSAM can retest individuals after their AF Form 483
has been revoked. All revoked AF Form 483s will be forwarded to the Airfield Manager.
6.5.4. For minor violations, such as speeding, the Assistant Airfield Manager will suspend the
driver’s AF Form 483 while determining corrective measures, based on the severity and
circumstances of the event.
6.5.5. Suspension/revocation of civilian driver’s license will result in the revocation of airfield
driving privileges. Only the 75 ABW/CC may waive this requirement.

6.6. Forms Prescribed.
Hill AFB Form 528, Flight Line Driver Training Record and Request.

6.7. Forms Adopted
AF Form 651, Hazardous Air Traffic Report
AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report
AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency.


                                                     LINDA R MEDLER, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                 34


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-213 Airfield Management
HILL I 13-201, Air Traffic Control and Flight Operations - Chapter 5 (ONLY)
AFMAN 24-301, Vehicle Operations
AFJMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver
AFI 31-204, Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision
AFOSHSTD 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line – Ground Operations and Activities

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSCAir Force Specialty Code
AMAirfield Manager
AAFM – Assistant Airfield Manager
AMCAir Mobility Command
ATCAir Traffic Control
CBTComputer Based Training
CMAControlled Movement Area
DODDepartment of Defense
EOREnd of Runway
ADPM – Airfield Driving Program Manager
FODForeign Object Damage
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
GSAGeneral Services Administration
HATR—Hazardous Air Traffic Report
IFE—In-Flight Emergency
IFRInstrument Flight Rules
INST—Instrument or Instrument Hold Line
PCSPermanent Change of Station
POVPrivately Owned Vehicle
RMARadio Monitoring Area
RWY - Runway
TDYTemporary Duty
UMA- Uncontrolled Movement Area
VCOVehicle Control Officer
VCNCOVehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VHF—Very High Frequency
VFR – Visual Flight Rules

Terms
USAF Restricted Area BadgeAll persons on the airfield must have and display a current
badge with appropriate areas annotated. This is a attachable identification (ID) card issued by
the 75th Security Forces Squadron (75 SFS/S5SI).
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                      35


AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency  Issued by the 75 OSS Airfield Manager it will be
stamped “AUTHORIZED AIRFIELD HILL AFB” or will bear a designated restriction and will
be validated with the signature of the Airfield Manager or the designated representative.

AF Form 457, Hazard ReportUSAF Hazard Report.

Aircraft Landing AreaRunway 14/32 . length: 13,508 x 200 feet.

Aircraft Movement AreaRunway, north and south overruns, hot pads, taxiways, service
aprons and hardstands.

Aircraft Taxi AreaThe portions of the airfield used by aircraft moving from the aircraft
parking area to the aircraft movement area.

AirfieldRefers to all areas inside the Foreign Object Debris (FOD) check points. Drivers must
have airfield drivers certification before driving in this area. The industrial area is not included
in the term “airfield.”

Airfield/FlightlineThe area bound by the interior perimeter fence which include the runway,
taxiways, infield, flightline, buildings, hangars, facilities, parking aprons,, and flightline ECPs.
Industrial Area is not in the airfield/flightline.

Airfield Authorized DriversPersonnel who have undergone airfield driving training, been
approved by Airfield Management, issued an AF Form 483 or a temporary airfield driving
permit, and have unit commander-directed access to the airfield for mission-essential tasks.

Airfield Interior/Access RoadsAll roads within the airfield environment not designated as a
runway, taxiway, or apron.

Airfield Driving Program Manager–The civilian or military individual selected by the
commander or director to administer the organization’s airfield driving program. While the
organization’s VCO/VCNCO may fulfill this position, it is a separate appointment process.

Airfield EnvironmentIncludes the runway, all taxiways, ramps and aprons, hot pads, hangars,
and airfield roadways inside the foreign object debris (FOD) checkpoints.

ApronsPaved areas provided for aircraft parking, servicing, unloading, and loading.

Apron/RampAn area designed for loading or unloading passengers and/or cargo, refueling,
parking, weapons loading, and maintenance of aircraft. Airfield Authorized Drivers: Personnel
who have undergone airfield driving training, been approved by Airfield Management, issued an
AF Form 483 or a temporary airfield driving permit, and have unit commander-directed access to
the airfield for mission-essential tasks.

Circle of SafetyWithin 25 feet of an aircraft. See Figure 4.1.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                     36

Controlled Area – Refers to the area inside the gated area within the Pacer Protect fence.

Controlled Movement Area (CMA) – Any portion of the airfield requiring aircraft, vehicles,
and pedestrians to obtain specific Hill Air Traffic Control approval for access into. At Hill AFB,
the CMA is defined as the runway, overruns, ILS critical area (when active) and those portions
of the airfield within 100 feet of the runway edge line (white line, either side). Permission into
these areas can only be obtained through the VHF 121.6 radio or trunking network “tower” net.
Call sign: “Hill Ground”. See Attachment 8.

Controlled Movement Area Violation—An airfield infraction caused by aircraft, vehicles, or
pedestrians entering the CMA without specific control tower approval. This definition includes
runway intrusions and infractions caused by communication errors.

Contractor POV PassA POV pass will be issued and controlled by the airfield manager
authorizing nonmilitary contractor vehicles to be operated on the airfield. POV passes will be
inserted in the driver's window of the contractor vehicle. POV passes will be requested in
writing to airfield management from a Hill AFB assigned project officer for the predetermined
time agreed upon in the pre-construction meeting. Passes will be issued to project officers whom
bear sole responsibility for the return of the passes to the airfield management office.

Foreign Object Damage/Debris (FOD) – Any object (i.e. rocks, hats, tools, trash, etc.) on the
airfield that poses a potential hazard and could cause damage to an aircraft.

General Purpose VehiclesVehicles 1.5 tons and less required for airfield mission support.

Government Motor VehicleAll motorized vehicles owned by the US Government.

Hill AFB Form 528–Airfield Driver Training Record and Request. All unit program managers
will use this form to record and keep track of airfield driver’s training.

Instrument Hold LinesAn instrument hold line is located on east side of the runway at the
north end. (see Attachment 3). This line is identified by an “INST” painted on the ground on the
runway side of the instrument hold line. In addition there is a "ILS" sign that can be lighted.
(See Figures 5.8)

Movable ObstaclesMoving or parked vehicles, construction equipment, AGE, fire
extinguishers, aircraft chalks, maintenance stands, etc., posing a hazard to aircraft.

OverrunsPaved portions extending outwards 1,000 feet at both ends of runway 14/32 and
spanning the same width as the runway. The overruns are considered an active portion of the
runway.

Parked VehiclesVehicles, which are unattended, where no one is sitting in the driver’s seat.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                    37


Priority VehiclesCrash or fire vehicles, ambulances, Safety, Airfield Management, and
Security Forces vehicles responding to an emergency or immediate response situations which
have operational priority over other vehicles.

Privately Owned Vehicle (POV)–All motorized vehicles not owned by the US Government.
Includes contractor or government funded rentals.

Privately Owned Vehicle (POV) Pass (Except for Contractor Vehicles), Flight Line, Hill
AFB UtahThis pass authorizes nonmilitary vehicles to be temporarily operated on the airfield
and is issued and controlled by the airfield manager. A flight line pass will be issued to operate
in the airfield environment for vehicles approved by the unit’s commander or director in writing
and authorized by the Airfield Manager. Passes will be displayed on the dashboard or hang from
the mirror of the vehicle. Passes are reissued annually effective 1 January or are returned to AM
when no longer required.

Radio Monitoring Area (RMA)An area paralleling the runway 1,000 feet either side of
centerline to the end of the runway, then an area from the threshold to 3,000 feet beyond the
threshold 1,500 feet either side of centerline (see Attachment 2). This is an area of increased
hazard due to accident potential. Only vehicles being used to complete mission requirements are
authorized to operate within the radio monitoring area. At Hill AFB, a rough estimate of the
western edge of the radio monitoring area is the western edge of taxiway Alpha. Personnel need
not ask permission into the RMA but must closely monitor VHF 121.6 or trunking nework
“tower” net for any instructions from

RampsAir Freight Ramp, 388/419 Ramp, West (Transient) Ramp, North Ramp, East Ramp,
Flight Test Ramp, and South Ramp.

Restricted Area – Hill AFB has seven restricted areas designated by red lines and painted signs
identifying them as restricted areas. Drivers should have appropriate area numbers on their
restricted area badge before going into these areas.

Figure A1.1. Restricted Area.




Runway IntrusionA CMA violation that is the result of an unauthorized entry or erroneous
occupation of a runway or other surface used for takeoff and landing of aircraft regardless of
impact on aircraft safety. These incidents can be caused by aircraft, vehicles, pedestrians, or
communication errors.

Special Purpose VehiclesVehicles designed for special requirement, such as tugs, forklifts, K-
loaders, fuel trucks, and heavy equipment. NOTE: Vehicles towing aircraft on any taxiway will
contact Hill Ground for permission prior to moving the aircraft. Vehicles towing aircraft will
maintain the required distance of 25 feet from any obstacle.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                  38


TaxiwaysPavement provided for the ground movement of aircraft. Taxiways connect the
parking and maintenance areas of the airfield with the runway and provide access to hangers,
docks, various parking aprons, hardstands, and hot pads. Taxiways for Hill AFB include:
Taxiway Alpha running north-south parallel to the runway, intersecting the runway from north-
south are, Bravo to Charlie, Echo, Delta, Foxtrot and Golf.

Uncontrolled Movement Area (UMA)All Taxiways west of taxiway Alpha, all ramps,
including ramps east of the alert facility, aprons, parking areas, loading docks, and any other
areas not under the control of air traffic are considered uncontrolled movement areas.
VehiclesAny mechanical device moving on the ground, including bicycles, golf carts,
excluding aircraft.

Vehicle Control Officer (VCO) or Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
(VCNCO)/FDPMThe civilian or military individual selected by the commander or director to
administer the organization’s vehicle program. A separate appointment letter and training from
Airfield Management is required to appoint a unit’s Airfield Driver Program Manager (FDPM).

Wheeled Vehicle: Refers to any vehicle (i.e. motorized, bicycle, or tricycle) with wheels.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                 39


                                         Attachment 2

     UNIT MINIMUM AIRFIELD DRIVER TRAINING LESSON PLAN OUTLINE

A2.1. Administration.
A2.1.1. Review paperwork (prepare Hill AFB Form 528, have individual read AFJMAN 24-
306, Chapter 25, this instruction and applicable unit material).
A2.1.2. Ensure the individual has proper state/government license and necessary unique vehicle
training.
A2.1.3. Ensure the individual has a “Controlled Area Z” badge prior to taking the written exam.

A2.2. Airfield entry points.
A2.2.1. Line badge requirements and use.
A2.2.2. Most commonly used entrances and exits.
A2.2.3. Which gates to use for particular needs.
A2.2.4. Airfield security procedures and individual’s responsibility.

A2.3. Briefing Points.
A2.3.1. Airfield traffic flow.
A2.3.1.1. Painted roadways on ramps, stop points, and flow in non-painted areas.
A2.3.1.2. Normal aircraft flow patterns (under own power and being towed).
A2.3.2. Speed limits and safety practices.
A2.3.3. Restricted areas, hazards, and congested points.
A2.3.4. Operations in the vicinity of aircraft.
A2.3.5. Vehicle parking and chocking.
A2.3.6. Procedures for operating in the Radio Monitoring Area and the Controlled
Movement Area (see Attachment 8)
A2.3.6.1. Coordination and radio procedures.
A2.3.6.2. Runway and taxiway markings and signs.
A2.3.6.3. Control tower light signals.
A2.3.7. Hill AFB airfield restrictions.
A2.3.8. Night and adverse weather operations.
A2.3.9. FOD control and prevention.
A2.3.10. 2 Types of violations and reporting procedures.

A2.4. Operations and situations unique to your specific unit.

A2.5. 2 Driving Orientation--Day/Night.

A2.6. Training evaluation.
A2.6.1. CBT (Mandatory).
A2.6.2. Driving test.
A2.6.3. Physical and color blindness test (when necessary).
A2.6.4. Multiple choice test administered by the Airfield Manager or the designated
representative, within 30 days of first training received.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                              40


                              Attachment 3

    HILL AIRFIELD MANAGEMENT AIRFIELD CONSTRUCTION/TDY
                       BRIEFING GUIDE
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                41


                                        Attachment 4

                                VEHICULAR CALL SIGNS

CALL SIGN            OFFICE                          CALL SIGN              OFFICE
Tiger 1              75 ABW/CC                       Pavement               75 CES/ CEOP
                                                     Maintenance 1 thru 4
Tiger 2              75 ABW/CV                       Chief 1                775 CES/CEF
Ops 1                75 OSS/CC                       Chief 2                775 CES/CEF
Ops 2                75 OSS/DO                       Force 1                75 SFS/CC
Ops 3                75 OSS/OSA                      Command Post           75 ABW/CP
Airfield 1           75 OSS/OSAM                     Shotgun 1              OO-ALC/CC
Airfield 2           75 OSS/OSAM                     Shotgun 2              OO-ALC/CV
Airfield 3           75 OSS/OSAMB                    Safety 1               75 ABW/SE
QA                   75 OSS/OSC                      Falcon 1               388 FW/CC
TA                   75 OSS/OSCT                     Falcon 2               388 FW/CV
Alert 1 thru 4       75 OSS/OSCT                     Falcon 3               388 OG/CC
CE 1                 75 CEG/CC                       Falcon 5               388 FW/SE
Barrier 1 thru 4     75 CES/CIET                     Falcon 5A              388 FW/SEF
Electrician          75 CES/CEIE                     Diamond 1              419 FW/CC
Snow 1               75 CES/CEOP                     Diamond 2              419 FW/CV
Airfield Sweeper     75 CES/CEOP                     Diamond 3              419 OG/CC
Broom 1 thru 4       75 CES/CEOP                     Diamond 5              419 FW/SEF
Plow 1 thru 4        75 CES/CEOP                     Falcon 6               388 FW SOF
Bash 1               75 CEG/CEVR                     Test Ops SOF           514FLTS SOF
Bash 2               75 CEG/CEVR                     Bulldog 1              Mission Director
Battalion 1          775 CES/CEF                     Oscar 1                Incident
                                                                            Commander
Water Truck          75 CES/CEOP                     Hammer 1               Combat Hammer

These are the most used call signs all others used on the airfield are coordinated through the
Airfield Manager.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                   42


                                          Attachment 5

              CONTROLLED MOVEMENT AREA (CMA) PHRASEOLOGY

A5.1. Techniques and Instructions Used on the Airfield.
A5.1.2. When requesting access on the runway, you must state the requested access point, call
sign, and should include destination and expected duration.
A5.1.3. Some runway crossing approvals may be issued as "without delay". This means the
tower has approved your operation using minimal time on the runway. If you are crossing the
runway DO NOT STOP. If you expect to use more than minimal time on the runway or you are
unable to proceed "without delay", hold short and advise the controller. If the controller clears
you to cross the runway before you have made your request and you need access on the runway
instead of crossing, hold short and advise the controller.
A5.1.4. Any approval "up to, but not on the runway" is an approval inside a 100 foot, distance
from the runway edge. This is not approval to go onto the runway or any hard surface of the
runway e.g., the paved runway shoulders.
A5.1.5. During inclement weather conditions stay behind the flashing sign on the north
perimeter road.
A5.1.6. If on a runway or taxiway and you observe the runway or taxiway lights flashing on and
off, look to tower for light gun signals, exit immediately and contact the tower. You may be
experiencing radio difficulties and can not hear the instructions to exit the runway/taxiway.
A5.1.7. Under no circumstances shall a vehicle be driven onto the runway if there is any
uncertainty concerning the approval of the request.
A5.2. Example of Initial Call to Tower.
Identify yourself and state your request or advisory.
"HILL GROUND, MAINTENACE ONE".
The Ground Controller will respond by:
“MAINTENANCE ONE, HILL GROUND".
A5.3. Example of Runway Crossing.
VEHICLE: "HILL GROUND, MAINTENANCE ONE".
HILL GROUND: "MAINTENANCE ONE, HILL GROUND".
VEHICLE: " HILL GROUND, MAINTENANCE ONE AT TAXIWAY BRAVO REQUEST
PERMISSION TO CROSS THE RUNWAY" HILL GROUND: WILL ADVISE THE
VEHICLE TO "HOLD SHORT, LANDING OR DEPARTING TRAFFIC" OR WILL
TRANSMIT CROSSING INSTRUCTIONS.
Note: If holding instructions are issued the controller may state the reason for the hold. You
must repeat all hold short instructions.
"MAINTENANCE ONE, AT THE NORTH BAK-12 BARRIER, EAST SIDE, REQUEST TO
CROSS RUNWAY ".
The controller will respond with hold, approval, or "stand by" instructions.
Note: If holding instructions are issued the controller may state the reason for the hold.
"MAINTENANCE ONE, HOLD SHORT, LANDING TRAFFIC" or "MAINTENANCE ONE,
PROCEED ACROSS THE RUNWAY AT THE NORTH BAK 12 BARRIER" "REPORT OFF".
The requester will respond with hold instructions, approval to proceed across, or "stand by"
instructions.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                    43


A5.4. Example of Access on the Runway.
Note: You must state the requested access point and should include destination and expected
duration on the runway. "SWEEPER ONE, PROCEED ON RUNWAY FIVE RIGHT AT
TAXIWAY BRAVO REPORT OFF" or "OPS FIVE, PROCEED ONTO RUNWAY
REPORT OFF" or "TALON SIX ONE, PROCEED ACROSS RUNWAY AT DELTA
WITHOUT DELAY REPORT OFF".
The controller will issue an approval, hold instructions, or "stand by".
"SWEEPER SIX, PROCEED ON RUNWAY AT BRAVO”. or "OPS FIVE, PROCEED ONTO
RUNWAY AT BRAVO".
Note: Some approvals may be issued as "without delay". This means that you are approved for
your operation using minimal time on the runway. If you are crossing the runway DO NOT
STOP. If you expect to use more than minimal time on the runway or you are unable to proceed
"without delay", hold short and advise the controller. If the controller approves you to cross the
runway before you have made your request and you need access on the runway instead of
crossing, hold short and advise the controller.
"TALON SIX ONE, PROCEED ACROSS RUNWAY FIVE RIGHT AT DELTA WITHOUT
DELAY".
A5.5. Example of access "up to, but not on the runway."
Note: Any approval "up to, but not on runway" is an approval inside a 100’ distance from the
runway edge but do not go on the hard surface shoulder of the runway, this requires specific
approval from the Control Tower.
“AIRFIELD LIGHTING, PROCEED UP TO, BUT NOT ON RUNWAY AT DELTA”.
A5.6. Example of Reporting off the Runway.
"MAINTENANCE ONE IS OFF THE RUNWAY AT THE NORTH BAK-12". "SWEEPER
ONE IS OFF THE RUNWAY AT FOXTROT". "OPS FIVE IS OFF THE RUNWAY AT
BRAVO".
A5.7. Example of Acknowledging Tower Instructions.
"HILL GROUND, OPS 1 PROCEEDING ACROSS THE RUNWAY AT DELTA AND WILL
REPORT OFF".
Note: NEVER USE THE PHRASES "CLEAR", "CLEARED", OR "CLEARANCE". THESE
WORDS ARE USED STRICTLY BY ATC IN COMMUNICATIONS WITH AIRCRAFT
ONLY.
A5.8. All acknowledgements and instructions must be reported verbatim back to the
tower.
A5.9. Examples of Improper Phraseology.
PHRASES SUCH AS; "CLEARED", "CLEAR", "CLEARANCE", "GO-AHEAD", "OK", OR
"GO ON" SHOULD NOT BE USED BY VEHICLE DRIVERS AND SHOULD BE VERIFIED
PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH A REQUEST.
                                        Attachment 6

                                  SAMPLE AF FORM 483

Figure A6.1. Certificate of Competency.




FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (WHEN FILLED IN)

                             COMPLETION INSTRUCTIONS
Front Side;
Certificate No.: This number is issued by AAFM.
Name: Self-explanatory.
Date: Date that all paperwork and testing is completed.
Command: Self-explanatory.
Installation: Hill AFB.
Reverse side;
Date : Date instructor signs the card.
Instructor: Airfield Driving Program Manager’s or designated Airfield Driving Trainer’s
signature.
Date Refresher: Date Airfield Driver Refresher Training was accomplished.
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                                                          45


                                                                  Attachment 7

                                HILL AFB ORIENTATION AND RESTRICTIONS


                                     Glide Slope                              Hill AFB Airfield
                                     Critiical Area
                                                                        Orientation and Restrictions

                               14      Overrun                                        INST (Instrument) Hold Line
                      North EOR                                                   ILS Critical Area Use This Hold Line
                                                                                          When INST Sign is on

  N          Hot Pad 1                                       Alert Taxiway
                                                                               Restricted Areas

                                                  BAK 12/14              ECP
                         Taxiway A                                         Alert Ramp

                                                           BAK 12                  Forest Service
                   Hot Pad 2                                                        Tanker Base



                                                     TWY B


                                  ECPs         ECPs
                                                           Restricted
               Hot Pad 3                                     Area

             Restricted Area
                                Hot Pad 4
                                              Hot Pad 7           TWY D
                                              Restricted Area                                                   While in The Radio
                 Hot Pad 5                    TWY E                                                              Monitoring Area,
                                                                        TWY E                                    Do Not Proceed
                     TWY E           TWY C                      Tower                                             Past Lines (or
                               Mono Rack                   North Ramp                                              within 100’of
Ramp Pad 7                                                                     TWY F                             runway) Without
Ramp Pad 8                     388th Ramp                               East
                                             TWY D                      Ramp                                     Tower Approval
                                Restricted
        Air                      Area                                     Flt Test                                  Via Radio
       Freight                                                             Ramp Taxiway A                        Communication
        Ramp                                     West
                                                 Ramp
                                  ECPs
                                                                                         TWY G

                                                                                                      BAK 12
                                               Base Operations
                                                Bldg 1 North                                            BAK 12/14



                                                                        South
                                                                        Ramp
                                                                    Restricted Area

                                                                                                                    Overrun
                                                                                   ECP’s
                                                                                                    South EOR
                                                                                                                 32
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                                                    46



                                                       Attachment 8

      HILL AFB AIRFIELD CONTROLLED MOVEMENT AND RADIO
                       MONITORING AREAS



                       14      Overrun
             North EOR                       Alert Taxiway


      HP 1

                                         BAK 12/14

                TWY A
                                              BAK 12                              N
              HP 2

                                                                   Tanker Base                                      CMA
                                             TWY B
                                                                                   TWY D       All Personnel Must Request
                                                                                                 Permission To Enter The
                HP 3
                                                                                                Controlled Movement Area
                            HP 7
                                                                                               When Within 100ft of Runway
                                     HP 6            TWY D                                          (Shaded Red Area).
                       TWY C

                                   TWY E                                         TWY E
         Hp 5
         TWY E                                       Tower                                                          RMA
                       Mono Rack              North Ramp
                                                            TWY F
                       388th TWY D
                                                       East                                            While in The Radio
                                  West                 Ramp                                         Monitoring Area, Do Not
             Air       Ramp
             Freight              Ramp                       Flt Test                               Proceed Past VFR Hold
             Ramp                                             Ramp
                                                                                                     Lines (or within 100’of
                                                                                                    runway) Without Tower
                                                         TWY A          TWY G                         Approval Via Radio
                                                                                                        Communication
                                                                                           BAK 12


                                                                                              BAK 12/14




                                                                                 South Ramp

                                                                                                          Overrun


                                                                                         South EOR
                                                                                                     32
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                47


                                         Attachment 9

     HILL AFB AIRFIELD FOD CHECK POINTS/AIRFIELD ACCESS POINTS


                                                                       Hill AFB Airfield
                                  14                                  FOD Check Points




                                                                          N


                                                                                 FOD
                                                                                Check
                                                                                Points


                    FOD
                   Check
                   Points                        Tower



                                                                                  FOD
                                                                                 Check
                                                                                 Points

                Base Operations
                                                         In
                                                           du
                                                             st




                (7-1861)
                                                               ria
                                                                  lA




                BLDG 1 North
                                                                    re
                                                                      a




                                       Primary Route to
                                       Base Operations
                                        via East side of
                                                                                   32
                                       BLDG 1 Hangar 1
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                                                                                        48


                                                                       Attachment 10

  AIRFIELD DRIVING PROGRAM UNIT SELF-INSPECTION SAMPLE CHECKLIST

                                              DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                        75TH OPERATIONS SUPPORT SQUADRON (AFMC)
                                                HILL AIR FORCE BASE, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                 Date: _________

MEMORANDUM FOR _____________

FROM: 75 OSS/OSAM

SUBJECT: Unit Airfield Driving Program Inspection Date;
The following representatives of ________were on hand for the visit.


The following are the results of the Inspection using the Unit Program Manager Responsibility checklist from HAFBI 13-202.

1. Is there a current copy of the unit commander appointment letter on file with 75OSS/OSAM listing the unit’s primary and alternate unit airfield driving program
manager?


2. Is the program manager trained and certified to drive on the airfield as annotated on HILL AFB Form 528. Has a Copy been provided to the Airfield Management
office?


3. Does the program manager know to schedule training for replacement airfield driving program manager with the Assistant Airfield Manager at least 30 days prior
to relinquishing unit duties.


4. Does the program manager ensure unit's contracted personnel are airfield trained and monitored?


5. Does the program manager maintain records, associated forms and listing of all unit personnel authorized to drive on the airfield. Review and update the listing of
all unit personnel authorized to drive on the airfield and send a list of all their drivers via the airfield driving program manager data base to the 75 OSS/OSAM once a
quarter?

6. Does the program managers sign the HILL AFB Form 528 for the commander? If so, authority to do so must be delegated in writing,


7. Does the program manager ensure all personnel accomplish the annual airfield driver refresher CBT and the local Hill AFB training on the Airfield Management
web site as directed in AFI 13-213 and attach a copy of the refresher training certificates on the back side of the original HILL AFB Form 528 and sign each
individual’s backside of their AF Form 483?


8. Does the program manager send refresher notices to all supervisors of personnel 5 days prior to 1st day of that Individual’s anniversary month, via e-mail?

9. Has the program manager inserted AFVA 11-240 AIRPORT SIGNS AND MARKINGS decals in all unit vehicles?                          http://www.e-publishing.af.mil
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                49


                              Attachment 11

          FLIGHT LINE DRIVER TRAINING RECORD AND REQUEST
HILLAFBI13-202 1 APRIL 2009                                                                         50


                                            Attachment 12

                              SAMPLE POV REQUEST LETTER

                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIRFORCE
                                   (Unit Letter Head)


MEMORANDUM FOR 75 OSS/OSAM
FROM: (UNIT/OFFICE SYMBOL)
SUBJECT: Sponsor Letter for POV Pass for (name of agency)
1. We will be sponsoring the vehicles and personnel listed below for Hill Air Force Base Airfield
access for 2008:

       Contractor:             (Company Name)
       Address:                (Company Address)
       Phone:                  Office (801) 123-4321 Cell (801) 124-4321
       Contract #              123456789
       Expiration Date:        (Date pass is no longer required)

       Reason for accessing the airfield:

       Vehicle Year:                           Driver:
       Make:                                   State License:
       Model:                                  State License Exp. Date:
       Color:                                  Airfield Drivers Certificate #:
       License Plate:
       State:

2. If you have any questions or require any additional information, please feel free to contact me at
DSN 777-1234 or (801) 123-1213.



                                                      (Signature Block)
                                                      Commander
