BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 48-104
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                                       14 JULY 1997
                                                                       Certified Current, 14 JULY 2008
                                                                                   Aerospace Medicine

                                                                       PRIVATELY OWNED HORSES




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HSHG-VSH (Capt Shuck-Lee)                             Certified by: HSHG-VSH (Capt Shuck-Lee)
Supersedes OO-ALC-HAFBR 163-4,                                                             Pages: 2
           17 August 1988                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program. This instruction establishes authority and
responsibility for the prevention of disease transmission from horses to humans; and for the inhumane
treatment of horses through mistreatment, improper animal husbandry practices or neglect. It applies to
owners of horses stabled on Hill AFB.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This publication is revised to update organizational titles and functional address symbols; paragraph 2.
-quarterly inspections are submitted to the Commander, Rocky Mountain Veterinary Service Support Dis-
trict @ Ft. Carson, CO; paragraph 3.1., All horses will be vaccinated semiannually for Eastern/Western
Encephalitis, Tetanus, Influenza, and Rhinopneumonitis, and annually for Rabies. Horses will be dew-
ormed quarterly. Owners of off-base horses will be required to provide documentation of negative Cog-
gins test results (current within six months), Rabies vaccination (current within 12 months), EEE/WEE/
Tetanus/Influenza/Rhinopneunonitis vaccination (current within six months), and deworming prior to
their arrival on station; and paragraph 3.2., newly arrived horses must undergo a five day quarantine
period under the supervision of the Chief VSH. A bar ( | ) indicates revisions from the previous edition.


1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The Chief Veterinary Services Hill AFB(VSH) will perform routine inspections to ensure all
   horses stabled on Hill AFB are kept under the same humane and public health standards routinely
   practiced in Utah. Complaints of animal abuse or neglect will be investigated by the Chief VSH who
   will make appropriate recommendations to the Wing Commander (75 ABW/CC).
   1.2. Equine organizations will provide proper facilities to ensure horses will be maintained in accor-
   dance with all applicable directives and standards. Supervision will be exercised to assure all animals
   are treated humanely and good husbandry is practiced.
2                                                                     HILLAFBI48-104 14 JULY 1997


    1.3. Horse owners will individually or collectively arrange for veterinary care from civilian veterinar-
    ians. Emergency veterinary care should be sought or contracted with civilian veterinarians. The Veter-
    inary Treatment Facility (VTF Building 401) is neither equipped or authorized to provide ongoing
    emergency service to horse owners.

2. Inspections. An inspection of horses and facilities of each equine organization will be made at least
quarterly by the Chief VSH. These inspections will be performed to evaluate sanitation, animal hus-
bandry, safety practices, facilities, and overall management. Results of each inspection will be sent to the
President of the Equine Organization and to the Commander of the Rocky Mountain VSSD @ Ft. Carson,
CO.

3. Disease Control.
    3.1. Vaccinations. All horses on the installation will be vaccinated semiannually for Eastern and
    Western Encephalitis (EEE,WEE), Rhinopneumonitis(EHV-1), Tetanus, and Influenza; and annually
    for Rabies. Coggins test for Equine Infectious Anemia(EIA) will be performed annually in conjunc-
    tion with the vaccination program. Horses will be dewormed quarterly. Owners of off base horses will
    be required to provide documentation of negative Coggins tests (current within six months), Rabies
    vaccination (current within 12 months), EEE/WEE/EHV-1/Tetanus/Influenza vaccination (current
    within 6 months), and deworming prior to their arrival on station. Vaccinations should be given at
    least 5-10 days (Rabies-5way) prior to arrival to be considered immunized. All vaccination records
    will be maintained at Veterinary Services (VTF Bldg. 401).
    3.2. Quarantine. Newly arrived horses must undergo a five day quarantine period under the supervi-
    sion of the Chief VSH. Quarantined horses will not be allowed to come in contact with nonquaran-
    tined horses, areas, equipment, corrals, water, or feed. Access to quarantine areas or horses will be
    strictly limited to those persons directly responsible for their care. If longer quarantine periods are
    deemed necessary due to specific outbreak or epidemiological concerns, the Chief VSH may quaran-
    tine individual horses or the entire stable area to prevent the spread of disease.

4. Dead Horse Disposal. Horses must be disposed of as soon after death as possible. Disposal by burial
should be in a sanitary landfill or on approved sites with at least five feet of dirt above the carcass.



                                                CARL L. CRITCHLOW, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
