                               75th AIR BASE WING
                    EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (EO) PROGRAM OFFICE
                           HILL AIR FORCE BASE, UTAH

                                      Installation Commander
                                      75 ABW/CC, 777-7500

                                  EO Director, Chet N. Mitchell
                                 75 ABW/EO, 777-4856/777-5455

1. The Hill Air Force Base Equal Opportunity (EO) Program is a combined application of
military and civilian EO processes designed to improve mission effectiveness. Unlawful
discrimination and sexual harassment are contrary to good order and discipline and is counter-
productive to combat readiness and mission accomplishment. The EO Office promotes an
environment free from personal, social, or institutional barriers that prevent Air Force
members/employees from rising to their highest level. The EO Office is responsible for
implementing federal laws and Air Force policy to eliminate unlawful discrimination and sexual
harassment. Active duty military personnel, their dependents, and military retirees shall be
protected from unlawful discrimination based on race, color, national origin, religion, and sex to
include sexual harassment. Civil service employees and outside applicants are protected from
unlawful discrimination based on race, color, national origin, sex (to include sexual harassment),
age (40 years or older), disability (mental/physical), religion, genetic, and reprisal/retaliation for
participating in an EO protective activity.

2. Equal Opportunity is a DoD and USAF mandate, and 75 ABW leadership is committed to the
adherence to a discrimination policy based on zero-tolerance, meaning personnel do not have to
tolerate any type of unlawful discrimination and have the right to report violations without fear
of reprisal. All personnel must be proactive to ensure a positive quality of life by not
participating in unlawful discrimination and not condoning or tolerating the discriminatory
behavior of others. If you feel you have been subjected to unlawful discrimination, please notify
your chain of command and/or contact the EO Office. A timely EEO complaint must be filed
with the EO Office within 45 calendar days from the day of an alleged discriminatory incident.
Active duty members have 60 calendar days from the date of an alleged discriminatory incident
to file a formal complaint (military informal complaints have no time restraints).

3. Additional guidance can be obtained by contacting the EO Office at the telephone numbers
listed above, by visiting 6068 Aspen Avenue/Bldg 1294 South end, or by emailing
75ABW.EO@hill.af.mil.




 HILLAFBVA36-5, 13 NOVEMBER 2012
Supersedes Hill AFBVA 36-5 (Per AFI 36-2706), 14 June 2011
 OPR: 75 ABW/EO
“RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication”
