BY ORDER OF THE CENTER                                                               HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 63-103
COMMANDER HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                                                    7 MARCH 2012

                                                                                                                           Acquisition

                                                                            DATA ACQUISITION INSTRUCTIONS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OO-ALC/EN                                                                                      Certified by: OO-ALC/EN
                                                                                                     ( Ms. Angie Tymofichuk)
                                                                                                                    Pages: 35


This publication establishes a uniform approach to the acquisition and management of technical
data and license rights at Ogden Air Logistics Center (OO-ALC). The acquired technical data is
used for on-going, competitive sustainment of our weapon systems. To this end, Government
license rights need to be addressed in all acquisitions in order to have the technical data needed
to efficiently and effectively continue procurement of spares and equipment, system
maintenance, repair, engineering analysis, and other logistics applications. Acquisition of
technical data supports compliance with the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation, Spare Parts
Breakout Program and Public Law (10 USC 2304(f) (5)), and Competition in Contracting Act
(CICA) of 1984. This publication applies to all military, civilian and contractor personnel
assigned or attached to OO-ALC and to all major weapon system hardware, support equipment,
software and firmware for configured systems, subsystems and end-items; including work on
these subsystems/components performed via contract or independent organic resources. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR), OO-ALC/Engineering Directorate, using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.


       1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................   2
       2.      Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................      3
 2                                                                                       HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


        3.      Pre-Award Phase. ...................................................................................................    5
        4.      Solicitation and Contract Award Phase. ................................................................                15
        5.      Post-Award Phase. .................................................................................................    18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         22

Attachment 2—DATA MANAGEMENT STRATEGY TEMPLATE                                                                                         25

Attachment 3—LICENSE RIGHTS                                                                                                            30

Attachment 4—CONSIDERATIONS FOR TYPES OF DATA                                                                                          32

Attachment 5—EXAMPLE DD FORM 1423 -1, CONTRACT DATA REQUIREMENTS LIST                                                                  33

Attachment 6—AFTO FORM 585, CONTRACT DATA REQUIREMENTS SUBSTANTIATION34

Attachment 7—KEY FAR/DFARS DATA CLAUSES                                                                                                35


1. General Information.
     1.1. Scope.
        1.1.1. This Instruction is applicable to the acquisition and management of data and
        license rights within OO-ALC, including but not limited to acquisitions for program
        offices and maintenance functions. The Instruction will focus on data acquisition and
        management processes, including the roles and responsibilities of the stakeholders in the
        data acquisition process. It will identify the overall process and discuss how the
        stakeholders interface with each other during these processes.
        1.1.2. For the purposes of this document, ―technical data‖ will include the Defense
        Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) definitions of ―technical data,‖
        ―computer database,‖ and ―computer software.‖ Additionally, ―technical data‖ and
        ―data‖ will be used interchangeably throughout this document. The DFARS definitions
        follow:
             1.1.2.1. Recorded information, regardless of the form or method of the recording, of
             a scientific or technical nature (including computer software documentation).
             1.1.2.2. A collection of recorded data in a form capable of being processed by a
             computer.
             1.1.2.3. Computer programs, source code, source code listings, object code listings,
             design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae and related material that
             would enable the software to be reproduced, recreated, or recompiled.
        1.1.3. The information in this Instruction is a synopsis of key information gleaned from
        various sources across the DoD. More detailed insights can be found in the following
        documents        (accessible      at     the      ACE        SharePoint     site     and
        https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/OOALCXP/XPQ/default.aspx ).
             1.1.3.1. DOD 5010.12-M, Procedures for the Acquisition and Management of
             Technical Data, May 1993.
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                     3


           1.1.3.2. Air Force Materiel Command JA Data Rights Handbook.
           1.1.3.3. SL150-AA-PRO-010/DMP, NAVSEA Data Management                         Program
           Operations and Procedures Manual for Contractor Prepared Data.
           1.1.3.4. Acquiring and Enforcing the Government’s Rights in Technical Data and
           Computer Software Under Department of Defense Contracts: A Practical Handbook
           for Acquisition Professionals, Third Edition.
   1.2. Objectives.
       1.2.1. The primary objective of this instruction is to ensure programs at OO-ALC acquire
       and manage data and data license rights necessary to support and sustain weapon
       systems; it is intended to increase competition. This instruction will help standardize
       processes and the roles and responsibilities involved in the data acquisition process and
       help ensure they work together as needed.
       1.2.2. To this end, this instruction will guide OO-ALC personnel engaged in the
       acquisition and management of data in achieving optimum effectiveness and economy in
       the development, acquisition, and use of data and license rights for systems and
       equipment within the OO-ALC. This instruction will provide a basis for accomplishing
       the following:
           1.2.2.1. Selecting data requirements through the tailoring process and encouraging
           stakeholders to consider commercial data where available and feasible. Reference
           DFARS 227.7102 for guidance on acquisition of commercial data.
           1.2.2.2. Providing clarity and visibility of data and license rights requirements to be
           included in contracts.
           1.2.2.3. Ensuring the data ordered is delivered to the Government.
           1.2.2.4. Ensuring the quality of the data meets the contractual requirements,
           including the correct restrictive markings.
           1.2.2.5. Ensuring timeliness, accuracy, and adequacy of the data delivered.
           1.2.2.6. Promoting, to the maximum extent, competition in OO-ALC acquisitions.
2. Roles and Responsibilities. Key stakeholders in the data acquisition process include
program managers, contracting officers, data managers, Acquisition Center of Excellence
advisors, engineers, equipment specialists, engineering data management officers, technical
order management activities, financial managers, users, legal counsel, quality assurance
personnel, configuration managers, provisioning, instructors, comptrollers, test and evaluation,
transportation/packaging specialists, and safety. Representatives from each of these functional
areas shall be invited to the initial acquisition kick-off meeting to determine which functional
areas are stakeholders in this acquisition effort. The program manager shall also determine
which stakeholders will be involved during each of the various phases of the acquisition effort
and the extent they will be involved. The roles that are expected to have the most involvement in
this process are explained below.
   2.1. Acquisition Center of Excellence (ACE) Advisor: The ACE advisor consults teams in
   acquisitions and ensures the teams address license rights. The ACE advisor ensures data
   management is addressed in the Acquisition Plan, the presentation provided to the
4                                                              HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


    Acquisition Strategy Panel (ASP), risk management strategies, and other applicable areas of
    the acquisition process. Upon program manager providing accurate data requirements, the
    ACE advisor with the help of the data manager and the legal office will work with the
    program manager to ensure license rights are detailed in all requirements documents,
    including Sections L and M of the Request for Proposal (RFP).
    2.2. Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO): The ACO performs contract administration
    per FAR 42.302 and acts within authorized limits as delegated by the procuring contracting
    officer. The Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) and other agencies offer a
    wide variety of contract administration and support services. The ACO oversees the contract
    and provides insight on license rights as necessary and required.
    2.3. Configuration Manager (CM): The CM is responsible for establishing and controlling
    the integrity of all data products and technical baselines after acceptance of data by the
    designated office.
    2.4. Data Manager (DM): The DM provides technical guidance to the weapon systems
    program manager concerning policy and procedures on procurement and sustainment of data.
    The DM works closely with the program manager and support personnel to ensure only
    essential data is procured. At the direction of the program manager, the DM will set-up a
    data call to identify data requirements.
    2.5. Engineering Data Management Officer (EDMO): The EDMO is responsible for
    evaluating/assessing the minimum engineering data requirements and providing input for
    inclusion of these requirements into solicitations, proposals, and contracts in order to ensure
    development/delivery of high quality engineering data for the life cycle support of each
    acquisition or modification program. The EDMO attends and participates in all of the data
    calls for their assigned system. The EDMO ensures coordinated review and acceptance of
    engineering data to include license rights and proper markings on drawings and subsequently
    gives notice of final approval to the program office. EDMOs prepare the DD Form 1423
    (Contract Data Requirements List [CDRL]) and the Technical Data Package (TDP) for
    engineering drawings/models and associated lists.
    2.6. Equipment Specialist (ES): The ES is responsible for the accuracy, adequacy,
    modification, classification, and review of Technical Order (TO) procedures, engineering
    data and the related technical contents of a TO. During the post-award phase, the ES shall
    participate in the TO Guidance Conference, performing reviews as required. During the
    sustainment phase of a program’s lifecycle, the ES usually acts as the technical content
    manager for the TO’s supporting equipment.
    2.7. Legal Counsel: OO-ALC/Contract Law Division acts as an advisor during the data
    acquisition and management process. Legal ensures data needs are assessed by program
    personnel prior to drafting an acquisition strategy and are fully addressed in the acquisition
    plan. Legal shall review the plan prior to the ASP meeting. Legal advises as requested
    regarding the data provisions of the RFP, license rights needed, review of proposals,
    discussions and other communications with contractors, proposal evaluation, contract review
    prior to award, and data review prior to acceptance. Legal provides advice as requested on
    resolution of data disputes before and after award and advice on legal issues regarding data
    maintenance, use, disclosure and storage after delivery. Legal also assists with training on
    the legal issues regarding the data management process.
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                       5


   2.8. Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO): The PCO is responsible to ensure applicable
   CDRLs and other documentation are included in the Purchase Request (PR) package, in
   order to ensure license rights are identified and included in contractual document, and the
   required data is delivered. The PCO is the sole point of contact (POC) between program
   office and contractor for all contractual issues.
   2.9. Program Manager (PM). The PM is responsible for planning, managing, and
   coordinating life cycle logistics support for major weapon systems and/or subsystem(s). For
   weapon systems which OO-ALC is assigned System Program Manager authority, the PM is
   responsible for the complete lifecycle support (i.e., cradle to grave responsibility). The PM
   facilitates discussion among stakeholders to determine the necessary data requirements and
   makes final decision on what data to procure. The PM is responsible to request a data call
   with the DM as applicable.
   2.10. Engineer. The engineer identifies the need for technical data or for new/updated data,
   reviews the data for accuracy and completeness, attends and participates in all of the data
   calls for their systems. The engineer identifies whether the Government needs contractor or
   Air Force Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code drawings, and processes any
   and all Engineering Orders (EOs) that may be required to support data management.
   2.11. Technical Order Management Activity (TOMA): If TOs are part of the data acquired
   during pre-award phase, the TOMA reviews initial program documentation, develops a TO
   Management Plan, develops a preliminary TO Verification Plan, and provides cost estimates
   associated with TO requirements. Calls and chairs a TO Planning Requirements Conference
   that is attended by the Integrated Product Team (IPT) members for this acquisition and
   finalizes the TO requirements for input to the RFP. At data call, ensures TO-related data are
   included in the requirements documents. Organizes In-Process Reviews (IPRs) during
   technical data development; manages and distributes Preliminary Technical Orders (PTOs)
   for AF verification. Participates in Pre-Publication Reviews to ensure technical data meets
   contractual requirements. Ensures the Technical Manual Contract Requirement (TMCR),
   Data Item Descriptions (DIDs), and other contract documents are tailored to the extent
   necessary to impose only the essential needs for a particular TO application.
3. Pre-Award Phase. The pre-award process in the acquisition cycle is the beginning stage for
data identification. Appropriate data must be identified to ensure future success during the
system lifecycle. Identification of data includes identification of applicable data, license rights,
and data management.
   3.1. Requirements Identification. At this stage the PM identifies a requirement is needed.
   The requirement could be a new requirement, a follow-on requirement, or a modification to
   an existing requirement.
   3.2. Develop IPT. The PM is responsible to establish the IPT for this acquisition. The PM
   shall invite the following stakeholders to the initial meeting to address data: DM, EDMO,
   TOMA, ACE, PCO, Financial Manager (FM), user, legal counsel, management, engineering,
   ES, quality assurance personnel, CM, provisioning, instructors, comptrollers, test and
   evaluation, and safety. During the meeting, the participants shall identify the level of
   stakeholder involvement at different phases throughout the acquisition process.
6                                                                 HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


    3.3. Market Research. The purpose of market research in the scope of data acquisition is to
    discover the past and present conditions of existing data and license rights in order to form an
    appropriate strategy for future data acquisition. It is necessary to carefully and fully
    anticipate the future needs of the product or service being acquired while conducting market
    research. Market research should start early in the acquisition process.
       3.3.1. Some areas of focus for market research include the following:
           3.3.1.1. Identify and evaluate existing data included in previous/similar acquisitions.
           3.3.1.2. Research government license rights in relation to existing data.
           3.3.1.3. Identify industry practices regarding data.
       3.3.2. The IPT shall perform market research to leverage lessons learned of other
       acquisitions and identify data for the current requirement. The following resources are
       suggested for reference:
           3.3.2.1. Internet research;
               3.3.2.1.1. PDAQ        (Product       Data     Acquisition    website
               https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/site/ACQUISITION/ACE/PLM);
               3.3.2.1.2. FEDBIZOPS (<fbo.gov>) (Sources Sought Synopsis [SSS], Request
               for Information (RFI), draft RFP)
           3.3.2.2. Data repository;
           3.3.2.3. DMs;
           3.3.2.4. PCO: past contracts;
           3.3.2.5. Data screeners;
           3.3.2.6. Engineers;
           3.3.2.7. Legal: Past court cases, license rights needed;
           3.3.2.8. Contractors: Rough Order of Magnitude;
           3.3.2.9. Industry Day/Pre-Solicitation Conference;
       3.3.3. The results from market research provide information for decision analysis
       regarding required data, license rights, costs, schedule, and suppliers. The PM shall
       document and compare available data and license rights options to determine the best
       data acquisition strategy for the program (e.g., Analysis of Alternatives, Business Case
       Analysis). As a minimum, these options shall include which data and license rights to
       acquire and when the data and license rights will be acquired. Part of this documentation
       may include input from FM regarding cost estimates for data and associated license
       rights.
    3.4. Acquisition Plan.
       3.4.1. OO-ALC sustains systems that are post Milestone C (decision to move to
       Production and Development Phase); however, some acquisitions may involve the
       development of new system capabilities or the updating, modification or creation of
       technical data or computer software. When developing the Acquisition Plan, the IPT
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                  7


     must consider data and license rights issues early in the acquisition planning process.
     The decisions to procure data and license rights are the result of careful examination of
     the requirements for the data, life cycle cost, and the ability of the Government to
     maintain and use the data in the future. If the system has an existing Data Management
     Strategy (DMS), the acquisition planning for data should be consistent with the DMS. If
     circumstances have changed since the DMS was written, the Acquisition Plan will need
     to reflect the revised circumstances. Guidelines for the Acquisition Plan can be found in
     FAR, Part 7 and its supplements. Additionally, the DoD is streamlining acquisition
     documents and implementing a Technology Development Strategy/Acquisition Strategy.
     This strategy includes a section for ―Technical Data Rights Strategy‖ that can act as the
     DMS.          A        sample      outline       can      be        found      at       <
     https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=441126&lang=en-US>. A template
     for the former DMS, which still includes many useful considerations, can be found in
     Attachment 2 and a list of related DFARS clauses can be found in Attachment 7. As a
     minimum, the Acquisition Plan shall address the following general issues:
        3.4.1.1. The overall program objectives for the acquisition of technical data.
        3.4.1.2. Intended users of data.
        3.4.1.3. Required uses of the data, including requirements to cost-effectively operate,
        maintain, and improve the fielded system (including its subsystems) as well as foster
        competition through the remainder of the system life cycle.
        3.4.1.4. Needed data.
        3.4.1.5. Government license rights to the data acquired, including the requirement for
        delivery or access to contractor systems.
        3.4.1.6. Strategies for minimizing the amount of technical data delivered to the
        Government with other than unlimited rights. Note: When balancing the required
        license rights, consider DFARS requires the contractor to provide unlimited rights for
        specific categories of data (see DFARS clause 252.227-7013(b)(1)). Also consider
        when DFARS doesn’t require unlimited rights, government purpose rights will
        usually meet program needs. In developing a data acquisition strategy, the program
        manager and the contracting officer are required to balance conflicting interests.
        These conflicts include the goal to not waste taxpayer funds by buying unneeded data
        and the goal to negotiate rights on behalf of the entire US Government; they must
        recognize they are not only negotiating license rights for their own program, but
        rather negotiating on behalf of the entire US Government. They should, as much as
        possible, consider future US government data needs and possibly changing data needs
        because government leverage to obtain needed license rights will most likely never
        again be as strong as it is prior to contract award.
        3.4.1.7. Timeline for needed data.
        3.4.1.8. Use of DFARS clauses for deferred ordering, deferred delivery, and
        withholding of payment.
        3.4.1.9. Approach for ensuring data is available in a format compatible with the
        intended user’s environment.
8                                                           HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


       3.4.1.10. Estimated costs each for data and license rights.
       3.4.1.11. Quality assurance program to guarantee the accuracy and completeness of
       the data (this shall include validation, inspection, and acceptance criteria for the data
       as well as who will oversee these efforts).
       3.4.1.12. System for managing the data requirements.
       3.4.1.13. Repository and process for storing and maintaining data.
       3.4.1.14. Planned use of warranties for data.
       3.4.1.15. Planned methodology and schedule for conducting major DM events,
       including who is responsible for calling and conducting each event. (Use IPRs and
       final reviews of data, when necessary, to verify the Government ability to use the data
       as intended.)
       3.4.1.16. Plans for keeping data accurate and current.
    3.4.2. Potential pitfalls that should be avoided include the following:
       3.4.2.1. Requiring the development and delivery of data that will not support the Life
       Cycle Management Plan (e.g., requesting detailed manufacturing data when the
       Government only requires depot maintenance data);
       3.4.2.2. Requiring unlimited rights when government purpose rights satisfy planned
       government requirements;
       3.4.2.3. Failing to develop a sufficient risk mitigation plan if the contractor delivers
       inadequate data or license rights to satisfy planned government requirements (e.g.,
       future contract competitions or depot maintenance by entities other than the Original
       Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)).
       3.4.2.4. Not obtaining needed license rights when commercial data is acquired.
    3.4.3. To gather this information, the following questions should be asked:
       3.4.3.1. What technical data deliverables and license rights will be needed during the
       system’s life cycle?
       3.4.3.2. Does the depot agree these data deliverables and license rights are sufficient
       for depot level maintenance?
       3.4.3.3. Are the data deliverables and license rights sufficient for competitive
       procurement of spares, upgrades and Contractor Logistics Support (CLS)?
       3.4.3.4. What are the minimum rights the Air Force can accept for this acquisition
       (e.g., unlimited rights required by DFARS [data to operate, train, maintain, and install
       new equipment] and our intended future use of the data [advisory and assistance
       services and future potential competition] )?
       3.4.3.5. What license rights in data and technical data does the US Government have
       from prior contracts?
       3.4.3.6. How will changes in sustainment be impacted by the data we order now?
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                       9


        3.4.3.7. Will data be delivered to the Government or will access be made available
        for the Government via contractor systems?
        3.4.3.8. What format is compatible with the intended user’s environment in
        accordance with accepted data standards?
        3.4.3.9. How will interfaces to government data systems and repositories be
        satisfied?
        3.4.3.10. What strategy will be used to acquire and maintain sufficient rights in
        software in order to maintain and upgrade the system throughout its life cycle? What
        documentation and development artifacts will be acquired?
        3.4.3.11. What criteria will we use to decide which technical data to procure?
     3.4.4. The Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) JA Data Rights Handbook, provides a
     seven-step checklist as guidance for drafting the acquisition strategy/plan with respect to
     the types of license rights the Air Force should acquire to successfully execute an
     acquisition program. Additionally, the IPT shall ensure that the data requirements
     detailed in the acquisition strategy/plan are presented at the ASP for approval.
  3.5. Risk Management.
     3.5.1. The IPT shall identify risks associated with data and license rights and document
     these risks in a Risk Management Plan. (The Risk Management Plan can be part of the
     System Engineering Plan.) Issues to consider include the following:
        3.5.1.1. What data is needed?
        3.5.1.2. What format is it needed in?
        3.5.1.3. What will be the consequence if we don’t get this data?
        3.5.1.4. What license rights do we need for the data?
        3.5.1.5. What will be the consequence if we don’t get these license rights?
        3.5.1.6. Can we afford this data?
        3.5.1.7. Can we include priced options to purchase the data later?
        3.5.1.8. What will be the consequences if defective data is accepted (including
        incorrect restrictive markings)?
        3.5.1.9. What will be the consequences to sustainment if the data isn’t provided in
        the needed format?
        3.5.1.10. If we accept data delivery via a contractor repository, how will we relocate
        and store data if we lose access to the repository (i.e. contract terminated)? (DFARS
        227.7108 addresses this issue.)
     3.5.2. As risks are identified, approaches to mitigate the risks shall also be identified.
     3.5.3. Risk management is addressed in detail in AFMC Pamphlet 63-101, Risk
     Management, AF Pamphlet 63-128, Guide to Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle
     Management; and the Risk Management Guide for Department of Defense (DoD)
     Acquisition.
10                                                           HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


  3.6. Detailed Requirements Development. Data and license rights requirements shall be
  established based on the intended use of the data with consideration given to the immediate
  planned and probable future use of the system, materiel, or service to which the data relates.
  Too much data may be costly and useless, while insufficient data can have a negative impact
  on future production, operations, maintenance, and logistics support of equipment. When
  feasible, an RFI should be used to solicit industry comments on data requirements to
  determine possible use of contractor-formatted data, to obtain their recommendations on data
  essentiality or alternate approaches to meeting data requirements, and to identify digital data
  access and delivery opportunities.
     3.6.1. License Rights. Any product data that is intended to be used by other than the
     OEM will require sufficient rights for Government or other use, so the PM shall ensure
     the applicable stakeholders conduct an assessment of required level of license rights for
     each set of product data. Attachment 3 provides Government definitions from DFARS
     for license rights needed throughout this process.
         3.6.1.1. When data is created under a Government contract, normally the contractor
         owns the data and the Government obtains a license right to use the data. This is true
         even when the Government funds 100% of the development cost and acquires
         Unlimited Rights. If the Government truly must own the data, specify a special
         contract term – not a special license – and mark the data to clearly show Government
         ownership.
         3.6.1.2. When dealing with noncommercial technical data that does not include
         computer software, OO-ALC can purchase four types of rights (i.e., Unlimited
         Rights, Government Purpose Rights, Limited Rights, Specifically Negotiated License
         Rights). OO-ALC also can purchase four types of rights in noncommercial computer
         software (i.e., Unlimited Rights, Government Purpose Rights, Restricted Rights, and
         Specifically Negotiated License Rights).
         3.6.1.3. When dealing with commercial technical data, OO-ALC will have the
         ―unrestricted‖ right to use, release, or disclose the data if it was previously provided
         without restrictions; is form/fit/function data; is a correction or change to data
         furnished to the contractor by the Government; or is necessary for operation,
         maintenance, installation, or training purposes (other than detailed manufacturing or
         process data). Outside of these situations, OO-ALC may not use, release, or disclose
         the data outside of the Government unless 1) such use, release, or disclosure is
         necessary for emergency repair/overhaul of the commercial items procured or 2) it
         obtains a license from the licensor to do so. Under DFARS, commercial computer
         software – including Open Source Software – is normally acquired under licenses
         customarily provided to the public unless those licenses are inconsistent with Federal
         procurement law or do not otherwise satisfy user needs. Such software shall be
         obtained competitively, to the maximum extent practicable, using firm-fixed-price
         contracts or firm-fixed price orders under available pricing schedules.
         3.6.1.4. As programs consider their needed license rights, future benefits must be
         balanced with costs. While OO-ALC cannot require relinquishment of license rights
         as a condition for competing for a contract, OO-ALC can make an award decision
         based on which contractor best meets the Government’s license rights needs, as stated
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                  11


        in the RFP. For every procurement, the program office shall consider the long term
        need for license rights and address any needs in the evaluation criteria of the RFP.
        Focus on requiring the contractor to propose at least the Government’s minimal needs
        for license rights. The RFP shall require the contractor to provide all license rights
        for which the Government is legally entitled. For full information regarding
        Government entitled rights, reference the AFMC JA Data Rights Handbook and its
        section on ―Formulating the Acquisition Strategy/Plan.‖ Attachment 3 also provides
        a more succinct discussion of license rights. All license rights decisions shall be
        justified in writing in the data portion of the acquisition plan.
        3.6.1.5. During solicitation, require contractors to list all contracts and licensing
        agreements they will enter into should they be awarded the contract. Additionally,
        require contractors to explain how they can meet the government’s license rights
        needs by requiring them to demonstrate in their proposals, in detail, how they will be
        fully capable of meeting the government’s data and license needs upon award; not
        some date afterward. State in the RFP that all data and license requirements,
        contracts, and license agreements listed shall be complete and in place by the time of
        award, as specified in the contract. During solicitation, require contractors to submit
        all intended Associate Contractor Agreements (ACAs) and licenses already signed
        with their proposals, allowing them to work with contractors listed in the ACAs the
        day the contract is awarded. The teams could include penalties in the solicitation and
        the awarded contract to be levied should the contractor default in its contract due to
        license agreements or any other reasons. Termination rights can be exercised if the
        contractor cannot perform. However, penalties and termination should be a last
        resort. It’s best to choose not to award to offerors who do not adequately demonstrate
        how they will meet the government’s data and license needs. The termination process
        brings delays, expenses, etc. It is more efficient to clearly state in the RFP that the
        government will choose to award to the offeror whose proposal best demonstrates its
        ability to meet the government’s data and license rights needs and requirements.
     3.6.2. Cost Estimate. The cost estimate of each requirement for technical data to be
     included in a contract solicitation shall be developed by the OO-ALC program office in
     conjunction with the acquisition cost division in FM. Additionally, an estimate can be
     obtained from potential contractors via an RFI. Cost estimates may be used in making
     initial decisions regarding the requirements for technical data and the level of license
     rights required. This process may begin as soon as the Program Objective Memorandum
     (POM), but it is required to begin no later than requirements definition and continues
     throughout the program. If RFI responses are solicited, one key to receiving accurate RFI
     response estimates is ensuring that prospective contractors and the Government have a
     mutual understanding of the technical data requirements, especially complex digital data
     products and services to be contractually provided. To achieve this goal, contracting
     officers, PMs, and technical data management personnel are encouraged to require
     contractors to separately price each requirement for technical data. Also, the contract
     shall list both the data and the respective license rights in the Contract Line Item Number
     (CLIN). DFARS 227.7103-1 and 227.7103-2(c)(2) require separate CLINs and separate
     pricing for each deliverable data item whenever practicable.
12                                                          HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


  3.7. Develop Requirements Documents. Several documents are needed while preparing a
  solicitation package. The various stakeholders shall identify the documents necessary for the
  data and license rights they require. While not all the documents listed below are necessary
  for every solicitation, their applicability shall be considered and the appropriate data
  requirements documented.
     3.7.1. Statement of Objectives (SOO).
     3.7.2. Performance Work Statement (PWS).
     3.7.3. Statement of Work (SOW).
     3.7.4. Technical Requirements Document (TRD).
     3.7.5. System Requirements Document (SRD).
     3.7.6. RFP: Ensure this document states that the award decision will be, in part, based
     upon how well the proposal meets the Government’s data and license rights needs.
     3.7.7. CDRLs.
     3.7.8. CLINs.
  3.8. Identify Appropriate Control Markings.
     3.8.1. As all stakeholders identify their required data and applicable license rights, they
     must also determine the needed control markings for the deliverable documents. The
     following control markings are to be considered, though not all will be used on any one
     document. Documents that explain these control markings are also listed:
         3.8.1.1. License Rights – DFARS, 227-7013-4 and AFMC JA Data Rights
         Handbook.
             3.8.1.1.1. Unlimited Rights.
             3.8.1.1.2. Government Purpose Rights.
             3.8.1.1.3. Limited Rights.
             3.8.1.1.4. Restricted Rights.
             3.8.1.1.5. Specifically Negotiated License Rights.
         3.8.1.2. Scientific and Technical Information (STINFO) – HILLAFBI 61-101,
         Scientific and Technical Information Instruction.
             3.8.1.2.1. Distribution Statement.
             3.8.1.2.2. Export Control Warning.
             3.8.1.2.3. Destruction Notice.
         3.8.1.3. Classified – AFI 31-401.
         3.8.1.4. For Official Use Only – DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program,
         January 1997, Appendix 3.
         3.8.1.5. Disclosure Notice (for foreign government distribution) – TO 00-5-3, AF
         Technical Order Life Cycle Management, 1 October 2010.
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                   13


     3.8.2. STINFO markings are consistently misunderstood at OO-ALC.                 Per
     HILLAFBI61-101, there are seven distributions statements identified and one is
     mandatory on all data containing STINFO. The controlling activity assigns the
     appropriate distribution statement based on the content of the data. C and D are for
     documents that can be shared with ANY US Government or DoD contractor. C and D
     cannot be used if the Government has anything less than unlimited rights.
  3.9. Summarize Findings and Prepare for Data Call.
     3.9.1. The PM shall coordinate with the DM to conduct a data call. The DM shall
     contact all stakeholders for the data call, sending a copy of the requirements document
     (i.e., PWS, SOW, etc.) and requiring all stakeholders to develop their list of data
     requirements, license rights requirements, and justification/tailoring documents. The
     justification/tailoring documents may be forms or letters, but are required to clearly
     justify the need for the data and license rights and to specify the portions of the
     referenced DIDs that are not required for this acquisition. A sample format for a
     justification/tailoring form is available in Attachment 6. DIDs can be located and
     researched via the Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System
     (ASSIST -- <assist.daps.dla.mil>), the DoD repository for DIDs, specifications, and
     standards. TM 86-01 can be located on the Wright Patterson Web site for TO acquisition
     tools (https://techdata.wpafb.af.mil).
     3.9.2. The drafts of the following documents, as applicable, shall be available prior to the
     data call and sent to all stakeholders for review:
         3.9.2.1. SOO/SOW/PWS.
         3.9.2.2. TMCR (AF TM 86-01 – for TO preparation only).
         3.9.2.3. Justification/tailoring documents.
         3.9.2.4. Concept of Operations (COO).
         3.9.2.5. SRD/TRD.
         3.9.2.6. Draft CDRL.
  3.10. Data Call. The DM shall work with the stakeholders to consolidate the list of agreed
  data requirements thus far, the license rights required for each data category, the DIDs
  referenced for each data category, and the need date for the required data. The DM shall
  ensure the stakeholder requesting the data has developed a justification/tailoring document
  that describes the data and appropriately tailors the referenced DID, as necessary. The DM
  shall use the justification/ tailoring documents to develop the CDRLs (DD Form 1423). The
  DM shall contact the PM and provide all CDRLs developed thus far. Applicable participants
  shall be ready to answer data and license questions that may arise. A suggested checklist of
  potential questions can be found in Attachment 4.
  3.11. Data Call Response.
     3.11.1. Applicable stakeholders respond to the data call by identifying essential, specific
     data requirements based on the intended use of the data. Data call participants shall refer
     to the applicable requirements documents that define contractual taskings in order to
14                                                          HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


     determine the deliverable requirements and preclude ordering data that is not supported
     by a valid requirement.
     3.11.2. The data call response can be as informal as communicating via email or as
     formal as a meeting to consolidate input and prioritize requirements. The requirements
     are consolidated and reviewed; flawed or unneeded requirements are identified and
     revised or rejected before contractual application. Care must be taken when initially
     establishing data requirements to accurately capture long-term data needs and avoid
     problem after award, such as additional research, review, rewrite, and justification.
     3.11.3. The DM shall consolidate and maintain records of data call results. On receipt of
     all inputs (including negative responses) resulting from the data call, the data
     requirements must be consolidated into one cohesive package. This is accomplished by
     the program’s DM. The consolidation of the data requirements shall be completed and
     the results identified on CDRLs. The DM shall provide the final, consolidated, and
     approved data package to the PM to move forward with the acquisition.
     3.11.4. For more information on data calls, reference DOD 5010.12-M (Section C2.2).
  3.12. Data Item Descriptions. DIDs are required for development of CDRLs; TOs are the
  exception and require TM-86-01 in place of the DID. Each CDRL shall reference only one
  DID that best describes the needed data. If portions of the DID are not required for this
  acquisition, tailoring down of the DID may be accomplished in Block 16 of the CDRL. (Per
  DOD 5010.12-M, para. C3.2.2., DID information can only be tailored down; a DID cannot
  be tailored to modify or add information.) ASSIST is the DoD system to identify applicable
  DIDs that describe needed data (<assist.daps.dla.mil>).
  3.13. CDRL Development.
     3.13.1. DOD 5010.12-M and DFARS require that all technical data delivered under a
     DoD contract must be provided via a DD Form 1423 (CDRL). The CDRL provides a
     contractual method to direct the contractor to prepare and deliver data that meets specific
     approval and acceptance criteria. With the exception of data specifically required by
     DFARS, all data-generating or record-keeping data requirements shall be listed on the
     DD Forms 1423. A sample DD Form 1423 is included in Attachment 5.
     3.13.2. Clarifications for common CDRL mistakes are addressed below:
         3.13.2.1. Block 2, ―Title of Data Item‖ and Block 4, ―Authority (Data Acquisition
         Document No)‖ list the single DID and its reference number that will be used for this
         CDRL. If the DID will be tailored, include ―/T‖ after the number in Block 4 (see
         tailoring instructions under Block 16). Ensure the cited DID is active by checking the
         ASSIST data base; only active DIDs are authorized for use. Per TO 00-5-3, if this
         CDRL is for TO development or update, it is exempted from the DID requirement
         and the Air Force Technical Manual Contract Requirements and TM-86-01,
         respectively shall be listed.
         3.13.2.2. Block 6 lists the technical office responsible for ensuring the adequacy of
         the data. The office symbol of the PM or the PM’s designated alternate shall be listed
         here.
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                    15


          3.13.2.3. Block 9 lists only the distribution code required for the data deliverable. If
          the deliverable contains STINFO, the deliverable requires a full distribution
          statement, export control warning, and destruction notice. These shall be written in
          Block 16 of the CDRL. HILLAFBI 61-101 provides complete directions for these
          STINFO markings. Distribution A (approved for public release) is never authorized
          on any document until it has obtained a STINFO public release approval and shall not
          be listed in Block 9 of the CDRL.
          3.13.2.4. Block 16, ―Remarks,‖ shall include the following:
              3.13.2.4.1. Tailoring requirements for the cited DID (as needed). (Per DOD
              5010-12-M, para. C3.2.2., DIDs shall only be tailored by deleting requirements.
              Any tailoring that increases the content, intent, scope, and deliverable of the data
              requirements of an approved data acquisition document is prohibited.)
              3.13.2.4.2. Appropriate STINFO markings.
              3.13.2.4.3. Acceptance and rejection criteria for the data deliverable.
          3.13.2.5. Block 18, ―Estimated Total Price,‖ lists only the price of the data
          deliverable. The price for the license rights to the data is not included.
          3.13.2.6. Block G, ―Prepared by,‖ shall be signed by the preparing authority. The
          following data types and respective signatories are:
              3.13.2.6.1. Drawing CDRLs are signed by the EDMO.
              3.13.2.6.2. Provisioning CDRLs are signed by OO-ALC’s provisioning office.
              3.13.2.6.3. All others should be signed by the DM.
          3.13.2.7. Block I, ―Approved by,‖ is signed by the person that can certify he/she has
          the authority, funding, and correct words in the SOW to develop/procure the required
          data and license rights. The signatory shall be the person with this authority and is
          usually the PM.
   3.14. Data Requirements Review Board (DRRB). A DRRB is required for any acquisition
   having an estimated total contract cost of $5,000,000 or more and may be conducted at
   lower-dollar thresholds if deemed appropriate. The membership of the DRRB shall be at a
   level of management having authority to approve or disapprove the data requirements and
   associated tasks for their respective functions. The board reviews all data requirements and
   associated tasks to ensure that only essential data items are acquired at the appropriate time.
   Per DOD 5010.12-M, the chair of the DRRB is determined by the individual organizations
   and established in an operating instruction. See DOD 5010.12-M, para. C2.6. for more
   information.
4. Solicitation and Contract Award Phase.
   4.1. The Contracting Officer is responsible for ensuring that the requested data deliverables
   are properly identified and incorporated in the solicitation and resulting contract award. This
   shall include mapping in RFPs to show how the solicitation, PWSs, CDRLs, and DIDs relate
   to each other. The mapping in the RFP and the final award shall also list what data will be
   delivered, what format it will be in, what license rights the Government will obtain, and
   which restrictive markings will be allowed on the data. The AFMC JA Data Rights
16                                                          HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


  Handbook identifies a step-by-step approach (see Step-by-Step Approach, Section B) on how
  to properly identify data deliverables from draft RFP to final RFP release.
  4.2. Data deliverables (DD Form 1423s) shall be identified as exhibits in solicitations and
  final contract awards. Follow the procedures at DFARS 204.7105 for use and line-item
  numbering of contract exhibits. Samples of both single contract line item exhibits and
  separate contract line items exhibits can be found in DOD 5010.12-M (C3.4).
  4.3. The requirements document shall require the contractor support a guidance conference
  after contract award. Additionally, the requirements document shall identify what each data
  CLIN covers (e.g., in an applicable situation, the requirements document might state that a
  specified data CLIN includes only the cost/price to compile and distribute information, in
  CDRL format, that was developed under the separately priced development CLIN).
  4.4. Grant of License. The rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or
  disclose data MUST be identified in the solicitation and resulting contract award when
  technical data, including computer software is being acquired. In accordance with DFARS
  there are only five types of non-commercial license rights; one of which needs to be
  identified in the resulting solicitation/contract award when purchasing technical data or
  computer software. Other restrictive legends are non-conforming and must be challenged
  and corrected prior to data acceptance.
     4.4.1. Unlimited Rights.
     4.4.2. Government Purpose Rights.
     4.4.3. Limited Rights (excludes computer software).
     4.4.4. Restricted Rights (computer software only).
     4.4.5. Specifically Negotiated License Rights.
  4.5. Grant of license is identified in a solicitation and/or contract via a contract clause.
  Clauses, descriptions and associated prescribing language are found at DFARS 227.71,
  Rights in Technical Data, and also within the AFMC JA Data Rights Handbook
  (Terminology, Section D).
  4.6. The source selection evaluation process shall include review of the data and license
  rights for deliverables. Suggested text to help ensure the Government’s license rights are
  protected include the following:
     4.6.1. RFP: Note that the source selection evaluation factors shall include the license
     rights offered.
     4.6.2. RFP: Insert the following text, ―Per DFARS 227-7103-1, separately and
     accurately price all data and license rights.‖
     4.6.3. Source Selection Document: Note that one of the reasons this contractor was
     selected was because it met the Government’s needed data license rights.
     4.6.4. Contract: Note that per DFARS, clause 252.227-7017, the contractor must
     identify, to the extent known at the time an offer is submitted to the Government, all data
     to which the Government acquires less than unlimited rights.
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                    17


     4.6.5. Contract: Note that the agreed license rights are key to this contract and any
     change will have a significant impact to the Government.
     4.6.6. Contract: Note that the appropriate Government license rights shall be marked on
     the first page of all data deliverables, including data with Unlimited Rights.
  4.7. Reference the AFMC JA Data Rights Handbook, (Sections L&M Template, Evaluation
  Factors for Award) for additional information.
  4.8. CLIN. Criteria in DFARS 204.7103-1 shall be followed when establishing CLINs for
  technical data. In addition, CDRLs must identify the data to be delivered, the delivery
  date/schedule, license rights, and the format in which the data is to be submitted; the CDRL
  number also shall be referenced/identified in the contract CLIN. To the maximum extent
  possible, the CLINs shall be structured to ensure that offerors’ data is separately priced. Data
  that is to be funded at a later date (deferred ordering) must be identified as an option CLIN
  within the solicitation/contract. DOD 5010.12-M, C3.4.5. requires that if the Government
  needs technical data pertaining to items developed at private expense to establish alternative
  sources it may, under certain circumstances, negotiate to acquire greater rights in data.
  However, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2320(a)(2)(F), a contractor may not be required, as a
  condition for being responsive to a solicitation or as a condition for the award of a contract,
  to sell or otherwise relinquish data rights.
  4.9. Source Selection Process. The source selection process is OO-ALC’s opportunity to
  include data as an evaluation factor. During the process, the team is able to evaluate
  contractor responses to needed data and license rights. Evaluation criteria shall be identified
  in the RFP and structured to ensure that OO-ALC will either receive these data and license
  rights during the course of the contract or, as a minimum, have the option to procure them at
  a later time (i.e., as a priced option). General guidance can be found in the AFMC JA Data
  Rights Handbook.
  4.10. Proposal Evaluation.
     4.10.1. The Source Selection Evaluation Board (SSEB) shall evaluate competitive
     proposals and determine if the contractor proposals satisfy the program’s requirements
     regarding type, form, and usability of data, as well as the license rights. The AFMC JA
     Data Rights Handbook provides guidance on how to evaluate data. If this is a sole source
     contract, the PCO, in conjunction with the PM and Legal Office, shall evaluate the
     content of the proposal to ensure data and license rights are appropriate to the fullest
     extent possible.
     4.10.2. The criteria in Section M and any other sections of RFP shall be followed by the
     SSEB while evaluating proposals. The SSEB shall verify during the evaluation and
     discussion process that the contractor has offered at least government purpose rights, and
     any other program specific rights described in Section M and any other sections of the
     RFP. This is accomplished by evaluating the contractor’s responses to data and license
     rights requests in Sections B, I, J, K, L, and M of the RFP.
     4.10.3. During source selection, the SSEB shall carefully review all commercial
     technical data and computer software licenses provided to ensure any restrictions
     contained in those licenses are compatible with OO-ALC’s needs and are consistent with
     Federal procurement law, including the commercial items clause of DFARS 252.227-
 18                                                           HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


       7015. Some commercial software licenses expressly state that the software is not
       designed or intended for use in weapons systems, for aircraft navigation purposes, or
       safety-of-life applications. Such a disclaimer could be a warning to the program that the
       developer has little faith in the stability and integrity of that software.
   4.11. Contractor Notification. DFARS clause 252.227-7013 states that a contractor may
   assert additional restrictions on the Government’s license rights to delivered data after
   contract award when new information arises or inadvertent omissions are noticed, unless the
   new assertions would have materially affected the source selection decision. Because of this,
   when license rights were a key issue in the source selection process, the source selection
   document shall note that one of the reasons this contractor was selected was because it met
   the Government’s needed license rights. In other words, the Government relied upon the
   level of license rights offered in the proposal as a ―material factor‖ when selecting the
   awardee.
5. Post-Award Phase. Once the contract is awarded, data deliverables shall be reviewed by the
applicable acceptance authority for accuracy and completeness in accordance with the contract
and established acceptance criteria.
   5.1. Current Contract Issues with Data Rights. This instruction primarily focuses on
   properly acquiring data rights at the beginning of an acquisition. For data issues with current
   contracts previously awarded at Product Centers or contracts previously awarded in earlier
   sustainment efforts at Logistics Centers, the following courses of action can be taken:
       5.1.1. Work with the PCO to ensure all options in the current contract have been
       pursued.
          5.1.1.1. Is there a deferred ordering clause in the contract?
          5.1.1.2. Is there an option in the contract to purchase additional data?
          5.1.1.3. Would a data rights challenge be appropriate?
       5.1.2. If necessary, consult with legal counsel.
       5.1.3. If options in the current contract are available but cannot be resolved with the
       contractor, present the issue to senior leadership for consideration of action to take.
   5.2. Guidance Conference (Post-Award Conference). The PCO/ACO shall arrange a
   guidance conference be held before the contractor begins developing data, i.e., usually within
   45-90 days after contract award. This time period will allow time for the contractor to
   identify the personnel that will be responsible for preparing and submitting the data. The
   guidance conference is a joint Government-contractor review of the contractual
   requirements, including data and license rights, to ensure that the contractor understands his
   contractual obligations, and to review the contractor's approach to satisfying those
   obligations. These topics will enable both parties to understand OO-ALC's intended use of
   the data being procured. The conference is an opportunity to resolve differences of
   interpretation and provide alignment of the contractor's current TDP preparation systems
   with OO-ALC’s TDP requirements. Finally, the conference allows the program the
   opportunity to ensure that the contractor understands that all technical data delivered to the
   Government for acceptance shall be accurate, clear, complete, current, and shall meet the
   requirements of the contract. Further, all topics discussed during the conference shall be
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                   19


  documented in minutes and any areas not resolved or that require changes to the contract
  shall be brought to the attention of the PM and the PCO (with only the PCO having the
  authority to make contract changes). Additional guidance conferences may be required that
  focus on specific categories of data deliverables. In this situation, the applicable Government
  stakeholders shall chair additional conferences (i.e., the TOMA would chair a TO Guidance
  Conference within 60 days after contract award). The minimum data topics for the
  conference are as follows:
     5.2.1. The CDRL requirements. The applicable DIDs, specifications, and standards, and
     applicable tailoring.
     5.2.2. Data review requirements and schedules.
     5.2.3. Data delivery requirements and schedules.
     5.2.4. The contractor’s drafting practices and data formats.
     5.2.5. The contractor's numbering system for its drawings, part numbers, and engineering
     documentation.
     5.2.6. The contractor's QA procedures on data, including quality control of subcontractor
     and vendor data.
     5.2.7. OO-ALC-required license rights marking procedures and policies.
     5.2.8. The role of subcontractors or vendors who will deliver data under the contract.
     5.2.9. The contractor's configuration management system, including methods for
     releasing data, approving data, and incorporating changes into the data.
     5.2.10. Identification of contract end items and associated data trees.
     5.2.11. The contractor's organization for developing, releasing, and controlling data. For
     data in digital form, include data update and transfer methodologies and identification of
     data exchange protocols used by the contractor.
     5.2.12. Review samples of data, if available.
     5.2.13. TO delivery requirements per TO 00-5-3.
  5.3. Inspecting and Accepting Data.
     5.3.1. Guidelines for inspecting and accepting deliverable data items are provided in
     FAR, Subparts 42.3., 46.4., and 46.5., and DFARS, Subpart 246. OO-ALC inspection
     and acceptance criteria of data deliverables are identified on the CDRLs.
     5.3.2. Use IPRs and final reviews of data, when necessary, to establish the Government’s
     ability to use the data as intended. IPRs and audits shall employ a structured and
     disciplined approach of monitoring contractor data preparation to ensure that the data is
     evolving satisfactorily and that no unnecessary restrictions are being placed on its
     ultimate use.
     5.3.3. The first organization listed in Block 6, ―Requiring Office,‖ of the CDRL is
     responsible for ensuring that the data ordered under an OO-ALC contract is received and
     reviewed for accuracy and completeness. All program stakeholders shall support this
     review as needed. The recipient shall ensure the cover page of the CDRL deliverable
20                                                           HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


     contains the restrictive legends required by the CDRL. Additionally, the recipient shall
     ensure data is delivered with limited/restricted rights only if such limitations/restrictions
     are consistent with what is contractually required. CDRLs are included in Section J of
     the contract. The PCO is responsible to ensure the PM knows of any on-going challenges
     to asserted license rights.
     5.3.4. The program shall use procedures for technical validation, inspection, and
     acceptance of this data as identified in the Acquisition Strategy. The PM or the PM’s
     designee is responsible to accept data. In the event that data is found to be unacceptable,
     notify the PCO immediately, so the PCO can take appropriate action. Specific
     requirements are discussed below.
         5.3.4.1. Technical Manuals (TMs). The TO manager shall verify TM data deliveries
         are inspected and accepted on several levels: 1) physical media, 2) data exchange
         formats, and 3) data content and format. TOs delivered pursuant to the contract must
         meet the requirements listed on the DID TMCR. The quality and acceptability of
         proposed commercial manuals shall be evaluated according MIL-PRF-32216 and
         chapter 9 of TO 00-5-3 through participation in the IPT. MIL-PRF-32216 is not
         meant for development of manuals and must not be used to order preparation of TOs
         for Air Force use.
         5.3.4.2. Technical Data Packages (TDPs). The DoD currently requires that TDPs
         conform to the requirements of MIL-STD-31000. Additionally, inspection and
         acceptance of the TDP elements shall be subjected to reviews in accordance with Part
         9, Section B, of DoD Instruction 5000.02. Basic procedures for inspecting and
         accepting TDPs are provided in the ―Procedures for Inspecting and Accepting Data
         Packages‖ section of DOD 5010.12-M.
         5.3.4.3. Drawings. The DoD requires drawings comply with MIL-STD-31000 and
         ASME Y14.100.
         5.3.4.4. Computer Software. Verify the control markings on the software source
         code include appropriate STINFO markings and license rights markings. Validate the
         executable code meets all requirements identified in the Software Requirement
         Document.
  5.4. Storing and Maintaining Data. OO-ALC spends a great deal of resources ordering,
  acquiring, and accessing data. The data shall be managed to allow for access, retention,
  integration, sharing, transferring, and conversion throughout the data and product life cycle.
  Since the Government often needs its data for several decades, it is important the data be kept
  in a format and data system that is readily accessible and usable. Issues to be considered and
  addressed with long-term data retention include, but are not limited to data formats,
  applications, data systems, metadata, and updates. Decisions in these areas are driven by
  mission requirements; anticipated product life cycle, acquisition and logistics support
  strategies, sources of supply, and cost. ISO 10303, Standard for Exchange of Product Model
  Data, defines a neutral format that allows product data to be shared among heterogeneous
  systems.
     5.4.1. Data shall be stored and identified such that authorized data users can readily
     search for, locate, and access the data when needed. To this end, all program offices shall
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                21


     develop a data storage and maintenance plan (can be part of the acquisition plan). As a
     minimum, the plan shall include the following:
        5.4.1.1. Designated data repository for each data set.
        5.4.1.2. Risk Management Plan. If a contractor repository is being used, the risk
        management plan shall address what will happen if we lose access to the contractor
        repository (where the data will be stored and how it will be moved).
        5.4.1.3. Metadata needed to readily access available information.
        5.4.1.4. Software needed to view, revise, and print images or refresh the data over
        time.
        5.4.1.5. Funding required to maintain the data.
     5.4.2. Uniformity is encouraged and the following data repositories are suggested for the
     below types of data:
        5.4.2.1. TMs, including TOs: Enhanced Technical Information Management System
        (ETIMS).
        5.4.2.2. Drawings: Joint Engineering Data Management Information Control System
        (JEDMICS).
        5.4.2.3. Software:   Automated Computer Program Identification Number System
        (ACPINS).
        5.4.2.4. Other weapon system data: Any Hill-controlled lifecycle database, such as
        Weapon System Management Toolset (WSMT).
     5.4.3. Contractor data repositories can be convenient and cost effective. However, they
     provide their own risks with regard to accessing data. DFARS 227.7108, discusses
     contractor data repositories and regulations for establishing them.




                                          ANDREW E. BUSCH, Major General, USAF
                                          Commander, Ogden Air Logistics Center
 22                                                        HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Federal Acquisition Register, 24 January 2008
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, 30 Janaury 2012
DOD 5010.12-M, Procedures for the Acquisition and Management of Technical Data, May 1993
DODI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, January 1997
MIL-STD-31000, Technical Data Packages, 5 November 2009
MIL-PRF-32216, Evaluation of Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) Manuals and Preparation of
Supplemental Data, 17 October 2006
TO 00-5-3, AF Technical Order Life Cycle Management, 1 October 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Materiel Command JA Data Rights Handbook, May 2010
HILLAFBI 61-101, Scientific and Technical Information (STINFO) Instruction, 20 October 2009
SL150-AA-PRO-010/DMP, NAVSEA Data Management Program Operations and Procedures
Manual for Contractor Prepared Data, 1 June 2009
Acquiring and Enforcing the Government’s Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software
Under Department of Defense Contracts: A Practical Handbook for Acquisition Professionals,
Third Edition, January 2011
Adopted Forms
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 1423, Contract Data Requirements List, August 1996
DD Form 1423-1, Contract Data Requirements List (1 Data Item), February 2001
DD Form 1423-2, Contract Data Requirements List (2 Data Items), August 1996
AFTO FORM 585, Contract Data Requirements Substantiation, 6 March 2007

Abbreviation and Acronyms
ACE—Acquisition Center of Excellence
ACPINS—Automated Computer Program Identification Number System
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                              23


ASP—Acquisition Strategy Panel
ASSIST—Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System
CAGE—Commercial and Government Entity
CDRL—Contract Data Requirements List
CICA—Competition in Contracting Act
CLIN—Contract Line Item Number
CLS—Contractor Logistics Support
CM—Configuration Manager
COO—Concept of Operations
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
DFARS—Data Federal Acquisition Regulations Systems
DID—Data Item Description
DM—Data Manager
DoD—Department of Defense
DRRB—Data Requirements Review Board
EDMO—Engineering Data Management Officer
EO—Engineering Order
ES—Equipment Specialist
ETIMS—Enhanced Technical Information Management System
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FEDBIZOPS—Federal Business Opportunities
FM—Financial Management
IDE—Integrated Data Environment
IPR—In-Process Reviews
IPT—Integrated Product Team
JEDMICS—Joint Engineering Data Management Information Control System
LPTA—Lowest Price Technically Acceptable
OEM—Original Equipment Manufacturer
OMIT—Operation, Maintenance, Installation and Training
OO—ALC — Ogden Air Logistics Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCO—Procuring Contracting Officer
 24                                           HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


PDAQ—Product Data Acquisition
PM—Program Manager
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPT—Performance Price Tradeoff
PR—Purchase Request
PTO—Preliminary Technical Orders
PWS—Performance Work Statement
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RFI—Request for Information
RFP—Request for Proposal
SOO—Statement of Objectives
SOW—Statement of Work
SRD—System Requirements Document
SSEB—Source Selection Evaluation Board
SSS—Source Sought Synopsis
ST—Screening Technician
STINFO—Scientific and Technical Information
TDP—Technical Data Package
TM—Technical Manual
TMCR—Technical Manual Contract Requirement
TO—Technical Order
TOMA—Technical Order Management Activity
WSMT—Weapon System Management Toolset
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                          25


                                  Attachment 2
                 DATA MANAGEMENT STRATEGY TEMPLATE

Figure A2.1. Data Management Strategy Template
26   HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012   27
28   HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012   29
 30                                                             HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


                                          Attachment 3
                                       LICENSE RIGHTS

A3.1. The categories of license rights: are fully explained in DFARS, Subpart 227.71 and a
condensed explanation is below.
A3.2. Unlimited Rights: With respect to noncommercial technical data and computer software,
the right to use, modify, reproduce, perform, display, release, or disclose within and outside the
Government without restrictions and to authorize others to do so.
A3.3. Government Purpose Rights: With respect to noncommercial technical data and
computer software the right to use, release, and disclose within the Government without
restriction and the right to release or disclose outside the Government for U.S. Government
purposes. (―Government purpose‖ includes any activity in which the U.S. Government is a
party, including competitive procurements and foreign military sales and transfers but excluding
use, release, or disclosure for commercial purposes.) After five years (or some other period
negotiated by the parties), the Government’s rights in such noncommercial technical data or
computer software are automatically upgraded to Unlimited Rights.
A3.4. Limited Rights: With respect to noncommercial technical data (i.e., software excluded)
developed exclusively at private expense, the right to use, release and disclose within the
Government without restriction and the right to release outside the Government only if
   A3.4.1. The recipient requires such data to perform emergency repair and overhaul, or the
   release or disclosure (other than detailed manufacturing or process data) will be to a foreign
   government that is in the interest of the U.S. Government to release and is required for
   evaluational or informational purposes;
   A3.4.2. The recipient’s contract contains DFARS clause 252.227-7025, and
   A3.4.3. The Government notifies the owner of that technical data prior to such reproduction,
   release, disclosure or use; and
   A3.4.4. The recipient has signed the Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement found at DFARS
   227.7103-7(c).
Note: If such Limited Rights technical data is provided to a recipient for purposes of emergency
repair or overhaul, the recipient shall be required to destroy that technical data and all copies in
its possession promptly following completion of the emergency repair/overhaul and to notify the
owner of that technical data of that destruction.
A3.5. Restricted Rights: With respect to noncommercial computer software developed
exclusively at private expense, the right to use, copy (solely as a backup) and modify the
computer software (generally limited to one computer and not placed upon a shared network)
within the Government (with prior notification to the contractor if that software is transferred to
another government agency) and the right to disclose that software outside the Government as
long as
   A3.5.1. The recipient is a contractor/subcontractor performing a services contract to use that
   computer software to diagnose and correct deficiencies in a computer program, to modify
   computer software to enable a computer program to be combined with, adapted to, or merged
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                                                     31


   with other computer programs or when necessary to respond to urgent tactical situations; the
   recipient's contract contains DFARS 252.227-7025 or the recipient has signed the Use and
   Non-Disclosure Agreement found at DFARS 227.7103-7(c); the Government notifies the
   owner/licensor that a release or disclosure to the recipient was made; the Government
   prohibits the recipient from decompiling, disassembling, or reverse-engineering the software
   or using software decompiled, disassembled, or reverse-engineered by the Government; and
   the recipient uses the computer program with one computer at one time, or
   A3.5.2. The recipient is a contractor/subcontractor performing emergency repairs or
   overhaul of items or components procured under this or a related contract to use the software
   to perform the repairs or overhaul made or to modify that software to reflect the repairs or
   overhaul made; the recipient is subject to the Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement found at
   DFARS 227.7103-7(c) or is a Government contractor whose contract contains DFARS
   252.227-7025; and the Government prohibits the recipient from decompiling, disassembling
   or reverse-engineering the software or using software decompiled, disassembled, or reverse-
   engineered by the Government.
A3.6. Specifically Negotiated License Rights: Parties can modify the standard license rights
granted to the Government or obtain rights under circumstances where the Government would
ordinarily not be entitled to specific rights. Noncommercial technical data or computer software
marked with Specifically Negotiated License Rights cannot be released outside the Government
unless
   A3.6.1. The conditions specified in that license – which should be incorporated by reference
   into the contract and physically attached to the contract referenced in that restrictive marking
   – have been satisfied,
   A3.6.2. The recipient’s contract contains DFARS 252.227-7025, and
   A3.6.3. The recipient has signed the Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement found at DFARS
   227.7103-7(c) as modified by DFARS 252.227-7025(b)(3).
 32                                                            HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


                                          Attachment 4
                        CONSIDERATIONS FOR TYPES OF DATA

A4.1. This Attachment provides a starting point for defining the needed product data in an
acquisition. The intent is to provide high level guidance (20% of the detail) that may satisfy
80% of the acquisitions. This Attachment will not replace detailed considerations, but will get
users starting down the right path.
A4.2. The AF needs product data at an affordable price, with sufficient rights, and in the correct
format. This data is needed to provide emergency and competitive support, maintain core
logistics capability, maintain 50/50 support, purchase spares competitively, and to enable
competitive upgrades. A starting point for most weapon systems is to acquire the following:
   A4.2.1. Product definition data (drawings, models, and associated lists) as defined in DI-
   SESS-81000D, ―Product Drawings/Models and Associated Lists"
   A4.2.2. Technical Orders (TOs) as defined in TO 00-5-3, ―AF Technical Order Life Cycle
   Management" to meet the Operation, Maintenance, Installation and Training (OMIT)
   requirements
   A4.2.3. Software per SMCI 63-104, ―Software Acquisition Instruction"
A4.3. In addition to the above data which is usually required, users should consult the decision
tree to confirm that this data is required and to see if additional data is required. Key questions
include the following:
   A4.3.1. Has the system been developed with Government funds?
   A4.3.2. Is organic or competitive sustainment planned?
   A4.3.3. Are spare parts required?
   A4.3.4. Are future upgrades a consideration?
   A4.3.5. Are form, fit, and function data needed?
   A4.3.6. Is OMIT data needed?
A4.4. The Data Call will ensure stakeholders have the opportunity to identify additional data
required based on the unique characteristics of the specific weapon system. Factors which could
impact data requirements include the following:
   A4.4.1. The type of contract (e.g., research, development, support)
   A4.4.2. The phase of the acquisition (e.g., engineering and manufacturing development,
   operations and support)
   A4.4.3. Unique tooling or support equipment
   A4.4.4. Unique test requirements
   A4.4.5. Support strategy (e.g., organic, CLS for life from OEM)
A4.5. Once data requirements are captured, the PM must ensure that the data management
strategy and the request for proposal are structured to satisfy these requirements.
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                                             33


                                   Attachment 5
     EXAMPLE DD FORM 1423 -1, CONTRACT DATA REQUIREMENTS LIST

Figure A5.1. Example DD Form 1423 -1, Contract Data Requirements List
 34                                                 HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012


                                  Attachment 6
      AFTO FORM 585, CONTRACT DATA REQUIREMENTS SUBSTANTIATION

Figure A6.1. AFTO FORM 585, Contract Data Requirements Substantiation
HILLAFBI63-103 7 March 2012                         35


                                 Attachment 7
                       KEY FAR/DFARS DATA CLAUSES

Figure A7.1. Key FAR/DFARS Data Clauses
