BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                            24-302

                                                                          24 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                  Transportation

                                                                    HILL AFB VEHICLE
                                                            MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 75 LRS/LGRV                                                        Certified by: 75 LRS/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Terry J. Bowles)
Supersedes: HILLAFBI23-302, 4 Aug 2010                                                   Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation
Vehicles. The purpose of this instruction is to focus commander’s attention on vehicle accidents
and abuse to reduce unnecessary expenditure of limited monetary resources. The ultimate goal
of this program is to reduce vehicle accidents and abuses at Hill Air Force Base. The key to
successfully reduce the number of accidents and abuses is to make commanders and supervisors
aware of the high costs associated with accident and abuse repairs. When payments are made by
the 75th Logistics Readiness Squadron (75 LRS), these costs are hidden from the using
commander. To ensure that the using commander has visibility of costs associated with
accidents and abuses, this supplement requires that the using organization become directly
involved in the payment process. This publication applies to all Hill AFB organizations and
tenant organizations that operate and use Air Force owned and leased vehicles. It does not apply
to the Air National Guard. Use AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations; AFI 24-302, Vehicle
Management; and AFMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver in concert with this
instruction. This instruction is not to be used as a stand-alone document. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive
wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”)
number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
 2                                                   HILLAFBI24-302 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).

1. Procedures.
     1.1. Vehicles damaged by accident, abuse, neglect or any other cause shall be turned in to
     the Vehicle Management Customer Service Center (CSC) section as soon as damage is
     discovered. If a vehicle is signed out for use from the 75th Logistics Readiness
     Squadron/Vehicle Operations section (75 LRS/LGRDD) and damaged while being used, the
     vehicle’s damage must be reported to 75 LRS/LGRDD immediately. If the vehicle is not
     operable, the unit Vehicle Control Officer/Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
     (VCO/VCNCO) will contact the 75th Logistics Readiness Squadron/Vehicle Management
     Flight (75 LRS/LGRV) and request wrecker service support. NOTE: Organizations with
     leased General Services Administration (GSA) vehicles will initiate abuse or accident repair
     actions by calling the GSA per the lease agreement. The 75 LRS/LGRDD must be notified
     within 24-hours when a GSA vehicle is involved in an accident. The GSA will make the
     determination whether repairs are required and where the vehicle should be taken for repair
     work.
     1.2. Once the damaged vehicle or suspected abuse (see Table 1.1) is turned in to vehicle
     management, CSC will notify the Vehicle Management (VM) Flight Chief or the Vehicle
     Fleet Manager (VFM). The VM Flight Chief or VFM will inspect the vehicle and make the
     determination whether to proceed with accident or abuse action. At this time, CSC will take
     pictures of the damage and process a vehicle damage estimate identifying the estimated
     repair costs. The CSC will then notify the unit’s VCO/VCNCO. A courtesy copy of the
     estimated work order and photographs will be forwarded to the 75th Logistics Readiness
     Squadron Commander (75 LRS/CC), Ground Safety (75 ABW/SEG) and if necessary, the
     Staff Judge Advocate Directorate (75 ABW/JA), and Financial Management Comptroller
     Squadron (75 ABW/CPTS). The VCO/VCNCO and VM Flight Chief or VFM will
     determine how payment for the damage will be handled. The easiest form of payment is the
     using unit’s Government Purchase Card (GPC). If the cost of the repair exceeds the GPC
     one-time limit, then a funds transfer is warranted and can be accomplished in one of the
     following ways:
HILLAFBI24-302 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                3



Table 1. Vehicle/Equipment Abuse
Examples of vehicle/equipment abuse:
Tampering with governors or distributors.
Operating vehicle/equipment with insufficient oils or coolants because of failure to check
levels according to established requirements or failure to monitor dash instrumentation.
Operating a vehicle with applied/dragging parking brakes.
Improper distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo areas of vehicle/equipment
or not following established loading/unloading procedures.
Using a vehicle/equipment for other than the intended or designed purpose (e.g., 6K F/L
used to transport a 10,000-pound pallet, bobtail tow-tractor used to transport passengers).
Failure to clean/maintain a vehicle’s interior/exterior to meet corrosion control and
appearance requirements.
Unauthorized wiring, marking, modification, or adding special equipment in or on
vehicle/equipment.
Vehicle/equipment being operated by an unqualified/untrained operator.
Tire wear beyond re-capable limits (e.g., cord exposed).
Intentional destruction/disfigurement of vehicle/equipment interior/exterior.
Allowing a vehicle to idle longer than 5 minutes while at rest. Exceptions include
emergency and law enforcement vehicles, military tactical vehicles and snow removal
vehicles and equipment. Also specific emergencies, military training requirements or
disaster relief/humanitarian operations, or winter storm response activities/snow removal
will be exempt.
Damage resulting from improperly installed or broken tire chains.
Failure to clean interior and exterior of vehicle/equipment to meet appearance standards.
Corrosion or oxidation caused by insufficient waxing or operator care.
Servicing the vehicle/equipment with improper fuel, oil, or fluids.
Operating a vehicle/equipment with improperly inflated tires.
Failure to turn in vehicle for scheduled maintenance before an overdue condition exists.
Pre-approved rescheduling due to mission is exempt.
Damage resulting from the operator or passenger failing to securely hold doors while
opening or closing them in windy conditions.
Failing to come to a complete stop before changing direction or placing the
vehicle/equipment transmission gear selector in park.
Failure to report malfunctions, defects in, or damage to a vehicle to Vehicle Maintenance
within 24 hours of discovery. A pre-approved delay of this action to satisfy immediate
mission needs can be authorized.
   1.2.1. Outside Department of Defense (DoD) Agencies. DD Form 448, Military
   Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) is used as a source document for funding
   between the paying unit and 75 LRS. The agency will create a MIPR and the 75 LRS will
   bill against the MIPR. The agency providing the service is required to do an acceptance of
4                                                    HILLAFBI24-302 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


    the MIPR indicating that they can in fact provide that service to the requesting agency. The
    funds are transferred at the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) level.
       1.2.2. Air Force Organizations Outside Operating Budget Account Number (OBAN)
       47U3 75 Air Base Wing (75 ABW). In this case an AF Form 406, Miscellaneous
       Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD), is used as the source document. The
       owing organization prepares a MORD that is used to draw funds from their funding line
       and into      75 LRS funding for a particular item or service. The funds are transferred
       at the DFAS level.
       1.2.3. Organizations within OBAN 47U3 75 ABW: Funds transfers that take place
       within the 75 ABW are usually accomplished by preparing a less formal computer
       generated load sheet document. This document identifies where funds are moved from
       and where funds are being transferred to between different cost centers. This is usually
       attached to an email correspondence identifying the reason for the funds transfer. The
       funds are transferred by the 75 CPTS.
    1.3. Prior to repairs, the unit commander/director or the VCO/VCNCO will be required to
    release the vehicle for repairs. GSA vehicles will be released for repairs by authority of GSA
    only. Regardless of unit release, repairs action will commence within 5 workdays unless
    other arrangements were previously made between unit and VM Flight Chief or VFM. After
    repairs have been completed, the vehicle will be held until payment has been made by the
    responsible unit. Commanders should review procedures in AFMAN 23-220/Hill AFB
    Supplement 1, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property to determine if a report of survey is
    appropriate.
    1.4. Vehicle accidents involving privately owned vehicles will be processed using the
    following guidelines:
       1.4.1. Due to potential liability issues that may arise between the government and a
       person’s private insurance company, 75 ABW/JA must be notified immediately by 75
       LRS/LGRV when government vehicles are involved in an accident with privately owned
       or contractor owned vehicles, on or off Hill Air Force Base. Government vehicles will
       not be released for repairs at commercial shops until released by 75 ABW/JA.
       1.4.2. If the driver of a privately owned vehicle or contractor owned vehicle is deemed
       liable for the accident, that driver’s insurance company should provide a repair estimate,
       or a repair estimate may be provided by a commercial repair shop recommended by the
       driver’s insurance company. Contact 75 ABW/JA for guidance if the driver does not
       have insurance, or if the driver’s insurance company refuses to accept liability or to
       otherwise cooperate in making repairs. The 75 LRS/LGRV will inspect all commercial
       repair work accomplished on government-owned vehicles and 75 LRS/LRGDD will
       inspect all GSA vehicles to verify that the repairs satisfactorily meet USAF standards.
       1.4.3. Repair costs associated with the accident will be billed directly to the person’s
       private insurance company by the repair shop. Contact 75 ABW/JA for further guidance
       when the private insurance company refuses to pay the commercial repair shop directly,
       or otherwise refuses to cooperate.
    1.5. Due to the extended downtime for vehicles undergoing extensive repair for accidents
    and abuses, vehicle operations may provide a back-up vehicle only under specific situations,
HILLAFBI24-302 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               5


   such as a unit falls below their vehicle minimum mission-essential level. This support is
   limited to 30 days unless approved by the 75 LRS/CC.
2. Exceptions to Reimbursements. Funds will not be transferred for vehicle damage repair
resulting from an incident or accidents in which the operator was not a contributing factor.
However, the unit or unit’s operator responsible for an incident or an accident will be held
responsible and unit funds will need to be transferred for repair costs.
3. Summary. Assessing repair costs directly to using organizations squadron commanders will
foster an effective operator-training program, encourage operator care, prevent needless repairs,
and ultimately save Hill Air Force Base funds.




                                            RONALD E. JOLLY, SR,, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                                HILLAFBI24-302 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 23-220/Hill Supplement 1, Management of Government Property Reports of Survey of
Air Force Property, date 28 July 2003
AFPD 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation Vehicles, date 7 July 2010
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, date 26 June 2012
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, date 1 Nov 2008
AFMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver, date 1 July 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, date 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD), date 1 July 1984
DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request, date June 1972
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, date 22 Sept 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
75 ABW—Air Base Wing
75 LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
75 LRS/CC—Logistics Readiness Squadron/Commander
75 LRS/LGRV—Vehicle Management Flight
75 LRS/LGRDD—Vehicle Operations Section
75 CPTS—Comptroller Squadron
75 SEG—Ground Safety
CSC—Customer Service Center
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DoD—Department of Defense
GSA—General Services Administration
GPC—Government Purchase Card
OO—ALC/FM – Comptroller Directorate
OO—ALC/JA – Staff Judge Advocate
OBAN—Organizations Outside Operating Budget Account Number
HILLAFBI24-302 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               7


VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Officer/Noncommissioned Officer
VM—Vehicle Management
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
USAF—United States Air

Terms
Vehicle Accident— Any situation where a GOV/E (vehicle/equipment) strikes or is struck by
another GOV/E, non-GOV/E, and/or object, structure, or animal where the action by any
participative vehicle operator could have prevented the outcome.
Vehicle Incident— Any situation where a GOV/E sustains damage where the actions of any
participative vehicle operator could not have prevented the outcome. Typical examples of
vehicle incidents include damage to earth-moving equipment striking hidden objects and damage
resulting from acts of nature, such as hail storms, lightning, wind-blown objects, and vandalism.
