BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 91-302
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                                         22 MAY 2001
                                                                      ertified Current,
                                                                                                    Safety

                                                               CONTROL OF HAZARDOUS ENERGY
                                                                           (LOCKOUT/TAGOUT)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: OO-ALC/SEG (Ron James)                                    Certified by: OO-ALC/SEG (Ron James)
Supersedes HillAFBI 91-301, 15 May 1996                                                    Pages: 11
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health and AFOSH 91-45, Hazard
Energy Control and Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags. The criteria in this instruction are based on the
Air Force's minimum safety requirements for the safe control of hazardous energy. It contains require-
ments for practices; procedures and training that provide protection for Air Force employees. This
instruction is consistent with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standard 29 CFR
1910.147. It applies to all Hill AFB organizations and tenants that use, service or maintain machines or
equipment. Terms are referenced in Attachment 1. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of
prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. OO-ALC Form 215, Control of
Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout), has been substantially changed and must be completely
reviewed; the form is changed to OO-ALC Form 215, Control of Hazardous Energy Procedure (Lock-
out/Tagout); and prescribes OO-ALC Form 530, Equipment Survey for Lockout/Tagout. Throughout
the publication machines and equipment will be referred to as machines.


1. General.
   1.1. This instruction establishes the minimum requirements for the lockout of energy isolating
   devices whenever maintenance or servicing is done on machines. It shall be used to ensure the
   machine is stopped, isolated from all potentially hazardous energy sources and locked out before
   employees perform any servicing or maintenance where the unexpected energization or start-up of the
   machine or release of stored energy could cause injury. It does not apply to machines with a cord and
   plug, or the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power, or electrical work on electric
   conductors and equipment used for communications or metering purposes.
2                                                                       HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001


    1.2. Each applicable organization must establish procedures to implement this program. Procedures
    must ensure that existing, new or modified machines go through a process that provides adequate
    energy control procedures, employee training and inspections. Correct implementation of this instruc-
    tion will ensure that before any employee services or performs maintenance on a machine where the
    unexpected energizing, start up or release of stored energy could occur and cause injury, the machine
    will be isolated and rendered inoperative.
    1.3. The lockout process will be used to control the activation of energy on applicable machines. In
    those isolated instances where machines cannot be locked out to demonstrate full employee protec-
    tion, supervisors will be responsible for contacting the organizational safety representative to assist in
    establishing the best possible energy control method for that machine. Additional means to be consid-
    ered as part of the demonstration of full employee protection must include the implementation of addi-
    tional safety measures. Such methods are the removal of an isolating circuit element, blocking of a
    controlling switch, opening of an extra disconnecting device, or the removal of a valve handle to
    reduce the likelihood on inadvertent start up. This method will be documented and the written proce-
    dure posted on the machine. The supervisor must ensure applicable personnel are trained on the pro-
    cedure.
    1.4. All employees are required to comply with the restrictions and limitations imposed upon them
    during the use of lockout. The authorized employees are required to perform the lockout in accor-
    dance with this procedure. All employees, upon observing a machine or piece of equipment that is
    locked out to perform servicing or maintenance shall not attempt to start, energize or use that machine.

2. Machine Lockout Capabilities.
    2.1. Machines that must be locked out during servicing, repair or maintenance must have energy iso-
    lating capability whenever:
       2.1.1. New machines or processes are purchased and installed.
       2.1.2. Existing machines are significantly modified, repaired, renovated, relocated or replaced.
       2.1.3. Energy isolating devices are repaired or added to machines.
    2.2. Engineers, installers and maintenance personnel should make the energy isolating devices readily
    identifiable and accessible.
    2.3. All machines new or modified should be surveyed and categorized by supervisors (Ref Paragraph
    4.2) to see if lockout procedures are required. Engineers, maintenance personnel, supervisors and
    safety personnel should work together so lockout procedures are in place before the machine becomes
    operational.
    2.4. Engineers and personnel involved in the purchasing of machines should ensure that complex
    equipment comes with lockout instructions or contractor support for writing lockout procedures.

3. Training.
    3.1. The supervisor must provide training to ensure that the purpose and function of the energy con-
    trol program are understood by employees and that the knowledge and skills required for safe applica-
    tion, usage, and removal of energy controls are attained. Training will be documented on the
    employees AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001                                                                                3


      3.1.1. Authorized employee (supervisor, operator, maintenance person) must receive training in
      the recognition of applicable hazardous energy sources, the type and magnitude of the energy
      available in the workplace, and the methods and means necessary of energy isolation and control.
      3.1.2. Affected employees must be instructed in the purpose and use of the energy control proce-
      dure during initial job safety briefing.
      3.1.3. All other employees whose work operations are or may be in an area where energy control
      procedures may be utilized, must be instructed about the procedure, and about the prohibition
      relating to attempts to restart machines that are locked out or tagged out. This instruction should
      be given during initial and annual job safety briefings.
      3.1.4. Each new or transferred individual, who is an employee whose work operations are or may
      be in an area where energy control procedures are utilized, shall be instructed in the purpose and
      use of lockout/tagout procedures during their initial job safety briefing. They will also be
      instructed not to attempt to restart a locked out or tagged out machine.
   3.2. Authorized employees must be trained in the essential use of tags (Ref Paragraph 4.8.3.2.)..
   3.3. Refresher training shall be provided for operators and qualified equipment maintenance person-
   nel at least annually or whenever there is a change in their job assignments, a change in machines or
   processes that present a new hazard, or when there is a change in the lockout or tagout procedures.
   Additional training shall also be conducted whenever a periodic inspection reveals there are devia-
   tions from proper procedures, or inadequacies in the supervisor, operator, or qualified equipment
   maintenance personnel’s knowledge or use of the lockout or tagout procedures. The supervisor is
   responsible for developing a training plan for refresher training. Supervisors are responsible for giving
   the training to personnel.
      3.3.1. Supervisors of the sections owning the equipment where operators are tasked to perform
      maintenance or servicing in which lockout procedures are required must develop refresher train-
      ing plan and conduct training for there personnel.

4. Energy Control Procedures (Lockout or Tagout Procedures).
   4.1. Determining what machines need energy control procedures.
      4.1.1. The first step is to survey machines to determine if a machine needs an energy control pro-
      cedures. The supervisor is responsible to survey the equipment in his work area and complete the
      OO-ALC Form 530, Equipment Survey for Lockout/Tagout Procedures. All Hill AFB and
      tenant organizations must survey machines that are used in their processes for lockout/tagout
      requirements.
      4.1.2. The survey provides a record of machines that have been evaluated for lockout/tagout pro-
      cedures. The survey identifies the machine location, machine name, machine preventative mainte-
      nance number (or other identification numbers), whether or not energy control procedures are
      required for the machine, date of survey and any comments that clarify any information. The
      supervisor of the work area should maintain one copy of the survey. The OO-ALC Form 530 will
      be reviewed by the supervisor and OO-ALC safety when annual assessments are performed.
      4.1.3. The OO-ALC Form 530 will be kept current by organizations. As new machines are added
      or removed to or from an organization, it will be added or removed to or from the survey.
4                                                                    HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001


    4.2. Categorizing machines for energy control procedures.
       4.2.1. All surveyed machines must be categorized to see if the machines require energy control
       procedures. Machines will be categorized into two categories: machines that do not need energy
       control procedures and machines that do need energy control procedures. Equipment that requires
       an energy control procedure must have Hill AFB Visual Aid 91-202, Caution -Lockout/Tagout
       Procedures Apply to This Equipment, applied near the control switch.
           4.2.1.1. Machines that do not need energy control procedures include:
              4.2.1.1.1. Cord and plug connected machines for which exposure to the hazard of unex-
              pected energization is controlled by unplugging and by the plug being in control of the
              employee performing the operation.
              4.2.1.1.2. Machines that meet all of the following elements:
                  4.2.1.1.2.1. Machines that have no potential for stored, residual or re-accumulation of
                  energy.
                  4.2.1.1.2.2. Machines with a single source of energy that can be readily (easily) iden-
                  tified and isolated.
                  4.2.1.1.2.3. Machines where the isolation and locking out of the energy source will
                  completely de-energize the machine.
                  4.2.1.1.2.4. Machines that are isolated from an energy source and are locked out dur-
                  ing servicing or maintenance.
                  4.2.1.1.2.5. Machines where a single lockout device will achieve a locked-out condi-
                  tion.
                  4.2.1.1.2.6. Lockout where the lockout device is under the exclusive control of the
                  authorized employee performing the servicing or maintenance.
                  4.2.1.1.2.7. Servicing or maintenance that does not create hazards for other employ-
                  ees.
                  4.2.1.1.2.8. The employer utilizing the machine has not had any lockout type acci-
                  dents.
           4.2.1.2. Machines that need energy control procedures.
              4.2.1.2.1. Machines that meet one or more of the following elements:
                  4.2.1.2.1.1. Machines that have the potential for stored or residual energy.
                  4.2.1.2.1.2. Machines that have a single energy source that cannot be readily (easily)
                  identified and isolated.
                  4.2.1.2.1.3. Machines where isolation and locking out of the energy source will not
                  completely de-energize the machine.
                  4.2.1.2.1.4. Machines that are not isolated from that energy source and locked out dur-
                  ing servicing or maintenance.
                  4.2.1.2.1.5. Machines where a single lockout device will not achieve a locked-out con-
                  dition.
HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001                                                                               5


                 4.2.1.2.1.6. Machines where the lockout device is not under the exclusive control of
                 the authorized employee performing the servicing or maintenance.
                 4.2.1.2.1.7. The servicing or maintenance creates hazards for other employees.
                 4.2.1.2.1.8. The employer utilizing the machine has had lockout type accidents.
             4.2.1.2.2. Machines with multiple energy sources.
  4.3. Writing an energy control procedure.
     4.3.1. The OO-ALC Form 215 is the energy control procedure. The OO-ALC Form 215 must be
     filled out completely. If there is an item which does not apply then fill in the blank with N/A.
     Instructions for completing the OO-ALC Form 215 are in Attachment 2 of this publication. Exam-
     ples that will assist in this process may be viewed at: http://www.hill.af.mil/safety/lockframe.htm.
  4.4. Procedural steps for the lockout or tagout process.
     4.4.1. Examine the machine to locate and identify all isolating devices such as knife switches,
     valves and other energy isolating devices. If the machine is not cord and plug and meets the crite-
     ria for having an energy control procedure, it will have an OO-ALC Form 215 attached to it. The
     OO-ALC Form 215 constitutes the energy control procedure for that machine and shows the loca-
     tion of all isolating devices.
     4.4.2. Perform the following sequence of steps for lockout or tagout:
         4.4.2.1. Supervisor or authorized employee will notify all affected employees that a lockout or
         tagout system is going to be utilized and why. The authorized employees shall know the type
         and magnitude of energy that the machine utilizes and understand the hazards it presents.
         4.4.2.2. If the machine is operating shut it down by the normal stopping procedures.
         4.4.2.3. Utilize all energy-isolating devices so that the machine is isolated from its energy
         sources. The OO-ALC Form 215 shall be followed to ensure all energy sources identified are
         isolated. Dissipate or restrain stored energy (such as springs, elevated machine members,
         hydraulic systems, air, gas, steam or water pressure).
         4.4.2.4. Lockout or tagout the energy-isolating devices with assigned individual lock or tag.
         4.4.2.5. After ensuring that no personnel are exposed, perform a test by pushing the buttons,
         switches or other normal operating controls to make certain the equipment will not operate.
         Caution: Return operating controls to "Neutral" or "Off " position after the test.
         4.4.2.6. The machine is now locked out or tagged out.
     4.4.3. Perform the following steps to restore the machine to normal production operations:
         4.4.3.1. After the servicing or maintenance is complete and equipment is ready for normal
         production operations, check the area around the machines to ensure no one is exposed.
         4.4.3.2. After all tools have been removed from the machine, guards have been reinstalled,
         and personnel are in the clear, remove all lockout or tagout devices. Notify personnel that the
         locks or tags have been removed and the machine is in service. Operate the energy isolating
         devices to restore energy to the machine.
  4.5. Procedures for shift or personnel change.
6                                                                     HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001


       4.5.1. During a shift or personnel change there must be an orderly transfer of lockout control to
       ensure continuity of lockout or tagout protection. There must be an orderly transfer of lockout or
       tagout devices between outgoing and incoming supervisors, to minimize exposure to hazards from
       the unexpected energization, start-up, or release of stored energy from machines. Incoming super-
       visors are required to "lock-on" before the outgoing supervisor will 'lock-off." When there is a
       shift change between shifts that do not have contact with each other, supervisors of the oncoming
       shift must coordinate the transfer of locks with the supervisor of the previous shift. An example of
       this would be a supervisor who works swing shift and the next supervisor to work is day shift. The
       supervisors do not physically see each other. The supervisors are responsible to coordinate their
       orderly transfer of locks. The off going supervisor must ensure the authorized person who locked
       or tagged out knows the next shift will take over responsibility for the lockout or tagout. The
       authorized person must know they no longer have control over the locked or tagged out machine.
       This means the authorized person who locked or tagged out the machine knows another shift can
       and will remove the lock and tag. He or she is not to remove the lock or tag or try to energize the
       equipment. (He or she should not have a key to the lock that is now on the locked out machine).
       Machines that are out of service for an extended period of time have no requirement to transfer the
       locks and tags during each shift change.
    4.6. Procedures involving more than one person. When more than one person is required to lockout or
    tagout machines, each person shall place his/her personal lockout device or tagout device on the
    energy-isolating device. If the energy-isolating device cannot accept more than one lock then a multi-
    ple lockout device such as a hasp shall be used. Each authorized person shall be responsible for his or
    her own protection. When protection is no longer needed, each person will remove his or her own
    lock.
    4.7. Procedures for group lockout or tagout.
       4.7.1. When a crew or other group performs servicing or maintenance, they must utilize a proce-
       dure that affords the employees a level of protection equivalent to that provided by the implemen-
       tation of a personal lockout or tagout device. Supervisors from all crews must agree to and
       understand the procedures.
       4.7.2. Group lockout or tagout devices must be used in accordance with the following specific
       requirements.
           4.7.2.1. Primary responsibility will be vested in an authorized employee for a set number of
           employees working under the protection of a group lockout or tagout device.
           4.7.2.2. Provisions will be made for the authorized employee to ascertain the exposure status
           of individual group members with regard to the lockout or tagout of machine or equipment.
           4.7.2.3. When more than one crew is involved, the supervisor will assign overall job-associ-
           ated lockout or tagout control responsibility to an authorized employee designated to coordi-
           nate affected work forces an ensure continuity of protection.
           4.7.2.4. Each authorized employee must affix a personal lockout or tagout device to the group
           lockout device, group lock box, or comparable mechanism when employees begin work, and
           shall remove those devices when employees stop working on the machine being serviced or
           maintained.
HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001                                                                              7


  4.8. Procedures for removal of a lockout or tagout initiated by an employee other than the one who
  installed the device.
     4.8.1. The supervisor removing the lock must verify the authorized employee who put on the lock
     or tag, are not at the facility.
     4.8.2. The supervisor removing the lock or tag must make all reasonable efforts to contact the
     authorized employee who put on the lock or tag. The supervisor must inform the authorized per-
     son that his/her lockout or tagout device has been removed.
     4.8.3. The supervisor removing the lock or tag must ensure the authorized employee who put on
     the lock or tag has the knowledge that his/her lock or tag has been removed, before he/she resumes
     work at the facility.
  4.9. Locks and Tagout devices
     4.9.1. Locks. Each employee authorized to lockout must have available his or her own lock. The
     appropriate lockout device is the key type padlock. The lock must provide the identity of the per-
     son applying the lock (name, organization and phone number). This can be done by the following
     methods:
         4.9.1.1. Mark the identification (name, organization and phone number) on the lock.
         4.9.1.2. Use a Dog Tag with name, organization and phone number
         4.9.1.3. If the lock is part of a numbered lockset have a number on the lock that can be traced
         back to the individual that checked it out. A checkout log must be available.
     4.9.2. The lock criteria for locks, multiple locking devices, locking attachments and bags will be
     maintained on the OO-ALC Safety Office (OO-ALC/SE) Web Site.
     4.9.3. Multiple lockout devices should be a lockout switch (tong) or equivalent .
     4.9.4. Tagout device. AF Forms 979, Danger Tag, used with energy isolating devices designed
     with the capability of being locked shall be attached at the same point as the lock. In these cases
     where energy isolating devices cannot be locked because of design, tagout devices shall be
     attached. The tag will be secured with a self-locking and non-releasable attachment that has a min-
     imum unlocking strength of no less than 50 pounds. These devices shall be attached in a manner
     as to not interfere with the operation of energy isolating devices. When the physical environment
     affects the tag, the tag will be placed in a plastic bag and properly attached.
         4.9.4.1. Where a tag cannot be attached directly to the energy isolating device, the tag shall be
         located as close as safely possible to the device in a position that will be immediately obvious
         to anyone attempting to operate the device.
         4.9.4.2. Machine lockout will be the method used wherever possible. However, if a machine
         cannot be locked out, a tagout procedure must be used. This procedure must provide employee
         protection equal to the lockout method and must be documented and posted on the machine. A
         tag is a warning device affixed to energy isolating devices, and does not provide the physical
         restraint on the device that is provided by a lock. It is not to be removed without authorization
         of the authorized person responsible for it and it is never to be bypassed, ignored, or otherwise
         defeated. Tags are a last resort when there is no way a machine can be locked out. Tags are not
         to be used or justified because personnel have failed to get the proper lockout devices. Person-
8                                                                      HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001


           nel often justify using a tag because they do not have a lockout device for valves. This is
           wrong. Personnel must identify the type of lockout devices needed for all the various types of
           lockouts ahead of the time they will need them. These lockout devices should be identified and
           procured when the lockout/tagout procedures are reviewed.

5. Inspections.
    5.1. A qualified ground safety inspector shall conduct periodic inspections of the lockout and tagout
    program at least annually to ensure compliance. The inspection shall include as a minimum, program
    procedures, training and self-inspection requirements.
    5.2. The supervisor to ensure compliance with all program elements shall conduct periodic
    self-inspections. The self-inspection shall include as a minimum: the identification of the machines on
    which the lockout and tagout program is used, a review of each lockout procedure (sign and date
    OO-ALC Form 215), and a review of each person's responsibilities under the program, and all the nec-
    essary training has been conducted and documented. The self-inspection shall be documented to
    include the date of the inspection, and name of person doing inspection. The inspection will be for-
    warded to the functional manager for review no later that 15 October each year. Supervisors must
    maintain a copy of the inspection for review by organizational and OO-ALC/SE personnel.

6. Contractors.
    6.1. Contractors are responsible for their own lockout/tagout program. They are responsible for their
    own locks and lockout devices.
    6.2. Contractor personnel must have Lockout/Tagout training in accordance with OSHA require-
    ments.
    6.3. Contractors must notify the supervisor who owns the machine; they will be locking the machine
    out. The contractor shall obtain the OO-ALC Form 215 to identify energy sources and lockout points.
    Contractors are responsible to verify the lockout requirements are accurate. The contractor shall iden-
    tify, to the supervisor, any process that may create a hazard for the supervisors employees. The con-
    tractor will identify to the supervisor, when the lockout will begin, the duration, and when the lockout
    is complete. Upon restoration of power the contractor shall notify the supervisor of the machine that
    restoration has taken place.
    6.4. Whenever outside personnel (contractors, etc.) are engaged in activities covered by the scope and
    application of this standard, the on-site employer (supervisor) and the outside employer shall inform
    each other of their respective lockout or tagout procedures. The on-site employer (supervisor) shall
    ensure that his/her employees understand and comply with the restrictions and prohibitions of the out-
    side employer's energy control program.

7. Forms Prescribed. OO-ALC Form 215, Control of Hazardous Energy Procedure (Lockout/
Tagout) and OO-ALC Form 530, Equipment Survey for Lockout/Tagout Procedures.



                                                JOSEPH C. SUSSINGHAM, Lt Colonel, USAF
                                                Chief of Safety
HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001                                                                            9


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Affected Employee—An employee who must operate or use machines on which servicing or
maintenance is being performed under lockout or tagout: or must work in an area in which service or
maintenance is being performed.
Authorized Employee—A person who locks or implements a tagout system procedure on a machine or
who performs the servicing or maintenance on that machine. An authorized employee and an affected
employee may be the same person when the affected employee's duties also include performing
maintenance or service on a machine, which must be locked, or a tagout system implemented.
Other Employee—An employee who is near a machine during lockout.
Energized—Connected to an energy source or containing residual or stored energy.
Energy Isolating Device—A mechanical device that physically prevents the transmission or release of
energy, including but not limited to the following: A manually operated electrical circuit breaker; a
disconnect switch; a manually operated switch by which the conductors of a circuit can be disconnected
from all ungrounded supply conductors and, in addition, no pole can be operated independently; a slide
grate; a slip blind; a line valve; a block; and any similar device used to block or isolate energy.
Energy Source—Any source of electrical, mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, chemical, thermal, or other
energy.
Lockout—The placement of a lockout device on an energy isolating device, in accordance with an
established procedure, ensuring that the energy isolating device and the equipment being controlled
cannot be operated until the lockout device is removed.
Lockout Device—device that utilizes a positive means such as a keyed lock to hold an energy isolating
device in the safe position and prevent the energizing of a machine.
Servicing or Maintenance—Workplace activities such as constructing, installing, setting up, adjusting,
inspecting, modifying and maintaining or servicing machines. These activities include lubrication;
cleaning or clearing of jammed parts of machines and making adjustments or tool changes, where the
employee may be exposed to the unexpected startup of the equipment or release of hazardous energy.
Stored Energy—Energy which is not readily apparent, (but can cause injury if released) such as that in
springs, elevated machine members, rotating flywheels, hydraulic systems, and air, gas, steam or water
pressure.
Tagout—The placement of a tagout device on an energy isolating device, in accordance with an
established procedure, to indicate that the energy isolating device and the machine being controlled may
not be operated until the tagout device is removed.
Tagout Device—A prominent warning device, such as a tag and a means of attachment. It can be
securely fastened to an energy-isolating device in accordance with an established procedure, to indicate
that the energy isolating device and the machine being controlled may not be operated until the tagout
device is removed.
10                                                                    HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001


                                              Attachment 2

     INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING OO-ALC FORM 215, CONTROL PROCEDURE
                           (LOCKOUT/TAGOUT)
The purpose of the hazardous energy control procedures is to provide a clear picture to individuals who
have to lockout machines or equipment. This form was designed to show as clear as possible where the
energy sources are, how to lock them out and how to verify they are locked out. When completing this
form, include any information that will provide a clear picture of this process.
1. Organization. This is the organization that owns (uses in their process) the machine or equipment.
2. Equipment Identification Number. The equipment preventative maintenance identification number
should be entered here, if the piece of equipment has one. If there is no preventative maintenance identi-
fication number enter any other identification number which may be available.
3. Equipment Name. The equipment name is the name given by the manufacture or that which bests
describes the equipment.
4. Number of Energy Sources. The number of energy sources is the total number of energy sources to
that piece of equipment. All potential and residual energy sources must be included.
5. Date. The date when the OO-ALC Form 215 is completed.
6. Diagram of Equipment and Location of Energy Sources. A diagram of the equipment should be
drawn with the direction North and the location of the operator as reference points. The location of energy
sources should be drawn in relation to the equipment. The purpose of this diagram is to show where the
energy sources are in relation to the equipment. The energy sources should be identified by showing their
location on diagram with the abbreviated symbols. Any instructions that will provide clear directions to
lockout points can be drawn on the diagram. This will provide personnel who need to lockout/tagout
equipment a visual map of where to find lockout points. Examples of completed lockout procedures (dia-
grams) are available on the 00-ALC web page.
7. Additional Safety Measures. List any additional safety measures that will clarify the lockout locations
or instructions.
8. Machine Shut Down Procedures. This section provides information about the energy sources,their
location and how to lock them out. Most importantly is how to verify the energy sources have been
removed from the equipment.
Energy Sources. List all energy sources. Energy sources that are not readily apparent such as gravity,
residual, potential and spring energy must be included. Below are common types of energy. Each type of
energy source has a symbol as shown. If more than one source of the same energy type is used, identify
them by the first letter of the energy type followed by the number. Energy sources symbols are:


         Electrical     E1,E2,E3               Pneumatic               PN1,PN2,PN3
         Air            A1,A2,A3               Hydraulic               H1,H2,H3
         Gas            G1,G2,G3               Spring                  S1,S2,S3
         Gravity        GR1,GR2,GR3            Steam                   ST1,ST2,ST3
         Mechanical     ME1,ME2,ME3            Pressure                P1,P2,P3
HILLAFBI91-302 22 MAY 2001                                                                             11


Location of Energy Source. A brief description of where to lockout each of the energy sources.
Method of Lockout. Describe the method of lockout in terms of what will be used to lockout each energy
source. An example for an electrical knife switch: pull down knife switch and place lock through handle.
Verification. Describe how to verify the energy sources have been shut off.
9. Supervisor Periodic Log. This is the signoff for the required periodic inspection that supervisors per-
form as a minimum once a year. The supervisor's name should be legible, followed by his/her signature
and date of inspection.
10. Authorized to Lockout/Tagout. List individuals who are authorized and trained to lockout the equip-
ment. Job title, phone number, initial training date and annual retraining dates must all be filled out.
11. Affected Employees of Lockout/Tagout. List all individuals who are affected by the lockout/tagout
of the equipment. These are operators, and users of machines or equipment. This applies to individuals
who work in the area around the equipment.
