BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                      HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 15-101
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                                     5 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                                       Weather

                                                                                                 WEATHER SUPPORT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 75 OSS/OSW                                                                                 Certified by: 75 OSS/CC
                                                                                               (Lt Col Joseph W. Rojas)
Supersedes:   HILLAFBI 15-101,                                                                                  Pages: 37
              3 March 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 15-1, Air Force Weather Operations. It identifies the
specific support services and related responsibilities performed by the 75th Operations Support
Squadron Weather Flight (75 OSS/OSW), for the 75th Air Base Wing, associated units, and all
other agencies associated with Hill AFB, Utah and outlines the responsibilities of supported
organizations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.           Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been significantly changed and should be reviewed in its entirety. All
previous references to the New Tactical Forecast System (NTFS) have been replaced in favor of
the Joint Environmental Toolkit (JET). Weather watches and warnings for heavy snowfall will
now specify 2 inches occurring within a 12 hour period. The observed thunderstorm advisory
has been removed.

       1.     Weather Station Operations ................................................................................    2
       2.     Weather Observing Services ...............................................................................     5
 2                                                                              HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


Table 1.        Mandatory Augmentation Weather Criteria for Hill AFB ....................................                                  5
Table 2.        Common Phenomena and Observing Code .........................................................                              7
        3.      Forecasting Services ...........................................................................................           7
        4.      Weather Watches, Warnings, and Advisories ......................................................                           9
        5.      Briefing Support .................................................................................................        10
        6.      Special Technical Services ..................................................................................             11
        7.      Joint Environmental Toolkit (JET) ......................................................................                  12
        8.      Local Dissemination Procedures .........................................................................                  13
Figure 1.       Surface Observation ...........................................................................................           13
Figure 2.       TAF ...................................................................................................................   13
Figure 3.       Weather Watch ...................................................................................................         14
Figure 4.       Weather Warning ...............................................................................................           14
Figure 5.       Weather Advisory ...............................................................................................          14
        9.      Reciprocal Support .............................................................................................          14
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            17

Attachment 2—SPECIAL OBSERVATION CRITERIA                                                                                                 21

Attachment 3—METEOROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS                                                                                  23
Attachment 4—MISSION EXECUTION FORECAST SPECIFICATION/AMENDMENT
             CRITERIA                                                                                                                     24
Attachment 5—WEATHER ADVISORIES                                                                                                           26

Attachment 6—WEATHER WATCHES AND WARNINGS                                                                                                 28

Attachment 7—JET CLIENT SOFTWARE LOCATIONS                                                                                                30

Attachment 8—NOTIFICATION MATRIX                                                                                                          31

Attachment 9—AIRCRAFT AND GROUND SUPPORT SENSITIVITES AND ACTIONS
             TAKEN BY CUSTOMERS                                                                                                           34


1. Weather Station Operations
     1.1. General. The 75 OSS/OSW is organized, trained and equipped to provide mission
     execution forecasts for customers aligned under 75 ABW, 388/419 Fighter Wing (FW), and
     OO-ALC units located on Hill Air Force Base (AFB) Utah (UT). The 75 OSS/OSW
     provides the following timely, accurate, and relevant weather products: surface weather
     observations, weather watches, warnings, and advisories, tactical level weather products, in-
     flight pilot to forecaster service support; and flight weather briefings. The 75 OSS/OSW is
     located on the north side of Building 1.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                3


  1.2. Operating Hours. Staff services are available from 0800MT to 1700MT, Monday
  through Friday, except federal holidays and family days. Airfield Service Element and
  Mission Weather Element services are provided in conjunction with the local flying
  schedule. 75 OSS/OSW can be contacted at DSN 777-2018, 2063, 3519, 3629, commercial
  (801) 777-2018. During times of airfield closure, the 25th Operational Weather Squadron
  (25 OWS), the regional weather hub at Davis Monthan AFB, will assume all meteorological
  watch (METWATCH) responsibilities for Hill AFB. The 75 OSS/OSW will maintain a
  stand-by forecaster during times of OSW closure.
  1.3. Duty Priorities. Weather station duty priorities are listed below. Requests for changes
  to these duty priorities must be submitted to the weather flight commander (WFC).
     1.3.1. Perform Emergency War Order taskings.
     1.3.2. Respond to aircraft and ground emergencies.
     1.3.3. Respond to pilot to metro service (PMSV) contacts.
     1.3.4. Provide supervisor of flying (SOF) support.
     1.3.5. Take and disseminate surface weather observations locally and provide “eyes
     forward” support to the 25th OWS.
     1.3.6. Perform coordinated METWATCH support.
     1.3.7. Severe Weather Action Procedures (SWAP) operations.
     1.3.8. Produce and disseminate mission execution forecasts (MEF).
     1.3.9. Disseminate Pilot Reports (PIREPs) locally.
     1.3.10. Relay urgent PIREPs and special Air Reports (AIREPs) to OWS.
     1.3.11. Transmit surface observations and PIREPs/AIREPs long line.
     1.3.12. Perform mission watch.
     1.3.13. Provide other briefing support.
     1.3.14. Weather function training.
     1.3.15. Accomplish administrative tasks.
  1.4. Release of Weather Information. Operations and communications security will be
  considered prior to any release of weather information. Specific restrictions do not exist on
  the dissemination of weather information to other military agencies. Information exchange
  between the 75 OSS/OSW and the local National Weather Service (NWS) office is
  encouraged in the interest of public safety and resource protection. Routine working
  agreements from either agency will be maintained in writing. Support to other non-military
  agencies, foreign governments or individuals will be coordinated with Public Affairs before
  service or information is provided. The 75 ABW Public Affairs office will approve all direct
  media requests for weather information. This restriction does not include indirect routine
  weather information, which is passed on automated weather circuits, or information passed
  through the NWS in the interest of public safety.
  1.5. Alternate Operating Location for Weather Support. Both the observing and forecasting
  services will relocate to an alternate site in the event of an emergency affecting Building 1.
4                                                       HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


    The weather technician will not relocate for exercises unless qualified personnel are available
    to man the weather station during his or her absence. The back-up weather station is the Air
    Traffic Control Simulator Building (Building 10A) DSN 586-0842/0843. Access to a Class
    A telephone and local area network access is required. When evacuated, the weather
    technician will notify Hill Command Post that 75 OSS/OSW is relocating. Alternate weather
    technician equipment will be kept in the base weather station and available for immediate
    relocation. A fully functional weather computer will be maintained in building 10A.
       1.5.1. Observing/Forecasting Services. Limited weather observations will be taken from
       the alternate site and provided to the air traffic control tower and 299th Range Control
       Squadron (Clover Control). These observations will include at a minimum wind speed
       and direction, prevailing visibility, present weather and obscurations, sky condition,
       temperature, dew point, and altimeter setting. All weather watches, warnings and
       advisories will be disseminated by Joint Environmental Toolkit (JET) or telephone if JET
       is inoperable.
       1.5.2. Flight Weather Briefings. Due to limited access to weather information, flight
       crews will be instructed to contact Davis-Monthan AFB, AZ for support until
       forecast/observing service is restored at the Hill AFB weather station.
    1.6. Severe Weather Action Procedures (SWAP) (AFMAN 15-129V2, Air and Space
    Weather Operations – Exploitation, paragraph 2.19.). The 25 OWS and the 75 OSS/OSW
    are responsible for disseminating Watches, Warnings, and Advisories (WWAs) and
    providing weather expertise to aid in the protection of Hill AFB resources at risk to severe
    weather conditions. These procedures are designed to facilitate Hill AFB operational risk
    management practices by recalling weather personnel as needed to monitor severe weather
    conditions and take appropriate action to aid other base agencies in the protection of Hill
    AFB resources.
       1.6.1. Severe Weather Conditions. Weather conditions of such intensity that could be a
       hazard to life or property at Hill AFB are defined as tornadic activity (funnel cloud, water
       spout or tornado), hail greater than or equal to ¾ inch, surface winds greater than or equal
       to 50 knots, snowfall of 6 inches or greater in 12hrs and freezing precipitation.
       1.6.2. Severe Weather Notification. Base agencies will be notified of severe weather via
       two methods: the JET and an automated telephone call. Severe weather warnings will be
       disseminated via JET first, with the exception of tornados, which will first be telephoned
       to the 75th Air Base Wing Command Post (75 ABW/CP) and then sent via JET. Follow-
       up automated telephone notification will be made to the 75 ABW/CP (hotline) and the
       388thMaintenance Operations Center (MOC) (hotline). It is important that all base
       agencies requiring notification of severe weather events monitor an active JET client
       session for severe weather messages. Agencies needing JET client software should call
       the 75 OSS/OSW to arrange for software installation and JET account setup.
       1.6.3. 75 OSS/OSW Actions. In the event that severe weather is imminent on Hill AFB,
       the 75 OSS/OSW acting as “Eyes Forward” will coordinate with the 25 OWS to issue
       weather watches and warnings with an attempt to meet or exceed the desired lead times
       listed in Attachment 6, A7.1.1. If hazard to life or property is immediate the 75
       OSS/OSW duty forecaster will issue watches and warnings as necessary and brief the 25
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  5


      OWS as soon as practical. Notification to Hill AFB agencies will be conducted per the
      notification matrices in Attachment 8.
      1.6.4. Initiation of SWAP. During non-duty hours the 25 OWS will notify the standby
      forecaster anytime severe weather is forecasted. The standby forecaster must be able to
      report for duty within 30 minutes of being recalled. The 75 OSS/OSW duty forecaster
      will determine, as conditions warrant, the need to recall additional personnel.
      1.6.5. SWAP Duty Priorities. In the event of a severe weather recall, 75 OSS/OSW duty
      priorities will be directed toward resource protection of Hill AFB. Duties such as staff
      weather briefings, mission execution forecasts and transient aircrew briefings may be
      delayed until the severe weather threat has diminished or until enough personnel arrive
      on duty to handle the tasks.
      1.6.6. Post Severe Weather Procedures. The 75 OSS/OSW will provide required data for
      an OPREP-3 BEELINE message to the Hill Consolidated Command Post (HCCP).
2. Weather Observing Services
   2.1. Official Observing Location. Weather flight observing services will be primarily
   accomplished by the Fixed Meteorological Equipment (FMQ-19), an automated observing
   system. The FMQ-19 produces hourly (METAR) and Special (SPECI) observations, and
   disseminates them long line to the automated weather network via JET. This system has the
   capability to transmit observations rapidly to keep up with current weather conditions, but
   occasionally will require human augmentation due to certain weather criteria. Table 2.1. lists
   the mandatory augmentation weather criteria for Hill AFB. FMQ-19 sensors are located on
   the north end, south end, and center of the runway. In the event FMQ-19 observations have
   to be augmented, weather observing services are provided from approximately 200 feet north
   of the base weather station located in Building 1. Observations are hampered at Hill AFB
   from a direction of 120 to 260 degrees from the observing location. This is due to visual
   obstructions caused by the location of Building 1 as well as multiple other base structures in
   reference to the official observation point located at ground level across from Building 1 next
   to the ATC Tower.

Table 1. Mandatory Augmentation Weather Criteria for Hill AFB
6                                                        HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


    2.2. Basic Weather Watch (BWW). The FMQ-19 performs an automatic Continuous
    Weather Watch. During augmentation, the technician will evaluate the need to take special
    observations. This will be done at an interval not to exceed 20 minutes.
    2.3. Cooperative Weather Watch. To augment the BWW, Air Traffic Control (ATC)
    personnel and other appropriate base agencies (i.e., Security Forces) conduct a Cooperative
    Weather Watch (CWW) and provide additional weather information to the weather
    technician when significant and unreported weather phenomena are detected. Of primary
    concern is the report of tower visibility different from the prevailing surface visibility,
    reporting of sector visibility, local PIREPs, and any occurrence of previously unreported
    weather conditions that could affect flight safety or be critical to the safety or efficiency of
    other local operations and resources. ATC personnel certified to evaluate tower visibility
    will report changes in tower prevailing visibility and sector visibility to the 75 OSS/OSW
    weather technician when tower visibility or the prevailing visibility at the usual point of
    observation, or at the tower level, is less than 4 miles (6000 meters), and is different from the
    surface prevailing visibility and reporting sector visibility. The 75 OSS/OSW weather
    technician will include the tower visibility as a remark at the end of the observation when it
    differs from the surface visibility by a reportable value and is less than 4 miles.
    2.4. Surface Weather Observations. The duty weather technician records and disseminates
    an official observation from the official observing location between 55 and 59 minutes after
    every hour. All weather observations at Hill AFB are taken in accordance with instructions
    in AFMAN 15-111, Surface Weather Observations. The following are the elements
    observed by the 75 OSS/OSW duty technician and disseminated long line for use by various
    agencies using JET: time, wind speed and direction, prevailing visibility, runway visual
    range (RVR), weather and obstruction to vision, sky condition, temperature, dew point,
    altimeter setting, sea-level pressure, and a remarks section to present a more precise picture
    of existing weather conditions. Table 2.2. describes common weather phenomena and how it
    is encoded in weather observations.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                7


Table 2. Common Phenomena and Observing Code




   2.5. Types of Observations. The duty weather technician makes the following types of
   observations: Aviation Routine Weather Report (METAR) and SPECI. A2.1. lists the
   special observation criteria. All observations are sent to local base agencies using JET. All
   observations are also sent to the Automated Weather Network for world-wide military and
   civilian use. In the event of a JET outage, observations will be passed to the air traffic
   control tower via telephone to ensure flight safety.
   2.6. Observing Instrumentation. The FMQ-19 is the primary piece of equipment used to
   observe airfield weather. Attachment 3 lists other weather equipment and its approximate
   location.
   2.7. Radar. The 75 OSS/OSW uses data from the main Doppler Weather Surveillance Radar
   (WSR-88D) operated by the NWS office in Salt Lake City. The 75 OSS/OSW works with
   the NWS to ensure operation of the radar meets the needs of both parties. The radar antenna
   and transmitter are located atop Promontory Point.
3. Forecasting Services
   3.1. General. Mission tailored forecasts, known as a mission execution forecasts (MEF), are
   available from the 75 OSS/OSW in conjunction with the daily flying schedule. The Terminal
   Aerodrome Forecast (TAF) is generated, and amended by the 25 OWS. The 25 OWS will
   also perform all METWATCH for Hill AFB. In the event that the 25 OWS is unable to
   provide weather support to Hill AFB due to unforeseen events (i.e., evacuation,
8                                                      HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


    communication outages) the 75 OSS/OSW will assume full weather support responsibility
    for Hill AFB and the Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR).
    3.2. Terminal Aerodrome Forecasts. The 25 OWS produces and disseminates TAFs in
    accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 15-129V1, Air and Space Weather Operations –
    Characterization, AFMAN 15-124, Meteorological Codes, and the Hill AFB Installation
    Data       Page        (found        on      the       25        OWS         webpage        at
    https://ows.dm.af.mil/Tech_Ref/moas/index.cfm?
    UID=&BW=H&UF=M&AOR=2&USEHF=1). The primary means for dissemination of the
    TAF and TAF amendments by the 25 OWS is via JET. The elements included are time,
    wind direction, wind speed, visibility, obstruction to vision, sky cover, cloud height, icing,
    turbulence, minimum altimeter and significant remarks. If JET is inoperative, the technician
    will disseminate forecast elements to tower and Clover Control by telephone. TAFs are valid
    for 24 hours and will be issued at 0500Z, 1300Z, and 2100Z.
    3.3. Mission Execution Forecasts (MEF). The MEF is the primary tool used to accomplish
    day-to-day weather support for Hill AFB. MEFs are tailored to individual customer
    requirements and may be anything from a web-based flight weather briefing to a change-of-
    command weather forecast. The MEF is developed using a 12-step process outlined in
    AFMAN 15-129V2, Air and Space Weather Operations – Exploitation, and 75 OSS/OSW
    SOP 3.1. During this process the 75 OSS/OSW will fuse and tailor products created by
    strategic and theater weather centers, as well as information supplied by local units (e.g.,
    flying schedule) and agencies. The end result is a product designed to provide timely,
    accurate, and relevant weather support to customers. The MEF must be consistent with all
    products issued by 25 OWS and the Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA). However, during
    rapidly changing conditions, emergencies, or when conditions threaten resource protection,
    the 75 OSS/OSW will amend the MEF to accurately reflect conditions and brief 25 OWS
    when time permits. Forecast specification and amendment criteria are listed in Attachment 4.
    3.4. Utah Test and Training Range Forecast. 25 OWS provides UTTR forecasts (found on
    the                  25                  OWS                       webpage                  at
    https://ows.dm.af.mil/tailored_met/index.cfm?fuseaction=by_type.text.get_moaf&filter
    =04_KAOS&unit_id=6&b_icao=KHIF&UID=6&BW=H&UF=M&AOR=2&USEHF=1
    ). A range weather forecast is prepared and transmitted by the 25 OWS over JET two hours
    prior to range opening time. The forecast is valid for the entire time the UTTR is open. The
    UTTR forecast should be used as a pre-brief only. Pilots should call the weather technician
    for a verbal update prior to departure. Additional weather support requirements for activities
    in the UTTR should be coordinated with the 75 OSS/OSW at least 30 days prior to ensure
    adequate support can be provided.
    3.5. Weather Internet Homepage. The weather flight maintains a web page limited to
    military          users         only.                  It         is        located        at
    https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/75OSS/OSW/default.aspx. A wide variety of weather
    information is available from this site. This information is for planning purposes only. A 5 -
    day outlook is available on the weather flight homepage. This outlook is updated daily as
    duties permit and is for planning purposes only.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  9


4. Weather Watches, Warnings, and Advisories
   4.1. General. Weather conditions must be monitored for resource protection. This is
   accomplished through a joint effort between 25 OWS and 75 OSS/OSW. 25 OWS is
   responsible for issuing all forecast weather watches, warnings and advisories for Hill AFB.
   75 OSS/OSW is responsible for issuing all observed warnings and advisories. However, if
   hazard to life or property is immediate, or in circumstances where 25 OWS is unable to issue
   products, 75 OSS/OSW will issue required forecast warnings. In these cases, 75 OSS/OSW
   will brief 25 OWS as soon as time permits. Watches, warnings and advisories apply to Hill
   AFB and the area within 5 nautical miles of the center of the runway unless otherwise
   specified. They are issued consistent with minimum desired lead time (DLT). The DLT is
   defined as the minimum amount of advance notice a supported customer requires to prepare
   for the onset of a particular weather phenomenon. Any on-base agency requiring specialized
   weather warning support not specified in this instruction must coordinate requirements
   through the weather flight commander.
   4.2. Weather Advisories. Weather advisories are special notices to supported agencies that
   established weather conditions, for which they may have to take protective actions, are
   occurring. Observed advisories are issued when the specified weather condition is occurring,
   and is canceled when the condition no longer exists. Attachment 5 lists the criteria for
   weather advisories. Weather advisories are disseminated via JET. Follow-up automated
   telephone notification will be made to 75 ABW/CP (hotline) and 388 MOC (hotline). When
   JET is inoperative, advisories will be disseminated to JET users via telephone.
   4.3. Weather Watch. Weather watches are issued to alert using agencies of the potential for
   weather conditions of such intensity as to pose a hazard to life or property. Weather watches
   are generally issued prior to weather warnings and are intended to provide advance notice of
   potentially significant weather. Weather watches will be issued on the potential for the
   weather condition to occur, and will be canceled when the potential no longer exists, or
   upgraded to weather warnings when the potential is determined to be significant enough that
   protective measures must be taken to protect property and life. Attachment 6 lists criteria for
   weather watches. Weather watches are disseminated via JET. Follow-up automated
   telephone notification will be made to 75 ABW/CP (hotline) and 388 MOC (hotline). When
   JET is inoperative watches will be disseminated to JET users via telephone.
   4.4. Weather Warning. A weather warning is a special notice to supported agencies that
   established weather conditions are occurring or are expected to occur of such intensity as to
   pose a hazard to life or property. Weather warnings differ from weather advisories in that the
   severity of the weather conditions is greater for weather warnings. The criteria for weather
   warnings and the desired lead times are listed in Attachment 6. Severe weather warnings will
   be disseminated via JET first, with the exception of tornadoes, which will first be telephoned
   to 75 ABW/CP and then sent via JET. Follow-up automated telephone notification will be
   made to 75 ABW/CP (hotline) and 388 MOC (hotline). Each agency with JET is the primary
   weather information dissemination point of contact for all sections within that agency. To
   ensure timely dissemination of critical weather warning information, the 75 OSS/OSW
   should not be telephoned for information already on JET. When JET is inoperative,
   warnings will be provided to 75 ABW/CP telephonically for further dissemination to JET
   users.
 10                                                      HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


5. Briefing Support
      5.1. General. 75 OSS/OSW provides a wide variety of weather briefings to support each
      customer’s needs.
      5.2. Flight Weather Briefings. Weather personnel will provide DD Form 175-1, Flight
      Weather Briefing, during when the weather flight is open. Aircrews receive briefings at the
      weather station, via fax, or phone. To ensure adequate preparation time, all aircrews should
      notify the duty forecaster the day prior to the briefing whenever possible. Mass briefings for
      special missions require 24 hours advanced notice, are subject to manning availability, and
      must be coordinated with weather station leadership. Aircrews receiving faxed briefings may
      contact the duty forecaster for any updates or clarification. IAW AFMAN 15-129V2, Air
      and Space Weather Operations – Exploitation, transient aircrews receive flight weather
      briefings from the 25 OWS. When workload permits, 75 OSS/OSW will provide flight
      weather briefings locally. 25 OWS can be contacted by phone, fax, or via web access; all
      located at the weather support terminal in the flight planning room of Building 1.
      5.3. 388th/419th Fighter Wing MEF. As 75 OSS/OSW manning permits, a forecaster will
      be assigned to the 388 FW/419 FW flying squadrons to perform in-person planning and flight
      briefings in accordance with AFI 15-128, Air Force Weather Roles and Responsibilities. The
      MEF is designed to provide critical go/no-go weather information to the flying squadron for
      all phases of each sortie. Weather thresholds, defined by our flying customers, are
      combinations of aircraft, aircrew, mission tactics and operating location limitations.
      Aircrews may contact the duty forecaster for any update and clarification pertaining to the
      MEF.      Note:     The MEF is available through the 75 OSS/OSW homepage at
      https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/75OSS/OSW/default.aspx. In the event of a LAN outage,
      the 388 FW/419 FW MEF will be faxed to individual flying units to post at their operations
      desk. Please refer to Attachment 4 for specification and amendment criteria.
         5.3.1. Issue Times. The MEF will be issued dependant on the flying schedule. It is
         normally required 15 minutes prior to earliest brief time.
         5.3.2. Specification Criteria. The MEF contains the following information, as required:
             5.3.2.1. Take-Off/Alternate Weather.
             5.3.2.2. Hazards/Winds.
             5.3.2.3. Range Weather.
             5.3.2.4. Low Level/Air Refueling Weather.
             5.3.2.5. Target Acquisition Weather Software (TAWS) Information.
      5.4. SOF. The duty forecaster will inform the SOF of significant weather developments
      either in-station, by telephone or hotline.
      5.5. Pilot to Metro Service (PMSV). The 75 OWS/OSW operates a PMSV radio to provide
      updated weather information to airborne aircrews and to receive PIREPs. The UHF channel
      342.3 MHz is continually monitored by the 75 OSS/OSW. Due to obstructing terrain, the
      PMSV is unusable from 010 to 100 degrees beyond 20 nautical miles below 20,000 feet and
      from 100 to 150 degrees beyond 25 nautical miles below 15,000 feet. Aircrews should relay
      PIREPs of weather conditions encountered during takeoff/climb-out, approach, landing, and
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 11


   on the ranges when practical. The PIREPs can be passed directly to the 75 OSS/OSW via the
   PMSV, to ATC personnel or to the SOF. The ATC personnel and/or the SOF will then pass
   the PIREP on to the weather station, time permitting. The 75 OSS/OSW will disseminate
   PIREPs locally when weather conditions in the terminal area or the UTTR are significantly
   different from those briefed or previously forecasted, or when the conditions could impact
   the safety of flight operations. These conditions include, but are not limited to, low-level
   wind shear below 2,000 feet above ground level (AGL), icing of any type or intensity,
   moderate or greater turbulence or any other significant weather phenomena reported.
   5.6. Planning Briefings. Upon request, the Mission Weather Element NCOIC will provide
   planning briefings for areas within the Continental United States (CONUS) for up to five
   days. Coordination is required for planning briefings for areas outside the CONUS or for
   periods beyond five days.
   5.7. Staff Weather Briefings. The 75 OSS/OSW will present weather briefings as scheduled
   or upon request. Unscheduled briefings must be requested at least three hours in advance to
   allow for adequate preparation. Examples of staff briefings include, but are not limited to,
   75th Air Base Wing Commander (75 ABW/CC) stand-up, 388th Fighter Wing Commander
   (388 FW/CC) stand-up, 388th Operations Group Commander (388 OG/CC) stand-up,
   Emergency Operations Center briefs, Crisis Action Team briefs, and Instrument Refresher
   Course (IRC) briefings.
   5.8. Exercise Support and Briefings. The 75 OSS/OSW will participate, to the fullest extent
   possible, in both Phase I and Phase II exercises conducted by the 75 ABW and 388 FW. At a
   minimum, this support will include Crisis Action Team and Concept briefs.
6. Special Technical Services
   6.1. Hazardous Spills. In the event toxic chemicals are released into the atmosphere on Hill
   AFB, the 75 OSS/OSW will relay current and forecast weather conditions upon request. In
   the event toxic chemicals are released into the atmosphere in the vicinity of Hill AFB or the
   UTTR, the 75 OSS/OSW will relay current and forecast weather conditions from the nearest
   observation site to the Fire Protection Operations Section (75 CEG/CEUF) or the Incident
   Commander upon request.
   6.2. Climatological Data. There is various climatological information available for most
   major airfield locations around the world available at the 75 OSS/OSW. This information is
   available for operational planning purposes only. Historical weather data is also available for
   Hill AFB. The 75 OSS/OSW will be the office of primary responsibility for any
   Climatological data requests to the 14th Weather Squadron (14 WS) in Asheville, NC.
   Urgency, complexity of the request and workload dictate the required time to acquire
   Climatological data from the 14 WS.
   6.3. Target Acquisition Weather Software The weather flight is capable of providing electro-
   optic/infrared (EO/IR) information to support specialized weapons systems and other types
   of special operations equipment. Planning TAWS data is available on the MEF each day the
   388/419 FW has scheduled flying. Detailed mission-specific TAWS products are available
   on a by-request basis. Capability exists for infrared, television, or laser sensors. Aircrews
   requiring detailed support should provide mission input to the 75 OSS/OSW no later than
   four hours prior to flight mission brief. If specific target acquisition or lock -on ranges are
 12                                                      HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


      needed, requests must include specific target information, time over target, and weapon type.
      All appropriate security safeguards must be maintained. To enhance mission support,
      aircrews should provide feedback to the 75 OSS/OSW as to the accuracy and usefulness of
      the EO/IR information provided via email or telephone to the 75 OSS/OSW.
      6.4. Nuclear Fallout Winds. In the event of a nuclear incident, the 75 OSS/OSW will
      provide upper level wind data to 75 CEG/CEUF upon request.
7. Joint Environmental Toolkit (JET)
      7.1. JET Concept of Operations. JET is designated as the single point from which weather
      personnel disseminate weather products. It automates the way in which weather products are
      prepared in support of customer missions. The JET system manager (JSM) will be
      designated by the weather flight commander (WFC) to manage the system. JET outage
      reporting is handled through the 75 OSS/OSW and AFWA JET support branch at Offutt
      AFB, NE. 75 OSS/OSW personnel accomplish outage reporting. In the event the JET server
      becomes inoperative, information cannot be transmitted or received by JET client
      workstations, telephone or internet backup systems will be used. Refer to Attachment 3 and
      7 for more information on this and other meteorological equipment.
      7.2. JET Local Training Process. Training for JET client software application will be
      provided by the 75 OSS/OSW on initial installation of the JET client software. Continuing
      training requirements for equipment and operations will be the responsibility of each agency
      utilizing the application software. Any specialized training requests will be coordinated with
      75 OSS/OSW.
      7.3. JET Operational Responsibilities.
         7.3.1. 75 OSS/OSW. Weather personnel will provide weather products through JET as
         contained in this publication. The JET system manager (SM) is responsible for overall
         system management and will be the JET focal point for all agencies with JET accounts, to
         include interaction, outage reporting, and any special training requests. Anytime there
         are JET software revisions, the JET SM will notify each agency that could be affected
         and provide any necessary training on that revision.
         7.3.2. JET Users. The units listed in Attachment 7 shall designate a primary and
         alternate JET monitor to be the focal point of any JET issues. Further, units will notify
         base weather station personnel in case of non-receipt of scheduled weather or Notice to
         Airmen (NOTAM) data, of any JET outages, or if the JET account becomes disabled.
         Units may be asked to perform simple troubleshooting procedures when outages are
         reported. If the problem cannot be resolved through these procedures, 75 OSS/OSW will
         notify contract maintenance. During JET outages, 75 OSS/OSW will pass watches,
         warnings and advisories via telephone to JET users. To avoid unnecessary delays in
         relaying critical weather information to aircrew, air traffic control, and command
         authorities, units with JET accounts will use the information provided and refrain from
         routinely contacting the weather station.
         7.3.3. Non-JET Users. Due to flight safety concerns, individual organizations that do not
         have JET accounts shall refrain from contacting the base weather station directly. This
         can cause delays in relaying information to aircrew, air traffic control agencies and
         command authorities. Non-JET users should call their respective dissemination agency
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             13


      or unit control center for information, or connect to the weather station homepage and
      view the latest weather information.
8. Local Dissemination Procedures
   8.1. Primary Dissemination Methods. The primary method of local dissemination for
   observations, terminal aerodrome forecasts, weather watches, warnings, advisories, special
   messages, and PIREPS will be via JET. Base agencies requiring JET accounts should call
   the base weather station. Electronically developed MEFs and staff weather briefings will be
   disseminated via e-mail and over the Hill AFB local area network.
   8.2. Back-up Procedures and Priorities. Back-up procedures and priorities for local
   dissemination for observations, mission execution forecasts, weather watches, warnings,
   advisories, special messages, and PIREPS will be passed via telephone. Back-up telephone
   contact is limited to the following agencies:
      8.2.1. Air Traffic Control Tower (Hotline).
      8.2.2. 388 FW Supervisor of Flying (Hotline).
      8.2.3. 388 FW Maintenance (Hotline).
      8.2.4. Hill Command Post (Hotline).
      8.2.5. Base Operations (Hotline).
   8.3. Figures 8.3.1. – 8.3.15. provide JET Local Dissemination Format Examples.

Figure 1. Surface Observation




Figure 2. TAF
 14                                                   HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


Figure 3. Weather Watch




Figure 4. Weather Warning




Figure 5. Weather Advisory




9. Reciprocal Support
      9.1. General. Mutual support and cooperation are key elements in the 75 OSS/OSWs ability
      to provide complete and timely weather support to its customers. This section outlines
      reciprocal support for base agencies and individual unit responsibilities.
      9.2. The Hill Consolidated Command Post will:
         9.2.1. Notify 75 OSS/OSW duty forecaster of any accident, mishap or event in which
         weather or weather service may be involved.
             9.2.1.1. If an Operations Report Category III, (OPREP III) is issued by HCCP for
             significant weather, a copy will be e-mailed to the WFC to enable the process of
             gathering required data for the follow up OPREP.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  15


     9.2.2. Disseminate all weather warnings, watches and advisories in accordance with
     established checklists.
  9.3. Hill AFB Flying Units will:
     9.3.1. Provide 75 OSS/OSW with flying schedules, to include changes as necessary.
     Provide 48 hours notice for briefing support during non-traditional flying hours.
     9.3.2. Pass all significant PIREPs to the 75 OSS/OSW through the PMSV radio, the
     control tower, or SOF.
     9.3.3. Provide forecast feedback when possible to include feedback on EO/IR data.
  9.4. 75th Civil Engineering Squadron will:
     9.4.1. Provide emergency back-up power for weather station operations. Emergency
     power is generated and supplied to the weather station from the airfield lighting vault,
     Building 14. CES personnel will notify the duty forecaster at least 15 minutes before a
     scheduled change from commercial to emergency power or emergency to commercial
     power.
  9.5. 75th Operational Support Squadron Air Traffic Control will:
     9.5.1. Perform a CWW and notify the duty observer of significant changes in the weather
     including, but not limited to, visibility, ceiling, thunderstorms, lightning, precipitation
     and any other weather that may affect flight safety.
     9.5.2. Notify OSW when they observe tower prevailing visibility decrease to less than, or
     increase to equal or exceed 4 miles (6000 meters).
     9.5.3. Report all changes of one or more reportable values to OSW when the prevailing
     visibility at the tower or the surface is less than 4 miles (6000 meters).
     9.5.4. Inform the weather observing technician with the sector visibility observations,
     especially from the southern sector to the western sector (surface visibility is obstructed
     in these quadrants) when visibility is below 3 miles (4800 meters) and sector visibility
     differs from prevailing visibility by one or more reportable values.
     9.5.5. Use the lower of either the tower or surface visibility as the prevailing visibility
     for aircraft operations as required by FAAO 7110.65, Air Traffic Control.
     9.5.6. Report the following to the weather technician if not carried in the observation:
         9.5.6.1. The onset of precipitation.
         9.5.6.2. The occurrences of lightning.
         9.5.6.3. Tornadoes, funnel clouds or changes to the sky condition that may affect the
         safety of flight.
         9.5.6.4. Pilot Reports (PIREPS) not later than 5 minutes after receipt per AFI 15-128,
         Air Force Weather Roles and Responsibilities, paragraph 6.3.12.
         9.5.6.5. Any changing weather conditions observed by ATC personnel that are
         significantly different than those contained in the most recent weather observation.
     9.5.7. Notify OSW immediately after a change in the active runway.
16                                                       HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


        9.5.8. Report all changes in runway light settings when prevailing visibility is equal to or
        less than 1 mile (1600 meters).
        9.5.9. Workload permitting, when notified by any aircraft of a failed attempt to contact
        OSW by means of Pilot to Metro Service (PMSV); obtain the aircraft’s location and
        altitude, pass the information to OSW personnel, and relay the weather information back
        to the aircraft.
        9.5.10. If continuous RVR reporting is needed during airfield closure hours, OSW will
        notify airfield leadership that the RVR system requires the runway lights to be left on to
        work properly. This is encouraged if the possibility exists for an emergency aircraft divert
        into the location. Note: Air Traffic Control duties take precedence, however, tower
        personnel will strive to complete the tasks outlined in this letter in a timely manner.
     9.6. 75th Operational Support Squadron Base Operations will:
        9.6.1. Disseminate all weather watches, warnings and advisories IAW 75 OSS/OSAMB
        Notifications checklists during operational hours.
        9.6.2. Incorporate information into flight information publications.




                                              SARAH E. ZABEL, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                         17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 15-1, Air Force Weather Operations, 19 February 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events, 15 October 2003
AFI 11-202V3, ACC Supplement 1, General Flight Rules, 28 November 2012
AFI 15-128, Air Force Weather Roles and Responsibilities, 7 February 2011
AFMAN 15-111, Surface Weather Observations, 10 March 2009
AFMAN 15-124, Meteorological Codes, 28 October 2009
AFMAN 15-129V1, Air and Space Weather Operations – Characterization, 6 December 2011
AFMAN 15-129V2, Air and Space Weather Operations – Exploitation, 7 December 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sept 2009
DD Form 175-1, Flight Weather Briefing, Oct 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCCC—Air Force Climatology Command
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AGL—Above Ground Level
AIREP—Air Report
ATC—Air Traffic Control
BWW—Base Weather Watch
CWW—Cooperative Weather Watch
CONUS—Continental United States
DLT—Desired Lead Time
ECT—Equivalent Chill Temperature
EO/IR—Electro-Optics/Infra-Red
FMQ—19 - Field Meteorological Equipment
FITS—Fighter Index of Temperature Stress
HCCP—Hill Consolidated Command Post
IRC—Instrument Refresher Course
JET—Joint Environmental Toolkit
 18                                                HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


LLWS—Low Level Wind Shear
LOCAL—Local Surface Observation
MEF—Mission Execution Forecasts
METAR—Meteorological Aerodrome Weather Report
METWATCH—Meteorological Watch
MSL—Mean Sea Level
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen
NOWS—Night Operations Weather Software
NSM—Network System Manager
NWS—National Weather Service
OWS—Operational Weather Squadron
PIREP—Pilot Report
PMSV—Pilot to Metro Service
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RVR—Runway Visual Range
RVRNO—Runway Visual Range Unavailable
SLC—Salt Lake City
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
SPEC—Special Weather Report
SWAP—Severe Weather Action Procedures
TAF—Terminal Aerodrome Forecasts
TAWS—Target Acquisition Weather Software
UTC—Universal Time Coordination
UTTR—Utah Test and Training Range
WFC—Weather Flight Commander
WSR—88D - Weather Surveillance Radar
WWA—Watch, Warning, Advisory

Terms
Basic Weather Watch (BWW)— Conducted from the base weather station by an observer who,
because of other duties, cannot monitor the weather continuously. In addition to taking and
disseminating required record observations each hour, the BWW program requires that the
observer recheck weather conditions at intervals not to exceed 20 minutes.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               19


Cooperative Weather Watch (CWW)— A CWW is established between air traffic control
(ATC) and the weather flight. The occurrence of previously unreported weather conditions
which could affect flight safety or which could be critical to the safety or efficiency of other
local operations and resources is of primary concern.
Desired Lead Time (DLT)— The amount of advance notice a supported agency requires to
complete necessary actions prior to the onset of an established weather event.
Eyes Forward— An open and continuous dialog of communication from the 75 OSS/OSW to
the 25 OWS designed to enhance Meteorological Watch processes and to share information
about the development of significant meteorological conditions that may put Hill AFB resources
at risk.
Joint Environmental Toolkit (JET)— Weather information evaluation and dissemination
system. It is designed to consolidate legacy weather systems over the spectrum of weather
operations and enhance war fighter decision process.
Meteorological Watch (METWATCH)— The process of actively comparing observed weather
conditions with those forecasted and updating forecasts with the latest information.
Mission Execution Forecast (MEF)— A customized, tactical-level weather product provided
by the 75 OSS/OSW for its supported units to conduct military mission.
Pilot to Metro Service (PMSV)— An Ultra High Frequency (UHF) radio service (342.3 MHz)
that allows aircrews to contact weather personnel for updated weather conditions and to pass on
significant flight weather reports.
Pilot Report (PIREP)— A report of observed flight weather conditions usually passed to
weather personnel through the PMSV radio.
Severe Weather— Established weather conditions that are deemed to pose a hazard to flight
safety, property or life. Examples include but are not limited to tornadoes, heavy snow and
winds greater than 50 knots.

Terminal Aerodrome - The area within a 5 nautical-mile radius of the center point of the Hill
AFB runway complex.
Terminal Aerodrome Forecast (TAF)— A 24-hour forecast for cloud layers, prevailing
visibility, weather obstructing visibility, surface winds, altimeter setting, and icing and
turbulence from the surface to 10,000 ft mean sea level (MSL). Produced and disseminated by
the 25 OWS.
Thunderstorm— Atmospheric condition consisting of lightning, thunder, and heavy
precipitation. Potential exists for gusty winds, hail, severe turbulence, icing and wind shear.
Severe Thunderstorm— A thunderstorm capable of producing winds 50 knots or greater and/or
hail 3/4 inches or greater.
Strong Thunderstorm— A thunderstorm capable of producing winds 35 to 49 knots and/or hail
1/2 inch to less than 3/4 inch.
Vicinity— The area between five and ten statute miles of the center point of the Hill AFB
runway complex.
 20                                                   HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


Weather Advisory— A special message disseminated via JET, which notifies of established
weather conditions that require certain protective actions by various base agencies.
Observed Advisory— An observed weather advisory will be issued only when established
weather conditions are actually observed to be occurring at the terminal aerodrome. These
advisories will be canceled when the conditions are no longer being observed.
Forecast Advisory— A forecast advisory will be issued when an established weather condition
is expected to occur. Advisories will be amended, upgraded, or canceled as required to
accurately reflect conditions - forecasted advisories issued for Hill AFB are for conditions
forecast to affect the aerodrome.
Weather Warning— A special message transmitted over JET to highlight established weather
conditions that require certain protective actions by various base agencies. A weather warning
will be issued when an established weather condition of such intensity as to pose a hazard to
flight safety, property, or life is occurring or is expected to occur. Warnings will be amended,
upgraded, or canceled as required to accurately reflect conditions. Warnings issued for Hill AFB
are for conditions forecast to affect the aerodrome.
Weather Watch— A special message transmitted over JET to advise supported agencies of the
potential for an established weather condition to occur. If required, weather watches will be
upgraded to weather warnings. Agencies should review required actions.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  21


                                          Attachment 2
                           SPECIAL OBSERVATION CRITERIA

A2.1. Ceiling. A ceiling (the height assigned to the lowest broken or overcast layer of clouds
which is predominately opaque) forms or dissipates below, decreases to less than or if below,
increases to equal or exceeds:
   A2.1.1. 10,000 feet (388/419 FW, 514FLTS)
   A2.1.2. 5,000 feet (514 FLTS)
   A2.1.3. 3,000 feet
   A2.1.4. 1,500 feet
   A2.1.5. 1,000 feet
   A2.1.6. 700 feet
   A2.1.7. 600 feet
   A2.1.8. 500 feet
   A2.1.9. 400 feet
   A2.1.10. 300 feet
   A2.1.11. 200 feet
A2.2. Sky Condition. A layer of clouds or obscuring phenomena aloft (i.e., smoke) is observed
below 600 feet and no layer was reported below this height previously.
A2.3. Visibility. Prevailing visibility is observed to decrease to less than or if below, increases
to equal or exceed:
   A2.3.1. 5 miles (514 FLTS)
   A2.3.2. 3 miles
   A2.3.3. 2 miles
   A2.3.4. 1 1/2 miles
   A2.3.5. 1 1/4 miles
   A2.3.6. 1 mile
   A2.3.7. 3/4 mile
   A2.3.8. 1/2 mile
A2.4. RVR. Transmit a SPECI for RVR when the following criteria are met:
   A2.4.1. RVR for the active runway decreases to less than or if below, increases to equal or
   exceed:
       A2.4.2. 6000 feet
       A2.4.2.1. 5000 feet
       A2.4.2.2. 4000 feet
 22                                                         HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


         A2.4.2.3. 2400 feet
         A2.4.2.4. 2000 feet
A2.5. Thunderstorm. Transmit a SPECI when:
      A2.5.1. A thunderstorm begins (not required if a thunderstorm is currently in progress).
      A2.5.2. A thunderstorm ends.
A2.6. Precipitation. Transmit a SPECI when:
      A2.6.1. Hail begins or ends.
      A2.6.2. Freezing precipitation begins, ends or changes intensity.
      A2.6.3. Ice pellets begin, end or change intensity.
A2.7. Wind Shift. Take a SPECI when a wind shift occurs.
A2.8. Tornado, Funnel Cloud, or Waterspout. Take a SPECI when a tornado, funnel cloud or
waterspout:
      A2.8.1. Is observed.
      A2.8.2. Disappears from sight or ends.
A2.9. Squall. Take a SPECI when squalls occur.
A2.10. Aircraft Mishap. If operating in back-up mode, a SPECI is required. The remark
“ACFT MISHAP” is added to the remark section of the observation record, but is not transmitted
locally or long line.
A2.11. Volcanic Ash. When first observed.
A2.12. Upon Resumption of Observing Services. Take a SPECI within 15 minutes after
returning to duty following a break in hourly coverage if a METAR was not filed as scheduled
during that 15-minute period.
A2.13. Any other meteorological situation, which in the opinion of the weather personnel, is
significant to the safety of aircraft operations or resource protection.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                23


                                         Attachment 3
            METEOROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS

A3.1. JET. The Joint Environmental Toolkit (JET) is an integrated, automated system designed
to provide weather, air traffic control and base operations products to complete the mission. JET
is the primary dissemination system for observations, forecasts, advisories, watches, warnings
and PIREPs.
A3.2. FMQ-19. The FMQ-19 measures temperature, dew point, wind, ceiling height, visibility,
pressure, precipitation type, precipitation amount in water equivalent, runway visual range, and
lightning. There are two full sensors on the north and south ends of the runway and an additional
wind sensor at the center of the runway.
A3.3. PMSV. The PMSV operates at a UHF frequency of 342.3 MHz and allows ground-to-air-
to-ground radio communications.
 24                                                      HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


                                           Attachment 4
  MISSION EXECUTION FORECAST SPECIFICATION/AMENDMENT CRITERIA

A4.1. General. The MEF will specify the expected occurrence, duration and intensity of the
weather conditions listed below. If forecast conditions change, the MEF will be amended
verbally and posted to the Hill AFB intranet as time permits. An amendment is necessary when
any of the following are expected to occur or have occurred and are expected to persist for more
than 30 minutes.
A4.2. Ceiling. Ceilings decrease to less than, or if below, increase to equal or exceed:
      A4.2.1. 10,000 feet
      A4.2.2. 5,000 feet
      A4.2.3. 3,000 feet
      A4.2.4. 1,500 feet
      A4.2.5. 700 feet
      A4.2.6. 500 feet
      A4.2.7. 300 feet
      A4.2.8. 200 feet
A4.3. Visibility. Visibility decreases to less than or if below, increases to equal or exceed:
      A4.3.1. 5 statute miles
      A4.3.2. 3 statute miles
      A4.3.3. 2 statute miles
      A4.3.4. 11/2 statute miles
      A4.3.5. 1 statute mile
      A4.3.6. 1/2 statute mile
A4.4. Wind. Wind speed change of 10 knots or more, or a direction change of more than 30
degrees when the wind speed (including gusts) is expected to be in excess of 15 knots.
A4.5. Precipitation. When:
      A4.5.1. Freezing precipitation begins or ends.
      A4.5.2. The beginning or ending of precipitation causes an advisory or warning to be issued,
      canceled, or amended.
      A4.5.3. The occurrence or non occurrence of precipitation is deemed operationally
      significant.
A4.6. Thunderstorms. Any thunderstorm activity or change in coverage or duration of
thunderstorm activity.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 25


A4.7. Weather Warnings. Warning criterion which occurs or is expected to occur, and is not
specified in the MEF or was forecasted and is no longer occurring, or is no longer expected to
occur.
A4.8. Icing or Turbulence. Icing or turbulence of moderate or greater intensity which occurs
or is expected to occur, and is not specified in the MEF or was forecasted and is no longer
occurring, or is no longer expected to occur.
A4.9. Low-Level Wind Shear. Low-level wind shear below 2,000 feet not associated with
thunderstorms occurs or is expected to occur, and is not specified in the MEF or is forecasted but
is no longer occurring or expected to occur.
A4.10. Other. Though not an amendment criterion, a remark special to Hill AFB during winter
and transition times will be annotated in the MEF. If clouds are expected to be over the north or
south end of the runway, the cloud layer is identified in the cloud layer section of the remarks.
For example, if Hill AFB is expecting few clouds over the north end of the runway with bases at
500 feet the remark FEW 005 OVR N RWY will be annotated. Also, anytime the forecaster
considers the forecast to be unrepresentative.
 26                                                       HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


                                            Attachment 5
                                    WEATHER ADVISORIES

A5.1. Observed Weather Advisories. The duty technician will issue and cancel the following
observed weather advisories pertinent to flight operations and resource protection over JET.
Attachment 8 details the notification matrices for agencies that do not have JET. All Advisories
are valid for the area within a five nautical mile radius of the center of the runway complex
unless otherwise specified.
      A5.1.1. Observed Lightning Advisory. Issued when lightning is observed within a 10
      nautical mile radius of the center of the airfield complex. This advisory is superseded when
      an observed lightning warning is issued or is canceled when lightning has not been observed
      within 10 nautical miles for at least 15 minutes.
      A5.1.2. F-16 Ice FOD Advisory. Issued as an observed advisory when the temperature is
      below 45 Fahrenheit. The Ice FOD Advisory will be sent via JET and will contain the
      following message: “Hill Air Force Base F-16 Ice FOD potential exists with DPD…”
      Choose one: “…<= (less than or equal to) 05C/09F” or “…> (greater than) 05C/09F.” The
      advisory will be cancelled when the temperature rises above 45F. Aircrews and maintenance
      personnel follow locally directed guidance when determining the need to employ anti-icing
      systems and inlet icing monitors.
      A5.1.3. Fighter Index of Thermal Stress (FITS). FITS CAUTION, and FITS DANGER
      observed advisories will be issued when the combination of dry bulb temperature and dew
      point temperature enter into FITS value zones found in Table A2.1.2. of AFI 11-202, Vol 3,
      ACC Sup 1, General Flight Rules (as shown in this publication). Only one FITS observed
      advisory may be in effect at one time. FITS observed advisories will be cancelled when
      FITS conditions are in the NORMAL zone.

Figure A5.1. Dew Point Temperature (Extracted from ACC Supplement)




      A5.1.4. Wind Chill Advisory. Issued when the wind chill calculated using the peak gust
      during the last 15 minutes is less than or equal to -18 degrees Celsius (0 degrees Fahrenheit).
      This advisory is canceled when conditions are no longer met.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                27


  A5.1.5. Low-Level Wind Shear (LLWS) Advisory. Issued when LLWS below 2,000 feet
  AGL not associated with thunderstorms is occurring based on PIREPs or other observation
  techniques. This advisory is canceled when conditions are no longer occurring.
  A5.1.6. Wind Conditions.
     A5.1.6.1. Wind Condition 1. Issued when wind speeds are observed greater than or
     equal to 30 but less than 40 knots. When the criteria is observed, it will be valid for the
     period of one hour from occurrence. When one hour lapses after the last occurrence, the
     wind condition will be cancelled.
     A5.1.6.2. Wind Condition 2. Issued when wind speeds are observed greater than or
     equal to 40 but less than 50 knots. When the criterion is observed, it will be valid for the
     period of one hour from occurrence. When one hour lapses after the last occurrence, the
     wind condition will be cancelled or downgraded.
     A5.1.6.3. Wind Condition 3. Issued when wind speeds are observed greater than or
     equal to 50 but less than 70 knots. When the criterion is observed, it will be valid for the
     period of one hour from occurrence. When one hour elapses after the last occurrence, the
     wind condition will be cancelled or downgraded.
     A5.1.6.4. Wind Condition 4. Issued when wind speeds are observed greater than or
     equal to 70 knots. When the criterion is observed, it will be valid for the period of one
     hour from occurrence. When one hour elapses after the last occurrence, the wind
     condition will be cancelled or downgraded.
  A5.1.7. Cross Wind Advisory. Issued when cross winds are greater than or equal to 25
  knots. This advisory is canceled when conditions are no longer occurring.
  A5.1.8. Gust Spread Advisory. Issued when the observed difference between the sustained
  wind and the wind gust is 15KTS or greater. When one hour lapses after the last occurrence,
  the wind condition will be cancelled.
 28                                                      HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


                                           Attachment 6
                          WEATHER WATCHES AND WARNINGS

A6.1. Weather Watches. Weather watches will be issued on the potential for the weather
condition to occur, and will be canceled when the potential no longer exists, or is upgraded to
weather warnings when the potential is significant enough that protective measures must be
taken to protect property and life. Weather watches will have defined begin and end times. All
watches are valid for the area within a five nautical mile radius of the center of the runway
complex.

Table A6.1. Weather Watch Criteria and Desired Lead Times




A6.2. Weather Warnings. Weather warnings will be issued when the potential for established
weather criteria is significant enough that protective measures must be taken to protect property
and life. All warnings are valid for the area within a five nautical mile radius of the center of the
runway complex. All weather warnings are forecasts issued prior to the onset of the expected
condition. The exception to this is the lightning observed within five nautical miles warning.
When lightning is actually observed within a five nautical mile radius of the center of the airfield
complex (i.e., visual sighting by weather observer, forecasters, tower personnel, ramp personnel,
lightning detection system, WSR-88D Doppler Radar or other reliable sources), this observed
warning would be issued. This warning is canceled when it has been at least 15 minutes since
any of the above criteria was last met.
Table A6.2. Weather Warning Criteria and Desired Lead Times




Note: Watches and warnings will specify size, strength, or amounts expected, as applicable.
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                29


A6.3. Blizzard Watch and Warning. The blizzard watch and warning outlined in AFI 10-229,
Responding to Severe Weather Events, will not be issued at Hill AFB until customer
requirements dictate otherwise. The current wind and snow watches and warnings cover all
blizzard criteria except visibility. Any operational need for the blizzard watch and warning will
be coordinated with the weather flight commander.
 30                                             HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


                                     Attachment 7
                       JET CLIENT SOFTWARE LOCATIONS

Table A7.1. Jet Client Software Locations
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 31


                                         Attachment 8
                                  NOTIFICATION MATRIX

A8.1. The base is notified via Giant Voice for the following warnings:
   A8.1.1. Tornado
   A8.1.2. (Hail > ¾”)
   A8.1.3. Severe Winds (>50kts)
   A8.1.4. Lightning Observed (within 5nm)
   A8.1.5. Freezing Precipitation

Figure A8.1. Notification Matrix - units notified by Hill Consolidated Command Post.




*denotes after duty hours notification

Weather Advisory. Weather advisories are special notices to supported agencies that
established weather conditions, for which they may have to take protective actions, are occurring
or are expected to occur.
____ A ICE FOD
 32                                                    HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


____ B FITS (FIGHTER INDEX OF THERMAL STRESS, CAUTION OR DANGER)
____ C GUST SPREAD (> 15 KTS)
____ D WIND CHILL (< 0 FAHRENHEIT)
____ E LOW-LEVEL WIND SHEAR
____ F CROSSWINDS (>25 KTS)
____ G WIND CONDITION 1 (30-40 KTS OBSERVED)
____ H WIND CONDITION 2 (41-49 KTS OBSERVED)
____ I WIND CONDITION 3 (50-70 KTS OBSERVED)
____ J WIND CONDITION 4 (Over 70KTS OBSERVED)
____ K LIGHTNING OBSERVED WITHIN 10NM
Weather Watch. Weather watches are issued to alert using agencies of the potential for weather
conditions of such intensity as to pose a hazard to life or property.
____ L TORNADO
____ M SEVERE THUNDERSTORM (WINDS > 50 KTS AND/OR HAIL > ¾”)
____ N LIGHTNING WITHIN 5 NM
____ O SNOW > 2” IN 2 HOURS
____ P FREEZING PRECIPITATION
Weather Warning. A weather warning is a special notice to supported agencies that established
weather conditions are occurring or are expected to occur of such intensity as to pose a hazard to
life or property.
____ Q TORNADO
____ R HAIL > ¾”
____ S SEVERE WINDS( > 50 KTS)
____ T HAIL > ½” < ¾”
____ U STRONG WINDS (35-49 KTS)
____ V LIGHTNING OBSERVED (WITHIN 5 NM)
____ W FREEZING PRECIPITATION
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013        33


Table A8.1. Agencies to be notified
 34                                                     HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 9
  AIRCRAFT AND GROUND SUPPORT SENSITIVITES AND ACTIONS TAKEN BY
                          CUSTOMERS

A9.1. Supported Unit Requirements.
      A9.1.1. General: Thoroughly understanding customer needs is critical in determining
      weather support requirements and subsequently providing the support. This Attachment
      provides mission-limiting terrestrial and space weather parameters/requirements as well as
      unit mission descriptions for all supported and local flying units.
A9.2. 388th//419th Fighter Wing//514th Flight Test Squadron (AFRC)//309 TH Maintenance
Wing (AFMC DEPOT).
      A9.2.1. Mission: The 388/419 FW maintains and operates F-16 Fighting Falcons. The 309
      MXW performs PDM on F-22, F16, A-10s and C-130s. The 514th Flight Test Squadron
      performs “flight check” tests on 309MXW ACFT.
      A9.2.2. Weapon Systems or Resource/Assets:
         A9.2.2.1. Aircraft: F-22, F-16A/B/C/D, A-10, C-130.
         A9.2.2.2. Weapons: JDAM, AMRAAM, AIM-9, MARK 82-84, GBU –10, 12, 24.
         A9.2.2.3. Other Resources/Assets: N/A.
      A9.2.3. Mission-limiting Weather Parameters:
         A9.2.3.1. Space: GPS correction.
         A9.2.3.2. Terrestrial Restrictions/Requirements:

Table A9.1. Takeoff Restriction
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                       35


Table A9.2. Landing Restrictions




Table A9.3. Route Ceilings/Visibility Restrictions




Table A9.4. Mission Restrictions (Air-To-Ground)




Table A9.5. Mission Restrictions (Air-To-Air)
 36                                             HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013


Table A9.6. Other Possible Mission-Impacting Weather Parameters




Table A9.7. Aircraft Maintenance Requirements
HILLAFBI15-101 5 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 37


A9.2.3.3. Weather Support Requirements: Electronic MEF; updates of weather watch, warning,
and advisory criteria; phone contact with SOF; in-person briefings prior to step during inclement
weather.
A9.3. Ogden Air Logistics Complex/75th Air Base Wing.
   A9.3.1. Mission: Provides the installation with traditional military services, to include civil
   engineering, personnel, logistics, communications, planning/strategic management,
   computer, medical, security, recreational services, munitions and all other host services.
   A9.3.2. Weapon Systems or Resource/Assets:
       A9.3.2.1. Aircraft: N/A
       A9.3.2.2. Weapons:      Munitions Storage Area consisting of a wide spectrum of
       munitions.
       A9.3.2.3. Other Resources/Assets: Facilities, equipment and personnel on Hill AFB.
       Specifically, activate monitoring, possible evacuation and snow removal from roofs of
       800 series Buildings.
   A9.3.3. Mission-limiting Weather Parameters:
       A9.3.3.1. Terrestrial: Thunderstorms, lightning, winds, hail and snowfall.
       A9.3.3.2. Space: None.
   A9.3.4. Weather Support Requirements: Briefs Hill Crisis Action Team, Installation Control
   Center, Emergency Operations Center, and 75 ABW staff meetings upon request.
