BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                             32-103

                                                                              21 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                  Civil Engineering

                                                                         SPACE MANAGEMENT


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 75 CEG/CEAAR                                                         Certified by: 75 CEG/CC
                                                                           (Mr. Harry Briesmaster)
                                                                                           Pages: 6




This Instruction establishes procedure for requesting, approving, assigning and managing all real
property organizational assignments of facility space and the re-allocation of existing facility
space located on Hill Air Force Base (AFB) and its Geographically Separated Units (GSU). This
instruction applies to all organizations and associate units located on or desiring to locate on Hill
AFB and its GSU. The goal of this Instruction is to assure requirements pertaining to requests
for space are validated and prioritized based on current and projected mission, the availability
and condition of existing assets, infrastructure requirements and scope. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.


1. Background.
   1.1. All requests for space and reallocation of facility space shall be approved through the
   Facility Board (FB) process. The FB process consists of a Facilities Working Group (FWG)
   where the request is first staffed, a Space Management Working Group (SMWG) or a
   Facilities Planning Committee (FPC) where the approving level is distinguished, and the
   decision or approval FB chaired by the 75 Air Base Wing Commander (75 ABW/CC)
 2                                                     HILLAFBI32-103 21 FEBRUARY 2013


     (Installation Commander). The requestor will have a representative on each of these boards.
     Attachment 2 diagrams the staffing process used for space allocation requests. If requestor
     does not have a representative, the requestor is invited to participate and provide pertinent
     and useful information in support of the request. Unless the requestor is an established
     voting member on the FB, the requestor will not have a vote at the FB but will be represented
     by a voting member. The Installation Commander is the final approval authority for all
     facility space allocation requests.
     1.2. The current inventory of real property assets is both scarce and aging. Optimum use and
     maintenance of existing resources are essential for the Installation to remain viable and
     competitive. Attracting new missions that both support and enhance Installation goals is
     critical. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Act mandates accurate and timely reporting of
     real property assets by type and condition. MILCON, demolition, maintenance and repair
     funding is contingent upon accurate portrayal and timely reporting of real property assets.
     To assure these requirements and goals are met, anyone requesting space at Hill AFB must
     adhere to the standardized process outlined in this Instruction for requesting, approving and
     assigning facility space.
2. General requirements.
     2.1. Any organization or entity that desires to obtain facility space will provide a written
     request to 75 Civil Engineer Group (CEG)/Civilian Leader (CL) or 75 CEG/Deputy Director
     (DD) signed by the requestor’s Director/Commander, Deputy or equivalent. The requestor
     identifies the project officer or point of contact to work with 75 CEG/Civil Asset
     Management Space Allocations (CEAAR) personnel. At a minimum, the following
     information must be included in any request for space:
        2.1.1. Fully identify the requirement, new mission or reason additional space is required.
        Thorough justification and explanation of the requirement will speed the staffing process.
        2.1.2. Identify increase in number of people (authorized/assigned including contractors).
        Provide Unit Manning Document (UMD) verifying increased manning requirement.
        2.1.3. Identify the scope (square feet) and type of space (administrative, storage, etc.)
        that is required.
        2.1.4. Identify the need date/timeline of the requirement.
        2.1.5. Identify any special requirements Information Technology (IT) hard wall offices,
        overhead doors, loading dock, etc.). Provide current and proposed diagram/layout of
        space utilization.
        2.1.6. Identify the fund source for the proposed function.
        2.1.7. Provide a completed Space Reallocation Form (HILLAFB Form 561) signed at
        Director/Commander level. If another entity is relinquishing space in support of the
        request, that entity must also provide a completed HILLAFB 561 signed by the entity’s
        Director/Commander.
        2.1.8. Internal moves within an organization that will change the currently assigned fund
        code or the category code, must be coordinated through 75 CEG/CEAAR to ensure the
        accountable records of the Civil Engineer reflect both current and actual utilization of
        space.
HILLAFBI32-103 21 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               3


  2.2. 75 CEG/CEAAR will:
     2.2.1. Provide a written response to the requestor within 7 working days of receipt of all
     required information.
     2.2.2. Assign a space manager to handle the request and validate the requirement. The
     request will be staffed by the space manager through the FWG for input and suggestions.
     2.2.3. Visit potential areas and work in close conjunction with the requestor to develop
     recommendations.
     2.2.4. Provide an initial recommendation to the requestor within 30 days. The requestor
     must provide an acceptance or declination within 7 days of receipt.                 If the
     recommendation is declined, the request will be re-staffed for an agreeable resolution for
     both parties. If there is no other workable or acceptable solution after a 60 day working
     period, the request will be elevated to the Installation Commander for input and direction.
  2.3. After FB approval, Space Management will ensure that the Custodial Service, CE
  Customer Service, and the Inter Service Support Agreement (ISSA) monitor are provided
  updated information pertaining to approved space reallocations.
     2.3.1. 75 CEG/CEAAR will assist in identifying the category code for the proposed
     use/function (IAW AFH 32-1084). If more than one category code applies, identify each
     code by square footage.
     2.3.2. After FB approval, the real property records will be updated to reflect approved
     reallocations of space.
     2.3.3. Organizations may move functions within their assigned space without FB
     approval.
     2.3.4. When assigned space is no longer required by a using organization, that
     organization must notify 75 CEG. Organizations do not have the authority to “give” their
     space to other organizations. The FB is the sole authority for space reallocation.




                                          SARAH E. ZABEL, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
 4                                                    HILLAFBI32-103 21 FEBRUARY 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Pamphlet Directive 32-90, Real Property Asset Management, 6 August 2007
Air Force Pamphlet Directive 32-10, Installations & Facilities, 4 March 2010
Air Force Handbook 32-1084, Facility Requirements, 1 September 1996
Air Force Instruction 32-1024 Standard Facility Requirements, 31 May 1994
Prescribed Forms
HILLAFB561, Facility Space Allocation, (Date pending publication)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Acronyms and Abbreviations
ABW—Air Base Wing
AFB—Air Force Base
CEG/CL—Civil Engineer Group/Civilian Leader
CEG/CEAAR—Civil Engineer Asset Management Space Allocations
CFO—Chief Financial Officer
FB—Facility Board
FPC—Facility Planning Committee
FWG—Facility Working Group
GSU—Geographically Separated Units
ISSA—Inter Service Support Agreement
IT—Information Technology
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition
SMWG—Space Management Working Group
UMD—Unit Manning Document

Terms
Facility:—A building or structure to include utility systems, pavements, and land.
Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE)—: Those items of government owned accessory
equipment, apparatus and fixtures that are essential to the function of the real property (lands,
HILLAFBI32-103 21 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 5


structures, leaseholds, etc.). They are permanently attached to, integrated into, or on government
owned or leased property, whether or not initially procured and installed under a MILCON. If
the item is essential to the function or mission that the facility was designed to house and could
not be removed without causing structural damage, it is real property.
Condition:—The physical ability of a facility to house a specific organization or function.
 6                                               HILLAFBI32-103 21 FEBRUARY 2013


                                     Attachment 2
        STAFFING PROCESS USED FOR SPACE ALLOCATION REQUESTS

Figure A2.1. Staffing Process Used for Space Allocation Requests
