BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 36-2801
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                                13 OCTOBER 1998
                                                                    Certified Current, 21 November 2011
                                                                                             Personnel

                                                                      HILL AFB CIVILIAN OF THE
                                                                        QUARTER/YEAR AWARDS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: OO-ALC/DPCE (Ned Champagne)                      Certified by: OO-ALC/DPCE (Ned Champagne)
Supersedes OO-ALC-HAFBI 36-2801,                                                         Pages: 5
           30 August 1997                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs. This instruction prescribes
procedures for nomination and awarding of Hill AFB Civilian of the Quarter/Year Awards.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision deletes the awards monitor as a committee member. Adds non-appropriated fund employees
to those who are eligible to compete for awards; changes the category designations; changes the awards
given, publicity procedures, and submission and format procedures; changes basic dos and don’ts in
Attachment 1, and questions and answers in Attachment 2. Attachment 3 has been removed. An bar (|)
indicates revision from previous edition.


1. Purpose Of These Awards. A management tool used to recognize and motivate employees for their
contributions to the efficiency, economy, or other improvement of government operations at Hill AFB.
Contributions that stimulate high levels of proficiency and productivity among employees, or improve the
image of the civil service and the agency (in an official capacity) may also be considered.

2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Commanders, Directors, Staff Directors, and Tenant Commanders publicize and implement the
   program through their internal awards monitor. Anyone (employees or management) may prepare
   nominations.
   2.2. The immediate supervisor reviews nominations for accuracy and quality, and verifies that disci-
   plinary or adverse action is not pending that would reflect unfavorably on the performance recom-
   mended for recognition.
   2.3. The awards monitor sets internal suspense dates for submission, administers the internal selec-
   tion process, and participates in preparation for quarterly and yearly award ceremonies.
2                                                            HILLAFBI36-2801 13 OCTOBER 1998


    2.4. Labor and Employee Management Relations Branch (OO-ALC/DPCE) will perform program
    administration, provide publicity data on award recipients, and convene the OO-ALC Civilian Incen-
    tive Awards Committee quarterly, or as necessary.
    2.5. The OO-ALC Civilian Incentive Awards Committee reviews and recommends award nomina-
    tions for the Commander’s approval. The committee will also review and recommend incentive award
    program improvements. The committee is comprised of representatives at various levels of center
    management, the union, and tenant units. Membership on the committee is changed yearly.
    2.6. The OO-ALC Commander (OO-ALC/CC) approves/disapproves recommended award nomina-
    tions and whenever possible presents the awards.
    2.7. The Office of Public Affairs (OO-ALC/PA) will publicize the data provided on award recipients
    and distribute copies to local media.

3. Eligibility. All appropriated and non-appropriated fund civil service employees whose work location
is Hill AFB, the Utah Test and Training Range, or Little Mountain are eligible to compete in the appropri-
ate categories as follows:
    3.1. Category 1: General Schedule (GS)-10/Non-Appropriated Fund Pay Band (NF)-IV/Child Devel-
    opment and Youth Programs (CC)-05 and Below.
    3.2. Category 2: GS-11 and Above.
    3.3. Category 3: Wage Grade (WG)/Wage Leader (WL)/Crafts and Trades Non-Supervisory (NA)/
    Crafts and Trades Leader (NL)-09 and Below.
    3.4. Category 4: WG/WL/NA/NL-10 and Above.
    3.5. Category 5: All Supervisors (all grades).

4. Criteria. Selection will be competitive and based on the merit of each individuals accomplishments or
contributions, for the specified quarter or year. Improved efficiency, economy, or other improvements of
government operations are critical elements. Contributions that stimulate high levels of proficiency and
productivity among employees, or improve the image of government service and the agency may also be
considered. Personal improvement and public service may only be considered in the event of a tie.

5. Awards.
    5.1. Quarterly winners will receive - a one-day time-off award, a $100 notable achievement award, a
    certificate, and possibly items donated by community supporters.
    5.2. Yearly winners will receive - a trophy, a one-day time-off award, a $100 notable achievement
    award, a certificate, and possibly items donated by community supporters.
    5.3. All nominees are provided a meal or refreshments as appropriate at the presentation ceremony.
    Those not selected will receive a letter of appreciation and may also be recognized at the organiza-
    tional level for their contributions through other awards. Awards for those not selected should not
    exceed awards listed above for base winners and base winners may not receive duplicate recognition
    for the same contribution.
HILLAFBI36-2801 13 OCTOBER 1998                                                                         3


6. Presentations. Awards will be presented in formal ceremonies as appropriate (i.e. Quarterly Recogni-
tion Breakfast or Annual Recognition Banquet).

7. Publicity. Photographs of the current quarterly and yearly award winners are displayed in the Hall of
Fame, Building 1102, near the Air Room. Photographs will also be provided for display in the award
recipient’s organization and later are provided to the recipient. Information from the winning nominations
and photographs are provided to OO-ALC/PA for base and local media publicity.

8. Submission and Format. One submission will be allowed per directorate, wing, group, or tenant unit
for each category in the quarterly and yearly competitions. All nominations must be submitted on
OO-ALC Form 490, Civilian of the Quarter/Year Award Nomination, in narrative format. Nomina-
tions will not exceed the space allotted on the form. Submit one original typed copy. Photos and other
backup materials will not be accepted. Submit to the nominee’s supervisor and then to the organizational
awards monitor for internal selection. Award monitors will forward internally selected quarterly nomina-
tions by the 5th day after the quarter (i.e., Jan through Mar submitted by 5 Apr) to OO-ALC/DPCE (build-
ing 1245, room 10). Annual nominations are due by 5 Feb.

9. Guidelines For Preparation Of Narrative Justifications. Supervisors are encouraged to keep a suc-
cess/victory folder, containing letters of appreciation, facts concerning achievements, previous awards,
write-ups, etc., on each employee for easy reference in preparing award nominations. This information
will also be helpful in preparing performance appraisals. Basic dos and don’ts are in Attachment 1, a
question and answer method for writing the justification is in Attachment 2.

10. Forms Prescribed. This publication prescribes OO-ALC Form 490, Civilian of the Quarter/Year
Award Nomination.



                                               BETTY J. MADDOX
                                               Civilian Personnel Officer
4                                                            HILLAFBI36-2801 13 OCTOBER 1998


                                             Attachment 1

                                     BASIC DOS AND DON’TS

A1.1. Do:
    A1.1.1. Do internalize and personalize. Think about the person you are nominating. Be sure you
    know the whole person and the mission of the organization.
    A1.1.2. Do give sufficient and clear examples of the contributions, initiative, performance above and
    beyond normal expectations, innovation, etc.
    A1.1.3. Do describe the impact the nominee has made on progress and mission accomplishment,
    emphasize results and quantify whenever possible.
    A1.1.4. Do write short sentences. Use layman terms, be understandable, and down-to-earth. Use
    action-packed words that summarize simply.
    A1.1.5. Do be creative. Use of buzzwords such as “a guru,@” when the person is a recognized guide
    or leader, are okay. When used sparingly and in context, buzzwords can paint a wonderful picture.
    A1.1.6. Do use spell check. Then re-read to be sure you haven’t missed anything and to ensure the
    meaning has not changed.

A1.2. Do not:
    A1.2.1. Do not recite the normal duty assignments or fully successful performance.
    A1.2.2. Do not submit bullets.
    A1.2.3. Do not use acronyms without defining or spelling them out.
    A1.2.4. Do not use long run-on sentences.
HILLAFBI36-2801 13 OCTOBER 1998                                                                           5


                                              Attachment 2

         QUESTION AND ANSWER METHOD FOR WRITING THE JUSTIFICATION

A2.1. First ask yourself these questions and jot down some responses:
   A2.1.1. Has the contribution improved mission accomplishment (i.e., better, faster, smarter or
   cheaper)? If yes, tell what you observed (what changed) in comparison to what is normal. If no, may
   not be appropriate for this type of recognition.
   A2.1.2. Is the contribution of particular importance or significance to the organization? If yes, explain
   why (results or impact). If no, consider an award equal to the level of significance.
   A2.1.3. Was there a great amount of independent thought or unusual insight, imagination or effort
   involved? Describe how the change or action came about.
   A2.1.4. Was there a substantial impact or benefits derived from the contribution? If yes, explain what
   happened or is estimated to happen as a result of the contribution (i.e., quantifiable dollar savings,
   high significance to a mission process, affects the entire command, etc). If no, may not be appropriate
   for this level of recognition.

A2.2. Now you should have enough to information to draft a narrative justification. Review the draft and
determine whether or not you have communicated the situation and results of the action. Positively
describe the action using such words as; commendable, outstanding, exceptional, notable, superb, etc.
Describe the kind of person you are talking about and how their attitude or actions affect others. Personal
improvement and public service may be added at the end of the nomination, it should be kept to a mini-
mum and complete the whole person image. Re-read the justification again to ensure you have painted a
complete picture (who, what, where, when, why, and how).
