BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                            32-6005

                                                                          30 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                           DORMITORY PROCEDURES AND
                                                           INFORMATION FOR RESIDENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 75 CEG/CEAH                                                    Certified by: 75 CEG/ CEAH
                                                                          (Ms. Lareen Parkinson)
Supersedes:    HAFBI 32-6005,                                                          Pages: 15
               17 March 2009


This instruction implements AFPD 32-60, Housing. This was developed to ensure all dormitory
residents are familiar with the 75th Air Base Wing's (75 ABW) Dormitory Program. It outlines
the duties and responsibilities of the dormitory manager, bay orderly, and occupants. It is
necessary you become knowledgeable of this instruction and help to ensure the guidelines are
enforced. Our goal is to provide a safe, healthy, and clean living environment. In the event
questions/situations arise that are not addressed by this instruction, please bring them to the
attention of the dormitory manager or your first sergeant. Any complaints of unequal treatment
must be immediately referred to your first sergeant or commander. This instruction will be
maintained in your dormitory room and be reviewed regularly to ensure compliance with its
contents. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the        Air       Force       Records        Disposition        Schedule        located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes Housing Maintenance to the 75th Civil Engineer Group Customer Service
Desk 777-1856, and 775 CES to 75 CEG/CEAH throughout the publication. Added non-
emergency maintenance calls are to contact dormitory management office 777-3029 to paragraph
 2                                                   HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011


1.2.3. Microwaves, stoves and dishwashers are added to appliances that are government-
furnished paragraph 1.6. Changed no smoking in any facility in Prohibitions paragraph 2.2.1.
and smoking in buildings area is absolutely prohibited paragraph 2.17. Changed paragraph 1.5.
Lockouts, that after duty hours or weekends should contact your first sergeant. Deleted Ashtray
will be emptied prior to vacating your room or premises, paragraph 3.9.2. Deleted vehicles must
be registered on base, paragraph 4.1. Changed aquariums are limited to a 35 gallon tank and
responsible for damage caused by aquarium, paragraph 5.4. Deleted base wide Basic Allowance
for Housing authorization list, to a separate BAH listing for each unit is maintained. In the event
the base list does not provide vacancies where needed, authorizations will be made using the unit
list, paragraph 8.2. Changes to Attachment 1 are deleting Resident Advisor (RA). Changes to
Attachment 2 are updating the Housing Division phone number from 777-2963 to 777-1840,
deleting Dormitories: 300 series and phone number, Dormitories: 500 Series and phone
number, Furnishings Management and phone number. Changed Unaccompanied Housing
Manager to Consolidated Dormitory Management Office and updated the phone number from
775-3829 to 777-3029.
1. Air Force Responsibilities. The Air Force will provide maintenance and repair, refuse
collection and disposal, pest control, fire and police protection for your assigned unaccompanied
housing (UH) unit.
     1.1. Initial Inspections. Upon room assignment, a dormitory manager will escort you to your
     room and make an initial inspection. At this time, the dormitory resident will identify all
     discrepancies with the room and furnishings, and document them on AF Form 228,
     Furnishings Custody Receipt and Condition Report.
     1.2. Maintenance and Repair. The 75th Civil Engineering Group (75 CEG) has primary
     responsibility for ensuring maintenance to your room and dormitory is performed. If
     maintenance is needed on your quarters, follow these procedures:
        1.2.1. During normal duty hours, contact the dormitory management office at 777-3029.
        1.2.2. Non duty hours, emergency (water leak, broken window, etc.), call 75 CEG
        Customer Service Desk at 777-1856.
        1.2.3. Non duty hours, non-emergency, contact dormitory management office at 777-
        3029 to leave message on work order request.
     1.3. Work Order Response Time:
        1.3.1. Emergency work orders are responded to as soon as possible and work is
        continued until the emergency is resolved. Some examples are: a structural, utility or
        mechanical problem that could cause loss of life or property or serious damage affecting
        health, safety, security or mission. These could also be complete utility failure
        (electricity, gas, heat, water, sewage or air-conditioning).
        1.3.2. Urgent work orders are completed within five-workdays. Completion date may be
        longer pending requisitioning of materials. Maintenance will normally be performed
        from 0800-1600. An example of an urgent work order is: backed-up commode when
        there is not another commode available.
        1.3.3. Routine work orders are completed within 30-days. Completion date may be
        longer pending requisitioning of materials. Maintenance will normally be performed
HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              3


       from 0800-1600. Some examples are: minor faucet leaks, repair wall locker doors or
       shelving, repair interior walls, or repair any appearance item.
   1.4. Insect Control. If needed, we will treat your room before you move in; however, we do
   expect you to take preventive action to control insects. For example, keep food in sealed
   plastic containers, remove trash and garbage from your quarters daily and discard empty
   paper bags and boxes as quickly as possible. These items provide nesting and breeding areas
   for roaches. If infestation occurs that is beyond your control, call your dormitory manager.
   1.5. Lockouts. If locked out, contact your dormitory manager in person during duty hours,
   (see Attachment 2 for phone numbers); if after duty hours or on weekends, contact your first
   sergeant. For lost keys, contact dormitory management the next duty day.
   NOTE: The dormitory management office keeps a master key to all rooms.
   1.6. Appliances. Refrigerators, microwaves, stoves and dishwashers are government-
   furnished and serviced. They are assigned by serial number and verified at check-in,
   termination inspections and during annual furnishings inventory. The dormitory manager
   will demonstrate the proper usage and care; if you experience any problems notify dormitory
   management office immediately 777-3029.
   1.7. Privately Owned Appliances. If you own a refrigerator/microwave and wish to use it
   discuss this with dormitory management office. Ensure your AF Form 228 is also adjusted to
   reflect any changes with your room furnishings.
2. Occupant Responsibility, Dormitory Standards and Policies. The dormitory is your home
and we want you to be comfortable; however, there are basic rules that must be followed.
   2.1. Bay Orderly Program. The purpose of a bay orderly program is to provide personnel to
   help maintain the dormitories' common areas (i.e., day rooms, hallways, outdoor areas, etc).
   All dormitory residents will perform bay orderly duties on a recurring basis. The dormitory
   manager will provide the Unit First Sergeant an updated quarterly bay orderly schedule
   normally 30-days prior to it taking affect. The First Sergeant will ensure personnel assigned
   bay orderly duties are available for this duty. Any problems with personnel assigned bay
   orderly duties will be worked by the dormitory manager and first sergeant/commander.
       2.1.1. The bay orderly works directly for the dormitory manager. They will not be
       allowed to take leave or compensatory time off when assigned bay orderly duties.
       Official appointments should be avoided; however, if scheduled the dormitory manager
       should be informed of the appointment date/time as soon as possible.
       2.1.2. Bay orderly duty schedule.
          2.1.2.1. Monday–Friday, duty hours 0800– 1600, uniform requirement battle dress
          uniform (-ABU).
          2.1.2.2. Saturday, duty hours 0800–1100, uniform requirement -ABU (see note).
NOTE: The bay orderly may wear civilian clothing on Saturday when performing unsupervised
duties; however, if additional work is required other then emptying garbage containers, the
member will be required to wear -ABUs.
   2.2. Prohibitions.
4                                                   HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011


       2.2.1. Animals (except fish), automotive rebuilding parts and auto batteries, barbecue
       grills, burned candles or incense, cohabitation, flammable liquids (except
       cosmetic/cigarette lighter fluid), flammable room decorations hanging from ceiling,
       flammable paints, electrical timers, hot plates, toaster/roaster ovens, gambling, scuba
       tanks, open flames, sterno fuel, smoking in any facility multiple outlet extension cords,
       weapons (see paragraph 4.3.), live Christmas trees, unsealed foods, flammable
       pressurized gases.
       NOTE: Power strips with an overload protective device not exceeding 15 amps may be
       used for multiple items. They must be labeled UL (Underwriters Laboratories Inc.)
       LISTED.
       2.2.2. Pictures that openly display complete frontal nudity, male or female genitalia or
       depict or show sexual acts or profanity in either word or picture symbols will be
       considered unacceptable as room decorations. This rule also applies to personal
       computer screen savers.
       2.2.3. What is considered profane or pornographic is based on individual perspective, but
       to ensure paragraph 2.2.2. is applied fairly to all residents’ commanders, command chief
       master sergeants (CCM), and first sergeants will be the deciding factor as to what is
       acceptable and unacceptable.
       2.2.4. Do not tape or affix separation/permanent change of station (PCS) orders to the
       door surface. Profanity or other lewd messages are not authorized on message boards.
       Decals, stickers, or posters are not allowed on doors, windows or on any furnishings.
       2.2.5. Displays, symbols and literature related to extremist/hate groups are not allowed in
       the dorms. Likewise, attempting to recruit, organize or lead a group that espouses to
       discriminate against members based on race, color, national origin, sex or religion in the
       dormitories is incompatible with dormitory standards and Air Force policy.
    2.3. Cleanliness. Dormitories will be maintained within Air Force standards as outlined in
    AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, and this instruction.
    2.4. Inspections. Commanders, CCMs, first sergeants, and dormitory managers will inspect
    dormitories to evaluate living/facility conditions. Scheduled inspections are on the third
    Thursday of each month. However, no notice inspections can occur at any time. The
    following provides a more detailed breakdown of cleanliness standards.
       2.4.1. Any locker is subject to inspection. Ensure items are arranged neatly.
       2.4.2. Clean and vacuum floors weekly. Ensure there is no dirt build-up in the corners,
       behind the doors, or under beds or other furniture.
       2.4.3. Any damage caused to carpets by misuse, abuse, burns, shoe luster, etc., may be
       chargeable to occupant. Carpets should be vacuumed and shampooed when needed. See
       the dormitory management office for use of a carpet shampoo machine or vacuum
       cleaner.
       2.4.4. Walls must be clean and maintained in good repair. Use mild soap and warm
       water to keep walls clean. Do not apply adhesive-backed materials, wallpaper, or decals
       to walls or furnishings as these cause damage upon removal. Use nail or "J" type hangers
       only and remove them prior to termination. Make sure doorstops are serviceable to
HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               5


     prevent wall damage. Any holes/depressions in the walls must be repaired. If the holes
     are small (less than 3 inches), you may repair them, but any holes larger than three inches
     must be reported to the dormitory manager for repair. It is the occupant's responsibility
     to report any problems as soon as possible. Walls must be repaired/repainted as
     necessary, a minimum of one month prior to out-processing. No room painting allowed
     without authorization from dorm management office. No mural or graffiti painting
     allowed on walls.
     2.4.5. Clean hair from sink drain trap weekly. Clean fixtures so they are free of dirt,
     mildew/mold, and water spots. Report any leaks to your dormitory manager
     immediately. Use spray cleaner to clean the inside and outside of the under-sink cabinet.
     Ensure that mirrors are cleaned on an as needed basis.
     2.4.6. Clean refrigerator interior weekly. Defrost the freezer once a month unless needed
     more frequently. Pay special attention to shelves; clean under, inside, outside, and
     behind the bottom drawer if so equipped. Wash off the metal strips on the inside of the
     door. Be sure that there is no food residue splattered on the inside. The seal around the
     edge of the door must be clean and without food particles, dust/dirt, mildew or mold.
     Dust off the wire framework in the rear of the refrigerator quarterly to improve cooling
     and extend the life of the unit. Be sure you clean around and under the refrigerator.
     2.4.7. Microwaves are to be kept clean at all times.         Do not leave a microwave
     unattended during use.
     2.4.8. The entire toilet/bathing area must be cared for due to the potential for bacteria
     growth. Clean the toilet inside and out with a disinfectant type cleaner at least weekly.
     Clean the shower tile, bathtub, and shower curtain with a disinfectant type cleaner at least
     weekly. There should be no soap scum or other residue left on walls. The shower curtain
     must be clean without mold or mildew stains. If the stains will not come off, see the
     dormitory manager for a new one. Pay particular attention to the curtain wall, as it will
     mold quickly if allowed to remain damp for extended periods. Be sure the ceiling light is
     clean and operational. The bulb must be bright enough to see and shower safely, either
     frosted or clear bulbs only. Be sure the entire ceiling is clean and has no build-up of
     mold/mildew. Clean the floor, to include behind the toilet and in the corners.
     2.4.9. Clean linen will be used to cover beds, and the beds will be neatly made. Make up
     beds with a mattress cover, two sheets, a pillow, and pillowcase. Issue sheets and
     pillowcases will be taken to linen exchange weekly or cleaned by the occupant. A
     blanket and bedspread must cover the sheets. Take issue blankets and mattress covers to
     linen exchange monthly. You may elect to purchase and use your own bedding. All
     personal linen should be cleaned weekly.
     2.4.10. The areas under and around the bed may be used for storage of small items.
     However, they must be neatly arranged and the area is subject to inspection.
     2.4.11. Clean inside and outside windows, channels, and windowsills once a month.
     Report damaged or missing screens to the dormitory manager. For security reasons, lock
     the windows when you leave the room.
6                                                  HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011


       2.4.12. Clean the door, frame, and sills above the door weekly. Doors must have a
       current occupant nametag. See your dormitory manager for a new one when you change
       rank or squadron.
       2.4.13. Personal decorations must be neat, picture frames are not required; however, if
       pictures and posters are affixed to the walls, any damage caused must be repaired by the
       occupant one month prior to being released from responsibility for that room.
       2.4.14. Any nails, anchors, screws, hooks or tape put on the walls to support shelves,
       pictures, or other wall decorations will be removed and areas cleaned prior to occupant
       being released from responsibility for that room.
       2.4.15. Furniture must be clean and neatly arranged in your room. Items on top of tables,
       dressers and desks must be neat and dusted weekly. Lamps must be dusted weekly.
       Occupants sign for the furniture/equipment in their room on the AF Form 228 and the
       form will be maintained in the dormitory manager's office. You are responsible for the
       furnishings you sign for, and will be held liable for loss or damages.
    2.5. Furniture.
       2.5.1. Government furniture is provided to each resident and inventory is documented on
       AF Form 228 at the time of room assignment. Government furniture will not be removed
       from the room by the dorm resident for any reason. Personal furnishings are allowed but
       will be used in conjunction with issued government furniture, must be in good and safe
       condition, and they must present a neat and acceptable appearance. Waterbeds are
       approved on a case-by-case basis; please coordinate with your dormitory manager prior
       to purchase of any personal furniture. Personal furniture must not interfere with passage
       in the rooms for firefighting capabilities. If you buy your own bed, check with the
       dormitory manager prior to putting one in your room. Any damage caused by waterbeds
       will be considered occupant abuse. You must change your AF Form 228 with your
       dormitory manager or be held liable for any missing furniture.
       2.5.2. Dormitory residents are not allowed to remove any furniture or equipment from
       the dayrooms or patio furniture from pavilion areas for any reason. If dayroom
       furnishings or equipment are stolen or damaged, dayrooms will be locked down pending
       investigation/repair. These rooms are for you; please help keep them clean and in good
       repair. If you see any misuse of government furniture, please notify the dormitory
       management office (75 CEG/CEAH), 777-3029 or 75th Security Forces Squadron (75
       SFS), 777-3056, immediately.
    2.6. Visitors. Guests are permitted in your room however, your guests must be escorted
    while in the dormitory at all times. Visitors are prohibited between hours 2400-0600. You
    are responsible for their language, dress, courtesy, and conduct. See paragraph 4.2.
    2.7. Room Assignment/Termination. Rooms are assigned according to space authorizations
    outlined in AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management and this publication. You
    are not authorized to move from your assigned quarters without the dormitory manager's
    approval. Normal rooms terminated will be coordinated through the dormitory manager to
    schedule a pre-inspection NLT 30 days prior. Short-notice separation/PCS etc., will be
    coordinated with the dormitory manager by the member's first sergeant. You will be advised
    of any clearance requirements, and you must have the room prepared for new occupants prior
HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               7


  to final inspection. This includes removing all personal items. The room must be available
  immediately when a new person arrives to the base.
  NOTE: Damaged room walls will be repaired prior to occupant vacating the premises.
  2.8. Security. Ensure all of your high cost items are secured when you are absent from the
  room. Bulky items such as televisions and stereos should be marked with your social
  security number or some method making them easy to identify. The Air Force will not pay
  claims on stolen items that are not secured. Your locker, window, bathroom door and room
  must be locked when unoccupied. Renters insurance is highly recommended.
  2.9. Room Exterior. Room numbers, nameplates, and approved message plates will be the
  only items mounted on your door. Profanity/lewd messages are not authorized on message
  boards. Decals, stickers or posters are not allowed on doors or windows. You are
  responsible for sweeping the ledge in front of your room.
  2.10. Kitchen. Maintaining the appliances, cabinets, and walls in the kitchen requires
  special attention. The individual using the facility will clean kitchen after each use. You are
  liable for any damage caused to the range, countertop or any other appliances. Do not put
  grease in the garbage disposals, as it will solidify in the pipes and cause stoppages. Avoid
  placing hot utensils on counter tops as this can cause permanent damage. Never leave
  cooking unattended.
  2.11. Insect Control. Insect control measures may be taken by using commonly available
  commercial insecticides. If more extensive treatment is needed, contact the dormitory
  management office at 777-3029. You are responsible for protecting and arranging your
  furniture to allow proper application of insecticides by 75 CEG. Prior to terminating
  quarters, you must ensure quarters are free of all insects and rodents.
  2.12. Supplies. Minimal cleaning supplies and equipment are available through dormitory
  management. It is the resident’s responsibility to keep the room clean and to change out light
  bulbs and air filters as needed.
  2.13. Leave/Extended Temporary Duty (TDY)/ Deployments. If you will be leaving your
  quarters unoccupied for extended periods of time (over three days) you need to inform the
  Unaccompanied Housing Management office. You must make arrangements for security,
  prudent care, and periodic inspections of your quarters and vehicle arrangement. Inform
  your dormitory manager of your intended absence and provide the name of a person
  designated by you to have access to perform normal occupant maintenance. Do not turn off
  your heat, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system during your absence. Provide
  any maintenance problems to dorm management before leaving.
  2.14. Damage to Quarters. Damage to quarters beyond reasonable wear and tear is your
  responsibility. Repairs and replacements must meet Air Force standards. Your dormitory
  manager will provide a date your repairs or replacements are to be corrected. For damages
  not corrected within the time allowed, the Air Force may elect to make repairs and bill you.
  The Unaccompanied Housing Office (75 CEG/CEAH) can fully explain your options to
  repair or replace damaged items or the methods of reimbursement to the government. Under
  federal law members of the Armed Forces occupying military housing shall be held liable
  and accountable for loss or damage to housing, equipment or furnishings caused by the abuse
  or negligence of the member or the member's guests.
8                                                    HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011


    NOTE: Residents are encouraged to purchase renter's insurance.
    2.15. Energy Conservation: We need your assistance to conserve energy. Fewer dollars and
    rising utility costs require us to do everything possible to conserve energy. Keep exterior
    doors closed during heating and cooling periods. Do not prop entry doors open because of
    the added strain to HVAC units and the humidity drawn into the building. Do your part to
    conserve energy.
       2.15.1. Suggested thermostat setting for heat is 68F and for air conditioning is 78F.
       2.15.2. An organized effort must be expended to conserve electricity by eliminating
       unnecessary use. You can help by minimizing the use of electrical appliances and lights,
       especially during the peak demand periods: 0900 to 1130 and 1400 to 1900. Do not leave
       television, radios or other electronic devices on unattended. When you leave your room,
       unplug irons and turn off all appliances and lights.
       2.15.3. Laundry Facilities. Machines are provided, at no cost, for use by dorm
       residents only. Wash full loads of laundry to conserve energy. Do not over-load
       washers/dryers. Overloading can cause damage to the machine and clothing. Never
       place plastic articles, pens, or other markers in dryers. You must clean the dryer vent
       before you start the dryer. Do not wash chemical training suits in these machines as the
       charcoal may cause damages to the unit. Chemical suits may be cleaned, free of charge,
       by Linen Exchange located in building 356. The dormitory occupant is liable for items
       missing if the facility is left unattended. Contact your dormitory manager if you have a
       problem.
    2.16. Environment. Trash, engine oils, engine coolants, car grease and other similar
    products must not be poured into plumbing, drainage system or on the ground. Automotive
    tires, batteries, engine oils are to be properly disposed of through recycling programs or off
    base service centers.
    2.17. Smoking and Drinking.
       2.17.1. Smoking in buildings areas is absolutely prohibited. Designated smoking areas
       are in pavilion areas.
       2.17.2. Legal age for consuming alcohol in Utah is 21. This legal requirement is strictly
       enforced so if you are under the age of 21, alcohol is prohibited – No exceptions, it’s the
       law.
    2.18. Bicycles. Bicycles will not be stored under staircases, on walkway balconies or
    chained to railings. Abandoned bicycles will be tagged, picked up by 75 SFS, and disposed
    of in accordance with established Air Force guidance.
    2.19. Vehicles. Repairs of vehicles are not authorized in the dormitory areas or parking lots.
    Vehicle work shall be done in the Auto Hobby Shop, telephone number 777-3476.
    Authorized minor work consists of changing a flat tire or jump-starting a dead battery. You
    may clean and wax your vehicle in the dormitory parking lot; however, no cleaning/washing
    of vehicles will be done on sidewalks, grass or seeded areas. Do not drive or park on seeded
    areas. The following are prohibited in dormitory areas and parking lots:
       2.19.1. Oil, transmission, radiator, or other coolant/lubricant changes or servicing.
HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                 9


       2.19.2. Vehicles which appear to be inoperative, have expired plates or no registration,
       and flat tires that need repair.
       2.19.3. Miscellaneous vehicle parts, pieces, or components (i.e., tires, wheels, truck bed
       liners, shells, etc. will not be stored in bike rack areas).
       2.19.4. 75 SFS will remove suspect vehicles and other prohibited items according to AFI
       31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, and local directives.
       2.19.5. The speed limit in all parking lots is 10 miles per hour.
   2.20. Ground Care. You're responsible for keeping the grounds around your facility clean.
   When you see something lying on the ground, please pick it up and dispose of it properly.
   2.21. Trash Collection and Disposal. Place your room trash/garbage in the outside
   dumpsters. Exterior garbage cans are provided and are used for minor trash/litter--not room
   trash. Your personal dayroom garbage is to be taken to the dumpster or thrown out with your
   room trash. Do not place trash in hallways, on balconies, or stairwells.
3. Fire Protection.
   3.1. Fire Evacuation Plan. A dormitory fire evacuation plan shows both primary and
   alternate routes of escape in the event of a fire. Furnishings will be arranged so as not to
   obstruct/impede entering or opening of doors leading from rooms to exit access or exit doors.
   Know the plan and practice your escape route. The plan can be found on your dormitory
   bulletin board. Any questions on fire prevention should be directed to the Fire Protection
   Division (75 CEG/CEF) at 777-3021.
   3.2. Fire Extinguishers. Fire extinguishers are located throughout your dormitory. The fire
   extinguishers are for fire fighting, not for horseplay. Notify your dormitory manager if you
   notice an extinguisher is over or under charged, or has been discharged or damaged.
   3.3. Smoke Detectors. All occupants must evacuate the dormitory if the alarm sounds.
   Tampering with alarm call boxes or firefighting equipment is a serious offense, punishable
   under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Do not remove smoke detectors for
   any reason. Notify your dormitory manager or if after hours call the 75 CES/CEEC Service
   Call Desk at 777-1856 if you identify any problems with the detector. Articles will not be
   mounted on, or attached to, any fire protection device, wiring, or smoke detector.
   Combustible material must be kept a minimum of 18-inches from light fixtures, heat or
   smoke detectors, and heating appliances.
   3.4. Fire Reporting. If a fire occurs in your dormitory, notify the base Fire Department at
   911, immediately. Give the fire alarm operator your name, dormitory number, and street, if
   known. Do not hang up until you are told to do so. All fires must be reported.
   3.5. Flammable Storage. Flammable items will not be stored in the dormitory. Examples of
   items prohibited are fireworks, gasoline, kerosene, candles (with wicks that have been burnt),
   incense or any open flame. The only flammable liquids allowed are for cigarette lighter
   refilling or cosmetics (nail polish or polish remover). All others must be stored outside in the
   flammable storage locker. See your dormitory manager for access to the locker. Remember
   -- storage of flammable items is prohibited.
 10                                                 HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011


   3.6. Barbecue grills. Portable grills are prohibited for use in or around the dormitories.
   Built in gas grills are available for resident use in all of the patio areas. Damage from
   barbecue grills or grease drippings is considered the occupant's responsibility for repair or
   cleanup.
   3.7. Cooking Appliances. Appliances authorized for use in dormitory rooms are coffee pots,
   hot air popcorn poppers, and microwave ovens. Rice cookers and crock-pots are authorized
   but must be used on the low setting. Toasters may be used only in the kitchen/break area and
   must be cleaned regularly. If you are in a dormitory kitchen area, never leave cooking
   unattended. Should a grease fire occur, cover the burning pan with a lid, turn off the
   appliance, and call the fire department. Never use water - don't attempt to move the pan.
   The kitchen exhaust fan filter should be cleaned often to prevent the accumulation of grease.
   Items such as hot plates, toaster ovens, and convection ovens are not permitted for use in
   the dormitory.
   3.8. Extension Cords. Extension cords must be of continuous length without splices and
   have the UL seal of approval. Extension cords represent a tripping hazard, have all cords
   positioned in a manner that will not pose this threat, they will not be secured to walls, placed
   under floor coverings or through holes in walls/floors, or ceilings. Multiple head or cobra
   head type extension cords are not authorized nor are multiple outlet adapters. Extension
   cords will not run across the floor or be taped to the carpet.
   3.9. Housekeeping.
       3.9.1. Heat producing devices such as coffee pots, hot air popcorn poppers, irons, hair
       dryers, space heaters and curling irons must be unplugged when not in use.
       3.9.2. Prevent trash from accumulating in your room. Smoking material will not be
       discarded in waste containers.
       3.9.3. You must take trash to the dumpsters every day. It is not to be left outside your
       door or put in the dayroom.
       3.9.4. Large boxes and luggage will be stored in storage rooms not in personal rooms.
4. Security Forces. The installation commander is responsible for the control and safeguarding
of all base property. The 75 SFS accomplishes patrolling of the dormitory area on a routine basis
and when notified, they will investigate all incidents. All inquiries concerning law enforcement
should be directed to the security forces at 777-3056.
   4.1. Vehicles/Parking. All vehicles must have current state registration. Inoperative
   vehicles must be removed within seven days to a suitable storage location. Parking is
   prohibited on grass, seeded, or dirt areas. Do not park in a crosswalk, fire lane, or within 15
   feet of a fire hydrant. Motorcycles should be parked in the designated motorcycle parking
   areas, and not under gazebos, under dormitory staircases, or on sidewalks. When TDY or
   leave for over three days notify the dormitory manager. (See paragraphs 2.19., 5.5., and
   5.6.).
   4.2. Visitors. Room residents may have visitors/guests of either sex, but must remain with
   them during their visit to the dormitory. Visitation in the dormitories is a privilege and may
   be revoked if abused. Also keep in mind that if you have guests, you are responsible for the
   guest's actions while in our dormitories. If your visitors are not military and are on base as
HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               11


   your guest, you are responsible for their actions the entire time they are on base. Minors (17
   and under) are not permitted in or around the dormitories at any time, unless they are
   escorted by their parent or legal guardian. Anyone who abuses the visitation policy will have
   privileges revoked until further notice. Guests are not permitted to sleep in the dormitory.
   4.3. Firearms and Fireworks. Weapons, flares, fireworks, ammunition, or any type of
   explosive devices are prohibited in the dormitory. Local laws and military regulations
   govern registration, possession, and storage of privately owned weapons. No weapons of any
   type, including knives with blades longer than three inches, will be stored or displayed in the
   room. Exception: Decorative swords that are mounted to a wood base are allowed to be
   displayed in the dorm room. Sportsman type items will be stored in your individual storage
   locker located outside your dorm room. This includes bows and arrows, slingshots, martial
   arts weapons, paintball guns and paintball ammo. All other types of guns designed to propel
   a missile (BB, pellet, bullet, etc.) whether by air, gas, or other means, are prohibited. Items
   such as mace, pepper sprays, and stun guns are prohibited. All firearms must be stored in the
   Armory (75 SFS/SF4A) or off base. For information on storage of firearms, contact the 75
   SFS at 777-7916.
   4.4. Crime Stop. Be on the watch for and promptly report vandalism to the 75 SFS at 777-
   3056. In case of emergency, dial 911 (or 777-1911 if using a cell phone) for fast response to
   report a crime in progress.
5. Good Neighbor Policies.
   5.1. Occupant Courtesy. It is not easy for 100 or more people to live together in close
   quarters. Courtesy goes a long way in helping reduce tension among dormitory residents.
   5.2. Noise Control. If stereo or other noise can be heard outside the room or through the
   walls, it's too loud. Excessive noise is the primary complaint received by security forces.
   Many Air Force people work shifts and are sleeping during the day -- please be considerate.
   Don't assume that your neighbors enjoy the same type of music or television programs you
   do -- keep the volume down; excessive stereo and television volume is very disruptive.
   5.3. Parties/Social Gatherings. Parties and other social gatherings are permitted; however,
   they must be coordinated with dormitory manager/first sergeant prior to the event. Take into
   consideration that other dormitory residents may be asleep. Please clean up after yourself.
   Do not rearrange or remove dayroom furniture from the dayroom. Dispose of your trash
   properly. Please keep the noise down to a level that will not disturb those around you or the
   other residents. Remember the Enlisted Club and Thornton Community Center are available
   for parties.
   5.4. Pets. The only pets allowed in the dormitories are fish. Aquariums are limited to a 35
   gallon in a single room. The occupant further understands that any damage caused by
   aquarium to the unit is their responsibility. The cleaning of deer or any other animals is
   prohibited in the dormitory area.
   5.5. Parking. There is very little parking space allocated in the dormitory area. Be
   reasonable and considerate; talk to your neighbor when problems or misunderstandings
   occur. Do not park on the grass, sidewalks, or fire lanes. (See paragraphs 2.19., 4.1., and
   5.6.).
 12                                                 HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011


   5.6. Recreation Vehicles. Storage of recreational vehicles in dormitory areas is not
   authorized. Seasonal equipment is authorized during the appropriate season, but must be
   coordinated with the dormitory manager. This includes motorcycle trailers, jet skis, wave-
   runners, boats, etc. Contact Outdoor Recreation at 777-9666 to arrange storage for boats or
   trailers. Space will be assigned on a first come first served basis. If space is not available,
   off base storage must be arranged. (See paragraphs 2.19., 4.1., and 5.5.).
6. Hill AFB Specific Topics.
   6.1. Business Enterprises. Some businesses for profit may be conducted from your
   dormitory room. Any such enterprise must be approved in writing by the 75 ABW through
   the 75 CEG/CEAH. Signs for advertising business are prohibited in the dormitory areas.
   6.2. Solicitation in Dormitory Housing. All forms of solicitation are prohibited in the
   dormitories. Report solicitors to the 75 SFS at 777-3056 immediately.
   6.3. Telephones. Room phones can be obtained at your own expense.
   6.4. Cable Television. Satellite dishes are not authorized in unaccompanied Military
   Housing. Cable television can be obtained by calling the local cable company.
   6.5. Shelter In Place. Shelter in place actions can provide short-term (two-three hours in
   some cases) protection to the occupants and are most effective when building occupants plan
   and practice their actions in advance. Shelter in place requires three distinct actions to be
   taken without delay to maximize the passive protection a building can provide.
      6.5.1. The inside-outside air exchange rate of the building must be reduced before the
      hazardous plume arrives. This is done by closing all windows and doors and turning off
      all fans, HVAC systems, AC’s/heaters.
      6.5.2. The building entry and exit must cease during the period of plume passage.
      6.5.3. The air exchange rate of the building must be increased as soon as the hazardous
      plume has passed (determined by emergency response personnel) to purge the building of
      any residual airborne contamination. Increase the air exchange rate by opening windows
      and doors, turning on all exhaust fans and turning on or opening the HVAC system(s) to
      aerate the building.
   6.6. Dormitory Shelter Areas.
      6.6.1. Building 341-Second floor study room and third floor dayroom area. Shelter In
      Place kits are readily available in those areas with instructions on what procedures to take
      to seal doors, vents and staying in shelter until clearance is given by Emergency
      Management Center 777-4909.
      6.6.2. Buildings 345/349/357/361/363/365-Dayroom areas in buildings 348, 358 and
      364. SIP kit readily available under kitchen sink with instructions on what procedures to
      take to seal doors, vents and staying in shelter until clearance is given by EM Unit 777-
      4909.
7. Self-Help Work.
   7.1. Requesting Self-Help Work. Self-help work in military dormitories must be relatively
   simple and is designed primarily for occupant benefit. Normally, a self-help project is to
HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               13


   improve living conditions. Self-help work must not generate additional maintenance or
   repair costs. All self-help work requires completion of an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer
   Work Request, and coordination as directed by the dormitory manager. No work will be
   accomplished until this procedure has been followed and approval received.
   7.2. Painting Interior Walls. While you are living in the dormitory, you may paint your
   room. This requires an approval before accomplishing. Your dormitory manager will
   inspect before and after painting. Government furnished paint is available at the Self-Help
   Center, 777-1244. Any other color is not authorized.
   7.3. Disposition of Improvements. Self-help improvements may be donated by the occupant
   and accepted by the Air Force when workmanship and aesthetics meet acceptable
   construction standards. When removal is required, your area must be restored to its original
   configuration.
8. Termination of UH.
   8.1. Giving Notice. Orders are not required to set up termination inspections; however, 30
   days notice is required of your projected vacating date (except short notice PCS or
   administrative separations). The dormitory manager will schedule your final inspections. If
   you need a substitute to stand in for final inspection, notify the dormitory manager and notify
   the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (OO-ALC/JA) for Power of Attorney.
   NOTE: The responsibility for final clearance of UH rests solely with the occupant.
   8.2. BAH List. The base wide Basic Allowance for Housing waiting list is maintained in
   dormitory 341. If you're interested in signing up, contact the dormitory management office
   at 777-3029. The list is updated as needed. Authorizations are based on a person's rank and
   date of rank. Therefore, it is very important for you to keep the dormitory manager informed
   when your rank and date of rank changes.
   8.3. Final Inspection. The occupant is responsible for accomplishing cleaning tasks outlined
   in this instruction and as directed by the dormitory manager prior to turning over the room.
   Furthermore, residents must schedule a room pre-inspection 30 days prior to their final room
   inspection. Upon termination of quarters, residents will also contact the Postal Service
   Center to close out their mailbox and identify a forwarding address on their locator card.




                                            SARAH E. ZABEL, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
 14                                              HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-60, Housing
AFI 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management
AFRIMS RDS, https://www.myaf.mil/afrims/afrims/afrim/rims.cfm
Adopted Forms
AF Form 228, Furnishings Custody Receipt and Condition Report
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BAH—Basic Allowance for Housing
BDU—Battle Dress Uniform
CCM—Command Chief Master Sergeant
CEG/CEAH—
HVAC—Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RA—Resource Advisor
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UH—Unaccompanied Housing
UL—Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
HILLAFBI32-6005 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                  15


                                     Attachment 2
                              KEY TELEPHONE NUMBERS

Figure A2.1. Key Telephone Numbers
Ambulance                                       911 or 777-1911 from cell phone
Fire Dept. (Fire Reporting)                     911
Security Forces                                 911
Crime Stop                                      900 or 777-3056
Housing Division                                777- 1840
CE Service Call                                 777-1856
Postal Service Center                           777-2509
DORMITORY MANAGERS OFFICE PHONE NUMBERS
Consolidated Dormitory Management Office        777-3029
