BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                               HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 99-103
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                                       16 FEBRUARY 2010
                                                                                          Certified Current 10 February 2012
                                                                                                         Test and Evaluation

                                                                         OO-ALC TEST AND EVALUATION (T&E)
                                                                                                 PROCESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: OO-ALC/ENT                                                                                       Certified by: OO-ALC/ENS
Supersedes: Hill AFB Instruction 99-103,                                                                             (John Minor)
            17 January 2006                                                                                             Pages: 26


This instruction implements AFMCI 99-103, Test and Evaluation (T&E) Test Management, and
further delineates AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, and AFMC sup 1 to AFI
91-202, The USAF Mishap Prevention Program, and provides guidance and procedures for all
T&E conducted by or for Ogden Air Logistics Center (OO-ALC), or that puts OO-ALC assets
(material and personnel) at risk. It provides for risk reduction and establishes a disciplined test
management process. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through major command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

       1.      Applicability. .........................................................................................................   2
       2.      General Responsibilities. .......................................................................................          3
       3.      RTO Selection Process. .........................................................................................           6
       4.      OO-ALC Test and Safety Plan Review Process. ...................................................                            6
2                                                                            HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


Figure 1       OO-ALC Test Plan Review Process. .....................................................................                     9
       5.      Technical and Safety Review Boards. ...................................................................                   10
       6.      Test Documentation Coordination. ........................................................................                 11
Table 1.       Documentation. ......................................................................................................     11
       7.      Test Execution. ......................................................................................................    12
       8.      Test Reporting. .......................................................................................................   13
       9.      Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................               14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           15

Attachment 2—TEST PLAN SIGNATURE PAGE FORMAT SAMPLE                                                                                      19

Attachment 3—TEST PLAN GUIDANCE/CHECKLIST-                                                                                               20

Attachment 4—INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING HILL AFB FORMS 518 AND 519                                                                      23

Attachment 5—TEST PLAN SAFETY                                                                                                            24


1. Applicability.
    1.1. Test and Evaluation (T&E) is a key part of acquisition, sustainment, and modification of
    systems and is a critical tool for the test approval authority to use in decision making. This
    instruction provides the approval authority with a disciplined approach to manage T&E risks
    within a program. These risks are primarily technical (overall method of test and data
    acquisition) and safety (injury to people or damage to equipment). The OO-ALC Test
    Representative (TESTREP), the Center Test Authority (CTA) office (OO-ALC/ENT) and the
    Safety Office (OO-ALC/SE) will provide test planning guidance and assistance throughout
    the test process.
    1.2. The test process outlined in this instruction applies to all developmental, qualification
    and sustainment T&E conducted by OO-ALC organizations, conducted as a requirement of
    OO-ALC organizations, or that may pose a safety or environmental risk to OO-ALC assets,
    both material and personnel unless the test is to be conducted at or by a government test
    center, in which case that test center’s processes apply.
       1.2.1. All OO-ALC organizations shall use this process.
       1.2.2. The Test and Evaluation Strategy (TES) approval authority will ensure compliance
       with established procedures under AFI 99-103 and AFMCI 99-103 for all non-OO-ALC
       test organizations that conduct tests for OO-ALC. Test organizations may be approved to
       use their own, equivalent technical and safety review procedures but that approval must
       be based in part on OO-ALC personnel participation in that process. This includes tests
       conducted by another service, Major Air Force Commands (MAJCOMs), the Air Force
       Reserve, the Air National Guard, tenant units, and contractors.
       1.2.3. If T&E is conducted for the OO-ALC by a contractor, the approval authority will
       assure the contract is used to ensure compliance with established procedures in
       accordance with (IAW) AFI 10-220, Contractor’s Flight, and Ground Operations. The
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                  3


       contract shall make provisions for government review, approval and oversight for testing
       at contractor facilities. The contract should also provide for deficiency reporting IAW
       AFI 99-103 and contractor participation in government forums such as Integrated Test
       Teams (ITTs), Technical Review Boards (TRBs), and Safety Review Boards (SRBs).
       1.2.4. Any test activity that generates notable safety or environmental risk to OO-ALC
       assets (material or personnel) should be brought to the attention of the CTA for review.
       1.2.5. All aircraft and associated munitions staging from Hill AFB are required to be
       identified IAW Hill AFB Instruction 10-401, Support of Units Deployed to Hill AFB.
   1.3. Activities including testing of Commercial Off the Shelf items; Non-Developmental
   Items; potential Form, Fit, Function, and Interface (F3I) changes; modifications; field service
   evaluations; shelf life evaluations; and manufacturing and repair source qualifications are
   considered T&E and are governed by this instruction.
   1.4. Activities that are a normal part of the maintenance or training function e.g., routine
   functional check flights, engine runs after Programmed Depot Maintenance, or routine
   operational training missions, are not governed by this instruction. Procedures conducted
   according to approved technical orders, to include approved equipment manufacturer
   publications used in place of technical orders, are not considered T&E under this instruction.
   However, if an item has been altered beyond the established repair or production processes to
   such an extent that the technical or safety risk associated with its ordinary function is
   increased; the quality checks performed to verify completeness and accuracy would fall
   under the guidance of this instruction.
   1.5. Wing supplements to this instruction and other OO-ALC organization Operating
   Instructions and business practices pertaining to test shall be coordinated through the CTA.
2. General Responsibilities. General responsibilities are listed in AFI 99-103, Capabilities-
Based Test and Evaluation; AFMCI 99-103, Test Management; and AFI 91-202_AFMC
Supplement 1, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program. Responsibilities specific to the
OO-ALC are as follows:
   2.1. OO-ALC Commander (OO-ALC/CC): The OO-ALC Commander establishes the
   OO-ALC’s local processes for managing T&E IAW Section 2.6. of AFMCI 99-103. For
   example: designating Responsible Test Organizations (RTOs), conducting TRB/SRB/Test
   Readiness Review (TRR)/ Configuration Control Board (CCB) processes.
       2.1.1. Responsible for establishing a CTA organization to oversee, conduct, or otherwise
       accomplish the OO-ALC’s T&E requirements.
       2.1.2. Final approval authority for all high safety risk test plans (as discussed in
       Attachment 5) associated with programs under her/his authority not conducted by a test
       center.
       2.1.3. Approval authority for Memorandums of Agreements establishing TESTREP
       positions at the OO-ALC.
       2.1.4. IAW AFI 99-103, the OO-ALC Commander has delegated to the Wing
       Commander or Wing Director of the organization with configuration management
       responsibility, the approval authority of ITT charters, TESs, certification of readiness for
       dedicated operational T&E, and fielding decisions for modifications that qualify for use
4                                                     HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


       of the AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal, process for his/her respective portfolio of
       sustainment programs.
    2.2. Program Managers (PMs): The PM may delegate some or all of these responsibilities.
       2.2.1. Final approval of all low safety risk test plans (as discussed in Attachment 5)
       associated with programs under their authority not conducted by a test center. If the PM
       chooses to delegate this responsibility, his/her designee for approving test plans may be
       no lower than his/her deputy or chief engineer.
       2.2.2. Responsible for ensuring that personnel involved with T&E on their systems are
       familiar with Air Force, AFMC, and local guidance on the management and conduct of
       testing.
       2.2.3. Ensures designation of a Test Manager (TM).
       2.2.4. Ensures the program’s compliance with this instruction.
       2.2.5. Integrates the T&E process into the weapon system configuration control process.
       2.2.6. Provides test funding and resources as mutually agreed upon with the test
       organizations.
       2.2.7. Forms ITTs as early as possible and assists the ITT in structuring all testing into a
       TES, developing an integrated test plan, and establishing other ITT documents in support
       of the requirements and acquisition strategies.
       2.2.8. Coordinates with the appropriate MAJCOM headquarters to request operational
       MAJCOM units to support Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E) activities.
       2.2.9. Ensures a RTO is designated for the program or that justification for not
       designating a RTO is provided.
       2.2.10. Additional responsibilities for PMs are listed in section 3.8. of AFI 99-103.
    2.3. Test Manager (TM): The TM is typically a system engineer in the PM organization,
    who should have test experience and be Acquisition Professional Development Program
    T&E level one or higher.
       2.3.1. Responsible for the overall management, planning, and execution of the test
       program.
       2.3.2. Is familiar with Air Force, AFMC, and local guidance on the management and
       conduct of testing.
       2.3.3. Ensures a test plan is developed for all test projects. The test plan will typically
       include the test procedures and any applicable Test Hazard Analysis (THAs). The TM
       has overall responsibility for the contents of the test plan (Attachments 3, 4 and 5
       contain information and guidance for the TM). This responsibility includes ensuring that
       the plan is complete and ready for technical and safety reviews.
       2.3.4. Ensures an AF IMT 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis, is developed
       and forwarded with the draft detailed test plan to the 75th Civil Engineering Group
       Environmental Management Division (75 CEG/CEV) for screening and approval of tests
       conducted at Hill AFB, the Little Mountain Test Annex, or on the Utah Test and Training
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                 5


     Range (UTTR). A single AF IMT 813 may be used for a class of similar tests. Testing at
     other locations requires approval by their equivalent environmental management
     function.
     2.3.5. Coordinates with the customer to ensure that the test objectives meet the
     customer’s needs.
     2.3.6. Ensures that the test is conducted IAW the test plan.
     2.3.7. Ensures Deficiency Reports (DRs) are written and tracked IAW AFI 99-103, T.O.
     00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System, and AFI 63-501, Air
     Force Acquisition Quality Program.
  2.4. Center Test Authority (CTA): The CTA is the single focal point for T&E and the
  T&E process at the OO-ALC. Responsibilities of the CTA are listed in section 2.2 of
  AFMCI 99-103. In addition, the CTA can provide test directors (TDs) as needed to plan and
  execute test programs when the CTA is designated as a RTO or Participating Test
  Organization (PTO).
  2.5. Test Director (TD): The TD will plan and conduct all pre-test briefings and reviews,
  ensure test procedures/cards are prepared and approved, and ensure all planning,
  coordination and approvals are complete prior to the start of testing. The TD ensures that all
  supporting agencies are scheduled, monitors critical technical and safety data during testing
  while guiding the test crew through the test cards/procedures, and ensures all post-test
  documentation is completed. The TD is usually a member of the test organization or the
  CTA.
  2.6. Test Representative (TESTREP): The TESTREP provides a link between the test
  centers and the CTA. Responsibilities and description of the TESTREP are listed in section
  2.3 of AFMCI 99-103. If a TESTREP is not assigned to the CTA, the CTA will perform the
  duties of the TESTREP. The TESTREP makes preliminary assessments of test technical and
  safety risks for the PM in support of the systems engineering process. The TESTREP also
  participates in local TRBs and SRBs and signs the test plan as a reviewing authority.
  2.7. Responsible Test Organizations (RTO): RTOs are developmental test agencies
  qualified to plan, manage, conduct, and report on government DT&E and oversee contractor
  DT&E. Responsibilities of the RTO are listed in section 3.13. of AFI 99-103 and section 2.4.
  of AFMCI 99-103. The lead test organization wing commander or director is the approval
  authority for all medium safety risk tests not conducted at a test center. The test organization
  is generally responsible for developing the detailed test plan, the safety appendix, test
  procedures, the test what-ifs, and the test cards. The executing test organization takes on the
  safety responsibility for the test by signing the Hill AFB Form 519, Test Hazard Analysis
  (THA).
     2.7.1. 514th Flight Test Squadron (514FLTS):          When the 514FLTS is selected to
     participate in the project, it will:
         2.7.1.1. Participate in the ITT.
         2.7.1.2. Develop the detailed test plan and safety appendix, test what-ifs, and test
         cards.
6                                                       HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


           2.7.1.3. Develop support agreements with other organizations for required test
           support.
           2.7.1.4. Participate in the TRBs, SRBs, conduct TRRs, and test briefings/debriefings.
           2.7.1.5. Accept safety responsibility for the test.
           2.7.1.6. Control the conduct of the test IAW the test planning documents.
           2.7.1.7. Track, analyze, and report test results and deficiencies.
           2.7.1.8. Maintain a lessons learned database, apply lessons learned to all test
           planning, and forward lessons learned to CTA.
           2.7.1.9. Provide a Flight Safety Officer to assist the project crew members and TD
           with the test hazard analysis and safety planning, as well as reviewing and signing all
           test hazard analysis forms for developmental, qualification or sustainment tests and
           evaluations performed by the 514 FLTS.
           2.7.1.10. Provide project crew members: Project crew members support test
           planning by providing aircraft technical expertise, test planning support, TRB/SRB
           support, and test execution support.
    2.8. OO-ALC Safety (75 ABW/SE): The Chief of Safety or his/her designee is the SRB
    Chairperson for tests conducted for the OO-ALC. The safety review process is called out in
    AFI 99-103, and is outlined in AFI 91-202/AFMC Supplement 1, The US Air Force Mishap
    Prevention Program (Chapter 13 – Test Safety Review Process). 75 ABW/SE will review
    all test plans under its authority for safety risks. The SRB Chairperson will review and
    approve all test plans for safety risks.
       2.8.1. Manages the OO-ALC test safety risk reduction process.
       2.8.2. Determines when a formal SRB is required. The SRB Chairperson also ensures
       appropriate independent expert participation in reviews and approvals for all testing.
    2.9. Integrated Test Team (ITT): Responsibilities of the ITT are listed in section 3.14. of
    AFI 99-103. Membership, duties, responsibilities, and the method of conducting business
    should be documented in an ITT charter. A standing ITT is acceptable for similar programs
    on a single weapon system. The ITT can form test teams or test integrated product teams
    (TIPTs) to address T&E data analysis, problem solving, test planning, test execution, and
    reporting to meet DT&E and operational test objectives during all testing phases. A
    recommended ITT Charter Outline is provided as Attachment 4 in AFMCI 99-103.
3. RTO Selection Process. The CTA oversees the center’s RTO approval process and as such
will assist the PM organization and/or ITT in the selection of a qualified RTO. The ITT will
nominate through the PM, its selection for RTO to the designated representative for approval.
The OO-ALC Commander has delegated RTO approval authority to the Wing Commander or
Wing Director of the organization with configuration management responsibility. The ITT will
ensure this selection process is done as early as possible. The PM organization and/or ITT shall
provide rationale to the RTO approval authority if a RTO is deemed unnecessary.
4. OO-ALC Test and Safety Plan Review Process.
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                  7


  4.1. The test organization is generally tasked by the ITT to develop the detailed test plan, the
  test procedures, the safety appendix, the test what-ifs, and the test cards. Prior to test
  conduct, each test and safety plan must be subjected to technical and safety reviews IAW
  AFI 99-103, AFI 91-202, and AFI 91-202/AFMC Sup 1. After the test plan (Attachment 3)
  and the safety plan containing the associated THA(s) (Attachment 4) have been developed,
  the test plan, with the safety plan (Attachments 4 and 5), will be reviewed by the
  CTA/TESTREP. The CTA/TESTREP will make an independent assessment of technical and
  safety risk. The CTA may choose to waive the TRB according to established criteria, if it
  determines the test plan is adequate and of low technical risk; all other tests require a TRB.
  In the absence of a TESTREP, the CTA may seek an independent concurrence of risk
  assessment from a test center. The CTA will summarize the test and risk in a Test Program
  Introduction Sheet which will be sent to a test center for technical and safety review. If the
  test is of low technical and safety risk, but a review board is required; the TM, with the
  assistance of the CTA, will arrange for a local TRB and SRB. Based on scope, complexity,
  similarity to previous tests, and anticipated risk level, 75 ABW/SE may choose to waive a
  formal SRB according to established criteria and just route the test plan through the
  appropriate experts.
  4.2. If the test is of medium or high technical or safety risk, or it is determined that the test
  can only be accomplished by a test center, then the test center must be involved to a greater
  extent. The test center may be designated as the RTO or may have more involvement in the
  review process. If the test center becomes the RTO, then the test center review process will
  be followed. If the test center is not the RTO, then the OO-ALC review process will be
  followed with appropriate participation from the test center. The formal TRB will ensure a
  thorough assessment of the test plan for technical soundness and adequacy. It will verify that
  the overall method of test and test data acquisition is adequate to evaluate the requirements
  and to verify that the objectives can be met with acceptable technical risk. Safety planning is
  conducted on all tests to identify risks, reduce those risks as much as possible, and gain
  acceptance of the residual risk by the proper authority.
  4.3. The TM and test organization is responsible for the safety planning and identification of
  hazards. The TM and test organization will identify test safety hazards by:
     4.3.1. Consulting with other personnel with experience in similar testing and system
     operation.
     4.3.2. Reviewing the lessons learned databases for hazards identified/lessons learned in
     other test projects of a similar nature.
     4.3.3. Reviewing the contractor system safety plans and analysis.             These include
     system/subsystem hazard analysis.
     4.3.4. Reviewing the contractor and Government previous test results including
     component qualifications, modeling and simulation, hardware-in-the-loop, and
     integration.
     4.3.5. Attempting to identify new hazards that may be unique to the operation of the new
     item or mission environment.
     4.3.6. Reviewing the safety requirements for assets/facilities when non-OO-ALC
     assets/facilities are used.
8                                                       HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


       4.3.7. Eliminating/Reducing/Controlling Test Hazards. The TM and test organization
       will identify methods to eliminate, reduce, or control the test hazards applying the
       following safety order of precedence:
           4.3.7.1. Design out the test hazard.
           4.3.7.2. Reduce risk to an acceptable level through change in test design.
           4.3.7.3. Incorporate safety devices.
           4.3.7.4. Provide caution and warning devices.
           4.3.7.5. Develop test procedures and provide proper training of the individuals
           conducting the test. In cases where predictive data is not available, special emphasis
           will be placed on adding build-up test points.
       4.3.8. Preparing advance copies of the Hill AFB Form 518, Test Project Safety Review
       (Initial and Amendment), and Hill AFB Form 519(s), Test Hazard Analysis (THA).
       Attachment 4 of this instruction contains instructions for completion of these forms.
       4.3.9. Ensuring a proper review is accomplished by submitting test plans early enough to
       obtain final approval at least 10 business days prior to start of testing. Simple, low-risk
       tests should be submitted at least 20 days prior to start of testing. Test plans associated
       with larger test programs or complex test plans may require more than the minimum 20
       days allocated for the test plan review process. Early involvement of CTA, TESTREP,
       and 75 ABW/SE will expedite the review process. Submitting the test plan for review
       without sufficient time to complete all review actions may result in a delay of testing.
    4.4. Test Approval. After the CTA/TESTREP, TRB Chairperson, and SRB Chairperson
    have coordinated on the test plan, the plan must still receive final approval. The approval
    official for the test plan and attached safety planning documents is dependent on the level of
    residual risk as determined by the TRB and SRB. The PM or his/her designee (no lower than
    his/her deputy or chief engineer) has final test approval authority for all low risk tests not
    conducted by a test center. If a RTO has been designated, the PM may designate test
    approval authority to the lead test organization’s squadron commander or director. For low
    risk flight tests this approval level is raised to the RTO’s group commander or director. The
    RTO’s wing commander or director is the test approval authority for all medium risk tests
    not conducted by a test center. The OO-ALC Commander is the final approval authority for
    all high risk tests not conducted by a test center. Final test plan approval is required before
    testing can be conducted. Figure 1 outlines the test plan review process at OO-ALC.
    Approval authorities may designate in writing an alternate. The TRB or SRB may also raise
    the approval level for tests with high visibility or special interest. Note: Prior to this review
    process, the test plan/THA should be reviewed internally within the PM’s organization.
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                                            9




Figure 1 OO-ALC Test Plan Review Process.


                                      Responsible Test Organization (RTO)/Test
                                         Manager (TM) develops Test Plan



                                        TM sends test plan to CTA/TESTREP



                                       CTA/TESTREP makes independent risk
                                                 assessment

                                                     Need Test
                                                       Center
                                            YES     concurrence?

 CTA/TESTREP sends test                                    No
 program introduction sheet       CTA/TESTREP/TM makes recommendation
    to Test Center (TC)                  to Program Manager (PM)


CTA/TESTREP/TM resolves                PM reviews recommendation and takes
     issues with TC                             appropriate action


CTA/TESTREP/TM receives
     TC concurrence                                   Med/High                        Test Center
                                            NO                       YES
                                                       Risk?                          Involvement



                                      Formal TRB/
                                                     YES                         NO   Test Center
                                         SRB
                                                                                        RTO?
                                       required?

                                                                                                      Y
                              N                          TM distributes test plan                     E
                              O                         with safety annex, sets up                    S
                                                              local TRB/SRB


                  CTA/OO-ALC/SE waive
               formal TRB/SRB, desk review                                                  Follow Test Center TRB/
                                                                 TRB/SRB
                 accomplished on test plan                                                       SRB Processes
                     with safety annex

                                                      TM prepares minutes/resolves
                                                              action items



                                                    TM receives TRB/SRB concurrence



                                                                Low/Med/High
                                                       Low                     High
                                                                   Risk?

                                                                      Med

           PM or designee sign test                  RTO Wing CC or designee sign        OO-ALC/CC or designee sign test
            plan with safety annex                     test plan with safety annex           plan with safety annex



                         TM sends final copy of test plan with safety annex with signatures to CTA/TESTREP
10                                                       HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010



5. Technical and Safety Review Boards. OO-ALC manages and mitigates risks by adequate
technical and safety review.
     5.1. TRB/SRB Scheduling. The TM, with the assistance of the CTA will arrange for a local
     TRB and SRB. The test organization will conduct the TRB/SRB. The board members must
     have adequate time to review the test/safety plan prior to the meeting, five working days is a
     minimum.
     5.2. Technical Review Board (TRB). The CTA has oversight of the TRB process. The
     CTA will maintain a list of qualified OO-ALC personnel to chair TRBs for OO-ALC
     projects. The CTA will evaluate all detailed test plans for technical adequacy and technical
     risk. The CTA may choose to waive the TRB according to established criteria, if it
     determines the test plan is adequate and of low technical risk; all other tests require a TRB.
     The TRB will ensure a thorough assessment of the test plan for technical soundness and
     adequacy. It will verify that the overall method of test and test data acquisition is adequate to
     evaluate the requirements and to verify that the objectives can be met with acceptable
     technical risk.
        5.2.1. TRB Membership: The CTA will determine the required membership. TRB
        members should be senior in experience in their appropriate disciplines. The TRB must
        include members who are technically qualified, with test management experience, and
        are independent of the program. Mandatory TRB members include representatives from
        the test organization, CTA, and test item IPT. Other representatives may be required if
        their area of responsibility is involved. These include OO-ALC/SE, the test range,
        Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD), aircraft maintenance, Airfield Management, Fire
        Protection, Bioenvironmental Engineering, and Environmental Management. For flight
        tests, representatives from the weapons system program management and the aircrew are
        required. If the CTA/TESTREP makes a preliminary assessment that a flight test is
        medium or high safety risk, Test Center/Wing participation is required. Participation
        may be as a voting board member or through generation of a letter of technical adequacy
        after review of the completed test plan.
        5.2.2. TRB Documentation. Concerns, action items, and inadequacies in the test plan
        discovered by the TRB will be documented by the TM in the TRB minutes. A technical
        risk assessment will also be documented in the minutes.
        5.2.3. TRB Action Items. The TM must resolve all action items, as determined by the
        TRB Chairman, prior to completing the test plan safety review. TRB minutes along with
        any corresponding action item responses become part of the test documentation.
     5.3. Safety Review Board (SRB). 75 ABW/SE has oversight of the SRB process. The
     Chief of Safety (OO-ALC/SE) or designated alternate is the SRB Chairperson. At a
     minimum, if it is determined that a formal SRB is not required, the TESTREP/CTA and the
     SRB Chairperson will review the test plan with safety appendix for safety plan adequacy and
     risk assessment. Based on scope, complexity, similarity to previous tests, and anticipated
     risk level, 75 ABW/SE may choose to waive a formal SRB according to established criteria
     and just route the test plan through the appropriate experts. The SRB will come after the
     TRB. The SRB will evaluate the detailed test plan and the draft safety appendix for
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                              11


   adequacy of the safety planning. The SRB will ensure hazards have been identified and
   reduced to minimum reasonable level. Test mishap accountability will be clearly
   documented. The SRB will evaluate the extent to which the severity and the probability of
   occurrence of known hazards have been minimized and assess the residual safety risk level
   using the OO-ALC Subjective Risk Assessment Method (Attachment 5).
       5.3.1. SRB Membership. 75 ABW/SE will determine the required membership and the
       voting board members. SRB members must be technically qualified and not have
       sufficient project involvement to present a conflict of interest. Absence of a voting
       member may result in cancellation or delay of the SRB. Mandatory SRB members
       include representatives from OO-ALC/SE, the test organization, the CTA, the TESTREP,
       and engineering. Other representatives may be required if their area of responsibility is
       involved. These include system safety for the weapons system, aircrew, test range, EOD,
       Fire Protection, and Bioenvironmental Engineering. If the TESTREP/CTA makes a
       preliminary assessment that a flight test is medium or high safety risk, Test Center/Wing
       participation is required. Participation may be as a board member or through
       coordination on the completed test plan.
6. Test Documentation Coordination.
   6.1. Documentation Package. After the SRB, the test organization will include SRB minutes
   and resolution of action items in Section V of the Hill AFB Form 518. The test organization
   will then prepare a complete test documentation package for the coordination process. This
   documentation package will be arranged in a five-part folder, as shown in Table 1.

Table 1. Documentation

                         DOCUMENT                                          LOCATION
Project Title                                                      Outside Front Cover
Detailed Test Plan                                                 Inside Front Cover
Hill AFB Forms 518 and 519                                         Tab 1
Test Procedures, Test Cards, Checklists, What-Ifs (if completed)   Tab 2
TRB Minutes or Waiver Letter and AF IMT 813                        Tab 3
Supporting Documentation                                           Tab 4


   6.2. Coordination Cycle. After completing the documentation package, the test organization
   will route the documentation package for required coordination signatures on the Hill AFB
   Form 518. When obtaining 388th Fighter Wing (388FW) signatures, the 388th Fighter
   Wing’s Range Safety Section (388FW/SEY) may generate a 388FW signature page for
   routing through the Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB) Test Approval Authority.
   The following must coordinate on the package by signing the Hill AFB Form 518: OO-
   ALC/SE, a representative of the PM, and the squadron commander or squadron director of
   each test organization. Also required is any other organization with Test Mishap
   Accountability. The Hill AFB Form 518 is approved by the RTO squadron commander or
   director.
12                                                      HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


     6.3. Coordination Comments. Any comments by the coordination officials will be added to
     the Hill AFB Form 518. Before adding a comment, the coordination official will notify the
     test organization so the issue may be resolved, if possible, at the lowest level. The RTO
     squadron commander or director will ensure all comments/issues are resolved, if possible,
     before approving the Hill AFB Form 518. The 75 ABW/SE and CTA may require
     reconvening the TRB and SRB to consider any changes resulting from these comments. The
     TRB Chairperson and SRB Chairperson will then coordinate on the detailed test plan.
     6.4. Test Approval. The detailed test plan, and thereby the complete test documentation
     package, is approved by the test approval authority as explained in Paragraph 4.2
7. Test Execution.
     7.1. Test Readiness Review (TRR). The TRB will determine if a TRR is required. The TRR
     will be scheduled by the TD and conducted by the test organization approximately one to
     seven days before active testing begins. Attendance will include as a minimum
     representatives of the CTA, PM, test organization, and the test item operator (aircrew for
     flight test). The TD and the test item operator may attend by conference call if off-site
     scheduling considerations warrant. The TRR will assess all required versus accomplished
     preparations for the test. Test procedures, test cards, test risks, and what-ifs are usually
     briefed. Sample TRR checklists and what-ifs are available from the CTA.
     7.2. Test Procedures and Test Cards. System operators and range controllers conduct the
     test IAW test procedures, test cards, and checklists. Step-by-step test setups and switch
     settings are detailed to include entrance and exit configurations/conditions and go/no go
     criteria in the test procedures and test cards. These procedures or cards are prepared jointly
     by the TD, test organization, operators, and controllers; and coordinated on by the test
     organization’s safety officer. Test cards for flight tests must be approved by the flying
     organization’s squadron commander.
     7.3. Test Conduct. The TD will assist the test organization to plan and conduct all pre-test
     briefings and reviews, ensure testing documentation is prepared and approved, and ensure all
     planning, coordination and approvals are complete prior to the start of testing. The test
     organization will assemble the test assets and schedule the test events. The test organization
     will conduct a briefing with system operators and controllers prior to each test event.
     Procedures and limitations will be reviewed. During the conduct of the test, operators and
     controllers cannot deviate from the test procedures or test cards unless authorized by the test
     organization. The test organization is responsible for ensuring test conduct is within the
     constraints of the detailed test plan and safety documents.
        7.3.1. Unexpected Events. Unexpected events may include but are not limited to:
        damage to the test article or support equipment, exceeding safety-of-test limits, an
        unfavorable departure from predicted simulation/analysis, or any occurrence judged by a
        team member to warrant a safety-related pause in the test project. If an unexpected event
        occurs during the test, the test project will be halted (―
                                                                 knock it off‖) and 75 ABW/SE will
        be notified to see if a test plan/safety document amendment is required. Any member of
        the test team can call ― knock it off‖ at any time during the test.
        7.3.2. Changes during test conduct. Deviations from the test plan during the test are not
        authorized unless the CTA and 75 ABW/SE representatives determine that they are
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                              13


      within the scope of the technical and safety planning. Changes exceeding the scope of
      the original planning require a test plan amendment. Document amendments using a Hill
      AFB Form 518 following the instructions in Attachment 4. Unless 75 ABW/SE
      determines that the risk level is changed, the amendment requires the same coordination
      and approval as the original test plan.
      7.3.3. Extended Testing. Tests extending more than five years since the test plan
      approval date or with more than 20 amendments must be resubmitted to the CTA and 75
      ABW/SE for technical and safety reviews.
8. Test Reporting.
   8.1. Type of Report. The test organizations are responsible for reporting test results,
   deficiencies, and enhancements. Test data must be available to all ITT members. The ITT
   will determine the type and frequency of reports. A test report can vary in scope from simply
   providing raw data to a comprehensive Technical Report that includes thorough analysis,
   conclusions, and recommendations.
   8.2. Report Review and Approval. Test reports must be timely, factual, and concise.
   Reviews by a technical writer and Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (OO-ALC/JA) should
   be considered for reports contributing to significant program decisions. Test reports will be
   approved by the test organization squadron commander or director.
   8.3. Report Distribution. The ITT will determine the report distribution. Reports are not
   releasable outside of the Air Force without approval by the PM and contracting officer.
   Standard Form 298, Report Documentation Page, with distribution statement is usually
   attached to the back of the report front cover. The OO-ALC Engineering Directorate,
   Scientific, and Technology Information Office (OO-ALC/EN STINFO) officer will assist in
   distribution statements and archiving reports IAW AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific, and
   Technical Information.
   8.4. Report Format. Generally, test reports follow the same format as the test plan with
   sections added for deficiencies, conclusions, and recommendations. Test Center/Wing report
   writing guidebooks and examples are available from the CTA.
   8.5. Special Reporting Requirements. Live Fire testing, operational testing, and programs on
   the Office of the Secretary of Defense oversight list have special reporting requirements
   found in AFI 99-103.
   8.6. Deficiency Reports (DR). Deficiency reporting is required. The PM is responsible for
   maintaining the database and acting on submitted DRs IAW TO 00-35D-54-WA-1, USAF
   Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution. Note: AFI 99-103, 6.10. has further
   guidance. The test organizations are normally the originating point for the watch item
   tracking (WIT) lists and DRs. The ITT is responsible for prioritizing DRs and ensuring that
   a WIT and DR notification and tracking system is available to all stakeholders during the
   testing. WITs and DRs that have not been closed out must be mentioned in the final report.
   8.7. Lessons Learned. Documenting lessons learned is important to build the knowledge and
   experience base in the test community. Test participants are encouraged to submit wide
   applicability lessons learned and best practices to the CTA.
14                                                    HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


     8.8. Project Completion. The TM must notify 75 ABW/SE and the CTA within 30 days
     following the final test event. Notification includes listing any test and safety lessons
     learned, effectiveness of hazard controls or minimizing procedures, unexpected hazards,
     value added from the safety review process, and suggestions for improving the safety review
     process.
9. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     9.1. Prescribed Forms.
        Hill AFB Form 518, Test Project Safety Review
        Hill AFB Form 519, Test Hazard Analysis (THA)
     9.2. Adopted Forms.
        AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
        AF IMT 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis
        Standard Form 298, Report Documentation Page




                                             ANDREW E. BUSCH, Major General, USAF
                                             Commander, Ogden Air Logistics Center
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                        15


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific, and Technical Information, 30 Aug 2002
AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, 26 Feb 2008
AFI 91-202_AFMC Sup 1, The USAF Mishap Prevention Program, 11 Nov 2005
AFMCI 21-126, Temporary 2 (T-2) Modification of Aerospace Vehicles, 19 Jul 2005
AFMCI 99-103, Test Management, 22 Nov 2004AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 1
Aug 1994
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), 1 Jan 2000
Hill AFBI 10-401, Support of Units Deployed to Hill AFB, 5 Oct 2004
Military Standard 882D, Standard Practice for System Safety, 10 Feb 2000
RCC Std 321-02, Common Risk Criteria for National Test Ranges, 1 Jun 2002
T.O. 00-35D-54-WA-1, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 May 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FW—388th Fighter Wing
FW/SEY—388th Fighter Wing’s Range Safety Section
CEG/CEV—75th Civil Engineering Group Environmental Management Division
FLTS—514th Flight Test Squadron
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CTA—Center Test Authority
DR—Deficiency Report
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
F3I—Form, Fit, Function, and Interface
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulations
IAW—In Accordance With
16                                              HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


IMT—Information Management Tool
IOT&E—Initial Operational Test and Evaluation
IPT—Integrated Product Team
ITT—Integrated Test Team
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOP—Measure of Performance
MRTFB—Major Range and Test Facility Base
OO—ALC—Ogden Air Logistics Center
OO—ALC/CC—OO-ALC Commander
OO—ALC/JA—Office of the Staff Judge Advocate
OO—ALC/SE—OO-ALC Safety Directorate
OO—ALC/EN STINFO—OO-ALC Engineering Directorate, Science and Technology
Information Office
OO—ALC/ENT—OO-ALC Center Test Authority
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PM—Program Manager
PTO—Participating Test Organization
RTO—Responsible Test Organization
SRB—Safety Review Board
STINFO—Science and Technology Information
T&E—Test and Evaluation
TD—Test Director
TES—Test and Evaluation Strategy
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TESTREP—Test Representative
THA—Test Hazard Analysis
TIPT—Test Integrated Product Team
TM—Test Manager
T.O.—Technical Order
TRB—Technical Review Board
TRR—Test Readiness Review
UTTR—Utah Test and Training Range
WIT—Watch Item Tracking
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                  17


Terms
Deficiency Report (DR)—The report used to identify, document, and track system deficiency
and enhancement data while a system is in advanced development, T&E, or operational
transition.
Evaluation Criteria—An expression of a standard on which a judgment is based, usually
expressed as a parameter (for example: percentage, rate, user rating).
Flight Test—Any test requiring an aerospace vehicle to move under its own power.
Form, Fit, Function, and Interface (F3I)—F3I is a term applied in specifications to achieve
interchangeable parts where complete design freedom is not allowed in that the physically
interchangeable parts must function within the defined physical architecture. Form: The term
form addresses the physical characteristics of an end item. For hardware items, this would
include characteristics such as (1) the product envelope (which could include both internal and
external envelopes) (2) weight or mass (3) center of gravity and (4) moments of inertia. The
term has less significance for software items, but could include memory storage requirements,
throughput requirements, etc. Fit: The term fit is primarily applicable to hardware end items, and
addresses the "mating" characteristics with other hardware items and with the user/operator. It
would include characteristics such as (1) the location relative to a defined datum of mating
surfaces/features (2) the location relative to a defined datum of features designed to facilitate
handling, assembly, and installation and (3) mating surface/feature requirements such as flatness
or contour. Function: The term function addresses what the end item must be capable of doing
for a defined set of conditions. In addition to the obvious performance characteristics, this would
include requirements in performance terms for reliability, useful life, maintainability,
supportability, and other "-ilities" in general. Interface: The term interface addresses the way the
hardware or software interacts with other systems or segments of the same system.
Integrated Test Team (ITT)—A cross-functional team of empowered representatives from
multiple disciplines and organizations and co-chaired by operational testers and the program
manager. The ITT is responsible for developing the T&E strategy and TEMP, assisting the
acquisition community with T&E matters, and guiding the development of integrated test plans.
Program Manager (PM)—1. The designated individual, with responsibility for and authority
to accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the
user’s operational needs. The PM shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, and
performance reporting to the milestone decision authority. 2. Applies collectively to system
program directors, product group managers, single managers, acquisition program managers, and
weapon system managers. The PM has total life cycle system management authority.
Safety Review Board (SRB)—A committee formed to review the test plan and identify any
potential safety hazards, possible causes and effects, and develop procedures required to
minimize safety risks during testing.
Technical Review Board (TRB)—A committee of experienced personnel not directly
associated with the test program to provide an independent technical assessment of the test plan.
Test—The act of generating qualitative and/or empirical data during the research, development
or sustainment of systems, and the creation of information through analysis that is useful to
technical personnel and decision makers for reducing design and acquisition risks. The process
18                                                     HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


by which systems are measured against requirements and specifications, and the results analyzed
so as to gauge progress and provide feedback. It requires a unique planning effort and
procedures outside of or in addition to established TOs. The failure of or unexpected results
from these procedures may result in a costly loss of the data or create a safety or environmental
risk.
Test Approval Authority—The individuals ultimately responsible for accepting the SRB and
TRB results and approving the test to proceed with any residual risk.
Test Cards— A detailed step by step guide for those conducting the test and generally used by a
single organization. Test cards are more detailed than test procedures, though they may be the
same product. Generally, used in flight tests.
Test Hazard Analysis (THA)—Worksheets included in the safety appendix of the test plan.
The THA identifies test hazards, causes, and effects, and establishes risk reduction methods. It is
used to determine the residual level of safety risk.
Test Integrated Product Team (TIPT)—Any temporary group consisting of testers and other
experts who are focused on a specific test issue or problem. There may be multiple TIPTs for
each acquisition program.
Test Manager—The individual designated by the PM as responsible for the overall
management, planning, and execution of a test. The TM is typically a system engineer in the PM
organization.
Test Mishap Accountability—The organization that pays for test-related repairs and
replacements must be written and approved in the test planning documentation. Testing often
requires the preplanned damage/destruction of a unique test asset. Even where damage is not
planned, testing involves unknowns that could increase the likelihood of damage/loss. This is
part of the cost of conducting the test and in no way implies blame or mishap responsibility.
Test Objectives—Declarations of what is expected to be achieved. Objectives should be short
sentences beginning with an action verb followed by the objective and qualifying phrases. (E.g.
evaluate the test item separation characteristics when released at low altitude (10,000 feet))
Test Plan—A documented approach, resources, and schedule to verify compliance of a system
or one of its elements by test.
Test Procedures—A detailed step by step guide for those conducting the test. This may include
more than one organization and can be included as part of the test plan.
Test Representative (TESTREP)—A Test Center/Wing advisor and liaison to OO-ALC.
TESTREP qualifications are listed in AFMCI 99-103.
Watch Item Tracking (WIT)—A problem or suspected problem found during testing that is
tracked to collect additional data prior to submitting a DR.
What—Ifs—Pre-briefed and approved test conduct decisions. Using What-Ifs is encouraged to
reduce the need for real-time decision making when coordination with all knowledgeable
personnel is not practical. These decisions must not exceed the scope and limitations of the test
plan and safety documentation.
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                         19


                                         Attachment 2
                   TEST PLAN SIGNATURE PAGE FORMAT SAMPLE

TEST PLAN: ID NUMBER

TITLE:


PREPARED BY:

NAME                                                             Date
Title, Organization, Office


REVIEWED BY:

NAME                                                             Date
Test Manager, Organization, Office

NAME                                                             Date
TESTREP, Center Test Authority, OO-ALC/ENT

NAME                                                             Date
Other individuals as required with Title, Organization, Office

NAME                                                             Date
Chairman, Technical Review Board, Organization, Office

NAME                                                             Date
Chairman, Safety Review Board, Organization, Office


APPROVED BY:

NAME                                                             Date
Title, Organization, and Office as determined by risk level


DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT
20                                                      HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


                                           Attachment 3
TEST PLAN GUIDANCE/CHECKLIST- In general, test plans should follow the guidelines of
afftc-tih-93-01, air force flight test center test plan preparation guide, may 94 (available from the
CTA upon request). This handbook is used as a guide; for many of the small-scale tests that
occur, the test plan can be tailored significantly, especially since much of the information
requested in the guide may not apply. As a minimum, TMs preparing a test plan should review
the test plan checklist (appendix c to the air force flight test center test plan preparation guide)
while writing their test plan. The tm should include as attachments to the test plan:

 - Signature page (per Attachment 2 of this instruction).
 - Planned schedule
 - A letter indicating the system engineering analysis technical and safety risk levels
 - Test Hazard Analysis (per Attachment 4 of this instruction)
The elements of a test plan should have sufficient detail for a technically qualified person not
associated with the program to understand the test requirements and objectives and see that the
test plan will meet those requirements and objectives.

TAILORED DETAILED TEST PLAN

Detailed Test Plan Title

A3.1. INTRODUCTION.
     A3.1.1. Background. This should be a short paragraph with the following information:
     identify the test requester, pertinent test history, expected time frame of the test, number of
     test missions, and general purpose of the test. Include the operational deficiency which the
     item is intended to remedy, if applicable, the stage in the research and development cycle to
     which the item has progressed, and any known pending decision(s) based on test results.
     A3.1.2. Test Objectives. This section lists each objective individually as a short, concise
     statement. The test objectives serve as a declaration of what is expected to be achieved.
     Objectives should be short sentences beginning with an action verb followed by the objective
     and qualifying phrases. For example: "Evaluate the test item separation characteristics when
     released at low altitude (10,000 feet)." Each objective should have at least one Measure of
     Performance (MOP), and associated Evaluation Criteria.

Table A3.1. Test Objective Action Verbs
  ACTION                                         DEFINITION
   VERB
               To gather test data that requires no subsequent analysis, such as bomb fragment
Collect
               data or time-space-position information data.
               To perform a detailed examination of the similarities and differences in test
Compare
               items.
Demonstrate    To show something qualitative or quantitative by doing.
Determine      To discover certain measurable or observable characteristics of a test item.
               To establish overall worth (effectiveness, adequacy, usefulness, or capability) of
Evaluate
               a test item.
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                         21


                   To confirm a suspected, hypothesized, or partly established contention. (This
Verify             verb should be used sparingly because it implies that a test item has already
                   demonstrated a capability and the test is just confirming that fact.)
         A3.1.3. Scope of Test and Test Limitations. Describe the number of test items or flights.
         Identify modes and parameters not controlled or measured, facility and operational
         restrictions, etc. that will constrain the testing or limit the applicability of the test results.
A3.2. TEST ITEM DESCRIPTION. This section should include a short paragraph describing
each test item in adequate detail to understand all aspects of the test.
A3.3. TEST RESOURCES.
   A3.3.1. Test Items. Identify units under test and other assets needed to accomplish the test.
   Include sources and ownership.
   A3.3.2. Facilities and Range Support. Specify test locations. Include key personnel, targets,
   control room, hot pads, etc.
   A3.3.3. Aircraft Operations. List the source of aircraft and aircrew. Include the aircraft
   configuration, necessary modifications, Operational Flight Program versions, etc. Also
   include maintenance and load crew sources and responsibilities.
   A3.3.4. Instrumentation. List required instrumentation data. Include locations and sources
   of data, reference checkout, calibration, and operation procedures. Instrumentation
   requirements should include the following:
         A3.3.4.1. Instrumentation system resources including telemetry, Time Space Position
         Information, meteorological, transducer and photo documentation requirements.
         A3.3.4.2. Data Requirements List. List parameters to be monitored/recorded. Include
         sample rates, range, accuracy, resolution, and pre-conditioning. Define which parameters
         are go/no-go, both from a technical and safety viewpoint (e.g. the aircraft will not take off
         or will abort the test condition if a no-go parameter is unavailable.) The measurements
         and parameters could be categorized as:
             A3.3.4.2.1. Category 1. Mandatory for safe conduct of the test (if not available, the
             test will be aborted until repairs are made).
             A3.3.4.2.2. Category 2. Required to meet a specific test objective (if not available,
             those tests will be aborted).
             A3.3.4.2.3. Category 3. Desirable to accomplish the test objective and support data
             analysis, however other alternate means of assessment can be substituted.
         A3.3.4.3. Data Products List.        Specify display/reporting format, units, and delivery
         schedule.
   A3.3.5. Test Project Management. List key personnel and include function, organization,
   and telephone number.
A3.4. METHOD OF TEST. This section describes the actual method to be followed in
satisfying each test objective. Detailed procedures are provided for each type of test that will be
performed. Describe test conditions; sample sizes; test item operational mode; critical geometry;
aircraft configuration; flight profile; switch settings; etc. Fully define any terminology peculiar
22                                                    HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


to this test methodology. List the sequence of test events and any pass-fail results or
management decision milestones that must be satisfied before test completion or proceeding to
the next test event. For tests with many phases or test events, put a general paragraph here and
detailed procedures in an appendix.
A3.5. TEST REPORTING. Specify products the test organization will provide (e.g. transfer of
data, data processing and analysis, technical report, recommendation for certification, final data
products, etc.) Also, specify how deficiencies will be tracked and reported.
A3.6. REFERENCES. Reference earlier testing (plans, tailored Military Standards, test
reports), specifications and other contractual requirements documents, aircraft
configuration/modification documentation, and system and facility operational limitations.
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                23


                                         Attachment 4
        INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING HILL AFB FORMS 518 AND 519

A4.1. Hill AFB Form 518: Test Project Safety Review (Initial and Amendment)
   A4.1.1. USE. This form introduces and summarizes the test, documents the research of
   lessons learned, records the proceedings of the SRB, and provides a vehicle by which the
   OO-ALC command structure gives final approval for the conduct of the test.
   A4.1.2. PREPARATION. The test organization fills out the sections of the form except for
   Risk Level and Safety Review Synopsis. These will be completed using the results of the
   SRB. Examples of completed Hill AFB Form 518s and additional instructions are available
   from the CTA.
   A4.1.3. AMENDMENTS. This form is also used to document any changes to the test or test
   item and/or changes to the safety planning and an amendment can be used to request
   appropriate Test Approval Authority approval before continued testing.
A4.2. Hill AFB Form 519. Test Hazard Analysis (THA)
   A4.2.1. USE. This form is a worksheet for developing the THA. Each worksheet
   documents a test unique hazard and the actions the project will take to control the hazard to
   an acceptable level of risk. The collection of worksheets becomes the THA.
   A4.2.2. THA. The THA is an analytical approach to breaking the mishap chain of events
   between the initial cause and the ultimate effect. Between the Cause and the Effect is the
   Hazard – the dangerous situation to be avoided through Minimizing Procedures, or remedied
   through Emergency Procedures.
   A4.2.3. TEST HAZARD. A Test Hazard is a hazardous situation that may have an
   increased likelihood of occurrence due to this test. For example, mid-air collision with non-
   participating aircraft is usually not considered a test hazard. However, if the very nature of
   the test may increase the probability of this hazard above that of normal operations, it should
   be addressed as a test hazard. Pre-existing hazards associated with the weapon system shall
   be considered.
   A4.2.4. PREPARATION. The test organization is responsible for developing the THA but
   other test participants may submit additional worksheets. For flight tests, the aircrew must
   participate. The SRB considers the adequacy of the Minimizing Procedures and Emergency
   Procedures and assigns a Mishap Severity Category, Mishap Probability, and resulting Risk
   Level. Filled in examples of the Hill AFB Form 519 and additional instructions are available
   from the CTA.
24                                                       HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


                                            Attachment 5
TEST PLAN SAFETY - In order to ensure that an adequate safety review can be accomplished
for tests, all test plans submitted to the center safety office for review shall include a safety plan
as required by AFI 91-202/AFMC supplement 1 (chapter 13, test safety review process). The
safety plan, if not a part of the test plan or included on the hill AFB form 518, shall be included
as an appendix to the test plan and shall contain as a minimum:

 - Go/no-go criteria for test performance
 - Mishap prevention responsibility (which aircrew will perform the test? What individual is
responsible for ensuring the safe conduct of the test?)
 - Mishap accountability determinations (which organization possesses the aircraft used? Which
organization has accident accountability? What organization is responsible for mishap
reporting?)
 - THA that identifies all test unique hazards and the actions necessary to minimize or control
them
When a contractor performs test plan development, the PM should include in the contract any
language necessary to ensure that THAs are performed and provided as part of the test plan. For
tests falling under existing contracts, THAs can be performed by program office personnel with
assistance from the RTO or the CTA. The following pages have a risk assessment chart, THA
sample document, and instructions.
OO-ALC SUBJECTIVE RISK ASSESSMENT METHOD
This section is based on Appendix A in Military Standard 882D, Standard Practice for System
Safety, which can be used to provide further detail.
A5.1. Mishap Probability. This is a subjective evaluation of the probability of the effect
occurring. Considerable insight, experience, and engineering judgment are required from the
board members.
HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                     25


Table A5.1. Mishap Probability.
Description    Level                Specific Individual Item                   Fleet or Inventory
                          Likely to occur often in the life of an item,    Continuously experienced.
Frequent        A         with a probability of occurrence greater than
                          10-1 in that life.
                          Will occur several times in the life of an       Will occur frequently.
Probable        B         item, with a probability of occurrence less
                          than 10-1 but greater than 10-2 in that life.
                          Likely to occur sometime in the life of an       Will occur several times.
Occasional      C         item, with a probability of occurrence less
                          than 10-2 but greater than 10-3 in that life.
                          Unlikely but possible to occur in the life of    Unlikely, but can
Remote          D         an item, with a probability of occurrence less   reasonably be expected to
                          than 10-3 but greater than 10-6 in that life.    occur.
                          So unlikely, it can be assumed occurrence        Unlikely to occur, but
Improbable      E         may not be experienced, with a probability of    possible.
                          occurrence less than 10-6 in that life.




Table A5.2. Mishap Severity Category. A qualitative measure of the worst credible
mishap.
Description    Category                 Environmental, Safety, and Health Result Criteria
                              Could result in death, permanent total disability, loss exceeding $1M,
Catastrophic        I         or irreversible severe environmental damage that violates law or
                              regulation.
                              Could result in permanent partial disability, injuries, or occupational
Critical            II        illness that may result in hospitalization of at least three personnel,
                              loss exceeding $200K but less than $1M, or reversible environmental
                              damage causing a violation of law or regulation.
                              Could result in injury or occupational illness resulting in one or more
Marginal            III       lost work days(s), loss exceeding $10K but less than $200K, or
                              mitigatible environmental damage without violation of law or
                              regulation where restoration activities can be accomplished.
                              Could result in injury or illness not resulting in a lost work day, loss
Negligible          IV        exceeding $2K but less than $10K, or minimal environmental
                              damage not violating law or regulation.
A5.2. Risk Level. The degree of residual risk assumed by OO-ALC management.
Management approval allows the proposed test to be accomplished in the manner and under the
conditions specified. The risk level is determined by entering the mishap category and
probability into the risk assessment chart below.
26                                                         HILLAFBI99-103 16 FEBRUARY 2010


Table A5.3. Risk Level Assessment.

SEVERITY              Catastrophic             Critical              Marginal        Negligible
PROBABILITY

Frequent                      1                    3                    7               13

Probable                      2                    5                    9               16

Occasional                    4                    6                    11              18

Remote                        8                   10                    14              19

Improbable                    12                  15                    17              20




Table A5.4. Risk Level Description.

Risk Assessment        Risk                            Description                  Risk Approval
     Level           Category                                                         Authority
        1-5            High        Tests which present a significant risk to        OO-ALC
                                   personnel, equipment, or property, even after    Commander
                                   all precautionary measures have been taken.
        6-9          Medium        Tests which present a greater risk than normal   RTO Wing
                                   operations to personnel, equipment, or           Commander
                                   property, even after all appropriate controls
                                   have been applied, measures have been taken,
                                   and require more than routine supervision.
       10-20           Low         Tests which present no greater risk than         Program
                                   normal operations after appropriate controls     Manager
                                   have been applied. Routine supervision is
                                   appropriate.
     A5.2.1. Quantitative Risk Assessment. If sufficient data are available to form a quantitative
     assessment of residual risk, this should be used to supplement the subjective method. RCC
     Std 321-02, Common Risk Criteria for National Test Ranges, sets acceptable mishap
     probability and severity thresholds.
