BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 31-205
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             11 JANUARY 2000
                                                           CERTIFIED CURRENT 13 JULY 2012

                                                                                         Security

                                                                    INSTALLATION CURFEW



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 75 SFS/SFO                                          Certified by: 75 SFS/CC (Maj Robert L.
                                                                                     Hemphill)
                                                                                       Pages: 3



This instruction establishes a Hill AFB Installation Curfew and provides program guidance. It
implements AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement. It prescribes a minor (defined as anyone under the
age of eighteen years) curfew and outlines standards procedures for dealing with violations. It
applies to all persons who are minors of active duty, temporary duty, retired US military, DoD
civilians, and any non-base affiliated guest sponsored on base. It does not apply to active duty
military members under 18 years old. The objective of this instruction is to provide a safe and
secure living and working environment for Air Force employees, members, and their families. It
brings installation policy in line with local ordinances in the surrounding communities (Layton
City Ordinance 9.24.010 and Clearfield City Ordinance 6-2-2). When violations do occur, it
establishes procedures for dealing with offenders.

This publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed by this instruction is
10 USC 8013. Each form, format, or form letter prescribed by this publication which requires a
Privacy Act Statement (PAS), in accordance with AFI 37-132, Air Force Privacy Act Program,
must have the PAS incorporated thereon or the PAS will be prominently posted and be provided
by the requester prior to collecting this information. Privacy Act information taken from existing
Privacy Act system of records, which authorizes blanket use of this information for this purpose,
doesn’t require a PAS. Collected information is “For Official Use Only.” Requests to release
Privacy Act information to persons or agencies outside the DoD must be in accordance with AFI
37-132. Privacy Act System Notice F124 AF C applies.
 2                                                      HILLAFBI31-205 11 JANUARY 2000


1. General. This program is established to manage the welfare of minors (under the age of 18)
and to deter unlawful acts and other misconduct by minors.
2. Prohibited. Curfew is established for minors under 18 years of age. It is prohibited for any
person under the age of 18 to be in or upon any sidewalks, street, alley, or public place between
the hours of 2400-0500 on any day.
     2.1. Exceptions.
        2.1.1. Minors accompanied by an adult responsible for the care and custody of such
        person.
        2.1.2. Minors attending or returning directly home from school or church functions.
        2.1.3. Minors attending or returning directly home from lawful entertainment,
        amusement, or commercial activities.
        2.1.4. Minors on an emergency errand, specific business, or other activity directed by
        parent, guardian, or other adult having custody or care of him/her.
        2.1.5. Minors engaged in legitimate employment which requires their presence at a
        public place during the prohibited hours.
     2.2. Minors on business premises. No person owning or operating a business shall permit
     any minor to be or remain on the premises where business is conducted between 2400-0500,
     unless in the immediate presence of the parent or other guardian. This section, however,
     shall not apply to any minor who is employed on the premises.
     2.3. Minors in military dormitory areas. Minors are expressly prohibited from occupying or
     loitering in the area of dormitories on Hill AFB.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Parents and guardians. Any parent, guardian, or other person having legal care and
     custody of any minor is prohibited from allowing any minor to utilize any of the sidewalks,
     streets, alleys, or public places on Hill Air Force Base within the times identified in
     paragraph 2.
     3.2. Persons who aid minors to violate curfew. It is prohibited for any person to assist, aid,
     abet, or encourage any minor to violate the provisions of the installation curfew. It is also
     prohibited for any person to use any influence or otherwise to entice or persuade any minor
     from his/her parents, guardians or other persons having charge or custody of such a minor,
     without the consent of such parent, guardian or custodian.
4. Program Management.
     4.1. Staff Judge Advocate (OO-ALC/JA).
        4.1.1. Reviews all military cases, and their histories, and makes recommendations of
        disposition to the Juvenile Misconduct Review Board (Re: Hill AFB Instruction 31-202,
        Juvenile Rehabilitative Program) and/or local civilian authorities.
        4.1.2. Reviews all civilian cases, and their histories, and makes recommendations to the
        Juvenile Misconduct Review Board and/or magistrate court, if appropriate.
     4.2. Chief, Security Forces (75 SFS/SF).
HILLAFBI31-205 11 JANUARY 2000                                                                  3


       4.2.1. Identifies offender and transports them to 75 Security Forces Squadron for
       processing.
       4.2.2. Notifies the parent, sponsor, and the sponsor’s first sergeant (if applicable).
       4.2.3. Informs offenders of the offense, completes rights advisement (AF Form 1168,
       Statement of Suspect/Witness/Complaints) and an incident report.
       4.2.4. Releases offenders to parent, sponsors, or (as a last resort) the sponsor’s first
       sergeant.
5. Penalties.
   5.1. Military Personnel. All personnel found in violation of the instruction may be subject to
   judicial, non-judicial or administrative action.
   5.2. Civilians. All personnel found in violation of the instruction may be cited via DD Form
   1805, United States District Court Violation Notice, (Class C Misdemeanor) and/or be
   subjected to administrative penalties up to and including debarment.




                                              RICHARD H. ROELLIG, Major General, USAF
                                              Commander, OO-ALC
