BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 48-106
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               12 MARCH 2014

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                           HILL AIR FORCE BASE HAZARD
                                                             COMMUNICATION PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 75 AMDS/SGPB                                                 Certified by: 75 AMDS/SGPB
                                                               (Colonel Mary T. Brueggemeyer)
Supersedes:   HILLAFBI48-106,                                                        Pages: 14
              17 June 2010


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine
Enterprise, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Operations, and
satisfies the requirements for a workplace program specified in AFI 90-821, Hazard
Communication. It applies to all civilian and military employees at Hill Air Force Base (AFB),
tenant organizations, the Utah Test and Training Range, and the Little Mountain Test Annex who
handle or use hazardous materials. This instruction is consistent with AFI 90-821 and
Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standard 29 Code
Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910.1200, Hazard Communication Standard. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This
publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by [set forth the legal authority such as the federal statute, executive
order, or regulation]. The applicable Privacy Act System of Records Notice (SORN) DHA 19,
Defense Occupational and Environmental Health Readiness System – Industrial Hygiene
(DOEHRS-IH) 10 U.S.C. 133, 10 U.S.C. 136, 10 U.S.C. Chapter 55, 29 U.S.C. 651, DoDD
4715.1E, DoDI 6055.1, DoDI 6055.05, DoDI 6055.17, DoDI 6200.03, E.O. 9397 (SSN), as
amended is available at http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                        HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes include placing primary responsibility for Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) training
and worker awareness on the work area/shop supervisor and clarification of supporting training
and technical consultation roles. References to specific occupational health and material
tracking systems have been changed. Additional OSHA labeling is required for hazardous
materials dispensed into smaller containers through the Dispensing Facility or on the shop floor.
Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) is replaced with Safety Data Sheet (SDS) in compliance
with the 25 May 2012 updates to 29 CFR 1910.1200 to align with the UN Globally Harmonized
System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS). Hill AFB specific SDS retrieval
procedures are added at Attachment 2 and OSHA labeling requirements at Attachment 3. This
instruction also provides updates to organizational office symbols.
1. Policies.
     1.1. The 75 ABW/CC will establish a cross-functional HAZCOM Working Group to
     monitor base compliance with all aspects of the Hazard Communication Program. This
     group will be responsible for issuing base policies regarding labeling, supervisor and worker
     training, funding requirements, SDS access, etcetera. At a minimum, this group will include
     representatives from base Safety, Bioenvironmental Engineering, Fire Protection, OO-ALC
     Safety, Hazardous Material Management Program Manager, Union, and Voluntary
     Protection Program (VPP).
     1.2. The Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Flight (75 AMDS/SGPB) will maintain the
     SDS hard copy master file containing an MSDS or SDS for hazardous materials used at Hill
     AFB. They will also maintain access to the Department of Defense (DoD) Hazardous
     Material Information Resource System (HMIRS) and Enterprise Environmental Safety and
     Occupational Health-Management Information System (EESOH-MIS).
     1.3. Worker access to SDSs will be by electronic means whenever possible. Shops desiring
     to keep hard copy SDSs in the workplace will submit a written plan showing how they will
     acquire and maintain their SDSs to 75 AMDS/SGPB for approval. A copy of this
     instruction, the work area hazardous material inventory, and the site-specific workplace
     training plan will be maintained in each work area's Supervisor Safety Workbook, HAZCOM
     binder, or electronically. Workers must be trained on accessing the SDS electronic search
     engine and given computer access to do so without going through a supervisor or a coworker.
     Supervisors must ensure workers know how to read and interpret container labels
     (Attachment 3), access an SDS (Attachment 2), and locate right-to-know information if the
     computer system is not available.
     1.4. All hazardous materials used on Hill AFB, the Utah Test and Training Range, and the
     Little Mountain Test Annex will be obtained in accordance with procedures outlined in AFI
     32-7086 HILLAFBSUP, Hazardous Materiel Management. Any materials brought on base
     by contractor personnel for use during the contract will be coordinated with the Hazardous
     Material Management Program (HMMP).
     1.5. Supervisors will ensure they train all workers on the hazardous materials they use in
     their work area at the time of initial assignment, whenever a new chemical is introduced to
     the work area, and annually (Workplace-Specific HAZCOM Training, TSS 702). The Work
     Area Specific Hazard Training Plan will be reviewed and approved by BE, Public Health,
HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014                                                                  3


   Safety, and Fire Protection for technical accuracy and completeness prior to implementation
   in the work area/shop. Contract supervisors and contractors shall be trained according to
   their specific contract provisions.
   1.6. The base Chemical Laboratory Branch (809 MXSS/MXDE) and other laboratories will
   follow the hazard communication guidance in AFOSH Standard 48-22, Occupational
   Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories. All hazardous materials used will be
   obtained through the HMMP as outlined in Paragraph 1.4. Laboratory type shops such as the
   base Chemical Lab or Propellant Lab who make solutions for other organizations (other than
   just adding water to a solid) will develop and provide SDSs for hazardous materials they mix
   or produce. These SDSs will be provided to the HMMP for stock number assignment and
   inclusion in the EESOH-MIS HM tracking system.
   1.7. Privacy act information collected from workers will be protected in accordance with
   AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Squadron/Unit Commanders will:
       2.1.1. Provide a safe and healthful work environment and ensure all assigned personnel
       are familiar with the chemical hazards within the work area/shop, recognize symptoms of
       exposure, understand appropriate ways to manage risks associated with those hazardous
       materials, and provide the resources to maintain an effective HAZCOM program within
       work area/shops under their control.
       2.1.2. Ensure all industrial workplace supervisors are provided supervisor Hazard
       Communication Training, TSS 701, upon initial assignment and at least every three
       years. This training will be annotated on the supervisor’s AF Form 55, Employee Safety
       and Health Record or equivalent.
       2.1.3. Ensure all workers are provided access to their hazard communication
       information. The location of the information or the computer to be used for internet
       access will be briefed as part of the worker’s annual safety training and to new employees
       during their workplace-specific training HAZCOM training, TSS 702. As part of this
       training, workers should be informed of what to do in case of a spill or chemical release
       in their work area.
       2.1.4. Ensure that all new materials brought on base, including materials to be used for
       demonstration, test, or evaluation are authorized through the HMMP. The SDS for the
       material will be input to the designated hazardous material issue system (EESOH-MIS
       HM) and a tracking label created for each container of hazardous material.
       2.1.5. Ensure all contracts that require hazardous material use follow the requirements in
       Paragraph 2.8.
       2.1.6. Ensure that all hazardous materials are issued to administrative or production
       processes via EESOH-MIS.
       2.1.7. Track training compliance, findings, and corrections using the HAF Shop Level
       Occupational Health self-inspection checklists in accordance with AFI 90-803,
       Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
       Management Program and AFI 90-201, Air Force Inspection System.
4                                                        HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014


    2.2. Work Area Supervisors.
       2.2.1. Ensure workers are provided general and work area specific HAZCOM training,
       TSS 702, prior to potential exposure to hazardous materials, when new hazardous
       materials are introduced in the work area, and at least annually thereafter. This training
       must include hazards generated by work area processes such as carbon monoxide from
       vehicle operation in enclosed spaces, by-products from welding operations, and dust from
       sanding operations as well as the hazards of the actual chemicals used. The training must
       include the elements listed in AFI 90-821, Paragraph 3.1. Training will be documented
       on the employee’s AF Form 55 or equivalent.
       2.2.2. Provide site-specific HAZCOM training information regarding how to read and
       interpret container labels (Attachment 3) and where SDS information can be obtained
       (Attachment 2). SDSs will be accessed electronically whenever possible. Briefings will
       include where in the workplace a worker can access SDSs electronically and what
       procedures to follow if electronic access is not possible due to power outages, computer
       problems, etcetera. SDSs can also be obtained from 75 AMDS/SGPB through the work
       area Hazardous Material Distribution Support Center (HDSC) or directly from the
       internet. When electronic access is not possible in the work area, contact 75
       AMDS/SGPB either by phone (777-4551), in person (Building. 249), or by contacting the
       Command Post (75 ABW/CP, 777-3007) during off-duty hours. Specific information
       contained in a SDS can be discussed with 75 AMDS/SGPB personnel. Requests for
       SDSs or information regarding an SDS after normal duty hours (16300630, Monday
       through Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and holidays) will be directed to the Command Post,
       777- 3007, requesting the 75 AMDS/SGPB representative be contacted.
       2.2.3. Ensure workers using EESOH-MIS are trained by the HMMP and that training is
       documented (TSS 2583).
       2.2.4. Maintain a current workplace hazardous material inventory for each Potential
       Exposure Group (PEG). As a minimum, the hazardous materials inventory will include
       the name of each hazardous material as it appears on the SDS. The inventory may be
       compiled and maintained using EESOH-MIS HM and/or the OO-ALC HAZCOM
       electronic management system. 75 AMDS/SGPB can provide technical assistance. 75
       AMDS/SGPB will review this inventory in conjunction with routine work area
       assessments.
       2.2.5. Maintain a list of all nonroutine tasks performed in the work area involving the use
       of hazardous materials. Ensure workers review the procedures and receive training on
       the hazards and controls of these nonroutine tasks and the specific hazardous materials
       used prior to the performance of the task as part of workplace-specific HAZCOM
       training (TSS 702). Examples of nonroutine tasks include painting floors, filter or media
       change out, emptying or recharging solvent tanks, self-help carpet tile installation, and
       similar tasks.
       2.2.6. Ensure all “original” hazardous material containers are labeled with a
       manufacturer’s label and an EESOH-MIS HM tracking label that identifies the material.
       Ensure products transferred into smaller containers by the pour-down facility have two
       labels: the yellow EESOH-MIS tracking label and the Hill AFB Hazard Material Label.
       Chemicals transferred by an employee from the original container into an immediate-use
HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014                                                              5


     container require no labeling; however, the employee must maintain positive control of
     the container, the container must be utilized by that employee and consumed by the end
     of shift. If a transferred material is stored beyond the work shift or could be used by
     another employee, then it must be labeled with the Hill AFB Hazard Material Label.
     Stationary process tanks and piping will be labeled according to 29 CFR 1910.1200. It is
     encouraged that tank labels be referenced to SDSs for additional information.
     2.2.7. Gaining supervisors will provide 75 AMDS/SGPB the names, last four digits of
     social security numbers, and start dates of any new workers in each PEG within 30 days
     of new personnel assignment. This information will be collected and maintained in
     accordance with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act.
     2.2.8. Supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to
     hazardous materials in the course of official Air Force duties must be provided training
     on the AF HAZCOM program, including training to address work area specific hazards
     prior to the use of hazardous chemicals (TSS 700, 701, 702, 3435, etc.), reference Table
     1.1. Supervisors will ensure the site-specific hazard training plan, used to provide TSS
     702 to workplace employees, is reviewed and approved by BE, Public Health, Safety and
     Fire Protection prior to implementation in the work area. This plan must include all of
     the elements listed in AFI 90-821, Paragraph 3.1, and this instruction. Contract
     supervisors and contractors shall be trained according to their specific contract
     provisions.

Table 1.1. HAZCOM Training Requirements




     2.2.9. Track training compliance, findings, and corrections using the HAF Shop Level
     Occupational Health self-inspection checklists in accordance with AFI 90-803,
     Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
     Management Program and AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System.
  2.3. Employees.
     2.3.1. Ensure hazardous materials are not handled until provided appropriate work area
     specific HAZCOM training (TSS 702).
     2.3.2. Ensure manufacturer labels on hazardous material containers are not defaced or
     removed. Ensure EESOH-MIS yellow tracking labels are affixed to containers prior to
     issue from the HDSC. The EESOH-MIS label and Hill AFB Hazardous Materials Label
     must be replaced if they become unreadable or missing. The HDSC can assist in label
     replacement.
6                                                        HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014


       2.3.3. Store used hazardous materials in accordance with local instructions. Ensure all
       containers of Hazardous Material (HM) are closed when not in use.
       2.3.4. Ensure hazardous materials are used only in the processes for which they have
       been approved and issued.
       2.3.5. Ensure they can demonstrate how to access an SDS and are aware of how the
       information provided relates to the specific tasks they perform.
    2.4. Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (75 AMDS/SGPB).
       2.4.1. Maintain the base master file of hard copy SDSs. Maintain access to the DoD
       HMIRS and EESOH-MIS. Review SDS information with employees when requested.
       Provide copies of SDSs to workers upon request during and after duty hours.
       2.4.2. Evaluate compliance with the HAZCOM program during workplace assessments.
       Inform work area supervisors of findings and assist in correction of deficiencies.
       2.4.3. Review/approve site-specific HAZCOM training plans when provided by
       supervisors.
       2.4.4. Work with the Contracting Directorate (OO-ALC/PK), project managers, and
       engineers to ensure appropriate clauses are placed in contracts and enforced to have
       contractors provide hazardous material information in accordance with AFI 32-7086
       HILLAFBSUP prior to bringing the materials on base. This will include information
       regarding the disposition of unused materials. 75 AMDS/SGPB will advise the
       contracting office on hazard communication upon request to help ensure all contracts
       include hazardous material identification and data requirements.
       2.4.5. Review and assign GHS pictograms and other health information for Hill AFB
       Hazardous Materials Labels.
       2.4.6. Provide support to the HMCP in accordance with AFI 32-7086.
    2.5. Public Health (75 AMDS/SGPM).
       2.5.1. Act as the point-of-contact for occupational health education and provide
       consultation on training and technical matters to work area supervisors on the Air Force
       HAZCOM program.
       2.5.2. Inform 75 AMDS/SGPB of any HAZCOM discrepancies identified during
       inspections.
       2.5.3. Review/approve site-specific HAZCOM training plans when provided by
       supervisors.
    2.6. Fire Protection (775 CES/CEF).
       2.6.1. Provide technical expertise to work area/shop supervisors on potential fire hazards
       and make recommendations regarding fire prevention controls, spill management,
       storage, and handling to minimize or eliminate potential fire and explosion hazards.
       2.6.2. Inform 75 AMDS/SGPB of any HAZCOM discrepancies identified during
       inspections.
HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014                                                                7


     2.6.3. Review/approve site-specific HAZCOM training plans when requested by
     supervisors.
  2.7. Safety (75 ABW/SEG, OO-ALC/SE, and other unit safety offices).
     2.7.1. Inform 75 AMDS/SGPB of any HAZCOM discrepancies identified during
     inspections.
     2.7.2. Provide technical assistance for HAZCOM training.
     2.7.3. Review/approve site-specific HAZCOM training plans when requested by
     supervisors.
  2.8. Contracting Activities.
     2.8.1. Include Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.223-3, Hazardous Material
     Identification and Material Safety Data, or subsequently adopted equivalent provision, in
     all contracts where a hazardous material is being procured or used on the installation.
     Forward SDSs received within one week of receipt to 75 AMDS/SGPB and 75
     CES/CENE (HMMP) for inclusion in the base master file and EESOH-MIS HM.
     2.8.2. Conduct a pre-performance conference to advise contractors of the hazardous
     chemicals used in Air Force operations their employees may encounter during the
     contract. Provide contractors information on hazards and AF protective measures
     identified, where and how relevant SDS information is available, and information on the
     Hill AFB hazardous materials labeling system.
     2.8.3. At the pre-performance conference and subsequently during the contract
     performance period, the quality assurance evaluator will advise work area supervisors
     and Air Force employees monitoring the performance of contractors of any hazardous
     chemicals introduced by the contractor.
     2.8.4. Establish and maintain a mechanism for coordinating contracts that involve
     supplying hazardous materials as a portion of the contract through the HMMP. For
     example, the procurement of a steam cleaner and the cleaning solvent requires HMMP
     approval of the solvent to be delivered.
  2.9. Supply (75 LRS) and HDSC.
     2.9.1. Order (except for contractors), create inventory, and issue all hazardous materials
     through EESOH-MIS in accordance with AFI 32-7086.
     2.9.2. Avoid covering any information on the original manufacturer product label with
     EESOH-MIS tracking labels. If the tracking label is too large for the container, the
     container can be placed in a bag labeled with the tracking label or a tag can be attached
     with the tracking label.
     2.9.3. Ensure workers using EESOH-MIS are trained by the HMMP and that training is
     documented (TSS 2583, Basic EESOH-MIS Users Course).
     2.9.4. Complete Government Purchasing Card (GPC) approvals for hazardous materials
     through the designated hazardous materials issue and tracking data system (EESOH-MIS
     HM).
8                                                      HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014


       2.9.5. Provide replacement labels for hazardous materials when the label comes off or
       becomes unreadable.
       2.9.6. Provide copies of SDSs to workers when requested.
    2.10. Hazardous Material Warehouse and Central Receiving Functions.
       2.10.1. Verify containers of hazardous materials received are identified and properly
       labeled according to 29 CFR 1910.1200 upon receipt and prior to transfer to the using
       organization. Issue a Reports of Deficiency (ROD) for material not properly labeled.
       2.10.2. Enter batch lot, date of manufacture, expiration date, and other required
       information into EESOH-MIS and produce tracking labels for materials received.
       2.10.3. Forward copies of SDSs received with materials to the 75 AMDS/SGPB through
       the Hazardous Material Cell (HMC).
       2.10.4. Work with the HMMP to ensure the integrity of the hazardous material tracking
       data in EESOH-MIS HM.
    2.11. HMMP (75 CES/CENE).
       2.11.1. Ensure that SDSs are included in EESOH-MIS and provided to 75 AMDS/SGPB
       for any hazardous material purchases or updates. Do not allow the purchase of any
       hazardous material without an approved SDS.
       2.11.2. Provide training (TSS 2583) to anyone using EESOH-MIS. Training will be
       tracked by the HMMP and in TSS or equivalent.
       2.11.3. Work with 75 AMDS/SGPB, 75 LRS, and OO-ALC/PK to ensure the data in
       EESOH-MIS is accurate by review of new data, audits of HDSC inventory, other
       inspections to determine if materials have been issued to the correct processes, and
       review of contracts to determine if materials ordered have approved SDSs.
       2.11.4. Coordinate with GPC points-of-contact to ensure the integrity and compliance of
       hazardous materials purchases via the GPC program.




                                           KATHRYN L. KOLBE, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014                                                               9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Department of Labor OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication Standard,
25 May 2012
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act, 29 Jan 2004 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1
Mar 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Enterprise, 23 Aug 2011
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations, 19 Aug 2005
AFOSH Standard 48-22, Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories,
21 March 1994
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System
AFI 90-803, Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 27 Jan 2014
FAR clause 52.223-3, Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data, Jan 1997
Fed STD 313, Material Safety Data, Transportation Data, and Disposal Data for Hazardous
Materials Furnished to Government Activities, 21 March 2000
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
CFR—Code Federal Regulation
DoD—Department of Defense
EESOH—MIS HM - Enterprise Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Management
Information System for Hazardous Materials
 10                                                   HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014


EPC—Environmental Protection Committee
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HDSC—Hazardous Material Distribution Support Center
HMC—Hazardous Material Cell
HMIRS—Hazardous Material Information Resource System
HMIS—Hazardous Material Information System
HMMP—Hazardous Material Management Program
IHMMP—Installation Hazardous Material Management Program
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
OEH—MIS - Occupational Environmental Health Management Information System
OO—ALC/PK - Contracting Directorate
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PEG—Potential Exposure Group
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROD—Report of Deficiency
SDS—Safety Data Sheet
SORN—System of Record Notice
VPP—Voluntary Protection Program
75 ABW/SEG—Ground Safety
75 ABW/CP—Command Post
75 AMDS/SGPB—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
75 AMDS/SGPM—Public Health Flight
75 CEG/CEN—Environmental Management Division
775 CES/CEF—Fire Protection
75 LRS—75 Logistics Readiness Squadron, Supply
809 MXSS/MXDEA—Chemical Laboratory Branch

Terms
Day—Use Container – A pour-down container designed to be used by any authorized person
and kept for more than one shift. Day-use containers must have both a Hill AFB Hazardous
Materials Label and EESOH-MIS HM tracking label.
HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014                                                                11


Hazardous Material— Any material used in a work area that could potentially cause a physical
or health hazard to the worker. These materials include but are not limited to paints, solvents,
cleaners, adhesives, sealants, oils, greases, and fuels. Specific definitions can be found in
Federal Standard 313D, Material Safety Data, Transportation Data, and Disposal Data for
Hazardous Materials Furnished to Government Activities and 29 CFR 1910.1200.
Hazardous Material Cell (HMC)— Central location where all hazardous material requests are
processed in accordance with AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management. It is managed
by 75 CEG/CEV and consists of environmental and supply personnel.
HMMP Team— Hazardous Material Management Program Team composition will be
determined at Hill AFB by the Environmental Protection Committee (EPC) or Environmental,
Safety and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC). The team is responsible for providing
oversight for the Installation Hazardous Material Management Program (IHMMP) and
developing efficient hazardous material management plans.
Health Hazard— Materials that are known or suspect carcinogens, toxic, reproductive toxins,
irritants, corrosives, sensitizers, or cause damage to bodily systems.
Immediate—Use Portable Container – Hazardous materials that are transferred from labeled
containers which are intended only for the immediate use of the employee who performs the
transfer and only within the work shift in which it was transferred. Contents of the container
must be used, disposed, or returned to the original container at the end of the shift. The
employee that performs transfer must maintain positive control of the material at all times.
Nonroutine Tasks— Tasks included within a work area's normal activities, but performed
infrequently; for example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent or cleaning up small
spills. Tasks outside a normal work area’s activities, such as painting floors and self-help
projects that utilize hazardous materials; for example, carpet adhesive.
Physical Hazard— Materials that are combustible liquids, compressed gases, organic peroxides,
oxidizers, explosive, flammable, pyrophoric, and unstable or water reactive.
Potential Exposure Group (PEG)— A division of work areas made by the 75 AMDS/SGPB
based on the potential for common workplace physical and chemical exposures. PEG numbers
are provided to the supervisor and workers in the BE survey letter.
Supervisor Safety Workbook— Collection of worker health and safety information for a
specific work area (PEG). Tabs and information are specified by 75 ABW/SEG, Ground Safety.
This workbook consolidates health and safety information in one area; any hazard
communication information kept separately can be stored in this workbook.
 12                                                     HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014


                                        Attachment 2
                      HILL AFB SDS RETRIEVAL PROCEDURES

A2.1. OSHA Requirements.
   A2.1.1. OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.1200 (g) states, “the employer shall ensure that in all cases a
   Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) or Safety Data Sheet (SDS) is provided for each
   hazardous chemical and is readily accessible during each work shift to employees when they
   are in their work area(s).”
   A2.1.2. Workers are required to have basic knowledge of the hazardous materials they work
   with. A worker needs to know what protective equipment is required for using the material,
   basic hazards of the material (corrosive, carcinogen, etc.), how to know if they are
   overexposed, and what to do in an emergency. Workers also are required to have access to
   SDSs for the materials they use.
   A2.1.3. A very important component of hazardous material use is that the worker be able to
   provide basic emergency information to a physician or emergency responder. A worker or
   coworker should be able to provide a basic name of the material; whether it is a solvent,
   corrosive, paint, etc. to allow for emergency medical care. Most SDSs indicate moving an
   injured worker to fresh air and flush affected areas with copious amounts of water.
   A2.1.4. Supervisors are responsible to ensure their workers know the hazards of the
   materials used in the workplace. The SDS is a tool to be used in addition to job safety
   analyses, Bioenvironmental Engineering Survey reports, process orders, technical orders,
   etcetera. Questions regarding SDSs, the information they contain, and the specific materials
   being used can be directed to Bioenvironmental Engineering, 801-777-4551, Building 249.
A2.2. SDS Access Procedures. In order to meet the spirit and intent of OSHA requirements,
the following procedures will be used to access an SDS:
   A2.2.1. Option 1. Utilizes the SDS Search Engine located at: https://cev.hill.af.mil/msds .
   A “Print SDS” icon should also be available on all desktops. The SDS Search Engine for
   OO-ALC is available as a link on the OO-ALC’s HAZCOM electronic management system
   from the “Get SDS” icon on the left panel of the home page. The HAZCOM system should
   be on all OO-ALC desktops and is located at the following link:
   https://wbhill04.hill.afmc.ds.af.mil/hazcom .
   A2.2.2. Option 2. If Option 1 does not produce results, immediately contact your servicing
   hazardous material issue point (HAZMART, MIC, etc.) for assistance. Hazardous material
   issue point operators have EESOH-MIS accounts and can assess EESOH-MIS HM to obtain
   the SDS on your behalf. If possible, provide the EESOH-MIS HM label or the container
   number to the hazardous material issue point as this will speed up the process of retrieving
   the SDS.
A2.3. Option 3. If the above options do not produce results, SDSs can be obtained from 75
AMDS/SGPB, either by phone at 801-777-4551, in person, or by contacting the Command Post
(75 ABW/CP, 777-3007) during off-duty hours (1630-0630 Monday through Friday, Saturday,
Sunday, and holidays) and requesting the 75 AMDS/SGPB representative be contacted. SGPB
maintains hard copies of SDSs and has access to the DoD SDS system called HMIRS.
HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014                                                                 13


                                         Attachment 3
         HILL AFB HAZARDOUS MATERIAL LABELING REQUIREMENTS

A3.1. Types/Definitions of Containers.
   A3.1.1. Original Manufacturer’s Containers. Containers typically received into the Hazmart
   from Central Receiving (DLA Building 915) or directly from a vendor or product
   manufacturer where the original manufacturer’s labeling is attached.
   A3.1.2. Pour-down Facility Containers. Containers poured down into smaller containers by
   the OO-ALC pour-down facility.
   A3.1.3. Shop Day-use Containers. Containers poured down from the original issued labeled
   container into smaller containers by shop personnel for his/her use and kept/stored beyond
   the normal work shift and/or could potentially be used by other personnel.
   A3.1.4. Immediate-Use, Portable Containers. Hazardous materials that are transferred from
   labeled containers are intended only for the immediate use of the employee who perform the
   transfer and only within the work shift in which it was transferred. Contents of the container
   must be used, disposed, or returned to the original container at the end of the shift.
A3.2. Required Labeling (OSHA 29 CFR 1910. 1200).
   A3.2.1. Original Manufacturer’s Containers. Ensure all containers are labeled with a
   manufacturer’s label which displays identity of hazardous chemical, appropriate hazard
   warnings, and name/address of the manufacturer.
   A3.2.2. Ensure a yellow EESOH-MIS HM tracking label is affixed to the container and
   includes the identity of the hazardous chemical, container number or barcode is discernible,
   and shelf-life expiration date can be determined. See Figure A3.1 below:

Figure A3.1. Example EESOH-MIS HM Tracking Label




   A3.2.3. When using pour-down facility containers, ensure a yellow EESOH-MIS HM
   tracking label is affixed to the container and identity of the hazardous chemical is present,
   container number, SDS and barcode number are discernible, and shelf life expiration date can
   be determined.
   A3.2.4. The tracking label must display warnings to ensure at least general information
   regarding the hazards of the chemical (Figure A3.1).
   A3.2.5. Ensure a Hill AFB Hazardous Material Label (Figure A3.2) is affixed to the shop
   day-use container. This label includes identity of the hazardous chemical and displays at
   least general information regarding the hazards of the chemical.
 14                                                       HILLAFBI 48-106 12 MARCH 2014


Figure A3.2. Example Hill AFB GHS Hazardous Material Label




   A3.2.6. Immediate-use Portable Containers do not require labels as long as the chemical is
   transferred from a labeled container, is under control of and used only by the person who
   transfers it from a labeled container, and only within the work shift in which it is transferred.
   The remaining substance in this type of container must either be transferred back into its
   original labeled container or properly disposed of. Note: If immediate-use portable
   containers are kept beyond the normal work shift or could potentially be used by another
   worker, the container must meet requirements listed in Paragraph A3.2.5 above, Required
   Labeling (OSHA 29 CFR 1910.1200), Day-use Containers.
   A3.2.7. Hill AFB Hazardous Material Label (Rainbow Label, Figure A3.2) serves to
   classify, through GHS pictograms, signal words, precautionary statements, and chemicals for
   easy recognition.
   A3.2.8. The pictograms represent different hazard classes: explosives, flammable liquids,
   oxidizing liquids, compressed gas, corrosive metals, acute toxicity, skin corrosives, skin
   irritants, and chronic health hazards. The signal word options are DANGER or WARNING.
   DANGER is defined as severe or potentially lethal hazard and WARNING represents a less
   severe hazard.
