BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 44-101
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                                     2 JANUARY 1998

                                                                                                   Medical

                                                                         MANAGEMENT GUIDANCE
                                                                      FOR CIVILIAN MEDICAL CARE



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: OO-ALC/DPCE (Barry Hildebrandt)                    Certified by: OO-ALC/DPCE (Ned Champagne)
                                                                                           Pages: 4
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implement s AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations. This instruction outlines the organiza-
tional responsibilities and procedures for referrals of civilian employees for medical evaluations when the
Occupational Medicine Services (OMS) (Civilian Dispensary) is not open, or when immediate emergency
treatment is needed. Individual organizations will develop any detailed procedures necessary to carry out
the broad responsibilities outlined by this instruction.


1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. Medical Treatment Situations:
       1.1.1. Upon a judgment that immediate medical care is necessary (e.g., for life or limb threatening
       conditions such as chest pain, difficulty in breathing, injuries with large amounts of bleeding, loss
       of consciousness, chemical spill exposure, seizures, or back pain) call 911 for assistance/ambu-
       lance services. The injured/ill employee will be transported to an emergency room (usually
       Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center).
       1.1.2. In the event of an exposure to chemicals, immediately after calling 911, call LA Alert
       Office (Mission Support Branch (OO-ALC/LAMS)), 73238, and give the name of the chemical, if
       known. The LA Alert Office will fax the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) to the treating facil-
       ity immediately.
       1.1.3. Employees, who suffer a minor injury or require basic first aid (e.g., cuts, sprains, or back
       pain), will use OMS, while open, or Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center when OMS is
       closed. OMS is open Monday through Friday 0730-1600, except holidays and weekends.
           1.1.3.1. Transportation to the Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center in a non-emer-
           gency situation may be accomplished by the individual, supervisor, or fellow employees.
           Transportation to Paracelsus can be accomplished with the organizations assigned government
           vehicle (if one is assigned). The Transportation Division (75 ABW/LGT) (ext. 71843) is avail-
           able 0600-2300, seven days a week.
2                                                                 HILLAFBI44-101 2 JANUARY 1998


           1.1.3.2. Organizations working between the hours of 1600-0730 may identify volunteer driv-
           ers as alternative means of transportation to the Paracelsus Hospital and Medical Center in
           cases that are minor in nature. Provide a current list of names to the LA Alert Office who will
           call for a driver in medical emergency situations.
           1.1.3.3. In the event that none of these methods of transportation can be arranged, a call to 911
           is appropriate.
           1.1.3.4. Supervisors will ensure that designated drivers, organizational health and safety per-
           sonnel, and others called to respond to an incident have received appropriate training. Training
           will be commensurate with duties performed while responding to any such incidents to include
           Bloodborne Pathogens training, CPR training, etc. Public Health Flight (75 AMDS/SGPM)
           may assist in health related training when requested by organizational safety personnel.
    1.2. Fitness for Duty Examinations:
       1.2.1. If an employee’s ability to work needs to be determined, because of a suspected or recent
       medical problem, the supervisor will make arrangements necessary for the employee to be evalu-
       ated. Monday through Friday, 0730-1600, except holidays and weekends, supervisors should have
       the employee transported to OMS for a Fitness for Duty Examination. If the OMS is closed, the
       supervisor will arrange transportation to Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center for a Fit-
       ness for Duty Examination. There will be no charge for this evaluation.
       1.2.2. When an employee may not be able to work because of suspected substance abuse, the 75th
       Security Forces Squadron (75 SFS) should be contacted by the supervisor. Upon consent, the
       employee will be transported to 75 SFS for a Breathalyzer exam. Upon refusal to take any test to
       determine sobriety, the employee will be transported to the Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical
       Center by 75 SFS for an evaluation. The employee will not be billed for this evaluation.
       1.2.3. If an employee is incapacitated for reasons other than that described in paragraph 1.2.2. of
       this instruction, transportation to the Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center is the same as
       stated in paragraph 1.1.3.1. through 1.1.3.3. of this instruction. The employee will not be billed for
       this evaluation.
       1.2.4. Medical information regarding fitness for duty exams will be released to the Air Force
       supervisor or official at that time, so management can determine the employee’s ability to work
       the current shift assigned.
    1.3. The supervisor or assigned alternate will accompany the employee in situations of paragraph
    1.1.1. and 1.1.2. of this instruction. It is optional to accompany the employee for minor injuries or
    complaints.
    1.4. AFMC Form 12, Record of Injury/Illness and Treatment, is completed promptly in accor-
    dance with AFI 91-204/AFMC Supplement 1, Safety Investigations and Reports. This may require
    organizations to coordinate with 75 AMDS/SGPM, Ground Safety (OO-ALC/SEG), and Labor &
    Employee Management Relations Branch (OO-ALC/DPCE) to ensure required reporting of all inci-
    dents requiring off base treatment.

2. Occupational Illness/Injury Tracking And Surveillance.
    2.1. 75 AMDS/SGPM will ensure an appropriate illness/injury tracking system is in place with
    Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center. It will establish a procedure to acquire copies of the
HILLAFBI44-101 2 JANUARY 1998                                                                           3


   medical treatment form (ER Encounter Form) as generated by Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical
   Center, Department of Emergency Services.
   2.2. 75 AMDS/SGPM will distribute any acquired ER Encounter Forms to appropriate safety offices
   for completion of AFMC Form 12. DMBA Organic Financial Management Branch (OO-ALC/FMCF)
   will forward a copy of the Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center payer code report and/or
   billing statement of civil service employees receiving treatment and/or services at Paracelsus Davis
   Hospital and Medical Center to 75 AMDS/SGPM no later than the 30th of each month. OO-ALC/
   DPCE may request billing statements from OO-ALC/FMCF as needed to confirm occupational
   related incidents that require time essential actions due to Department of Labor (DOL), Occupational
   Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) and/or Air Force Occupational Health and Safety
   (AFOSH) reporting requirements.
   2.3. OMS will initiate an AFMC Form 12 for individuals reporting to OMS for follow-up treatment
   and/or services when there is no AFMC Form 12 present in the medical records documenting illness
   or injury.
   2.4. Employees diagnosed with work related conditions by a private physician will report to OMS
   prior to the resumption of regular duties.
   2.5. Employees diagnosed with a work related condition may report to OO-ALC/DPCE and/or 75
   AMDS/SGPM to obtain a CA Form 1, Federal Employee’s Notice of Traumatic Injury and Claim
   for Continuation of Pay/Compensation, and/or CA Form 2, Notice of Occupational Disease and
   Claim for Compensation, to report a work related condition and/or apply to DOL for workers’ com-
   pensation benefits.

3. Documentation/Financial Responsibilities:
   3.1. For work related injuries/illness, the employee must file a claim through OO-ALC/DPCE if the
   employee wishes to obtain workers’ compensation benefits. This claim will include the billing for the
   initial evaluation at Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center. Medical statements from the
   Emergency Room physician should be included with the claim in accordance with DOL publication
   CA810, chapter 3, paragraph 3-5.
   3.2. In the event a workers’ compensation claim is denied, billing associated with initial evaluation/
   treatment at Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center will be covered as described in paragraph
   4.

4. Financial Responsibilities:
   4.1. Payment for non-compensible medical services will be determined, confirmed and made by the
   OO-ALC/FMCF in accordance with established procedures. Billing procedures will be established
   between Paracelsus Davis Hospital and Medical Center and OO-ALC/FMCF.
   4.2. Work related prescriptions and medications issued at the emergency care facility will not be
   billed to the employee and will not exceed a three-day supply of medication. For work-related illness
   or injury, additional prescriptions and medication may be requested through the OMS Clinic when it
   is open, and this service will not be billed to the employee. Other work related prescriptions and med-
4                                                            HILLAFBI44-101 2 JANUARY 1998


    ications paid for by the employee may be reimbursed by workers’ compensation benefits. Contact
    OO-ALC/DPCE for application and claim forms.



                                            BETTY J. MADDOX
                                            Civilian Personnel Officer
