BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    HILLAFB INSTRUCTION 31-206
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               5 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                         Security

                                                                   CONTROL OF PRIVATELY
                                                                   OWNED WEAPONS (POW)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are not releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 75 SFS/S4                                                           Certified by: 75 SFS/CC
                                                                                        Pages: 11



This instruction establishes the local processes and procedures for the control of privately owned
weapons (POW) on Hill AFB and assigned geographically separated units (GSU). The purpose
of this publication is to ensure the safety and security of all assigned personnel through proper
registration, transportation, and control of privately owned weapons (POWs). This publication is
to be used in conjunction with AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, as supplemented by Air Force
Materiel Command. Ensure that all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) at
https://www.my.af.mil//afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/ctm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Management Information Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the appropriate functional‟s chain of
command. This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by
the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed by this
instruction is 10 USC 8013. Each form, format, or form letter prescribed by this instruction that
requires a Privacy Act Statement (PAS), in accordance with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act
Program, must have the PAS incorporated thereon or the PAS will be prominently posted and be
provided by the requester prior to collecting this information. Privacy act information taken
from an existing privacy act system of records, which authorizes blanket use of this information
for this purpose, doesn‟t require a PAS. Collected information is “For Official Use Only.”
Requests to release privacy act information to persons or agencies outside the DoD must be in
accordance with AFI 33-332. Privacy act system notice applies.
 2                                                        HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012


1. General. Air Force guidance is to not overly restrict the possession of POWs by installation
personnel. Installation commanders are directed to develop and implement on-station guidance
governing use and control of POWs in accordance with AFI 31-101, any MAJCOM guidance,
local conditions, and federal, state, local and tribal laws. Additionally, installation commanders
are directed to take reasonable, necessary and lawful measures to maintain good order and
discipline and security. This includes the authority to deny access, detain or remove individuals
who threaten the safety or orderly administration of an installation.
     1.1. At a minimum, installations are required to develop and publish guidance on POWs to
     address the following areas: registration, storage, transportation, use, visitors, awareness,
     reporting, and information sharing.
     1.2. This Hill AFB Instruction provides the required on-station guidance governing the use
     and control of POWs on this installation. Prohibitions and procedures regarding firearms and
     dangerous weapons apply to civilian and military workers, members residing on base,
     visitors, contractors, subcontractors, etc.
     1.3. State issued “concealed firearm permits” do not authorize individuals to carry concealed
     or unconcealed firearms on Hill AFB, the Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR), or the
     Little Mountain Test Facility.
     1.4. Off-duty or retired law enforcement personnel are not allowed to carry open or
     concealed weapons on Hill AFB, the UTTR, or the Little Mountain Test Facility. (This
     prohibition complies with the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004.)
     1.5. Civilian police officers and federal agents/federal criminal investigators may carry
     firearms during the conduct of official duties on Hill AFB, the UTTR, or the Little Mountain
     Test Facility.
     1.6. Civilian law enforcement officials who are members of reserve units on AFMC
     installations may not bring private or duty weapons when reporting for inactive duty or active
     duty tours of any type. If private or duty weapons must be brought onto the installation, they
     will be courtesy stored in the armory IAW paragraph 3 of this instruction.
2. Registration. Registration of POWs is mandatory for persons who reside and store POWs
and unusually dangerous weapons (i.e., swords/machetes/martial arts weaponry) on the
installation and persons who do not reside but store POWs and unusually dangerous weapons on
the installation whether in the 75th Security Forces Squadron Armory (75 SFS/S4A) or Boyer
Hill Military Housing (BHMH). Contractors utilizing a weapon in the performance of a contract
with Hill AFB must be approved to bring the weapon on base by the 75 ABW/CC and must
register the weapon with the 75 SFS Armory. Weapons that are purchased through Army, Air
Force Exchange Service Main Exchange (AAFES/BX) must be turned in or registered into the
armory within 24 hours from the time of purchase unless the purchaser does not reside on the
installation. All individuals residing in dormitories, or temporary on-base housing, will turn the
weapon in immediately after the weapon sale. All residents living in BHMH have 24 hours from
the time of purchase to register their new weapon through the armory by completing an AF Form
1314, Firearms Registration.
     2.1. AF Form 1314. Complete this form for all privately owned firearms stored on Hill
     AFB. This includes all handguns, rifles and shotguns stored in installation armories or
     BHMH by residents. Registration will consist of the name of the person and contact
HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                3


   information; record of firearm manufacturer, model, serial number, and caliber/gauge; and
   location where the weapon will be stored.
       2.1.1. Unit Commanders will ensure each person registering a firearm for storage on Hill
       AFB signs a DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition,
       acknowledging they do not have a qualifying conviction under the Lautenberg
       Amendment to the 1968 Gun Control Act, IAW DoDI 6400.6, Domestic Abuse Involving
       DOD Military and Certain Affiliated Personnel, Title18 USC922, and AFI 40-301,
       Family Advocacy. The signed DD Form 2760 will be maintained with the file copy of
       the AF Form 1314 and returned to the registrant when firearms are de-registered on the
       installation IAW DoDI 6400.6 and 18 USC922.
       2.1.2. Units will devise processes to prevent personnel from permanently departing the
       base and leaving weapons stored in the armory. To verify permanent removal of firearms
       when the owner leaves, the weapons database copy of the AF Form 1314 will be returned
       to the individual‟s unit.
       2.1.3. The 75 SFS may conduct checks of authoritative sources to verify the lawful
       possession of a privately owned weapon (if applicable to the particular weapon or
       location).
       2.1.4. Completing/maintaining the AF Form 1314.
          2.1.4.1. The AF Form 1314 may be used to register up to five weapons per
          individual. More than five will require additional AF Forms 1314.
          2.1.4.2. AF Form 1314 will be accomplished in duplicate. Annotate any visible
          damage to the weapon in the “MAKE (manufacturer)” block. Continue on a separate
          sheet of paper, if additional space is required. Re-accomplish the form when
          additions or deletions are required.
              2.1.4.2.1. The armorer will prepare the AF Form 1314 and return it to the
              individual for the individuals‟ commander‟s signature. This form must be
              returned within 72-hours. The armorer will fill out an AF Form 1297, Temporary
              Issue Receipt, for the weapon(s) until the AF Form 1314 is returned with the
              individuals‟ commander‟s signature. All equipment (i.e., ammunition, weapons
              cases, and magazines) will be annotated on the AF Form 1297 only. NOTE:
              Large weapon cases will not be accepted for storage due to space limitations.
              Small pistol cases can be accepted, depending on available space. The on-duty
              armorer‟s determination on whether a case can be stored in the 75 SFS Armory is
              final.
              2.1.4.2.2. Provide the owner of the weapon the second copy of the form and any
              other paperwork completed. The original copy is placed in the POW book located
              in the Armory and the POW listing is updated.
3. Storage. Storage of POWs is for individuals who have just arrived on station, temporary duty
(TDY) personnel, dormitory residents, or personnel who are restricted from being armed by their
commanders. The 75th Air Base Wing Commander (75 ABW/CC) has authorized the storage of
privately owned weapons (firearms and ammunition) in the 75 SFS Armory separate from
government arms and ammunition. Privately-owned weapons (firearms and ammunition) may
 4                                                        HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012


also be stored at the Oasis Arms Room at the Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR). These
armories are licensed storage facilities. Properly registered POWs may be stored in BHMH on
Hill AFB. Dormitory residents must store their firearms or unusually dangerous weapons in the
75 SFS Armory or off-base. No POWs will be stored (left unattended) in government
owned/leased dormitories or government lodging facilities.
     3.1. The armorer will accept POWs and/or ammunition on AF Form 1314 and/or AF Form
     1297 (ammunition ONLY) on a 24-hour basis, except during time of weapons issue and turn-
     in of security forces personnel.
     3.2. All personnel turning in POWs will be given a policy briefing. Briefings will include,
     but not limited to, the following:
        3.2.1. Procedures for turn-in/pick-up.
        3.2.2. Hours for turn-in/pick-up.
     3.3. Ammunition. Private ammunition must be segregated from government owned
     ammunition. Storage of private ammunition, reloading components, or firearms in single
     government (airman/NCO/officer) quarters or temporary lodging facilities (e.g., TLF, VOQ,
     VAQ) is prohibited. NOTE: No black powder may be stored in licensed facilities.
     Muzzleloaders may store "Pyrodex" as a suitable substitute. Pyrodex is a class/division 1.3.
     Black powder is a high explosive class/division 1.1. Residents of BHMH will contact the 75
     CEG Fire Protection Flight (75 CEG/CEF) for specific guidance (amounts allowed) in
     storing any black powder substance or substitute. Additionally, residents of BHMH who
     store reloading components or ammunition will notify the 75 CEG/CEF of such storage.
     3.4. Unusually Dangerous Weapons. The definition of unusually dangerous weapons
     includes any item that was manufactured (or could be modified) for the intent of causing life-
     threatening injuries to individuals. This includes, but is not limited to, firearms, archery
     equipment, knifes, swords, edged martial arts equipment, etc. (Firearm - any weapon
     designed to expel a projectile through a barrel by the action of a propellant or one that you
     can readily convert to this purpose. The frame or receiver group of any such weapon, any
     firearm muffler or silencer, and starter guns are firearms.) These items will not be stored in
     the 75 SFS Armory due to space limitations.
     3.5. General Officer‟s Weapons will be receipted for using an AF Form 1297 and stored in
     the POW locker.
     3.6. Courtesy Storage. The 75 SFS Armory is not a repository for resources owned by other
     agencies, however, the 75 ABW/CC may authorize (in writing) the storage of an agency‟s
     firearms and munitions in another agency‟s storage facility. For the purpose of base security,
     the 75 SFS provides government weapons storage for Security Forces, AFOSI, and on a case-
     by-case basis, for personnel requiring 24-hour access only. The 75 SFS also secures
     privately-owned weapons of those individuals put on weapons restriction by their respective
     unit (see paragraph 3.6.3.3.). The 75th Logistics Readiness Squadron (75 LRS) Air
     Expeditionary Force (AEF) Arms Room is responsible for storing all other assigned unit‟s
     government weapons designated for deployment contingencies.
        3.6.1. Temporary Courtesy Storage Procedures. The only time temporary courtesy
        storage personnel are allowed entry into the 75 SFS Armory is to drop off or retrieve
HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                   5


     oversized property. In all cases these personnel will be signed in on AF Form 1109,
     Visitor Register Log, and escorted. If containers require cleaning and maintenance, they
     will be removed from the armory before these actions are performed.
        3.6.1.1. Transient. Weapons and ammunition may be stored up to 14 days for
        transient personnel, i.e., TDY, retiree‟s in transit, etc. If the 14 days is exceeded, the
        courtesy storage monitor will initiate the necessary steps to have the weapon or
        ammunition removed.
        3.6.1.2. Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Out. Personnel on Permanent Change
        of Station orders may store their POWs and ammunition on an AF Form 1314 for up
        to 30 days. The individual‟s commander must still sign the AF Form 1314 as stated
        in paragraph 2.1.4.2.1. In addition, a copy of the individual‟s military orders must
        accompany all other paperwork. If the 30 days is exceeded, the courtesy storage
        monitor will initiate the necessary steps to have the weapon or ammunition removed.
     3.6.2. Permanent Courtesy Storage Procedures. Permanent storage for weapons or
     ammunition is only granted for personnel requiring 24-hour access. Prior to storage, the
     following documents must be provided: Written request from the unit commander, an
     authorization letter with the names of personnel authorized to withdraw/inspect the
     weapons and ammunition, and a letter listing each weapon by serial number and amount
     of ammunition with lot numbers. This type of storage will be handled on a case-by-case
     basis as the 75 SFS Armory doesn‟t have the space required to support all agencies. The
     only time permanent courtesy storage personnel are allowed entry into the 75 SFS
     Armory is for inventory purposes, inspections with Combat Arms personnel, or for
     retrieving oversized property. In all cases these personnel will be signed in on AF Form
     1109 and escorted.
     3.6.3. Courtesy Weapons/Ammunition Issue/Turn-in. The armorer will check the
     individual‟s identification card. Containers, other than aircrew boxes, will normally not
     be accepted due to a lack of space. Direct these individuals to the AEF Arms Room.
     Under some circumstances, containers may be accepted (i.e., AEF Arms Room closed or
     the customer needs 24 hour access). No locked containers or sealed boxes will be
     accepted (except sealed containers packed by the traffic management office (TMO) with
     a packing list attached) for storage unless they are opened and inventoried by the
     armorer. (NOTE: The 75 SFS Armory will not accept any container designated as
     classified. Personnel requesting to store a container designated as classified will be
     directed to the Hill Consolidated Command Post.) Prior to accepting munitions, the
     items must be listed on the 75 SFS Armory‟s AF Form 2047, Explosives Facility License.
     If the items are not listed on the AF Form 2047, or exceed quantity limits, they will be
     directed to store the items off base. Storage of items other than weapons or ammunition
     (i.e. night vision or communication equipment) can only be authorized by the 75 SFS
     Armory noncommissioned officer in charge or assistant (NCOIC/ANCOIC). Once
     container contents are verified and inventoried, the armorer can seal the container and
     record the seal numbers and/or contents.
        3.6.3.1. The 75 SFS Armorer will sign for the container/weapon(s) on duplicate
        copies of AF Form 1297. The individual will provide his/her name, rank, SSN, phone
        number, unit, and a copy of their orders. The individual will also annotate who else is
 6                                                       HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012


            authorized to pick up the weapon(s) on the AF Form 1297. The armorer will annotate
            his/her name and signature, date, and, if applicable, the seal numbers, and number of
            cans. After verifying the information on the AF Form 1297 with their military
            identification, the copy will be given to the individual requesting storage and the
            original will be placed with the items (temporary storage), or in the courtesy storage
            book (permanent).
            3.6.3.2. Courtesy stored weapons which may belong to the AEF Center Arms Room,
            will be checked against the Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing
            (CA/CRL) provided by 75 LRS. If the weapon(s) is not on their CA/CRL, the
            weapon will not be released to AEF Center Arms Room personnel. The 75 LRS will
            provide the armory with a list of personnel authorized to pick up BDA weapons.
            Courtesy stored weapon(s) that are left in the 75 SFS Armory past the 14 day limit
            will be checked against the AEF Center Arms Room CA/CRL. If the weapon
            belongs to them, the AEF Center Arms Room will be notified of the weapon storage
            limit/status. The 75 LRS personnel will conduct pick up on a coordinated schedule.
            If personnel show up without prior coordination; the weapons must be verified
            against the AEF Center Arms Room CA/CRL and the individual‟s military
            identification verified against the letter authorizing personnel to pick up AEF Center
            Arms Room weapons.
            3.6.3.3. Privately owned weapons that are placed in the 75 SFS Armory by other
            organizations due to personnel being denied access to the firearm(s) shall be brought
            to the armory by the individual‟s commander, first sergeant, or designee in the
            respective chain of command. Under no circumstance will the 75 SFS Armory accept
            any POWs from any other individuals outside this chain of command. The individual
            who brings the weapon(s) to the armory will instruct the armorer not to issue the
            weapon(s) out to any personnel. A letter signed by the individual‟s unit commander
            must be provided to the 75 SFS Armory within 24-hours.
     3.7. Inventories.
        3.7.1. After a POW has been taken into the armory, the on-duty armorer, along with the
        on-coming armorer, will conduct a 100 percent inventory of all POWs, then lock the
        locker doors. If a weapon is brought in during hours when only one armorer is on duty,
        the armorer will place the weapon in the locker and lock the locker. At shift change, an
        inventory will be conducted by two armorers and recorded on AF Form 1473, Gun
        Equipment Room Inventory.
        3.7.2. A monthly inventory of all POWs will be conducted by the NCOIC of the 75 SFS
        Armory. This inventory will be conducted by physically comparing the weapons against
        the list maintained in the armory. The list will include type, model, caliber,
        manufacturer, serial number, owner‟s name, grade, and organization.
4. Access. Commanders must determine the need for unit personnel to have access to privately
owned weapons. Commanders authorize removal of privately owned weapons from the 75 SFS
Armory by letter.
     4.1. Based on reasonable cause, access to weapons may be denied and removed. In making
     a determination on reasonable cause, unit commanders shall consult with an attorney from
HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                 7


   the staff judge advocate office, and prepare a memorandum of their conclusions. Unit
   personnel may have their commander‟s decision reviewed by the commander's superior.
       4.1.1. Personnel on the weapons restricted lists cannot remove their weapon(s) until a
       letter is received from their commander authorizing the release.
       4.1.2. When unit commanders have reasonable cause, they may require unit personnel
       residing in BHMH to store their privately-owned weapons in the 75 SFS Armory.
       4.1.3. Personnel who appear to be under the influence of alcohol or other substances will
       be denied access to their POW.
   4.2. Temporary Removal: When personnel desire to draw their weapons for short periods of
   time, they must give the armorer a date the weapon will be returned. This date will be
   annotated on the armory‟s copy of the AF Form 1314. If the weapon is not returned as
   expected, the NCOIC of the Armory will contact the individual‟s commander or first
   sergeant and obtain the status of the weapon.
   4.3. Permanent Removal: When an individual desires to remove the weapon permanently
   from the 75 SFS Armory, the reverse side of the AF Form 1314 will be stamped indicating
   the weapon(s) are permanently withdrawn by the undersigned. The individual must give a
   location where the weapon will be stored.
   4.4. Removal By Proxy. This can be necessary to remove weapon(s) for individuals unable
   to appear due to hospitalization, imprisonment, death, etc. The individual‟s unit commander
   may verify, in writing, persons authorized to withdraw such weapon(s). The letter must
   contain name, rank, SSN, squadron, duty phone, reason for withdrawal, reason why a proxy
   is necessary, make, model, and serial number of the weapon(s).
   4.5. The AF Form 1314 will be maintained on file for 12 months from the month of removal.
5. Transportation. Transportation of privately owned and properly registered weapons and
ammunition onto, within, or through Hill AFB shall conform to AFI 31-101, this instruction, and
local laws and conditions. The individual transporting weapons on base must have an approved
AF Form 1314 with them unless enroute to the 75 SFS Armory to register the weapons.
   5.1. Transporting privately-owned firearms on the installation is prohibited except to and
   from authorized storage or shooting areas. Firearms must be cleared and safed, with the
   breech open. While transporting firearms, they will be placed in the trunk or in a locked
   container. Store ammunition separately. Transporting firearms on an open vehicle (e.g.,
   bicycles, motorcycles, horseback, or on any other two- or three-wheeled vehicle) is
   prohibited. Firearms may not be stored in such a manner as to appear to be concealed (e.g.,
   under seats or partially hidden). Examples of concealment include hiding a firearm or
   dangerous weapon on one‟s person; transporting a firearm or dangerous weapon in a
   privately-owned vehicle hidden from view, unless properly secured as described above.
   5.2. Transporting a privately-owned firearm in a government owned vehicle (GOV) is
   prohibited with the following exception for geographically separated units (GSU). When the
   primary means for travel to the GSU is by GOV, then GSU assigned personnel are authorized
   to transport privately-owned firearms in a GOV to an authorized storage or shooting area.
   Stipulations of transporting firearms in paragraph 5.1. above will be followed.
 8                                                         HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012


6. Use. Installation commanders are authorized to specify where and when POWs may be used
on their installations (such as firing ranges or hunting areas). Only those units authorized in
writing by the 75 ABW/CC can sponsor or participate in firearms discharge or use of unusually
dangerous weapons on the installation. The following areas are authorized for use of POWs by
the 75 ABW/CC:
     6.1. The 75th Force Support Squadron (75 FSS) Rod and Gun Club range.
     6.2. The 75 SFS Combat Arms Range when specifically approved firearms competitions are
     scheduled.
     6.3. The small arms firing range at UTTR.
7. Awareness. Commanders shall ensure that installation POW instructions, and applicable
federal, state, local or tribal laws regarding firearms and ammunition are available and current.
Commanders will ensure that installation personnel receive security awareness briefings or
bulletins and are made aware of any changes to AF or installation POW regulations. The
security awareness training includes informing visitors to an installation and all personnel
assigned to lodging and/or family quarters, to include privatized housing of the POW registration
requirements.
     7.1. The 75 SFS informs base personnel of prohibitions regarding privately-owned weapons
     through base in-processing briefings, bulletins, notices, commander‟s calls, visitor control
     centers, signs, or any other effective means. Firearms and dangerous weapons prohibitions
     apply to civilian and military workers, members residing on base, visitors, contractors,
     subcontractors, etc.
8. Reporting. It is the responsibility of all AF personnel to report infractions of POW
regulations or report persons who exhibit behaviors not consistent with responsible firearms
security and safety to appropriate command authority and/or installation security/law
enforcement personnel. Whenever installation security/law enforcement personnel inquire,
incident to a lawful stop, search, or inspection on Hill AFB, persons must declare possession of a
POW and produce an AF Form 1314.
9. Information Sharing. Lists of weapons, their owners, and location of weapons shall be
considered „Law Enforcement Sensitive„ and will not be shared or divulged to other than law
enforcement agencies and appropriate commanders/first sergeants without a valid need for the
information.
     9.1. The 75 SFS/S4A is responsible for producing a weapons listing for weapons kept on the
     installation. This list is maintained at the Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC). This list
     is only to be released to an agency or personnel requiring the information for official duties.
     (i.e. AFOSI, Commanders, First Sergeants and 75 SFS/S3).
10. Promulgating Security Instructions. The AFI 31-101 requires that this, and all, security
instructions be submitted for review to ensure legal sufficiency by the 75 ABW Legal Office.
The 75 ABW/CC shall ensure security instructions are given widest dissemination, and
procedures established to inform all personnel assigned to or visiting the installation, of
installation guidance on POWs. Procedures include, but are not limited to:
HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012                                                               9


  10.1. Newcomer briefings or requiring signed acknowledgement of base guidance (including
  POWs) for all newly assigned personnel (active, Guard and Reserve) and dependents, to
  include civilians and contractors.
  10.2. Posting of informational signs or posters in visitors control centers and/or at access
  control points to the installation.
  10.3. Requiring signed acknowledgement by visitors being issued a visitor pass.
  10.4. Requiring signed acknowledgement by all persons being assigned lodging or family
  quarters, regardless of DoD affiliation, to include privatized housing. This procedure must
  be coordinated with the BHMH and should be included as part of the lease agreement.




                                          SARAH E. ZABEL, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
 10                                                     HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 Oct 2009
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 Nov 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoDI 6400.6, Domestic Abuse Involving DOD Military and Certain Affiliated Personnel,
21 Aug 2007
Title 18 USC 922, Unlawful Acts, 1 Feb 2010
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
AF Form 1314, Firearms Registration, 19 Oct 2005
DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition, Dec 2002
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, 1 Jul 1987t
AF Form 1109, Visitor Register Log, 1 May 1999
AF Form 2047, Explosives Facility License, 4 Jul 1998
AF Form 1473, Gun Equipment Room Inventory, 1 Jan 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
ABW—Air Base Wing
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AAFES—Air Force Exchange Services
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
ANCOIC—Armory Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
BX—Base Exchange
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
BHMH—Boyer Hill Military Housing
CA—Custodian Authorization
HILLAFBI31-206 5 JANUARY 2012             11


CC—Commander
CEG—Fire Protection Flight
CRL—Custody Receipt Listing
DD—Department of Defense
DoD—Department of Defense
FSS—Force Support Squadron
GOV—Government owned vehicle
GSU—Geographically separated units
IAW—In Accordance With
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
NCO—Non-commissioned Officer
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POW—Privately Owned Weapon
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SSN—Social Security Number
TDY—Temporary Duty
TLF—Temporary Lodging Facility
TMO—Traffic Management Office
USC—United States Code
UTTR—Utah Test and Training Range
VAQ—Visiting Airman Quarters
VOQ—Visiting Officer Quarters
