BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 23-302
HILL AIR FORCE BASE

                                                                           28 SEPTEMBER 2010

                                                                                    Transportation

                                                        HILL AFB VEHICLE MAINTENANCE
                                                                         MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 75 LRS/LGRV                                        Certified by: 75 LRS/CC (Lt Col Todd M.
Supersedes: HILLAFBI24-302,                                                              Toman)
               30 JUNE 2008                                                             Pages: 4



This instruction implements AFPD 23-1, Operation, Maintenance, and Use of Transportation
Vehicles and Equipment. The purpose of this instruction is to focus commander’s attention on
vehicle accidents and abuse to reduce unnecessary expenditure of limited monetary resources.
The ultimate goal of this program is to reduce vehicle accidents and abuses at Hill Air Force
Base. The key to successfully reduce the number of accidents and abuses is to make commanders
and supervisors aware of the high costs associated with accident and abuse repairs. When
payments are made by the Logistics Readiness Squadron (75LRS), these costs are hidden from
the using commander. To ensure that the using commander has visibility of costs associated with
accidents and abuses, this supplement requires that the using organization become directly
involved in the payment process. This publication applies to all Hill AFB organizations and
tenants who operate and use Air Force owned and leased vehicles. It does not apply to the Air
National Guard. Use AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations; AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management; and
AFJMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver in concert with this instruction. This
instruction is not to be used as a stand-alone document. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

1. Procedures.
2                                                       HILLAFBI23-302 28 September 2010


    1.1. Vehicles damaged by accident, abuse, misuse, neglect or any other cause shall be turned
    in to Vehicle Management’s Customer Service Center (CSC) section as soon as damage is
    discovered. Report U-Drive-It or loaned vehicle damage to the 75 Logistics Readiness
    Squadron/Vehicle Operations section (75 LRS/LRGDDO). If the vehicle is not operable, the
    unit Vehicle Control Officer/Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer (VCO/VCNCO)
    will contact 75 Logistics Readiness Squadron/Vehicle Management Flight (75 LRS/LGRV)
    and request wrecker service support. NOTE: Organizations with leased General Services
    Administration (GSA) vehicles will initiate abuse or accident repair actions by calling the
    GSA per the lease agreement. 75 LRS/LRGDDO must be notified within 24-hours when a
    GSA vehicle is involved in an accident. The GSA will make the determination whether
    repairs are required and where the vehicle should be taken for repair work.
    1.2. Once the damaged vehicle or suspected abuse is turned in to vehicle management, CSC
    will notify the Vehicle Management (VM) Flight Chief or the Vehicle Fleet Manager (VFM).
    The VM Flight Chief or VFM will inspect the vehicle and make the determination whether to
    proceed with accident or abuse action. At this time, CSC will take pictures of the damage
    and process a vehicle damage estimate identifying the estimated repair costs. The CSC will
    then notify the unit’s VCO/VCNCO. A courtesy copy of the estimated work order and
    photographs will be forwarded to the 75 Logistics Readiness Squadron/Commander (75
    LRS/CC), and if necessary, the Staff Judge Advocate Directorate (OO-ALC/JA), Ground
    Safety (OO-ALC/SEG), and Financial Management Comptroller Directorate (OO-ALC/FM).
    The VCO/VCNCO and VM Flight Chief or VFM will determine how payment for the
    damage will be handled. The easiest form of payment is the using unit’s Government
    Purchase Card (GPC). If the cost of the repair exceeds the GPC one-time limit, then a funds
    transfer is warranted and can be accomplished in one of the following ways:
       1.2.1. Outside Department of Defense (DoD) Agencies. DD Form 448, Military
       Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) is used as a source document for funding
       between the paying unit and 75 LRS. The agency will create a MIPR and the 75 LRS
       will bill against the MIPR. The agency providing the service is required to do an
       acceptance of the MIPR indicating that they can in fact provide that service to the
       requesting agency. The funds are transferred at the Defense Finance and Accounting
       Service (DFAS) level.
       1.2.2. Air Force Organizations Outside Operating Budget Account Number (OBAN)
       47U3 75 Air Base Wing (75 ABW). In this case an AF Form 406, Miscellaneous
       Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD), is used as the source document. The
       owing organization prepares a MORD that is used to draw funds from their funding line
       and into 75 LRS funding for a particular item or service. The funds are transferred at the
       DFAS level.
       1.2.3. Organizations within OBAN 47U3 75 ABW: Funds transfers that take place
       within the 75 ABW are usually accomplished by preparing a less formal computer
       generated load sheet document. This document identifies where funds are moved from
       and where funds are being transferred to between different cost centers. This is usually
       attached to an email correspondence identifying the reason for the funds transfer. The
       funds are transferred by the 75 CPTS.
HILLAFBI23-302 28 September 2010                                                               3


   1.3. Prior to repairs, the unit commander/director or the VCO/VCNCO will be required to
   release the vehicle for repairs. GSA vehicles will be released for repairs by authority of GSA
   ACC only. Regardless of unit release, repairs action will commence within 5-workdays
   unless other arrangements were previously made between unit and VM Flight Chief or VFM.
   After repairs have been completed, the vehicle will be held until payment has been made by
   the responsible unit. Commanders should review procedures in AFMAN 23-220/Hill AFB
   Supplement 1, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, to determine if a report of survey is
   appropriate.
   1.4. Vehicle accidents involving private insurance companies will be processed using the
   following guidelines:
       1.4.1. To resolve liability issues that may arise between the government and private
       insurance companies, OO-ALC/JA must be notified immediately by 75 LRS/LGRV
       when government vehicles are involved in an accident with privately owned or contractor
       owned vehicles, on or off Hill Air Force Base. Government vehicles will not be released
       for repairs at commercial shops until released by OO-ALC/JA.
       1.4.2. Repair estimates must be accomplished by the company’s insurance adjuster or by
       a commercial repair shop recommended by the private insurance company. All repairs
       must then be completed by a commercial repair shop at the insurance company’s
       expense. The 75 LRS/LGRV will inspect all commercial repair work accomplished on
       government-owned vehicles and 75 LRS/LRGDDO will inspect all GSA vehicles to
       verify that the repairs satisfactorily meet USAF standards.
       1.4.3. Repair costs associated with the accident will be billed directly to the private
       insurance company by the repair shop.
   1.5. Due to the extended downtime for vehicles undergoing extensive repair for accidents
   and abuses, Vehicle Operations may provide a loaner vehicle only under specific situations,
   such as a unit falls below their mission-essential level. This support is limited to 30 days
   unless approved by 75 LRS/CC.
2. Exceptions to Reimbursements. Funds will not be transferred for vehicle damage repair
resulting from an incident or accidents in which the operator was not a contributing factor.
However, the unit or unit’s operator responsible for an incident or an accident will be held
responsible and unit funds will need to be transferred for repair costs.
3. Summary. Assessing repair costs directly to using organizations squadron commanders will
foster an effective operator-training program, encourage operator care, prevent needless repairs
and ultimately save Hill Air Force Base funds.




                                            PATRICK C. HIGBY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
 4                                                      HILLAFBI23-302 28 September 2010


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 23-220/Hill Supplement 1, Management of Government Property Reports of Survey of
Air Force Property
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations
AFJMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
LRS/LGRV—Vehicle Management Flight
LRS/LRGDDO—Operations Section
CSC—Customer Service Center
GPC— Government Purchase Card
GSA—General Services Administration
OO—ALC/FM— Comptroller Directorate
OO—ALC/JA— Staff Judge Advocate
OO—ALC/SEG— Ground Safety
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO— Vehicle Control Officer/Noncommissioned Officer
VFM— Vehicle Fleet Manager

Terms
Vehicle Accident—Any situation where a GOV/E (vehicle/equipment) strikes or is struck by
another GOV/E, non-GOV/E, and/or object, structure, or animal where the action by any
participative vehicle operator could have prevented the outcome.
Vehicle Incident—Any situation where a GOV/E sustains damage where the actions of any
participative vehicle operator could not have prevented the outcome. Typical examples of
vehicle incidents include damage to earth-moving equipment striking hidden objects and damage
resulting from acts of nature, such as hail storms, lightning, wind-blown objects, and vandalism.
