BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 23-301
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                                      16 JUNE 2006
                                                                          Cetified Current 4 JUNE 2008
                                                                                                Supply

                                                                             ENERGY MANAGEMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 75 CES/CEEE (Leon Jones)                         Certified by: 75 CES/CC (Lt Col Brett E. Crozier)
Supersedes HILLAFBI23-301,                                                                    Pages: 8
           12 November 2003                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction prescribes energy conservation goals and requirements for all organizations at Hill Air
Force Base, Utah Test and Training Range, and Little Mountain Test Annex. It establishes the methodol-
ogy to conserve energy resources in vehicles, equipment, operations and facilities. All organizations and
tenants comply with this instruction and perform specific tasks, as required, to eliminate waste and con-
serve energy resources. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and the AFRIMS Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision includes additional clarifications and requirements for the use of Space Heaters (addition to
paragraph 5.1.2. and new paragraphs 5.1.2.1. through 5.1.2.7.), the addition of DoD Instruction 4170.11,
Installation Energy Management, (paragraph 2. and reference list), and guidelines for turning heating and
cooling systems on and off (paragraph 5.1.3).


1. Introduction. Hill AFB consumes significant amounts of energy in support of the national defense
policy. Restrictive budgets and potential pollution of the environment requires Hill AFB to establish pol-
icies for responsible management, control, metering, and using energy.

2. Goals. Executive Order 13123, Greening the Government Through Efficient Energy Management,
June 1999, establishes the energy reduction goals for federal facilities. In addition, DoD Instruction
4170.11, Installation Energy Management, establishes policy and provides guidance for installation
energy managers. All organizations and tenants will develop and implement programs with the intent of
reducing energy consumption by a minimum of 2 percent per year, based on fiscal year 2003 energy con-
sumption (MBtu) per-gross-square-foot area of its buildings in use according to the Energy Policy Act of
2005. Only energy measures that are cost effective will be accomplished.
2                                                                      HILLAFBI23-301 16 JUNE 2006


3. Responsibilities and Authorities. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
    3.1. Energy Program Manager/Organization Energy Manager.
       3.1.1. The Hill AFB Energy Program Manager is assigned by the 75 Civil Engineer Squadron
       Commander (75 CES/CC) and is responsible for the oversight and advocacy of the base energy
       program. The Energy Program Manager will monitor energy use trends and patterns and track
       progress toward meeting established goals. The Energy Program Manager will also identify
       opportunities to reduce energy use and coordinate implementation plans with the affected organi-
       zations. The Energy Manager provides guidance and assistance to organizations at Hill AFB.
       3.1.2. Each organization will assign additional duties to at least one individual to be an organiza-
       tion energy manager. Individuals assigned will monitor energy use within their organization, coor-
       dinate facility energy audits, and meet with Hill AFB energy program manager, as required, to
       receive guidance and technical advice on the base energy program.
    3.2. Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG).
       3.2.1. The EMSG establishes base policy for energy-related matters. The EMSG will meet, at a
       minimum, semiannually to review progress in meeting energy reduction goals, and discuss oppor-
       tunities that will result in reductions in energy use. The EMSG will assign tasking to implement
       approved programs.
       3.2.2. The EMSG is chaired by the 75 ABW Vice Commander (75 ABW/CV) and consist of rep-
       resentatives from civil engineering, transportation, aircraft operations, budget, and large energy
       using base organizations.
       3.2.3. Each organization will be represented at the EMSG meetings by the Squadron Commander/
       Director or Deputy Commander/Chief. Organizations that consume less than one percent of the
       total base energy use are not required to attend the EMSG.
       3.2.4. The Base Energy Program Manager will prepare the agenda for the EMSG meeting, which
       will be disseminated to each organization’s POC prior to the meeting. The information in the
       agenda will be presented to the steering group. All organizations are encouraged to participate
       and present best practices and lessons learned.

4. Requirements. To eliminate waste and conserve energy resources, Hill AFB will apply the following
practices and principles:
    4.1. All organizations will utilize life cycle cost analysis to determine the most efficient and
    cost-effective applications of new construction, retrofitting existing facilities, equipment installation
    and industrial processes. Computer software such as Basic Life Cycle Cost (BLCC) and A Simplified
    Energy Analysis Method (ASEAM) are acceptable tools to model efficiency and project energy use.
    4.2. Promote vehicle energy efficiency. Maintain and acquire an energy-efficient vehicle fleet.
    4.3. Utilize alternate fuel for vehicles to the extent practical as determined by the Transportation
    Officer.
    4.4. Increase energy efficiency through capital investment and improved operations. Annually prior-
    itize and submit to Headquarters Air Force Material Command energy improvement projects that
    qualify for special funding under the Energy Conservation Investment Program (ECIP) and Facility
    Energy Management Program (FEMP).
HILLAFBI23-301 16 JUNE 2006                                                                                 3


   4.5. Initiate energy conservation projects utilizing private sector funding when it is in the best interest
   of the Air Force.
   4.6. The Base Utility Manager will aggressively pursue opportunities to obtain Utility Company
   rebates or project financing when it is in the best interest of the Air Force.
   4.7. Recognize significant achievements of individuals and organizations that contribute to and pro-
   mote efficient energy use and cost savings. Encourage all personnel to utilize the Air Force IDEA Pro-
   gram to submit ideas and proposals that will result in reducing energy use and enhance the work
   environment.
   4.8. Use public media, such as base newspaper, computer bulletin board, posters and handouts to dis-
   seminate information on energy awareness. Encourage all organizations to adopt practical energy con-
   servation measures in daily business practices.
   4.9. Participate in summer electrical power alert condition program by being aware of level of conser-
   vation awareness and initiate energy savings opportunities based on current alert conditions.

5. Facility Energy Conservation Policy.
   5.1. An overall policy on facility energy must include certain restrictions and guidance. Individual
   situations that appear to need special consideration will be presented to the EMSG.
      5.1.1. Critical air conditioning and heating requirements in specialized facilities such as, but not
      limited to, medical, computer, food service, equipment calibration and ICBM storage facilities are
      exempt from the temperature restrictions contained in this instruction. Temperature controls in
      these facilities will be set in accordance with mission requirements.
      5.1.2. Privately owned air conditioners and space heaters are prohibited. Government owned,
      individually operated air conditioners and space heaters are prohibited except as authorized in
      writing by 75th Civil Engineer Group Commander (75 CEG/CC). Individuals may obtain authori-
      zation by completing an AF IMT/Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, command concurrence from
      the individual’s management, the organizations safety officer and Fire Protection Flight (775
      CES/CEF). Each organization shall monitor the use of government owned air conditioners and
      space heaters and ensure compliance with base policy. Space heaters and air conditioners already
      in-place and meeting standards listed below can and will be used without further authorization.
      Any future purchases shall be in compliance with this publication. In addition to written authori-
      zation, employees must be in full compliance with the following conditions:
          5.1.2.1. Space heaters shall only be used when conditions require.
          5.1.2.2. Space heaters shall be:
              5.1.2.2.1. UL Listed.
              5.1.2.2.2. Equipped with a safety tip-over switch.
              5.1.2.2.3. Enclosed heat coils.
              5.1.2.2.4. Attended at all times.
              5.1.2.2.5. Unplug heater when not is use.
              5.1.2.2.6. Heater shall not be used with an extension cord unless coordinated by 775 CES/
              CEF.
4                                                                 HILLAFBI23-301 16 JUNE 2006


           5.1.2.2.7. Heater shall not be plugged into system/modular furniture.
           5.1.2.2.8. Heater shall be located away from all combustible material.
       5.1.2.3. Violations of above stipulations will cancel authorization.
       5.1.2.4. Authorization for use of heater is granted only when conditions require.
       5.1.2.5. Supervisor is responsible to annually monitor and ensure above stipulations are com-
       plied with.
       5.1.2.6. Authorization must be reviewed annually.
       5.1.2.7. Management will provide to the Maintenance Engineering Flight Office (75 CES/
       CEE) and the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) Local 1592 a list of all
       employees who have space heaters and air conditioners, bargaining unit and non-bargaining
       unit, by name, organization, and building number in order to ensure all heaters and air condi-
       tioners are in compliance.
    5.1.3. During Fall and Spring the 75 CES will monitor temperatures and turn the HVAC systems
    off or on according to the guidelines stated below. These guidelines are to be used only for plan-
    ning purposes. Actual dates will depend on many factors to include climate data, facility priority,
    and work crew availability. 75 CES/CC can override these guidelines with the understanding that
    energy conservation will be impacted.
       5.1.3.1. Fall. During late September, October, and November 75 CES will monitor weather
       conditions and turn off air-conditioning systems and activate heating systems according to the
       following weather conditions:
           5.1.3.1.1. Air-cooling systems off. This will typically occur after three consecutive days
           where the high temperature is below 70 degrees. Historically this temperature is around 15
           September.
           5.1.3.1.2. Heat Systems on. This will typically occur after three consecutive days where
           the low temperature is 45 degrees or if the daily high only reaches 45 degrees. Historically
           this temperature is around 15 October.
       5.1.3.2. Spring. During March, April, and May 75 CES will monitor weather conditions and
       turn off heating systems and activate cooling systems according to the following weather con-
       ditions.
           5.1.3.2.1. Heat Systems Off. This will typically occur after three consecutive days where
           the low temperature is above 45 degrees. Historically this temperature is around 12 April.
           5.1.3.2.2. Air-cooling systems on. This will occur after three consecutive days where the
           high temperature is above 80 degrees. Historically this temperature is around 1 June.
    5.1.4. Heating and cooling systems will be operated to take maximum advantage of outside
    make-up air. Civil Engineering will delay the start-up of central heating plants and cooling sys-
    tems, and will shut them down early to the extent practical.
    5.1.5. Temperature set points in facilities at Hill AFB, Utah Test and Training Range, and Little
    Mountain Test Annex will be maintained in accordance with the following guidelines in Table 1,
    with the exception of facilities listed in paragraph 5.1.1. Additional exceptions will be considered
    on a case-by-case basis in accordance with paragraph 5.1.2.
HILLAFBI23-301 16 JUNE 2006                                                                             5


      5.1.6. The lighting levels specified in Table 2 represent the range for Hill AFB work areas. It
      should be understood that these levels are guidelines established by the Illuminating Engineering
      Society (IES) and represent the average light levels within the occupied space. When designing a
      modification to or new installation of lighting, the listed minimum level shall be considered as the
      design maximum. Any special lighting level requirements shall be resolved by the individual
      directorate by obtaining written approval from the Aerospace Medicine (75 AMDS/SGP) and
      coordination by the Energy Management Office. Additional exceptions will be considered on a
      case-by-case basis in accordance with paragraph 5.1.2.

Table 1. Cooling and Heating
                                         Heating


Type of Facility              Occupied Hours                  Unoccupied Hours

Office Space                  65-70 Degrees F                 55 Degrees F
Storage                       55 Degrees F                    55 Degrees F
Maintenance Shops             55 Degrees F                    50 Degrees F


                                         Cooling


Type of Facility              Occupied Hours                  Unoccupied Hours

Office Space                  76-80 Degrees F                 82 Degrees F
Storage                       Unconditioned                   Unconditioned
Maintenance Shops             Unconditioned                   Unconditioned
6                                                                    HILLAFBI23-301 16 JUNE 2006


Table 2. Lighting Levels
                           IES Recommended Illuminance Values
                Area/Activity                                   Foot-candles

Offices, General                                20 – 50
Hallways                                        10 – 20
Conference Rooms                                20 – 50
Rest Rooms                                      20 – 50
Service Areas                                   30 – 50
Shop Areas                                      30 – 50
Warehouse/Active                                20 – 50
Warehouse/Inactive                              5 – 10
Storage Areas                                   5 – 20
Maintenance Areas                               20 – 50
General Aircraft Maintenance Area               50 – 75
Retail Spaces                                   10 – 50
Food Service Area                               10 – 50
Classrooms                                      20 – 50

6. Equipment Energy Conservation Policy.
    6.1. Installed equipment will be operated only as necessary to meet mission requirements. To the
    extent practical, so as not to interfere with product output, large high demand equipment will be oper-
    ated during off peak hours (typically 1100 to 1500).
    6.2. All installed equipment will be turned off when not in use. Equipment that is not practical to
    power down or turn off such as electronic or computer equipment will be operated as required.

7. Facility Inspections.
    7.1. The organization energy manager and/or building manager will conduct quarterly inspections of
    each facility assigned. At the completion of the facility energy inspection, all deficiencies will be
    noted and reviewed by the building manager and organization energy manager. Deficiencies identi-
    fied during the inspection will be corrected as funding becomes available.
    7.2. The Base Energy Program Manager along with individual organization energy managers will
    conduct random inspections of facilities. No-notice inspections will be made to ensure compliance
    with energy conservation policies.

8. Energy Reporting.
    8.1. The Base Energy Program Manager will report energy consumption and costs to Headquarters
    Air Force Materiel Command by means of the Defense Utility Energy Reporting System (DUERS).
HILLAFBI23-301 16 JUNE 2006                                                                     7


   Utility information will include heating degree-days, cooling degree-days, base population, and
   square footage. Information will be transmitted by the 25th day following the reporting month.

9. IMTs/Forms Adopted. AF IMT/Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet.



                                           SCOTT D. CHAMBERS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander 75 Air Base Wing
8                                                              HILLAFBI23-301 16 JUNE 2006


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 4170.11, Installation Energy Management
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFPD 23-3, Energy Management
Executive Order (E.O.) 13123, Greening the Government through Efficient Energy Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFGE—American Federation of Government Employees
ASEMA—Simplified Energy Analysis Method
BLCC—Basic Life cycle Cost
DUERS—Defense Utility Energy Reporting System
ECIP—Energy Conservation Investment Program
EMSG—Energy Management Steering Group
FEMP—Federal Energy Management Program
IES—Illuminating Engineering Society
OO-ALC/CV—OO-ALC Vice-Commander
75 ABW/CC—75 Air Base Wing Commander
75 AMDS/SGP—Aerospace Medicine
75 CEG/CC—75 Civil Engineer Group Commander
75 CES/CC—75 Civil Engineer Squadron Commander
775 CES/CEF—Fire Protection
