                                                           HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 63-102
BY ORDER OF CENTER COMMANDER
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                             29 JUNE 2010
                                                                  Certified Current 6 June 2012
                                                                                    Acquisition

                                                         ACQUISITION STRATEGY PANEL
                                                               PLANNING GUIDELINES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: OO-ALC/XPQ                                                      Certified by: OO-ALC/XP
                                                                             (Mr. James Sutton)
Supersedes: HILLAFBI63-102,                                                          Pages: 12
            30 April 2010



This Hill Air Force Base (AFB) Instruction sets forth guidance and procedures for the Ogden Air
Logistics Centers (OO-ALC) Standing Acquisition Strategy Panel (ASP), identifies the Standing
ASP membership, and illustrates how the Center’s Standing ASP operates for high value
acquisitions (i.e., PEO/DAO programs and “other contracting” acquisitions greater than $75M).
It also provides the roles, standards, and general guidance related to the ASP and acquisition
planning process applicable to all acquisitions at OO-ALC. This Instruction applies to all OO-
ALC organizations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to OO-ALC/XPQ, 6038 Aspen Ave., Bldg 1289 SE Corner, Hill AFB UT
84056, using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

1. Overview.
   1.1. An ASP is required per the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
   (AFFARS) 5307.104-90 for all Acquisition Category (ACAT) designated programs and Air
   Force Program Executive Officer (AFPEO) acquisitions, and whenever an individual
   contract action, including undefinitized contract actions, implements new work and/or work
   outside the scope of an existing contract. For “Other Contracting” acquisitions, an ASP is
   required for all acquisitions requiring a formal/written Acquisition Plan (AP). An ASP is not
 2                                                            HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010


     required when the anticipated contract action is included by a previous ASP and is
     specifically and fully described in the existing approved acquisition documentation.
     1.2. Part of the acquisition planning process may include an Early Strategy and Issues
     Session (ESIS). The requirement to perform an ESIS is at the discretion of the ASP
     Chairperson and/or Wing Commander. ESIS sessions will allow Integrated Product Teams
     (IPT) to communicate risks, risk mitigation plans, issues and other pertinent concerns to
     senior level management early in the pre-award cycle. If an ESIS is deemed necessary, the
     program team should come to the briefing prepared to discuss their intended approach to the
     best of their ability with the information available to them at the time. There should not be
     an expectation of the program team to have final recommendations for the way forward as
     most of their required research (i.e., requirements determination, market research, risk
     management, etc.) will not have been completed by this time.
     1.3. The Acquisition Center of Excellence (ACE) office is responsible to facilitate the
     ESIS/ASP process and therefore must be notified of all Program Executive Officer (PEO)
     and Designated Acquisition Official (DAO) program acquisitions and all “other contracting”
     based acquisitions expected to meet or exceed the $75M threshold (total value of the program
     to include all contracting actions). The ASP Secretariat is assigned to the ACE office.
2. Standing ASP Membership and Guidelines.
     2.1. The ESIS/Standing ASP is to be considered for all PEO/DAO acquisitions and “other
     contracting” acquisitions expected to meet or exceed $75M, but may be used for other
     significant contract actions anytime at the discretions of the ASP Chairperson IAW AFFARS
     5307.104-90. The ASP Secretariat is the focal point for all local ASP activity expected to
     meet or exceed $75M and can provide general ASP guidance, as well as guidance regarding
     the Standing ASP’s involvement, to any program.
     2.2. The Standing ASP is a “standing” group of specifically appointed people, selected not
     only because of their organizational position, but because of their backgrounds, experiences,
     and the counsel they bring to an acquisition strategy. The Standing ASP is a cadre of
     executive and senior advisors (or their representatives) from various functional disciplines
     that provide the IPT guidance early in the formulation of the acquisitions strategy. The ASP
     members should review the integrated acquisition strategy for realism, flexibility, risk,
     responsiveness to the user, overall balance, and how well the program can be executed.
     2.3. The Standing ASP consists of the following members:
        2.3.1. 75 ABW/CC (75th Air Base Wing Commander) (see paragraph 2.3.14. for
        attendance guidelines).
        2.3.2. 508 ASW/CC (508th Aerospace Sustainment Wing Commander) (see paragraph
        2.3.14. for attendance guidelines).
        2.3.3. 309 MXW/CC (309th Maintenance Wing Commander) (see paragraph 2.3.14. for
        attendance guidelines).
        2.3.4. OO-ALC/XP (Plans and Programs Director).
        2.3.5. OO-ALC/PK (Chief of Contracting Office).
        2.3.6. OO-ALC/XPQ (Acquisition Center of Excellence (ACE) Director)
HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010                                                                    3


     2.3.7. OO-ALC/SB (Small Business Office Director).
     2.3.8. OO-ALC/PKC (Competition Advocate).
     2.3.9. OO-ALC/PK (PK Technical Director).
     2.3.10. OO-ALC/EN (Engineering Office Director).
     2.3.11. OO-ALC/JA (Staff Judge Advocate).
     2.3.12. OO-ALC/FM (Financial Management Office Director).
     2.3.13. DCMA (Defense Contract Management Agency).
     2.3.14. Non-invested Wing Commanders will be invited as optional attendees for
     acquisitions outside their respective Wing.
     2.3.15. Wing Commanders, or their alternates, are authorized to delegate their
     responsibility to no lower than the Group level depending on the circumstances involved
     with each acquisition.
  2.4. The OO-ALC ASP Secretariat will maintain the Standing ASP membership list and
  calendar of events on the ACE SharePoint site.
  2.5. The ASP Secretariat will notify the Standing ASP of upcoming meetings, for those
  acquisitions requiring an ESIS, Pre-ASP, or ASP with OO-ALC Center Commander
  (CC)/Vice Commander (CV)/Executive Director (CA), upon receipt of a scheduled date from
  the program/project office. This requirement will typically apply only to acquisitions
  ≥$75M, or PEO/DAO programs that have not had the ASP Chair delegated below
  CC/CV/CA. ASPs chaired below the Wing, do not require the notification or involvement of
  the ASP Secretariat, however, the ASP Secretariat is available to advise on all programs, as
  necessary.
  2.6. If the ASP will be chaired below OO-ALC/CC/CV/CA (i.e., Wing/CC, Group/CC, etc.),
  Standing ASP membership must attend the ASP if there is no corresponding representative
  available within the chairing organization. The ASP Secretariat can assist with the
  identification of required Standing ASP members, as requested.
  2.7. When developing the acquisition strategy and preparing for an ASP session, the senior
  functional representatives from the organization (i.e., Wing senior functionals) shall be fully
  involved, providing advice and recommendations to the program/project team.
  2.8. In addition to the above “mandatory” standing members invited by the ASP Secretariat,
  with the approval of the ASP Chair, the program/project office should invite at least one
  senior-level individual (O-5/GS-14 or above) from the user and/or requirements community
  to serve as a member of the ASP.
  2.9. The Program Manager (PM), or IPT lead, is responsible for scheduling any and all
  ASPs, with the ASP Chair, and notifying the ASP Secretariat no less than 2 weeks prior to
  the event. The PM must then ensure that the ASP secretariat is notified of the date, and
  provided with an ASP Executive Overview of the upcoming acquisition so that it can be
  scheduled with and distributed to the Standing ASP. Plan on 3 hours for OO-
  ALC/CC/CV/CA level ASPs or above. It is strongly recommended that an appropriate
 4                                                              HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010


     number of dry-runs be conducted to ensure the briefing can be concluded within the
     scheduled time frame.
     2.10. Meeting minutes are the responsibility of the PM and/or contracting officer and shall
     be taken, in accordance with AFFARS 5307.104-90 Acquisition Strategy Panels (ASPs), to
     be completed within ten business days. The minutes must include, at a minimum, all major
     discussion areas, all action items along with estimated completion dates, documentation of all
     decisions that differ from the briefing content (see attachment 1), the ASP attendance listing
     (specifying panel members vs. attendees), a record indicating all attendees have signed a
     required non-disclosure agreement, and attached briefing slides with all required changes
     incorporated. The minutes must be coordinated by ACE, legal, and the panel members in
     attendance, signed by the ASP chairperson, and kept as part of the contract file. The Wing
     Commander is responsible for completion of all action items on all pre-ASPs and ASPs
     briefed at the Center CC/CV/CA level.
     2.11. The ASP Secretariat issues invitations and distributes read-ahead’s to the Standing
     ASP. Additionally, the ASP Secretariat will provide the program/project teams with the ASP
     template and any training or guidance requested, on ASP related matters. The ASP
     Secretariat and/or ACE project lead will attend the ASP, and will be the ACE point of
     contact (POC) for the ASP minutes review as well.
3. Standing ASP Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. ASP Chairperson.
        3.1.1. Chairs ASP meeting.
        3.1.2. Determines if ESIS is required, and if so, assign ESIS membership based on IPT
        and ASP Secretariat recommendations, as necessary.
        3.1.3. Approves membership of the ASP Panel Members, including supplemental ASP
        attendees.
        3.1.4. Approves ASP minutes.
     3.2. Standing ASP Members.
        3.2.1. Attend ESIS/pre-ASP/ASP meetings as requested by OO-ALC/CV/CA/CC.
        3.2.2. Review read-ahead’s in advance of ASP/Pre-ASP to become familiar with the
        acquisition and requirements.
        3.2.3. Research functional issues and provide consistent counsel.
        3.2.4. Evaluate strategies for realism, flexibility, risk, overall balance, responsiveness to
        the user, and how well programs can be executed.
        3.2.5. Sign a blanket Non-Disclosure Agreement.
     3.3. Wing Commanders.
        3.3.1. Determine if ESIS should be recommended to ASP chairperson, and if so,
        recommend ESIS membership assignments based on IPT and ASP Secretariat
        recommendations, as necessary.
        3.3.2. Chairs ESIS meetings as necessary.
HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010                                                                    5


   3.4. Program Manager.
       3.4.1. Identifies appropriate ASP Chairperson based on the estimated value of the
       acquisition and any delegations that may have been provided to their organization.
       3.4.2. Makes recommendations, in conjunction with the ASP Secretariat as necessary, to
       the ASP Chairperson for additional ASP panel members (i.e., user representation) as
       applicable.
       3.4.3. Responsible for leading the IPT to develop a sound acquisition strategy to be
       presented to the ASP.
       3.4.4. Responsible for the preparation of the ASP briefing from templates available at the
       ACE SharePoint site.
       3.4.5. Provides Executive Overview of upcoming acquisition to ASP Secretariat for
       distribution to Standing ASP members and other invitees IAW timelines established in
       Paragraph 2, Standing ASP Membership and Guidelines.
       3.4.6. Informs ASP Secretariat of upcoming applicable ASP dates no later than 2 weeks
       in advance and provides electronic read-ahead’s to the ASP Secretariat for distribution to
       Standing ASP members no later than 48 hours in advance of the ASP.
       3.4.7. Coordinates the ASP minutes through Legal and ACE (program lead and/or ASP
       Secretariat) before providing to the ASP Chairperson for final approval, after the ASP is
       adjourned.
   3.5. ASP Secretariat.
       3.5.1. Sends invitations no later than 2 weeks in advance, and distributes read-ahead
       briefing material no later than 48 hours in advance to Standing ASP members, upon
       receipt of the dates and material from the PM.
       3.5.2. Maintains proposed ESIS/ASP briefing format and Executive Overview templates
       on the ACE SharePoint site.
       3.5.3. Distributes executive summaries, read-ahead’s, and minutes (provided by PM) to
       Standing ASP members, as required.
       3.5.4. Assists PM with video teleconferencing room (VTC) arrangements, as required.
       3.5.5. Maintains lessons learned repository on the ACE SharePoint site.
       3.5.6. Assures Standing ASP members and other attendees are invited to ESIS and/or
       center level ASPs as the need dictates.
       3.5.7. Maintains the ASP Calendar on the ACE SharePoint site.
3.5.8. Ensure each standing member of the ASP has a signed blanket Non-Disclosure
Agreement on file.
4. Involvement of the Standing ASP in an ESIS/ASP Briefing.
   4.1. The Process.
       4.1.1. Scheduling the briefing(s).
6                                                        HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010


       4.1.1.1. Meeting information. The PM is responsible for scheduling the briefings,
       (typically through the Wing front office). Generally, an ASP is scheduled for
       approximately 3 hours. Once scheduled, notify the ASP Secretariat of the dates,
       times, and locations of all briefings at the Wing level or higher. Standing ASP
       participation typically begins at the Center level or higher, but partial participation
       may be required for Wing level ASPs as well. The number of briefings a PM can
       expect generally depends on the authority level determination for the various decision
       briefings required. The authority level determination is made giving consideration to
       the type of acquisition (services or supplies), the dollar value, the PEO/DAO portfolio
       association, and whether or not there have been any delegations authorized.
       Depending on the results of the authority level determination, the PM may be
       required to schedule a Wing Pre-ASP, a Center Pre-ASP, and either on to the ASP
       with Air Force Material Command (AFMC), a PEO/DAO, or a briefing with the
       Service Acquisition Executive (SAE). The respective Wing’s contracting office
       and/or the ACE can assist in determining the level necessary to brief.
    4.1.2. Preparing for the Briefing
    4.1.2.1. Briefing preparation. The ASP Secretariat can provide the most current ASP
    template to the PM, as requested. The template should be tailored to the program. Once
    draft charts have been developed, contact the ACE program lead to schedule a meeting to
    review them at least one to two weeks before the Wing level briefing.
       4.1.2.2. Briefing charts. Send final briefing charts to the ASP Secretariat at least 48
       hours in advance. After the charts are received, the secretariat will post them to the
       OO-ALC/XPQ (ACE) SharePoint and notify the Standing ASP so they can be
       reviewed prior to the briefing. A master calendar of all known Wing level ASPs and
       above will also be maintained at this SharePoint site.
    4.1.3. Sending invitations for the briefing.
       4.1.3.1. Invitations to the Standing ASP. The ASP Secretariat will notify the
       Standing ASP at least 2 weeks in advance of upcoming briefings through email
       calendar announcements. The secretariat will include the PM in the optional attendee
       list as a notification that the announcement has been sent. It is the PM’s
       responsibility to inform any required Wing attendees, including the program team. It
       is recommended to extend an invitation to a representative from the
       using/requirements command to attend the briefing as well.
       4.1.3.2. Summary of program. The ASP Secretariat will require an Executive
       Overview (i.e., 4-5 sentences) describing the program and the event to be briefed.
       This should be provided to the ASP Secretariat along with the list of scheduled dates,
       at least 2 weeks before the center level briefing. The summary paragraph will be used
       in invites and notifications regarding future ASPs.
       4.1.3.3. Attendance. The ASP Secretariat can offer advice on the most appropriate
       attendees for the specific acquisition in question, however, the following guidelines
       should also be followed.
           4.1.3.3.1. Wing level pre-ASPs and below. The Wing pre-ASP invites will
           typically come from the Wing front office and the invites should go out to the
HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010                                                                  7


           same "Wing level" core functional areas each time. It is important to try and
           mimic the cross-representation of the Center level Standing ASP, when possible,
           without inviting members of the Standing ASP so early in the briefing process.
           The following areas, at a minimum, should have representation.
              4.1.3.3.1.1. Financial Management (FM).
              4.1.3.3.1.2. Contracting (PK).
              4.1.3.3.1.3. Engineering (EN).
              4.1.3.3.1.4. Legal (JA).
              4.1.3.3.1.5. OO-ALC/SB.
              4.1.3.3.1.6. All other attendees are at the discretion of the Wing and/or
              program office.
           4.1.3.3.2. Wing level ASPs and below. The Wing ASP invites will typically
           come from the Wing front office and the invites should go out to the same "Wing
           level" core functional areas each time. It is important to mimic the cross-
           representation of the center level Standing ASP, so the following areas should
           have representation.
              4.1.3.3.2.1. JA (Program attorney supporting the program).
              4.1.3.3.2.2. ACE (whichever ACE advisor is representing the team).
              4.1.3.3.2.3. Wing level FM.
              4.1.3.3.2.4. Wing level PK.
              4.1.3.3.2.5. Wing level EN.
              4.1.3.3.2.6. OO-ALC/SB.
              4.1.3.3.2.7. OO-ALC/PKC.
              4.1.3.3.2.8. All other attendees are at the discretion of the Wing and/or
              program office.
           4.1.3.3.3. Center level ASPs or pre-ASPs. The Center level ASP or pre-ASP
           invites will typically come from the ASP Secretariat and will be distributed to the
           OO-ALC Standing ASP no later than 2 weeks prior to the event. The ASP
           Secretariat will distribute the invites with the Standing ASP as required attendees,
           and will include all non-invested Wing Commanders, ACE advisors, and the
           Program Manager on the “Optional Attendee” list. These invitations can then be
           forwarded to any remaining attendees the PM chooses to invite.
           4.1.3.3.4. ASPs or pre-ASPs conducted off-center. If conducting an ASP or pre-
           ASP above the Center level (i.e.,, AFMC, AFPEO, SAF/AQ, etc.) the ASP Chair
           will have their own preference for panel members. Typically a small contingent
           from the program office will travel to be physically present in front of the ASP
           Chair while the remainder of the program office (Wing level and below) stays
           behind and ties into the briefing via VTC. Upon request, the ASP Secretariat can
           assist with these VTC room arrangements as needed. The program team would be
8                                                          HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010


           expected to incorporate final changes from the ASP immediately upon their return
           to OO-ALC. It is recommended that the final package, for ASP approval, be
           submitted within 10 days of completing the ASP (see paragraph 4.1.3.7. for
           detailed off-center ASP approval requirements). For ASPs and pre-ASPs
           conducted “off center”, ensure that the following functional areas are invited to
           attend via VTC.
               4.1.3.3.4.1. OO-ALC/PK.
               4.1.3.3.4.2. OO-ALC/SB.
               4.1.3.3.4.3. OO-ALC/PKC (if acquisition is sole source).
               4.1.3.3.4.4. OO-ALC/JA (Program attorney supporting your program).
               4.1.3.3.4.5. All other attendees are at the discretion of the Wing and/or
               program office.
       4.1.3.4. Video teleconference (VTC) and meeting locations. Room arrangements
       should be made at the time of the ASP Chair scheduling, however, if assistance is
       needed with locations or VTC scheduling, please let the ASP Secretariat know as
       early as possible.
    4.1.4. Multi-functional Independent Review Team (MIRT).
       4.1.4.1. The pre-ASP MIRT. A pre-ASP MIRT will be required to be convened prior
       to the ASP for all competitive actions equal to or greater than $50 million. If the ASP
       will be chaired “off center”, the pre-ASP MIRT must be held prior to the Center level
       Pre-ASP and typically after the Wing level “Pre-ASP”.
    4.1.5. Conducting the briefing.
       4.1.5.1. Timeliness. Arrive at the meeting location at least 30 minutes in advance.
       Make sure the overall room appearance is clean and organized. Be prepared to place
       hard copies around the table, have the briefing loaded on the overhead, and have the
       VTC connection established so that the meeting can begin on time.
       4.1.5.2. Briefing chart copies for the Standing ASP and Chair. Provide the Chair
       with a hard copy. Standing ASP members are required to bring their own hard copy
       to the event. It is recommended for the program office to provide a couple of hard
       copies in case one of the panel members forgets their copy, but is not a requirement.
       Although last minute changes to the slides are discouraged, if a change is necessary
       after the soft copies have been distributed, the program team will be expected to
       provide updated hard copies for the entire panel.
       4.1.5.3. Functional Tents. Functional tents are required for all OO-ALC/CC/CV/CA
       chaired briefings.
       4.1.5.4. Protocol. The presenter will be expected to stand while presenting at all ASP
       briefings. Business attire is appropriate. It is the discretion of the program office to
       offer refreshments of any kind (i.e.,, pitchers of ice water, fresh fruit, cookies, etc.).
HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010                                                                 9


          4.1.5.5. Reserved parking. If a briefing at OO-ALC is held away from Bldg 1102,
          please arrange reserved parking spaces for any Senior Executive Service (SES) or
          General Officer (GO) level attendees anticipated.
          4.1.5.6. Minutes. The procurement contracting officer and/or PM are responsible for
          the minutes IAW AFFARS 5307.104-90(d), if it is an ASP. It is recommended that
          the program team provide two minutes takers to ensure all applicable topics are
          captured accurately. An attendance roster will be included along with an account of
          all action items from the final briefing. The minutes must be coordinated by ACE
          and legal, the relevant Wing coordination chain, and signed by the Chair. The
          approved (signed) minutes become a part of the permanent record attached to the
          briefing charts and attendance roster.
          4.1.5.7. ASP Approval Briefings. Signatory approval of ASP minutes by the ASP
          Chairperson constitutes approval of the ASP briefings. To obtain ASP approval at the
          AFMC level or above, the PM must submit a package containing the following items:
          final ASP minutes, ASP action items, a final Acquisition Plan, and a draft Source
          Selection Plan (SSP). If requesting delegation of the Source Selection Authority, a
          delegation request package must be submitted and a draft section L&M provided in
          lieu of a draft SSP. MIRT 1b, section L&M review, should be conducted prior to
          L&M submittal to AFMC or above. It is recommended that teams strive to have the
          same documents and processes completed for ASP briefing approval for those ASPs
          remaining “on center” as well.
5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   5.1. Prescribed Forms.
   No prescribed forms in this publication.
   5.2. Adopted Forms.
   AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                              ANDREW E. BUSCH, Maj Gen, USAF
                                              Commander, Ogden Air Logistics Center
 10                                                    HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFFARS 5307.104-90 Acquisition Strategy Panels (ASPs), March 18, 2009
AFFARS 5307.104-90(d) ASP Minutes, March 18, 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
ACAT—Acquisition Category
ACE—Acquisition Center of Excellence
AFFARS—Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPEO—Air Force Program Executive Officer
AP—Acquisition Plan
ASP—Acquisition Strategy Panel
AQ—Acquisition
CA—Competition Advocate
CC—Center Commander
CV—Vice Commander
CM—Combat and Mission Support
CA—Executive Director
DAO—Designated Acquisition Official
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
ESIS—Early Strategies and Issues Session
EN—Engineering
FM—Financial Management
GO—General Officer
IAW—In Accordance With
IPT—Integrated Product Team
OO—ALC/JA ― Staff Judge Advocate
MIRT—Multi-functional Independent Review Team
MXW—Maintenance Wing
HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010                                                                        11


OO—ALC ― Ogden Air Logistics Center
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PK—Contracting Office
PKC—Competition Advocate
PM—Program Manager
POC—Point of Contact
SAE—Service Acquisition Executive
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SB—Small Business Office
VTC—Video Teleconference
XP—Plans & Programs Office
XPQ—Acquisition Center of Excellence

Terms.
Acquisition Plan (AP) Approval.—This is the “write the plans” step in acquisition strategy
planning. It is the final step in the planning, and it may start as early as the very beginning of the
acquisition process, but is not finalized until after the ASP. A “strawman” AP should be
prepared early in the process and be near completion when the ASP is held. Using the guidance
gained as a result of the ASP, the PM should be in a position to finalize whatever acquisition
planning documents are used for final approval. Approved ASP briefing charts and/or minutes
can serve as the formally written AP, for acquisitions below the DFARS threshold per AFMC
FARS 5307.10492(d), at the discretion of the approving authority.
ASP Planning.—Acquisition strategy planning means the process by which the efforts of all
personnel responsible for an acquisition are coordinated and integrated through a comprehensive
plan for fulfilling OO ALC’s needs in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost. It involves
developing the overall strategy for managing the acquisition to include such considerations as
programmatic and technical objectives, risks, business strategies, logistics, funding, contract
parameters, special clauses, partnering, systems engineering, environmental issues,
organizational conflicts of interest, etc.
ASP Charts.—The program office prepares ASP charts and an Executive Overview consistent
with guidance provided by the ASP Secretariat and IAW the timelines established in paragraph
2, Standing ASP Membership and Guidelines.
ESIS.— The ESIS provides an opportunity for senior managers and subject matter experts to
assist the program office in formulating acquisition strategy early on. The preliminary
acquisition strategy and risk assessment results will be the primary inputs to the ESIS. The PEO,
DAO, Wing Commander, or ASP Chairperson for Other Contracting programs, will determine
the need for an ESIS and/or extent of membership based on the complexity of the programit
normally does not make sense to hold an ESIS for simple and repetitive type programs. ESIS
will assist the program office in defining acquisition alternatives and formulating an acquisition
 12                                                            HILLAFBI63-102 29 JUNE 2010


strategy to include key issues that should be addressed in the ASP. A successful ESIS should
result is a reasonably good draft set of ASP charts to further develop in preparation for the ASP.
ESIS Scheduling.—The PM schedules the ESIS meeting (usually through their respective Wing
Commander’s Action Group). If the ESIS will be chaired by OO ALC/CC/CV/CA then the ASP
Secretariat must be notified of the scheduled date. The ASP Secretariat will issue invites to the
Standing ASP members and distribute electronic read-ahead’s upon receipt from the PM.
ESIS Action Items.—The program office will track any action items arising from the meeting.
ESIS Membership.—Participation at the ESIS for those acquisition =>$75M, should involve
Standing ASP members and subject matter experts selected by the Wing Commander, or ASP
Chairperson. The decision will take into account recommendations for panel membership from
both the IPT and ASP Secretariat, as necessary. At the discretion of the ASP Chairperson, ESIS
members may not be required to participate in the final ASP if there are no issues that require
their further participation.
Kickoff Meeting.—Upon notification from the program office of an upcoming need, the ACE
office will facilitate an acquisition strategy kickoff meeting for the entire pre award process. All
potential stakeholders and advisors will meet to discuss roles and responsibilities, preliminary
acquisition strategy, program plan documents, risks and mitigation strategies, and generally the
road ahead. ACE support will be tailored by taking into account the team’s level of experience
as well as the complexity of the program. A key action for a successful kickoff meeting is the
program office having very clear direction stated in their requirements and funding documents.
PM Wing Endorsement.—The PM is expected to coordinate their ASP charts with their
respective Wing Commander before scheduling the ASP. This does not have to be a formal
process and how it is accomplished is up to the Wing.
