BY ORDER OF CENTER COMMANDER                          HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
OGDEN AIR LOGISTICS CENTER                                                      90-102

                                                                              14 OCTOBER 2010

                                                                         CIVILIAN WINGMAN
                                                                        ADVOCATE PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: OO-ALC/CS                                                          Certified by: OO-ALC/CS
                                                                                (Ms. Julie Primbs)
                                                                                         Pages: 15


This instruction establishes organizational roles, responsibilities, and procedures for the Civilian
Wingman Advocate Program. The program supports a vibrant, rounded Wingman focused
workforce and culture within the OO-ALC. It describes the integration of efforts from
leadership, agencies supporting wellness and safety, and the OO-ALC workforce itself. The goal
is to create and foster a healthy workforce and culture that integrates and supports the four
dimensions of wellness (physical, social, emotional and spiritual), as well as a shared sense of
responsibility for one another in keeping with our Air Force tradition of being ―a good wingman‖
in order to increase protective factors, engagement, and productivity in the workplace. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. The Privacy Act of 1974 applies to this instruction. This
publication requires the collecting and maintaining of information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974.

1. INTRODUCTION
   1.1. Program Objectives.
2                                                                               HILLAFBI90-102


       1.1.1. In keeping with the belief that people are our most important asset, the objective of
       the Wingman Advocate (WA) Program is to improve mission effectiveness/productivity
       through supporting the highest quality of life and level of functioning of individuals and
       work environments by: increasing resiliency through increasing protective factors (see
       Attachment 2); increasing dignity and respect for employees and leadership; attending to
       positive morale and quality of life activities; and being mindful of the need to attend to
       and balance the Four Dimensions of Wellness (Social, Spiritual, Physical, Emotional).
       The Wingman Advocate Program is to primarily focus on the needs of our federal
       civilian ―wingmen‖.
       1.1.2. Provide a consultation and referral resource for supervisors and leadership to assist
       in improving the workplace environment with regard to protective factors, to coach
       leaders in relating to their employees and identifying their needs, especially those in
       crisis.
       1.1.3. Provide information to Leadership. WAs are placed in the workplace to quickly
       identify and report both positive and negative trends/issues for leadership to quickly
       address. This firsthand knowledge and awareness is highly instrumental in creating a
       more protective environment, providing proactive interventions, and enhancing morale,
       quality of life, and employee engagement.
       1.1.4. Provide a network of physically and socially embedded WAs throughout the
       Center who: are a familiar face and an approachable point of contact for proactive
       interpersonal assistance and referral; when necessary, provide rapid response in crisis
       prevention/intervention; provide non-clinical discussion with employees voluntarily
       requesting referral service related to difficulty with employment and/or personal issues.
       The primary purpose is immediate assistance and referral to appropriate helping
       resources, such as the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), Occupational Medicine,
       Equal Opportunity, community resources, etc.
       1.1.5. Create a standardized program approach that establishes/defines the roles,
       responsibilities, and protocols for all levels of the OO-ALC workforce in the areas of
       creating a Wingman Environment, and in establishing referral support measures and
       procedures to address the workgroup or individuals in crisis, particularly in situations that
       involve risk or threat of suicide.
       1.1.6. Develop and sustain a current and ongoing marketing strategy that keep people
       aware of available resources.
       1.1.7. Maintain a database that will be used to gather data for statistical purposes, and
       identify/track trends to target specific needs and drive the focus.
    1.2. Roles and Responsibilities of the WA Program.
       1.2.1. Focuses on assisting leadership and employees by referral to appropriate resources
       and lending support where needed to increase awareness of workplace protective factors
       (see Attachment 2), resiliency, and a higher quality of life. WAs model appropriate
       behaviors and relational techniques for supervisors in dealing with their employees.
       WAs do not provide any form of clinical or legal or employment counseling, or
       counseling related to other organization‘s programs or services, nor do they do any
       investigative work.
HILLAFBI90-102                                                                                3


     1.2.2. Derives functional direction from the OO-ALC/CC. WAs are embedded in
     various units across the installation at the discretion of the OO-ALC/CC, and they
     operationally serve the Wing/Group/Functional offices to which they are assigned. The
     WA Program is a critical link in the development and/or enhancement of protective
     factors, morale, and quality of life issues concerning civilian employees. WAs must
     reinforce the civilian force understanding of the commander‘s wingman policies, goals,
     and objectives.
     1.2.3. Responds to the needs of leadership for obtaining employee wingman assistance.
     When an assigned WA is not available, leadership as well as employees can access a
     Wingman Advocate 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, via telephone at 801-777-2255.
     1.2.4. Scope and Limitations: WA‘s will be mindful of the mission, vision, and goals of
     the unit to which they are assigned; will serve as a conduit for resources and assisting
     with communication between employees and leadership within the organization; and will
     model and encourage effective relationships among employees and leaders.
     1.2.5. Addresses quality of life concerns and monitors the morale, welfare, and
     protective factors of the work environment and civilian force. The WA Program provides
     support to all levels of leadership concerning the well-being of the work force and the
     individuals that comprise it. It is vital that WAs report to leadership on any significant
     employee issues/problems, such as, but not limited to, when there is a reasonable
     likelihood of a direct effect/impact on the workplace protective factors; the employee is
     in need of additional assistance and attention; or the employee has stated he/she is in
     crisis, including suicidal/homicidal; or an illegal activity has occurred or is threatened.
     Reporting and referral to applicable advisors over significant employee issues/problems
     should be made as quickly as possible, in accordance with established procedures for
     appropriate action in the given situation and to available leadership using the chain of
     command.
     1.2.6. Assists leadership in administratively dealing with and reporting suicide related or
     significant emotional events and provides referrals for impacted employees.
2. PROGRAM INTEGRATION
  2.1. Responsibilities for Managing the WA Program.
     2.1.1. Center Commander: OO-ALC/CC supports efforts to maintain and foster a culture
     focused on the wingman concept, and a holistic focus predicated on dignity, respect, and
     accountability.
        2.1.1.1. Culture. Wingman expectations will be communicated often, expected
        behaviors will be modeled, and unacceptable behaviors will be addressed. These
        actions demonstrate the commitment to the Wingman culture and
        workforce/individual holistic focus.
        2.1.1.2. Policy.   OO-ALC/CC will establish/endorse policies supporting the
        Wingman culture and quality of life for the workforce. Treating people with dignity,
        respect, and accountability are keys to the success of the program. These policies
        must receive support, enforcement, and reinforcement.
4                                                                         HILLAFBI90-102


       2.1.1.3. Communication. OO-ALC/CC will meet with the Wingman Advocate
       Program Manager on a quarterly basis (or as needed) to receive updates on trends and
       actions, discuss concerns, identify trends, and give direction.
    2.1.2. Wing Commander/Director: Wing CCs and Functional Directors are responsible
    for publicizing and maintaining workplace protective factors in addition to supporting the
    Wingman Culture outlined above, by maintaining a holistic focus, abiding by the policies
    set forth, and encouraging a positive emotional environment predicated on dignity,
    respect, and accountability.
       2.1.2.1. Establish a meeting with the WA Program Manager and assigned WAs once
       every two months (or as needed) to ensure clear and accurate communication flow,
       report trends and statistics, and give/receive direction to address Wingman issues as
       they arise.
       2.1.2.2. Include WA input in weekly staff meeting, when appropriate, to report
       pertinent information and to endorse, support, and reinforce the importance of
       creating/maintaining a robust Wingman culture.
    2.1.3. Group Commander/Director: These leaders are responsible for publicizing and
    maintaining workplace protective factors in addition to supporting the Wingman culture
    outlined above, by maintaining a holistic focus, abiding by the policies set forth, and
    encouraging a positive emotional environment predicated on dignity, respect, and
    accountability.
       2.1.3.1. Establish monthly meetings (or as needed) with assigned WAs to ensure
       clear, accurate communication flow, give and gather information on trends, metrics,
       and hotspots, and identify individuals and work groups that deserve recognition for
       positive gains or for displaying exemplary Wingman behaviors and attitudes.
    2.1.4. Squadron Commander/Director: These leaders are responsible for publicizing and
    maintaining workplace protective factors in addition to supporting the Wingman culture
    outlined above, by maintaining a holistic focus, abiding by the policies set forth, and
    encouraging a positive emotional environment predicated on dignity, respect, and
    accountability.
       2.1.4.1. Provide WAs access to appropriate work areas for routine meet-and-greets,
       follow-up, and group wingman briefings.
       2.1.4.2. Responsible for reporting death or significant emotional events of employees
       in accordance with established procedures; this includes obtaining guidance from the
       Trauma Stress Response (TSR) Team, of which the WAs are members, for delivering
       the information in the most sensitive and beneficial manner.
       2.1.4.3. Meet every two weeks (or as needed) with assigned WAs to discuss hotspots,
       trends, and strategies in order to create a high quality of work life for the workplace
       and individuals therein. The main emphasis will be to enhance protective factors (see
       Attachment 2) and recognize exemplary Wingman behavior and attitudes.
       2.1.4.4. Provide necessary support in the ongoing marketing of the WA Program.
    2.1.5. Supervisor: All supervisors are responsible for publicizing and maintaining
    workplace protective factors in addition to supporting the Wingman culture outlined
HILLAFBI90-102                                                                                5


     above, by maintaining a holistic focus, abiding by the policies set forth, and encouraging
     a positive emotional environment predicated on dignity, respect, and accountability.
        2.1.5.1. Consult and support WAs in creating, sustaining, and supporting a robust
        Wingman culture, and promote positive morale, and quality of work environment for
        the unit and the individuals therein. Supervisor‘s provide WAs appropriate and
        available data as requested for defining workforce issues in accordance with (IAW)
        established procedures for describing and defining the workforce and its environment.
        Generally, this does not include labor relations information. Consultation with Labor
        and Employee Relations (OO-ALC/DPCE) is required prior to releasing this type of
        information to non-management officials/WAs.
        2.1.5.2. Ensure personnel are provided the Wingman Advocate Awareness Briefing,
        preferably in small routine staff meetings. A Wingman Advocate should be present
        to support the briefing and to be introduced to employees. Ensure completion of the
        briefing is posted in the training scheduling system (TSS). New employees are
        briefed in orientation and TSS is updated accordingly. Ensure personnel are aware of
        resources available and are provided reasonable access to them as appropriate to the
        situation as workload permits.
        2.1.5.3. Allow time for wingman training, including the four dimensions of wellness,
        and to attend to organizational/individual wellness events IAW established policies
        and procedures and mission requirements.
        2.1.5.4. Develop relationships that enables employees to share their concerns or
        issues that might impact their work. Supervisors encountering employees who
        display behavior that may pose imminent threat to themselves or others must take
        immediate appropriate action under the circumstances, which may include calling
        911; contacting a WA; referencing the OO-ALC Policy on Dealing with Distressed
        Civilian Employees, which covers responses to a multitude of situations and provides
        applicable contacts. See also Attachment 6 regarding transportation of employees in
        various situations, which references this and other related policies and provides the
        share point location for each.
     2.1.6. Employees of OO-ALC: Strive to develop and maintain effective working
     relationships with their leadership and co-workers in their efforts to improve their
     wellness and safety, thereby enhancing and improving their personal and unit‗s
     productivity.
        2.1.6.1. Are encouraged to be able to recognize and understand when they or their
        coworkers are in distress, and are also encouraged to seek assistance either directly or
        indirectly via a supervisor, WA, or other appropriate source even if the risk seems
        low.
        2.1.6.2. Should be able to identify the WA as a point of contact for individuals in
        distress.
        2.1.6.3. Are encouraged to support workplace efforts to promote productivity
        through positive changes in unit culture.
     2.1.7. WA Program Manager:
6                                                                       HILLAFBI90-102


    2.1.7.1. Assumes oversight responsibility for the OO-ALC WA Program; provides
    supervision and ensures WAs are trained; consults with and advises OO-ALC/CC and
    leadership to provide statistics and apprise them of trends, morale and welfare of the
    work force, and implementation of Wingman Program strategies.
       2.1.7.1.1. Coordinates with other organizations and agencies to ensure the WA
       program complements areas of responsibility that relate to or are parallel to the
       WA program, to ensure the other organizations and agencies are appropriately
       included as referral sources.
    2.1.7.2. Informs the workforce about Wingman events, issues, and information via
    various forms of media such as flyers, articles in the Hilltop Times, etc.
    2.1.7.3. Maintains and updates WA policies, offering uniformity and guidance to
    WAs, to establish/follow protocols for referring potentially suicidal individuals.
    2.1.7.4. Ensures WAs assist leadership, when needed, in referring individuals in
    crisis, which may include arranging for transportation of actively suicidal employee
    to a local emergency room, and calling local authorities to do a wellness check when
    the employee is off base. Refer to Attachment 6 to determine the appropriate
    transportation for the situation.
       2.1.7.4.1. Ensures WAs engage in appropriate referral action for the situations
       encountered.
    2.1.7.5. Develops and implements OO-ALC WA plans and program strategies that
    enhance cultural and individual well being and resiliency; works at enhancing
    protective factors and decreasing risk factors; assists management in interpreting and
    implementing wingman directives; plans and conducts Wingman activities;
    establishes Wingman milestones; and provides data from metrics to track trends and
    apply change strategies.
    2.1.7.6. Ensures all WAs document their activities in a central log in order to track
    demographic data to look for trends and provide statistics. Data collected and
    compiled by WAs will be maintained in a secure location. Only WAs and others with
    a need to know will have access to this log.
    2.1.7.7. Ensures that all WAs clarify to all employees during the first and subsequent
    meetings the limitations of their service and the text of the confidentiality statement,
    IAW paragraph 3 and the statement at Attachment 3. WAs will not meet with
    employees who express concern about confidentiality; however, they may provide
    referral to the Employee Assistance Program.
    2.1.7.8. Meets with each WA monthly to provide appropriate support, training, and
    guidance to ensure they are effective in the provision of timely and informed referrals
    and information to affected employees, supervisors, and leadership.
    2.1.7.9. Reviews WA work plans, and monitors that all WAs follow the guidance in
    this Instruction and their scope of work; regularly reviews roles and limitations of
    WAs within the WA Program; and seeks feedback from leadership on WA
    performance and fidelity to the WA model, providing corrective action as needed.
    2.1.7.10. Assists management where needed/requested in addressing crisis situations.
HILLAFBI90-102                                                                              7


        2.1.7.11. Designs an appropriate, proactive award to recognize exemplary Wingman
        actions by employees, to be implemented at the Center level (new or using existing
        awards and IAW applicable directives).
        2.1.7.12. Serves as a member of the Integrated Delivery System (IDS) and attends
        the OO-ALC Community Action Information Board (CAIB).
     2.1.8. WAs: Provide various services in support of the Wingman culture and holistic
     focus for the workforce.
        2.1.8.1. Serve operationally as leadership‘s consultant on Wingman cultural issues,
        which may include coaching on interpersonal engagement or techniques to support
        and maintain workplace protective factors.
        2.1.8.2. Apprise and advise leadership on wingman issues and support management
        requests to assist in addressing the associated effects of changes on employee morale.
        2.1.8.3. Refer leadership and employees to various on and off base agencies and
        services.
        2.1.8.4. Refer management to the Organizational Consulting Office (OCO), in OO-
        ALC/DPH, for arrangement of climate assessments and Q12 surveys, leadership
        coaching and development efforts. Consult with supervisors seeking assistance with
        difficult interpersonal situations and refer as applicable.
        2.1.8.5. Make a concerted effort to meet every employee and supervisor in the
        assigned organization in order to model the ease with which the WAs can be
        approached and provide program or referral information. WAs do not provide any
        Mental Health or legal counseling.
        2.1.8.6. Maintain the WA shared drive and activity log to provide accurate data for
        statistical and demographic purposes, and to provide a history of workload. This
        information will help WAs follow-up on previous actions, ensure employee issues are
        addressed using the correct resources, and document all actions accurately.
        2.1.8.7. Refer management to OO-ALC/DP for reporting information following
        suicide-related events. WAs assist leadership when requested in referring employees
        in crisis which may include the arrangement of employee transportation (see
        Attachment 6) to a local emergency room or calling local authorities to do a wellness
        check.
        2.1.8.8. Assist and support organizational climate assessments when requested, in
        consultation with leadership and OCO, to include mandatory follow-up and
        sustainment services to measure Organizational Wellness, which will provide targeted
        information and efforts.
        2.1.8.9. Prepare and deliver oral presentations in the form of briefings, management
        consultations, and strategy sessions to secure cooperation, convey information, and
        promote protective factors in the workplace. WAs will seek out commander‘s calls
        and other venues to educate personnel about the roles and limitations of WAs.
8                                                                            HILLAFBI90-102


3. CONFIDENTIALITY AND PRIVACY
    3.1. Privacy: WAs talking with personnel do not have any confidentiality privileges. The
    WA program is not a medical program and does not have associated protections. WAs will
    NOT provide any form of clinical counseling or legal, investigative, or other guidance that
    should be obtained from a certified professional or from other organizations or entities.
    Employees will be provided the Wingman Advocate Awareness Briefing, which includes
    notice of and instruction about the non-confidentiality of the program as noted in Attachment
    3.
    3.2. WAs will inform personnel at all meetings that the WA program is neither counseling
    nor therapy, and they will verbally re-iterate the substance of the non-confidentiality
    statement. The statement (see Attachment 3) will be prominently posted on a sign in the WA
    offices and on WA business cards. When in the office, WAs will direct employees attention
    to the sign during verbal re-iteration, and outside of the office their attention should be
    directed to the card.
    3.3. WAs will have access to a report from the Training Scheduling System (TSS) to verify
    employees requesting assistance have completed the Wingman Advocate Awareness
    Briefing. In the event an employee has not had the briefing, WAs will be required to give the
    briefing at that time, and forward information to document it in their training records.The
    Wingman Advocate Awareness Briefing may be accessed at the following link:
    https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/TeamOOALC/Commander%27s%20Action%20Group/
    Wingman%20Advocate/Forms/AllItems.aspx
4. PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS
    4.1. Adopted Forms.
        AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
    4.2. Prescribed Forms.
        There are no prescribed forms in this publication.




                                            ANDREW E. BUSCH, Major General, USAF
                                            Commander
HILLAFBI90-102                                               9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADAPT— Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
ADR— Alternate Dispute Resolution
AFRC— Airmen and Family Readiness Center
ASIST— Applied Suicide Intervention Skills Training
CAIB— Community Action Information Board
CHPS— Civilian Health Program
CISM— Critical Incident Stress Management
EAP— Employee Assistance Program
EO— Equal Opportunity
FSS— Force Support Squadron
FST— Frontline Supervisor Training
HAWC— Health and Wellness Center
HRA— Health Risk Assessment
IDS— Integrated Delivery System
OCO— Organization Consulting Office
OMS— Occupational Medical Services
OO—ALC - Ogden Air Logistics Center
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
MFLC— Military Family Life Counselor
SARC— Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SF— Security Forces
SPP— Suicide Prevention Program
TSS— Training Scheduling System
TSR— Traumatic Stress Response Team
WA— Wingman Advocate
WASA— Wellness and Safety Agencies
 10                                                                            HILLAFBI90-102


                                          Attachment 2
      WORKPLACE PROTECTIVE FACTORS (AID IN PREVENTING SUICIDE)

A healthy and highly functional workplace implements program strategies to build employee
resilience. This is done by making everyone mindful of the following Protective Factors:

              Proactive encouragement and use of wellness opportunities/resources
              Implementation of program strategies to build employee resilience
              Build strong connections to workgroup, workplace, and community support
              Increase knowledge of and access to a variety of available resources, including
               those for mental health issues, family maltreatment, and substance abuse
              Recognize and respond to warning signs of distress, depression, and substance
               abuse
              Encourage and support others in seeking help
              Cultivate a sense of pride and ownership in one‘s work
              Create/sustain a culture that discourages suicide and supports self preservation
              Recognize and support effective leadership and ethical practices
              Practice and encourage effective people skills and communication
              Build supportive team and individual relations
              Promote problem solving, conflict resolution, and nonviolent/non-punitive
               handling of disputes

Since positive resistance to suicide is not permanent, programs that support and maintain
protection against suicide should be ongoing.
HILLAFBI90-102                                                                                    11


                                           Attachment 3
                    WINGMAN ADVOCATE SERVICES STATEMENT

The following statement is to be prominently posted in Wingman Advocate Offices and on
business cards for the purpose of referring employees seeking assistance to the information at the
onset of a visit. This is in addition to ensuring the employee has received the Wingman
Advocate Awareness Briefing on this information which will be tracked through TSS.

Notice of Wingman Advocate Services:

Wingman Advocates are available to provide interpersonal assistance and referral services,
which may include consultation with supervisors and leadership, and non-clinical discussion
with employees voluntarily requesting referral service related to difficulty with employment
and/or personal issues. The primary purpose is immediate assistance and referral to appropriate
helping resources, such as the Employee Assistance Program, Occupational Medicine, Equal
Opportunity, community resources, etc. Employee participation is strictly voluntary.

Interaction between employees and Wingman Advocates is considered peer-to-peer, and NO
CONFIDENTIALITY provisions apply. The Wingman Advocates are very sensitive to
employee privacy, but may be required to report information involving family maltreatment,
substance abuse, suicidal or homicidal thoughts, threats, improper or illegal activities, and risks
to national security or the Department of Defense mission.

Wingman Advocates will NOT provide any form of clinical counseling or legal, investigative,
employment or other guidance that should be obtained from a certified professional in these
specific areas of expertise.
 12                                                                            HILLAFBI90-102


                                          Attachment 4
                                 PROGRAM COMPONENTS

A4.1. Holistic Focus. A key component of the Wingman Advocate (WA) Program is its
holistic focus, defined by the four dimensions of wellness. The four dimensions include
Physical, Emotional, Social and Spiritual. The holistic focus not only integrates all of the assets
of the individual member but provides a framework for integrating all of the helping agencies in
the community into a united and synergistic network.
A4.2. Wingman Concept. Our culture, mission, and core values compel us to take care of each
other and be effective wingmen. The Air Force core values of Integrity First, Service Before
Self, and Excellence in All We Do are at the heart of the Wingman philosophy. We accomplish
our mission as a dedicated team of professionals committed to our core values and each other.
Success rests with all personnel engaging one another in a way that fosters communication and
connection. Therefore, we must all agree to Take Action, Get Involved, and Stay Alert.
A4.3. Air Force Suicide Prevention Program (SPP). The SPP emphasizes the importance of
self-care and a shared sense of responsibility for the wellness of the force. SPP is a
comprehensive education and training program providing knowledge about suicide risk and
prevention, how and when to seek help, and how to identify and help others at risk. The WA
Program attempts to make the culture more proactive by directly increasing protective factors in
the workplace.
A4.4. Frontline Supervisor Training (FST). FST promotes the wellness of the force by
instructing leadership on how to recognize signs of distress; how to understand suicide, family
maltreatment, substance abuse, and sexual assault; and what actions to take to best support
employees.
A4.5. Climate Assessments. Climate surveys are administered by the Organizational
Consulting Office (OCO) and other agencies. Survey outcomes should be followed by an action
plan, with support of the WA, to include follow up.
A4.6. Wellness Support Center (http://AFMCwellness.com). The Wellness Support Center
is an online resource area to support employees in their pursuit of wellness. The site includes the
Health Risk Assessment (HRA), tailored feedback, health information, wellness activity
tracking, league and team competitions, and incentives for behavior change.
A4.7. Health Risk Appraisal (HRA). The HRA is a state of the art tool to help employees
review their health risks and develop plans to address these risks. Employees receive
personalized feedback based on their risk factors. Health information and links to resources are
then provided based on the needs of the individual.
A4.8. Civilian Health Promotion Services (CHPS). These services are provided to AFMC-
serviced civilian personnel through a partnership between AFMC and Federal Occupational
Health. The services include a mix of screenings, education, and social marketing efforts
designed to provide state of the art management of health and productivity.
A4.9. The Wingman Wellness Survey. This is utilized to measure key components of the four
dimensions of wellness which are not measurable by other means.
HILLAFBI90-102                                                                                 13


   A4.9.1. Events, Competitions and Challenges. Previously established organization-
   specific activities will be utilized to engage the Hill Air Force Base Community in wingman
   and wellness activities that improve morale and health (reference OO-ALC Organizational
   Events and Activities Policy and Guidance, 7 Aug 09).
A4.10. Health and Wellness Center (HAWC). This provides programs to help DOD
employees and family members. The HAWC:
   A4.10.1. Provides personnel with health education, stress management classes, the Nutrition
   101 program, physical fitness, anger management, tobacco cessation classes, and additional
   programs.
   A4.10.2. Ensures civilian employees have access to HAWC facilities and group classes.
A4.11. Equal Opportunity (EO). The Equal Opportunity staff provides training, conducts
informal inquires, coordinates complaint investigations and conducts mediation of workplace
disputes in the civilian workforce regarding allegations of discrimination.
A4.12. Occupational Medical Services (OMS). OMS provides support and referral on issues
related to wellness, physical fitness, fitness for duty, productivity management, occupational
health, suicide prevention, alcohol/drug abuse prevention, and issues related to medical care for
civilian employees.
A4.13. Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR). The ADR program provides mediation services
for issues between management and employees likely to benefit from a mediator.
A4.14. Employee Assistance Program (EAP). The EAP provides short-term, solution-based,
confidential counseling for various personal and interpersonal problems. It is available to all
DOD employees and their family members residing in their primary household. Both on and off-
base services are available.
A4.15. Military Family Life Consultant (MFLC). The MFLC provides short-term, solution-
based, confidential counseling for various personal and interpersonal problems. It is available to
all active duty members and their families.
A4.16. Organizational Consulting Office (OCO). To obtain excellence in all human
performance areas by maximizing individual and unit effectiveness using innovative methods,
organizational assessments, techniques, research, Executive Coaching, and interventions, in
support of the ALC mission.
   A4.16.1. CheckMATE Q-12. A program administered by the OCO. A recurring process
   that involves measuring employee engagement. It is an ongoing process that includes
   developing and monitoring impact plans, follow-up and feedback.
A4.17. YOU MATTER Campaign. This is a recurring campaign that provides information
and referral sources on various themes, such as suicide, depression, engagement, resilience,
protective factors, gratitude, etc. Posters will be used to convey to employees that they matter
and their contributions are appreciated.
 14                                                                            HILLAFBI90-102


                                          Attachment 5
                               CIVILIAN TRANSPORTATION

The following is for use when civilian medical care, is needed in addition to applicable
referenced policies.
a. Emergent illness or medical necessity: Call 911 for transportation and assistance.

b. ―Employees who express imminent risk of danger to themselves should be offered
transportation to a local emergency room. If the employee refuses assistance, has a weapon, or
has already taken some action to harm themselves, call 911. If the employee agrees to assistance,
arrange transportation. Supervisors or other employees may provide transportation. At least two
people must accompany employee. Refer to Dealing With Distressed Civilian Employee
memo.‖ (See Reference 1)

c. ―If an employee makes significant threats to harm others or destroy government property, or
has a weapon, call 911.‖ (See Reference 2)

d. Work-related – Non-emergent medical need for illness, or injury, and there is no immediate
threat or danger to self or others: Employee (if able), supervisor, or another employee may
provide transportation.

e. Inability to perform one or more essential functions for the current shift and medical
evaluation is needed: Supervisor or another employee may provide transportation.

f. Impairment suspected to be due to drugs or alcohol³ and applicable evaluation is needed:
Follow procedures in the local policy prior to and for transport as applicable to the instant
situation.

g. Personal - Non-emergent illness or medical need, and there is no immediate threat or danger
to self or others: Employee (if able), supervisor, another employee, or emergency contact may
provide transportation. Those involved request approval of applicable leave appropriate to the
situation and prior to transport.

h. All statements by employees at work and involving thoughts of suicide, harm of others, or
destruction of government property may be considered work-related during the initial response
by agency personnel, management, and healthcare providers. If the employee is off base when
such statements are received, agency personnel should contact local authorities to address the
situation. Management may also contact the employee‘s emergency contact.


References

¹Dealing with Distressed Civilian Employees (available at Hill Guidance Memorandum, DP
share point site:
(https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/Hill/Policy/DP%20Policies/Forms/Input%20View.aspx)
HILLAFBI90-102                                                                              15


²OO-ALC Workplace Violence Policy

³Civilian Drug and Alcohol Policy (2 and 3 available at Hill Guidance Memorandum share point
site: (https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/Hill/Policy/OOALC%20Policies/Forms/Input%20View.aspx

Note: When another employee provides transportation on a voluntary basis, the time to transport
other employees is not considered hours of work and mileage is not reimbursable. Except: an
employee who is assigned driving duties, using a government owned vehicle (or using a POV
when mileage is authorized). To the extent possible, a supervisor and WA will transport in
situations b through d for medical care or evaluation.
