Administrative Changes to HILLAFBI33-101, Functional System Administrator (FSA) Legal
Policy for Suspected Misuse of Workstations

OPR Change from OO-ALC/IT to 775 CS/SCXC

29 May 2009
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 33-101
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                                       11 MAY 2006

                                                                     Communications and Information

                                                        FUNCTIONAL SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR
                                                         (FSA) LEGAL POLICY FOR SUSPECTED
                                                                  MISUSE OF WORKSTATIONS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: OO-ALC/ITIO (Andrew Schow)                            Certified by: OO-ALC/IT (Linda K. Fields)
                                                                                            Pages: 3
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This publication identifies the Functional System Administrator’s (FSA) legal duties, requirements, pro-
cesses, and management policies for handling workstations where the users are suspected of improper
use, Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (FWA), or other misuses. It applies to all FSAs, Workgroup Managers
(WM), and Client Support Administrators (CSA), operating at Hill AFB UT, including tenants and con-
tractors. Maintain and dispose of records in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records,
and the AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).


1. Scope. FSAs are often called upon to assist in suspected FWA or misuses by government employees
and/or contractors on the government furnished desktop workstations or laptop computers. This publica-
tion provides the legal parameters the FSA must work within on such requests. For situations not specif-
ically covered by this publication, contact the Staff Judge Advocate Directorate (OO-ALC/JA) and copy
the correspondence to the Organization Lead Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO).

2. Functional System Administrator Duties.
   2.1. The primary FSA duties are to administer, maintain and optimize the network.
   2.2. If when performing their normal duties, the FSA discovers FWA or other abuse of the network,
   they must report it to their chain of command, and then continue with their normal duties.
   2.3. FSAs are neither the morals nor the policy police for the Air Force Network and they should not
   be actively searching for wrongdoing.
   2.4. FSAs are not to act as investigators or law enforcement, their duties are administration not evi-
   dence gathering or preservation.

3. Confiscation/Seizure of Workstations on the Network.
   3.1. The commander who owns the workstation determines and if necessary, directs the confiscation
   and seizure of a workstation.
2                                                                    HILLAFBI33-101 11 MAY 2006


       3.1.1. Commanders should coordinate this decision with the appropriate legal office to ensure the
       integrity of any evidence which may be contained in the workstation.
    3.2. Commanders only require a reasonable suspicion of wrongdoing to direct seizure of a worksta-
    tion regardless of the ultimate use of the information found on the workstation. Approval for search-
    ing of the files contained on the workstation is addressed in paragraph 4. of this publication.
       3.2.1. The FSA may only provide technical assistance to the individual granted seizure authority
       by the commander.

4. Searching for Unauthorized Use.
    4.1. There are three levels of expectation of privacy on an Air Force Network, each requiring a
    slightly different method for access to the stored information for an investigation:
       4.1.1. Searching an individual’s PC and virtual hard drive requires a determination that there is
       probable cause the drive contains evidence of wrongdoing. Immediate coordination with either
       the center or wing legal office (depending upon the affected organization) is recommended.
       Search authority is given by either the wing commander or the appointed magistrate.
       4.1.2. Searching an e-mail account located on the network e-mail server requires a determination
       that there is a reasonable suspicion there will be evidence of wrong doing (again appropriate
       legal office needs be involved) and the Designated Approval Authority (DAA)—or the DAA rep-
       resentative, who owns the specific e-mail server, grants permission for access to the opened
       e-mails in the “in-box,” “sent-box,” and “deleted-box.”
       4.1.3. Searching shared computers, drives or folders requires no special permission because there
       is no expectation of privacy in these files and they may be accessed by anyone for any purpose.

5. Provide Technical Assistance to Investigators/Law Enforcement.
    5.1. Functional System Administrators may provide technical assistance to investigators/law enforce-
    ment when requested.
       5.1.1. Technical assistance is defined as providing access to the requested media/workstation/
       server to the investigator and then allowing the investigator to perform their duties. Should the
       investigator require assistance making copies of files or folders they have determined to be of
       interest, the FSA may assist in making those copies to other media.
       5.1.2. FSAs do not become deputized by virtue of assisting the investigator/law enforcement offi-
       cial and should not actively participate in conducting the search. NOTE: Additional FSA func-
       tions and/or restrictions may be added as the need arises.



                                               SCOTT D. CHAMBERS, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
HILLAFBI33-101 11 MAY 2006                                                                    3


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERNCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CSA—Client Support Administrators
DAA—Designated Approval Authority
FWA—Fraud, Waste, and Abuse
FSA—Functional System Administrator
PC—Personal Computer, may also be referred to as a workstation or desktop computer
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Functional System Administrator (FSA)—Designated individuals, properly trained, and appointed to
provide Desktop Workstation and/or server support.
Desktop Workstation—A personal computer (PC) at the individual’s desk or in a common area as a
multiple-use (or shared) machine, that is connected to the Air Force Network.
Server—High capacity Air Force network computers used for applications file and print services,
databases, and other network functions.
Staff Judge Advocate Directorate—(OO-ALC/JA)
