BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 65-503
HILL AIR FORCE BASE (AFMC)                                                               28 JULY 2003
                                                                   Certified Current, 3 December 2007
                                                                                Financial Management

                                                       TIME AND ATTENDANCE REPORTING FOR
                                                         DEFENSE CIVILIAN PAY SYSTEM (DCPS)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: OO-ALC/FMFC (Monika Petrowski)                                          Certified by: OO-ALC/FMF
                                                                              (Mr. John Vandermeide Jr.)
                                                                                                  Pages: 2
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This publication implements AFPD 65-5, Cost and Economics and DOD 7000.14-R, Volume 8, Civilian
Pay Policy and Procedures, Chapter 2 (Time and Attendance). This publication prescribes the use of
OO-ALC Form 500, DCPS Work Schedule Change; OO-ALC Form 501, DCPS Timecard Format 1;
and OO-ALC Form 502, DCPS Timecard Format 2. This publication provides policies and prescribes
procedures for time and attendance recording, certifying, and reporting into DCPS, for Hill AFB. Individ-
uals recording and approving officials have the responsibility to ensure policy in DOD 7000.14-R, Vol-
ume 8, Chapter 2 and this publication is adhered to. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of
prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.


1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. Approving Officials attest to the best of their knowledge, the actual work schedules recorded are
   true, correct and accurate, on OO-ALC Form 501 or 502 and documented in writing.
   1.2. Individuals recording time and attendance on OO-ALC Form 501 or OO-ALC Form 502 must
   ensure employees have attested to the accuracy of their current pay period’s time and attendance
   (including any exceptions such as use of leave) and any adjustments or corrections. Entries for over-
   time and compensatory time earned have to be approved before certification. OO-ALC Form 500 is
   used to record changes to the DCPS information on personnel such as work shifts or work schedule
   changes. NOTE: Only certified T&A data reported on the OO-ALC Forms 501 and 502 are the
   source documents used to enter payroll information into the Defense Civilian Payroll System (DCPS).
   1.3. The certification of a T&A form is an authorization for the expenditure of government funds. The
   first-line supervisor is responsible for certifying T&A forms. However, in the absence of the first-line
   supervisor, the acting supervisor or the next level supervisor may certify T&A forms and approve
   leave. Certifying responsibilities should not be assigned to individuals who cannot actually observe
   employees' attendance and absence each day. Only the certifying official can make pen and ink
2                                                                     HILLAFBI65-503 28 JULY 2003


    changes on T&A forms. The certifying official must line through the error and make corrections as
    near as possible to the erroneous entry. The certifying official must initial each line-through correc-
    tion. Do not use whiteout or correction tape on T&A forms. One copy of each certified T&A form and
    documentation used for each pay period is to be kept available for audit, or for 6 years, whichever
    occurs first.

2. Required Data Elements. Required data on time and attendance reports is not limited to the follow-
ing:
    2.1. Employee name and social security number (SSN).
    2.2. Pay period number or dates.
    2.3. Number of hours worked by day and in total.
    2.4. Number of hours of premium work, by type, to which employee is entitled.
    2.5. Number of credit hours and compensatory time earned.
    2.6. Number of leave hours (by type), credit hours and compensatory time used
    2.7. Dates leave is taken.
    2.8. Any required supporting documentation for absences, e.g., court orders, Office of Personnel
    Management (OPM) Forms or military orders.
    2.9. Handwritten signature of an authorizing official.
    2.10. Such other information as may be required in support of operations.

3. Prescribed Forms. OO-ALC Form 500, DCPS Work Schedule Change, OO-ALC Form 501, DCPS
Time Card Format 1, and OO-ALC Form 502, DCPS Time Card Format 2.



                                               LAWRENCE A. SCHREINER
                                               Director Comptroller Directorate
