BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                           31-201

                                                                                 20 JUNE 2014

                                                                                        Security

                                                             EMERGENCY SERVICES TEAM


                COMPLIANCE WITH PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 75 SFS/CC                                                        Certified by: 75 ABW/ CC
                                                                        (Col. Kathryn L. Kolbe)
                                                                                        Pages: 3




This instruction implements policy and directives established in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-
101, Integrated Defense, Chapter 8, AFMAN 31-201, Volume 4, High Risk Response, Chapter 6,
Emergency Services Team and FM 3-19.11, Military Police Special Reaction Teams. This
instruction directs establishment of the Installation level Emergency Services Team (EST) by the
75th Security Forces Squadron (75 SFS). Compliance with this publication is mandatory and
applies to Department of the Air Force military, civilian, Reserve Command, Air National
Guard, military and civilian personnel from other US military branches assigned or attached to
Hill AFB, contract security forces, and government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCO) and
contractor-owned, contractor-operated (COCO) facilities. The terms “must,” “shall,” and “will”
denote mandatory actions in this supplement. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests
for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or
alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                             HILLAFBI31-201 20 JUNE 2014


1. General. An Emergency Services Team (EST) is similar in nature to a SWAT Team. This
directive will serve the purpose of a record of formal EST establishment and will supersede and
replace any previous directives on this subject.
     1.1. Establishment. This instruction directs the establishment of the Hill Air Force Base
     (AFB) EST and further directs the 75 SFS Commander (75 SFS/CC) to form, establish and
     sustain the EST in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 31-201, Volume 4, Chapter 6 and FM 3-
     19.11, in order to provide an installation level emergency tactical response capability.
     1.2. Purpose. To have a security forces (SF) tactical team of highly motivated and well-
     conditioned members specially trained and equipped to function in a high-risk environment.
     The Hill AFB Emergency Services Team is a lower risk, more effective and much safer
     employment option in a high-risk environment than utilizing a larger group of SF without the
     specialized EST training. Tactical success is predicated on the voluntary participation of
     highly motivated, well trained and properly equipped SF personnel.
     1.3. Mission. The EST provides the Hill AFB Installation Commander with a viable option
     to restore good order and discipline during high-risk incidents. Effective employment of an
     EST with a 24-hour response capability can result in achieving the desired incident outcome
     and mitigate potential losses due to hostile forces or other criminal adversaries. The EST‘s
     primary goal is the preservation of life and keeping United States Air Force (USAF) assets
     and resources out of the control of criminal and terrorist elements.
     1.4. Capabilities. A properly equipped and trained EST can maintain the capability to
     respond to and resolve a variety of high-risk incidents including, but not limited to: hostage
     incidents, sniper attacks, distinguished visitor protection support, aircraft hijacking, drug
     investigation buy-bust apprehension support, acts of terrorism and barricaded suspect
     incidents. The EST concept is designed to provide support via pre-selected and highly
     trained SF personnel ready to respond as an effective team to these high-risk incidents in the
     most effective way possible. Formation of the Hill AFB EST alleviates command and
     control problems that may be encountered when using local law enforcement agencies as the
     installation level high-risk incident response force. Establishment of an EST with organic SF
     assets ensures the Hill AFB installation will not be unprepared to resolve high-risk incidents
     by needing to rely on the support of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) or Federal
     Aviation Administration (FAA). The EST would be available to promptly respond to a given
     high-risk incident.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Defense Force Commander. The EST reports directly to the 75 SFS/CC, who in his
     authority as the Installation Defense Force Commander (DFC) is responsible for:
        2.1.1. Organizing, training, vehicle transport and equipping of the EST to meet mission
        objectives.
        2.1.2. Maintaining EST team proficiency, weekly sustainment training and quarterly
        team tryouts.
        2.1.3. Coordinating with and advising the Incident Commander (IC) on EST
        employment.
        2.1.4. Executing the operation of EST and maintaining functional control of the EST.
HILLAFBI31-201 20 JUNE 2014                                                               3


     2.1.5. This authority shall not be delegated. (T-3)
  2.2. The 75 SFS EST Noncommissioned Officer In Charge (NCOIC) is the final decision
  authority for SF members gaining EST membership and/or relief from EST and is
  responsible for:
     2.2.1. Leadership and control of the EST.
     2.2.2. Daily supervision, staffing, rehearsals, weekly training, quarterly tryouts, and
     exercises.
     2.2.3. Maintenance of EST recall rosters, equipment, applicable quick reaction
     checklists, training documentation and other required documentation that may be
     beneficial during employment of EST during high risk response operations.
  2.3. The EST Manager is responsible for:
     2.3.1. Assisting the EST NCOIC.
     2.3.2. Providing training support to the EST.
     2.3.3. Maintaining continuity and ensuring compliance with tactical guidance.
     2.3.4. Coordinating logistical support of the team.
     2.3.5. Maintains EST equipment and correspondence regarding the EST membership in
     the National Tactical Officers Association (NTOA).




                                          KATHRYN L. KOLBE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
