BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      HILL AFB INSTRUCTION 51-901
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                3 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                                 Law

                                                             INSPECTION OR SEARCH OF
                                                       GOVERNMENT PROVIDED PROPERTY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: OO-ALC/JAC                                                         Certified by: OO-ALC/JAC
Supersedes: HILLAFBI51-901,                                                         (Jon Jepperson)
            15 April 2008                                                                  Pages: 4


This instruction outlines procedures for the inspection or search of government provided
property. It applies to all Ogden Air Logistics Center organizations and tenant units on Hill Air
Force Base (AFB)-affiliated property, and to all military members, government employees,
contractor personnel, and other civilians who work, reside, or visit on Hill AFB-affiliated
property. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates where claims can be filed, and makes grammatical changes.
1. General. All government property, including but not limited to lockers, desks, tool boxes, or
other such items provided to military members, civilian employees, and all other civilians on
base for use in carrying out their duties, is subject to inspection or search with the approval of the
appropriate commander or supervisor. Government property is provided to employees for the
purpose of facilitating the work of the Agency.
2. Private Property.
   2.1. Employees may avoid exposing personal belongings to inspection and search by simply
   leaving them at home. Lawful private property may, however, be kept in a government-
 2                                                        HILLAFBI51-901 3 FEBRUARY 2011


     owned receptacle, and a private lock for protection may be placed on the receptacle if, in the
     judgment of the immediate supervisor, use of the receptacle for government purposes is not
     impaired.
     2.2. The presence of private property or a private lock, however, does not diminish the right
     of commanders and supervisors to approve an inspection or search, nor does it change an
     individual's responsibility to protect government property in accordance with other directives
     and applicable laws.
     2.3. This regulation does not require the Department of the Air Force to protect private
     property stored in government receptacles.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Inspections and searches may be conducted for non-investigatory work-related
     purposes, and for an investigation into work-related misconduct.
     3.2. Inspections and searches will be random (e.g., every third desk, every other locker, etc.),
     total (all lockers or all desks in an identifiable work area), or directed at a specific item of
     government property.
     3.3. Reasonable effort will be made to have the employee utilizing the government property
     present when an inspection or search is conducted. However, if the employee is not
     immediately available, the inspection or search may be conducted without the employee
     being present.
     3.4. At least two management representatives will be present during any such inspection or
     search.
     3.5. If a private lock is damaged when removed in the absence of the employee, it will be
     replaced with a comparable lock, or the owner will be advised he or she may present a claim
     for its value to the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate, Claims Division (OO-ALC/JAD). No
     replacement or claim is authorized when the employee refuses or otherwise fails to remove
     the lock after being notified of the inspection.
     3.6. If private locks are removed in the absence of the employee, the contents of the
     inspected property will be safeguarded by management.
4. Non Applicability. This instruction has no application to searches or inspections otherwise
authorized. With respect to persons who are subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ), it does not limit or in any way restrict the power or authority of a commander to
authorize and execute searches, seizures, inspections, inventories, views, and intrusions under the
Military Rules of Evidence. With respect to persons who are not subject to the UCMJ, it does
not limit or in any way restrict the power or authority of the Installation Commander or Military
Magistrate to authorize searches based on probable cause or for other lawful reasons.
5. Privacy. This instruction affects the privacy of persons who place personal property in
government provided receptacles.
6. Questions. For questions regarding this instruction, contact the Office of the Staff Judge
Advocate (OO-ALC/JA).
HILLAFBI51-901 3 FEBRUARY 2011                                                3



7. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   7.1. Prescribed Forms.
        There are no prescribed forms in this publication.
   7.2. Adopted Forms.
       AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            PATRICK C. HIGBY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
 4                                               HILLAFBI51-901 3 FEBRUARY 2011


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records Abbreviations and Acronyms, 1 March 2008

Acronyms
AFB— Air Force Base
OO—ALC/JA - Office of the Staff Judge Advocate
OO—ALC/JAD – Office of the Staff Judge Advocate, Claims Division
UCMJ— Uniform Code of Military Justice
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
