BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                           10-2501

                                                                                 12 JUNE 2014

                                                                                     Operations

                                                 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 775 CES/CEX                                                      Certified by: 775 CES/CC
                                                                            (Maj Scott D. Cline)
                                                                                       Pages: 15


This Instruction defines the Hill Air Force Base (Hill AFB) Emergency Management (EM)
Program as a cross-functional program that integrates procedures and standards for planning,
logistical requirements, emergency response actions, emergency response guidelines, exercises
and evaluations, personnel training, detection, identification and warning, notification in
accordance with AFI 10-2501 Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and
Operations. It clarifies policies and procedures unique to Hill AFB regarding the EM Program,
incident response, consequence management, and Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear
and High Yield (CBRN) training. It identifies the Readiness and Emergency Management Flight
(REMF) as the Installation Office of Emergency Management (IOEM). This instruction applies
to all units and members assigned or attached to Hill AFB, including those assigned to the Utah
Test and Training Range (UTTR), Oasis complex, and Little Mountain facilities. An annual
review of this instruction will be conducted. Any unit requesting an update or change will
submit comments to the 775th Civil Engineering Squadron Readiness and Emergency
Management Flight (775 CES/CEX) for consideration. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests
for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or
alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF
 2                                                            HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014


IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include Hill AFB Units requiring a Unit Emergency Management Representative (UEMR),
Semi-annual self-assessment requirements, and the Installation Readiness Board structure.
1. Incident Response Structure:
     1.1. Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS) Structure:
        1.1.1. AFIMS will be implemented by the following bodies: Crisis Action Team (CAT),
        Emergency Operations Center (EOC), Incident Commander (IC), Emergency
        Communication Center (ECC), Fire Alarm Communications Center (FACC) and all
        Emergency and First Responders. This collective capability is termed the Disaster
        Response Force (DRF). IAW Homeland Security Presidential Directive 5, Hill AFB will
        implement the National Incident Management System (NIMS) and the Incident
        Command System (ICS) as outlined in the National Response Framework (NRF) using
        the AFIMS structure. NOTE: Primary medical response for Hill AFB is handled by the
        base fire department with support from Davis County Sheriff’s Department. Deputies are
        certified Paramedics and are allowed to respond to all installation facilities in accordance
        with (IAW) emergency response procedures. Ambulance service is provided by the
        surrounding community.
        1.1.2. The CAT will activate, when directed by the Installation Commander, to ensure
        mission continuation and to provide strategic guidance. The CAT will provide public
        affairs guidance and interface with all Higher Headquarters (HHQ) regarding requests for
        information. Other members may be added on an as needed basis. The Hill Command
        Post (HCP) will operate IAW standard operating procedures on the CAT’s behalf. The
        HCP/CAT will issue orders from the CAT in the form of CAT Directives (CAT-Ds). The
        75th Air Base Wing Plans and Programs Office (75 ABW/XP) will perform all
        administrative functions for the CAT. CAT activations and notifications will be
        conducted IAW Hill AFB Plan 8.
        1.1.3. The EOC will operate as the coordinating and supporting body for the IC for all
        incidents involving Hill AFB and/or related assets. The EOC is a flexible, scalable
        capability tasked to provide support and coordination to an IC for any incident. The EOC
        will support ICs regardless of jurisdiction. The EOC will form using Emergency Support
        Functions (ESFs) as shown in Table 1 In the event that this structure does not integrate
        with a supporting EOC, the EOC Director/Manager may alter the model to best fit the
        jurisdiction requesting support. IAW AFI 10-2504, Air Force Incident Management
        Guidance for Major Accidents and Natural Disasters and the Hill AFB EOC Delegation
        Letter, the EOC will be recalled by the Installation Commander, the on-call EOC
        Director, or the IC. Representatives include both permanent members and ad hoc subject
        matter experts who will be requested depending upon the nature of the incident. If a
        representative is needed from a state or federal agency, the EOC Director/Manager must
        coordinate requests for forces IAW established Mutual Aid Agreements (MAA). EOC
HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014                                                                 3


      activations and notifications will be accomplished using the EOC recall roster.
      Command Post has primary responsibility for recalling EOC personnel. The EOC
      manager will perform secondary notification of EOC personnel. NOTE: Office of
      Primary Responsibility (OPR) based on portion of response, responsibilities may fall on
      assigned Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR).

Table 1. Emergency Support Function (ESF) and Associated OPR’s
ESF-1    Transportation                                  OPR:   75 LRS
ESF-2    Communications                                  OPR:   75 ABW/SC
ESF-3    Public Works & Engineering                      OPR:   75 CES
ESF-4    Firefighting                                    OPR:   775 CES
ESF-5    Emergency Management                            OPR:   775 CES
ESF-6    Mass Care, Housing & Human Services             OPR:   75 FSS
ESF-7    Resource Support                                OPR:   75 LRS
ESF-8    Public Health & Medical Services                OPR:   75 MDG
ESF-9    Urban Search & Rescue                           OPR:   775 CES
ESF-10   Oil & HAZMAT Response                           OPR:   75 CEG
ESF-11   Agriculture & Natural Resources                 OPR:   75 MDG
ESF-12   Energy                                          OPR:   75 CES
ESF-13   Public Safety & Security                        OPR:   75 SFS
ESF-14   Long Term Community Recovery/Mitigation         OPR:   75 CEG
ESF-15   External Affairs                                OPR:   75 ABW/PA
         1.1.3.1. The EOC will include permanent representatives from the organizations
         listed in Table 2 Other units may be called upon to support the EOC and/or IC
         should the incident involve their operations or the unit possesses unique capabilities
         needed during response/recovery operations. Off-base EOCs will be supported by
         exchanging Liaison Officers upon request. Off-base support can come from any of
         the surrounding county response forces or the state. Federal support if necessary can
         be received through multiple agencies using appropriate channels. Depending upon
         the nature of the emergency, agencies that can be called upon include, but are not
         limited to, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Environmental Protection
         Agency (EPA), Department of Energy (DOE), etc.
 4                                                          HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014


Table 2. Permanent EOC representatives
75th Mission Support Group                      75 MSG
75th Medical Group                              75 MDG
Communications & Information Directorate        75 ABW/SC
75th Civil Engineer Squadron                    75 CES
75th Logistics Readiness Squadron               75 LRS
75th Security Forces Squadron                   75 SFS
75th Operations Support Squadron                75 OSS/CC
75th Force Support Squadron                     75 FSS
Fire Emergency Services Flight                  775 CES/CEF
Readiness & Emergency Management Flight         775 CES/CEX
Public Affairs                                  75 ABW/PA
Wing Plans & Resources                          75 ABW/XP
GeoBase Office                                  75 CEG/CEAO
          1.1.3.2. Squadron commanders/Directors or senior members for the units listed in
          Table 2 will fill their representative EOC tasking. ESF reps from units must be
          senior, experienced personnel that are well versed in the functions and resources of
          their unit and have direct access to squadron-level leadership or above. Other units
          may be tasked to provide EOC representatives as situations require. Additionally,
          associate units may appoint EOC liaisons as they wish. These liaisons will be
          appointed at the discretion of their commander and will perform liaison work only.
          Formal training is not mandatory for associate unit liaisons. The unit EM Quarterly
          Report is the mechanism for EOC appointments and must be filed as outlined in
          Paragraph 4.2. of this instruction.
          1.1.3.3. Units listed in Table 2 are required to maintain a Unit Control Center (UCC)
          capability to support response operations and their EOC Representative(s). The UCC
          need not be operational during normal day-to-day business, but must be able to
          activate upon notice and provide 24-hour support to the EOC and DRF.
          1.1.3.4. Organizations tasked in Table 2 to provide EOC representatives will have a
          minimum of two personnel (one primary and one alternate) assigned and available for
          response. During regular duty hours, members should report to the EOC within 30
          minutes of being recalled. After regular duty hours, members should report to the
          EOC within 60 minutes of being recalled. ESF 5 will periodically monitor ESF
          Status until all EOC members arrive. Organizations must maintain Installation
          Emergency Management Plan (IEMP) 10-2 supporting checklists for each ESF. The
          supporting checklists must follow the Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC)
          checklist template. The IOEM will conduct initial and refresher training for EOC
          appointees as required. The EOC appointee will be thoroughly knowledgeable with
          their unit’s assets, capabilities, and functional response taskings required in the Hill
          AFB IEMP 10-2. If the appointed representative is not the unit commander or
          civilian equivalent, he/she must have sufficient authority to commit unit resources as
          directed by the EOC Director or Installation Commander and must be authorized to
          fill the EOC tasking in place of the unit commander.
HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014                                                                  5


        1.1.3.5. IAW AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program
        Planning and Operations, the EOC Director is the 75 MSG Commander or other
        senior representative designated by the Installation Commander. The EOC Director
        provides support to the IC and ensures emergency response coordination across the
        EOC. Additionally, the EOC Director will provide the Installation Commander with
        regular updates during responses involving the EOC as well as routine responses of
        interest. The EOC Director should be able to support multiple ICs simultaneously.
        IAW AFI 10-2501, if a senior military representative is required on scene, the EOC
        Director or designated representative can move from the EOC to the incident site.
        Before leaving the EOC, the EOC Director must appoint and brief a replacement.
        IAW AFI 10-2501, the replacement must meet the same training requirements as the
        EOC Director. On scene, the IC maintains legal authority and tactical control,
        including any establishment of a National Defense Area (NDA) with the advice of the
        Staff Judge Advocate (SJA).
        1.1.3.6. IAW AFI 10-2501 the EOC Manager will be the IOEM Flight Officer or
        Superintendent and will be trained IAW AFI 10-2501 Chapter 6. During periods of
        minimal manning, or as otherwise directed by the EOC Director, an Emergency
        Management Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO) will fill this tasking. The EOC
        Manager assists and serves as an advisor to the EOC Director and IC General Staff as
        needed, providing information and guidance related to the internal functions of the
        EOC and ensures compliance with operational area emergency plans and procedures.
        During the activation phase, the EOC Manager will assist the EOC Director in
        determining appropriate staffing for the EOC. The EOC Manager assists and
        provides advice to the EOC Director, General Staff, and Liaison Officer in any and all
        decisions and/or actions that need attention during the Operational Phase. The EOC
        Manager ensures smooth EOC operations and provides senior EM subject matter
        expertise to the EOC Director, IC, and CAT.
     1.1.4. IAW AFMAN 10-2504, the IC is the individual responsible for all incident
     activities, including the development of strategies and tactics as well as the ordering and
     release of resources. The IC has overall authority and responsibility for conducting
     incident operations and is responsible for the management of all incident operations at the
     incident site. The IC must be fully qualified IAW National Fire Protection Association
     (NFPA) standards, US Code, and pertinent Department of Defense (DoD) guidance. The
     IC will be the Senior Fire Official for incidents that involve more than two response
     agencies.
        1.1.4.1. The IC can request any specialized support needed for response operations
        directly from any unit assigned or attached to Hill AFB. If operational, and upon
        request from the IC, the EOC will coordinate and activate the installation’s
        specialized teams. If the IC requires a specialized team not available locally, the
        request will go to the EOC for sourcing from off-base jurisdictions or to the CAT for
        consideration from HHQ and/or United States Northern Command
        (USNORTHCOM).
        1.1.4.2. Upon completion of site stabilization and response operations termination,
        the recovery process begins with the transfer of command from the IC to the
        Recovery Operations Chief (ROC). The ROC must be a subject matter expert in the
 6                                                          HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014


            hazards or activities within the incident site. The EOC Director will designate a ROC
            from the 75 ABW, normally a field grade officer (or civilian equivalent). The ROC
            must trained IAW AFI 10-2501, Table 6.1.
        1.1.5. The ECC will provide 24 hour operation for Hill AFB emergency
        communications.
2. EM Program Responsibilities:
     2.1. Hill AFB will follow Chapter 3 of AFI 10-2501, as supplemented by Air Force Materiel
     Command (AFMC) regarding program responsibilities. The following sections clarify local
     implementation and constitute local guidance.
        2.1.1. IAW AFI 10-2501 para 1.6.1,. 775 CES/CEX will serve as the IOEM.
        2.1.2. The IOEM will administer AFIMS and the implementation of the NRF at the
        direction of 75 CEG/CL, IC, EOC Director, and/or the Installation Commander.
        2.1.3. The Chief of Fire Emergency Services at UTTR will be appointed as an alternate
        Local Emergency Planning Council Representative with the specific tasking to liaise with
        other DoD assets stationed at Dugway Proving Grounds and neighboring jurisdictions for
        both the North and South Range areas in addition to the Military Operations Areas.
        2.1.4. IAW AFI 10-2501, each unit (including tenants) that is tasked in IEMP 10-2 must
        develop unit-specific checklists to support the IEMP 10-2 within 30 days from the date of
        publication of IEMP 10-2. Checklists must describe in detail the who, what, when,
        where, and how actions will be accomplished. Each unit must develop checklists for
        each specialized team they control. Once checklists are complete but before
        implementation, they must be approved and signed by the unit commander and
        coordinated through the IOEM. All other units that are not tasked by IEMP 10-2 are
        required to maintain the following checklists: Shelter-In-Place (SIP), natural disasters,
        HAZMAT incidents, UCC, and suspicious items. These checklists will be developed
        using the IEMP 10-2 template sent out by the IOEM.
        2.1.5. Facility Managers are appointed as Shelter-In-Place (SIP) Managers. IAW the
        Hill AFB Shelter Guide and IEMP 10-2, the Unit Emergency Management
        Representatives (UEMR) and facility managers will identify areas in work centers or unit
        facilities suitable for service as SIP locations. Every work-center must have a SIP
        program. The UEMRs will ensure personnel are trained and are aware of shelter
        locations and procedures. Additionally, the UEMR will forward applicable shelter
        information, including exact location of the shelter and number of personnel the shelter
        can accommodate to the IOEM using the standard EM Quarterly Report. Facility
        managers will ensure the requisite materials and communications assets are available at
        all times for no-notice shelter operations. A facility manager may not be a SIP manager
        for more than one building.
            2.1.5.1. Mandatory items required for a SIP kit are as follows: Plastic Sheeting
            (sized to cover any doors, vents or windows with in the SIP room), Duct tape,
            towel(s), water and SIP checklist.
        2.1.6. Defense Support to Civil Authorities (DSCA):
HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014                                                                7


          2.1.6.1. Each unit with MAAs, Memorandums of Understanding (MOU),
          Memorandums of Agreement (MOA), or any other document offering or requesting
          support during incident response will retain ownership and maintenance of that
          agreement. The owning organization will ensure all MAAs are current and monitored
          by the IOEM to prevent conflicting or competing agreements. Additionally, each
          owning organization will ensure a current copy of the MAA is on file in the EOC in
          electronic format using the Hill AFB EM SharePoint site.
      2.1.7. The Installation Notification and Warning System (INWS) will be tested IAW AFI
      10-2501 para. 9.4.3. HCP personnel will test the INWS daily and weekly. They will also
      ensure a procedure is in place to verify each INWS location is operational. The HCP will
      maintain a record of the test results. The 75 ABW Radio Maintenance/PWCS Section
      (75 ABW/SCOIR) will provide support and maintenance for INWS testing.
3. Training:
   3.1. CBRN Survival Skills Demonstration Training:
      3.1.1. The IOEM will prepare a training calendar and post it to the Automated Civil
      Engineer System (ACES). The schedule will be updated quarterly.
      3.1.2. Each unit scheduler must schedule their personnel using ACES Unit Scheduler.
      Individuals will be scheduled to attend classes no later than one day prior to the
      scheduled training date. Personnel not on the ACES Roster will be turned away.
   3.2. CBRN Survival Training Requirements:
      3.2.1. CBRN Awareness Course Computer Based Training (CBT). Military personnel
      and Emergency Essential (E-E) civilians in Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) tempo bands
      A, B, C, M, and N are required to complete the current version of CBRN Awareness and
      Explosive Ordnance Reconnaissance (EOR) within 12 months prior to entering their
      assigned AEF band.
      3.2.2. Military personnel and E-E civilians in AEF tempo bands D, E, and those
      identified as Enablers are required to complete the current version of CBRN Awareness
      and EOR every 2 years.
      3.2.3. CBRN Survival Skills Hands-On Training. Military personnel tasked to deploy in
      AEF Tempo Bands A, B, C, M, and N are required to complete CBRN Survival Skills
      within 12 months prior to deployment departure.
      3.2.4. Military personnel tasked to deploy in AEF Tempo Bands D, E and those
      identified as Enablers will maintain proficiency by completing CBRN Survival Skills
      every 2 years.
      3.2.5. Reserve Unit Training Assembly CBRN Training will be scheduled monthly as
      needed.
      3.2.6. 419 FW Emergency Management Office (DSN 586-8197) will coordinate training
      dates, times, and instructors accordingly.
   3.3. CBRN Survival Skills :
 8                                                            HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014


        3.3.1. All members attending CBRN Survival Skills must complete the Awareness CBT
        and EOR CBT on Advanced Distribution Learning Service (ADLS) prior to attending.
        Unit Training Managers (UTM)/Unit Deployment Managers (UDM) are required to
        validate completion of CBTs prior to registering a member for Survival Skills Training.
        Once CBTs are verified, UDM/UTMs will register the member for CBRN Survival Skills
        training using ACES Unit Scheduler.
        3.3.2. Short-notice individual CBRN classes require an MFR signed by the individuals’
        Unit Commander stating why they cannot attend a regularly scheduled class.
        3.3.3. Completion of the mask confidence chamber is a requirement to receive credit for
        this class. This requirement can be waived in the event that the mask confidence
        chamber is not operational or member is on a profile prohibiting them from participation.
        3.3.4. All members attending CBRN Survival Skills must bring all Chemical Warfare
        Defense Ensemble (CWDE) gear. This includes: protective mask (with filters, carrier,
        and all accessories), Chemical Protective Overgarment (JSLIST), chemical protective
        gloves with inserts, chemical protective over boots, canteen with black M-50 compatible
        cap, and AFPAM 10-100, Airman’s Manual. With the exception of AFPAM 10-100, if a
        student is missing any required gear they will not be able to complete the course and will
        be dismissed from class. Students dismissed from training will have to reschedule for the
        next available class and will be considered a No Show.
        3.3.5. Use of contact lenses is not permitted during the CBRN Survival Skills course.
        Students who show up wearing contacts will be turned away and will be considered a No
        Show.
        3.3.6. The CBRN Survival Skills course is now based on a Go/No-Go criteria. If a
        student fails to perform the tasks in any section of the evaluation portion of the training,
        they will be given a letter stating what section they failed, and will have to return to the
        next available class to perform those areas not successfully completed during evaluation.
        They will take that letter to their UDM/UTM to be scheduled for the next class. When
        that student attends the next class they will only have to perform the activities not
        successfully completed to receive credit for class completion.
4. EM Program Implementation:
     4.1. Each Commander/Director of a unit listed in Table 3 will appoint a primary and
     alternate Unit Emergency Management Representative (UEMR) in writing using the
     quarterly report format. The UEMR serves as the focal point for EM matters for their
     organization. All unit commanders will receive an in-brief prior to the IOEM conducting the
     Staff Assistance Visit (SAV). Organizations not listed in Table 3 will appoint a member to
     liaise with the IOEM and will be designated as an Associate Emergency Management
     Representative (AEMR). AEMRs will be trained by the IOEM and will participate in the
     EM Information Program, but will not receive an annual SAV unless requested. NOTE:
     Each unit should look at the EM program unit breakdown that is located on the EM Share
     Point site to ensure that their program covers all areas under their responsibility.
        4.1.1. The intent of this EM Program Implementation is to ensure base-wide coverage of
        the EM program. Units requiring an EM program not listed in Table 3 will appoint their
        own AEMR to ensure complete coverage. Those units listed in Table 3: Unit
HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014                                                                9


      Commanders will appoint UEMRs (primary and alternate). An EM program SAV will
      take place annually for all programs listed in table 4.1. If a UEMR has an AEMR, the
      AEMR will be inspected during the bi-annual self-assessment & the annual SAV
      conducted by the IOEM.

Table 3. Hill AFB Units Requiring a UEMR
Ogden Air Logistics Complex (OO-ALC)           419th Fighter Wing (419 FW)
75th Civil Engineer Group (75 CEG)             75th Medical Group (75 MDG)
388th Operations Group (388 OG)                388th Maintenance Group (388 MXG)
75th Logistics Readiness Squadron (75 LRS)     75th Force Support Squadron (75 FSS)
75th Security Forces Squadron (75 SFS)         75th Comptroller Squadron (75 CPTS)
75th Operations Support Squadron (75 OSS)      Judge Advocate Office (75 ABW/JA)
75th Air Base Wing Bldg 1102 Staff Agencies    388th Fighter Wing Staff Agencies (388
(75 ABW/XP)                                    FW/DS)
Air Force Life Cycle Management Center         748th Supply Chain Management Group (748
(AFLCMC/WWM)                                   SCMG)
Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center               Defense Logistics Agency at Ogden
(AFNIC/NI)
372d Recruiting Group (372 RCG)                Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA)
Air Force Sustainment Center Personnel         Air Force Sustainment Center Contracting
(AFSC/PK OL-H)                                 (AFSC/FM OL-H)
Det 113, Air Force Office of Special           Defense Non-Tactical Generator & Rail
Investigations (AFOSI Det 113)                 Equipment (DGRC)
2d Combat Camera Squadron (2 CTCS)             367th Training Support Squadron (367 TRSS)
514th Flight Test Squadron (514 FLTS)          729th Air Control Squadron (729 ACS)
84th Radar Evaluation Squadron (84 RADES)      Army & Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES)
Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA)               Hill Aerospace Museum
Utah Test Training Range (UTTR)
      4.1.2. EM quarterly reports are required from each unit listed in Table 3 This is
      completed by the UEMR or AEMR. The EM quarterly reports are due by the 15th of
      January, April, July, and October. Upon appointment of a new UEMR, an updated
      quarterly report will be resubmitted to the IOEM office within seven days. Each UEMR
      will submit quarterly reports, using the EM Quarterly Report Memorandum template, to
      the IOEM Plans and Operations section by the dates specified above. The following
      tiered system will be utilized by the IOEM if unit reports are not submitted in a timely
      manner. NOTE: If at any time a unit is delinquent with an EM quarterly report, IEMP
      10-2 supporting checklists, SIP program, SAVs, or any other portion of the EM program,
      their status will be displayed at the REMWG and IRB.
 10                                                       HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014




Table 4. EM Quarterly Report system for late submittals
If Report Is Not Submitted By:       This Action Will Occur:
15th Day of January, April, July,    IOEM will send a reminder notification email to the
or October                           UEMR to submit the quarterly report.
3 Work Days After The Quarterly      IOEM will contact the UEMR by phone requesting the
Report Is Due                        quarterly report.
7 Calendar Days After The            775 CES/CC will contact the unit commander/director to
Quarterly Report Is Due              advise of the late report.
       4.2.1. All EM Reps will meet with the IOEM once a quarter to discuss issues and update
       deficiencies. This will be coordinated and scheduled by the IOEM.
   4.3. The IOEM will develop the Hill AFB SAV checklist and distribute it to all UEMRs.
   The IOEM will notify units of the tentative SAV schedule at the beginning of each calendar
   year. Predetermined SAV dates will be sent to affected units on a quarterly basis. Units
   wishing to reschedule a SAV must notify the IOEM at least 1 week prior to the scheduled
   date. A formal letter will be sent to the affected unit’s commander no later than (NLT) 2
   weeks prior to the scheduled SAV date.
   4.4. UEMRs will perform semi-annual EM self-assessments using the checklist provided by
   the IOEM; semi-annual self-assessments are required by 15 January and 15 July of each
   calendar year. The self-assessments must be signed by the Unit Commander. The UEMR
   will provide a copy of self-assessment results and remedial actions to the IOEM with get-
   well dates for noted discrepancies. Units must retain SAV documentation (i.e., checklists,
   reports, and corrective action plans) for a minimum of 2 years.
   4.5. Emergency Management Representative Responsibilities.
       4.5.1. UEMR. Note: Only applies to units identified in Table 4.1.
          4.5.1.1. Appoint UEMRs to serve as the unit focal point for the IOEM.
          4.5.1.2. Establish and maintain a unit EM program using guidance provided in the
          Hill AFB Emergency Management Representative Guide.
          4.5.1.3. Conduct internal self-assessments.
          4.5.1.4. Maintain a continuity file.
          4.5.1.5. Disseminate any/all information passed from the IOEM in support of the
          Installation EM Information Program.
          4.5.1.6. Ensure coordination with all unit facility managers to oversee completion of
          all SIP measures for each unit owned facility.
          4.5.1.7. Ensure coordination with subject matter experts on completion of annual
          coordination of the Hill AFB IEMP 10-2.
          4.5.1.8. Ensure coordination with subject matter experts on completion of unit
          specific IEMP 10-2 checklists including final coordination through the IOEM.
       4.5.2. AEMR. Note: Only applies to units not listed in Table 4.1.
HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014                                                                  11


          4.5.2.1. Appoint AEMR to serve as the unit focal point for the UEMR based on
          organizational structure.
          4.5.2.2. Establish and maintain a unit EM program using guidance provided in the
          Hill AFB Emergency Management Representative Guide in support of the UEMR.
5. Installation Readiness Board (IRB)
   5.1. The IRB reviews, validates, resolves and prioritizes installation readiness, contingency
   and EM-related programs and requirements. The IRB coordinates six working groups (WG)
   which are focused on installation readiness, contingencies, and EM programs; the six
   working groups are identified in Figure 5.1. Issues that cannot be resolved at the WG level
   should be elevated to the IRB for oversight and resolution. The IRB meets semi-annually
   and is chaired by the Installation Commander. IRB membership is outlined in Table 1.

Figure 1. IRB Working Groups




Table 5. IRB Membership
Organization   Function    Organization      Function          Organization        Function
75 ABW/CC      Chair       75 FSS/CC         Member            75 AMDS/SGPB        Member
75 CEG/CL      Member      75 LRS/CC         Member            EPWG Chair          Briefer
75 MSG/CC      Member      775 CES/CEX       Administrator     ESWG Chair          Briefer
75 MDG/CC      Member      775 CES/CEF       Member            ATWG Chair          Briefer
75 ABW/SC      Member      75 ABW/XP         Member            REMWG Chair         Briefer
775 CES/CC     Member      75 ABW/PA         Member            AHRPT Chair         Briefer
75 SFS/CC      Member      75 ABW/AT         Member            PHEWG Chair         Briefer
12                                                       HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014


  5.2. The Exercise Program Working Group (EPWG) is the forum used to guide installation
  exercises and advocate for resources (including readiness exercises, inspection activities
  employing exercises, war games, experiments, capabilities/technology/other demonstrations)
  which could be termed “exercises” or non-military exercise requirements. The WIT Chief
  chairs the EPWG and determines membership composition and meeting frequency. The
  EPWG briefs the IRB on installation exercise related topics from HQ AFMC.
  5.3. The Expeditionary Skills Working Group (ESWG) is the forum used to vet, discuss, and
  guide expeditionary combat skills preparation on the installation. The ESWG Chair,
  designated by the Installation Commander, will determine membership composition and
  meeting frequency. As a minimum, ESWG membership should include the base training
  manager, installation deployment officer, unit training managers, and unit deployment
  managers. The ESWG briefs the IRB on the status of installation expeditionary combat skills
  training statistics and/or related topics from HQ AFMC.
  5.4. The Antiterrorism Working Group (ATWG) is the forum to communicate and resolve
  actions related to antiterrorism and force protection policy, guidance, and program issues.
  The Installation Antiterrorism Officer chairs the ATWG and determines membership
  composition and meeting frequency. The ATWG briefs the IRB on installation force
  protection-related topics from HQ AFMC.
  5.5. The Readiness and Emergency Management Working Group (REMWG) is the forum
  that assures integration of cross-functional EM concept issues IAW DoD and Air Force
  standards and addresses installation EM management, planning, training and installation EM
  Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) trends and issues. The R&EM Flight Chief chairs the REMWG
  and determines membership composition and meeting frequency. REMWG members
  include unit EM Representatives. The REMWG will brief the IRB when a decision is
  required, if a formal SAV of the installation EM program should be conducted, if there is a
  change in threat/vulnerability, and/or any emergency management related topics from HQ
  AFMC.
  5.6. The All Hazards Planning Response Team (AHRPT) is the forum to ensure all
  responders are aware of current hazards and threats to the installation, to provide the
  opportunity to discuss roles and responsibilities, and organize cross-functional training
  outside the scope of the installation exercise and evaluation system. The AHRPT, chaired by
  the R&EM Flight Chief, meets semi- annually and membership includes first responders and
  emergency responders.
  5.7. The Public Health Emergency Working Group (PHEWG) establishes the program
  structure for medical and public health emergency management. The Public Health
  Emergency Officer chairs PHEWG ensure it meets at least semi-annually. PHEWG
  composition and guidance is addressed in AFI 10-2603, Emergency Health Powers on Air
  Force Installations.




                                          KATHRYN L. KOLBE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014                                                            13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Hill AFB IEMP 10-2, Installation Emergency Management Plan 26 December 2012
AFI 10-2501_AFGM5, Air Force Emergency Management Program, Planning and Operations,
14 August 2012
AFMC SUP to AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Planning and Operations,
14 August 2012
AFMAN 10-2504, Air Force Incident Management Guidance for Major Accidents and Natural
Disasters, 13 March 2013
AFMAN 32-1007, Readiness and Emergency Management (R&EM) Flight Operations, 30 May
2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006, IC-1, 20 September 2007, Certified
Current 23 April 2010
Homeland Security Presidential Directive/HSPD-5, Management of Domestic Incidents, 28
February 2003
Hill AFB EOC Delegation of Authority Letter
Hill AFB Shelter Guide
Quarterly Unit Emergency Management Report Memorandum
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACES—Automated Civil Engineer System
ADLS—Advanced Distribution Learning Service
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AEMR—Associate Emergency Management Representative
AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFIMS—Air Force Incident Management System
AF—IMT - AF Information Management Tool
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CAT—D - Crisis Action Team Directive
 14                                                 HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014


CBRN—Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear
CBT—Computer Based Training
CWDE—Chemical Warfare Defense Ensemble
DCO—Defense Connect Online
DoD—Department of Defense
DoE—Department of Energy
DRF—Disaster Response Force
DSCA—Defense Support to Civil Authorities
E-E—Emergency Essential
EM—Emergency Management
EMRG—Emergency Management Representative Guide
ECC—Emergency Communications Center
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
EOR—Explosive Ordnance Reconnaissance
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
ESF—Emergency Support Function
FACC—Fire Alarm Communications Center
FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigation
HCP—Hill Command Post
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
Hill AFB—Hill Air Force Base
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Incident Commander
ICS—Incident Command System
INWS—Installation Notification and Warning System
IEMP—Installation Emergency Management Plan
IOEM—Installation Office of Emergency Management
IRB—Installation Readiness Board
MAA—Mutual Aid Agreement
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
HILLAFBI10-2501 12 JUNE 2014                     15


NDA—National Defense Area
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
NIMS—National Incident Management System
USNORTHCOM—United States Northern Command
NRF—National Response Framework
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMR—Program Management Review
REMF—Readiness and Emergency Management Flight
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROC—Recovery Operations Chief
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SIP—Shelter in Place
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
UCC—Unit Control Center
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
UEMR—Unit Emergency Management Representative
UTM—Unit Training Manager
UTTR—Utah Test and Training Range
