Administrative Changes to HILLAFBI36-2803

Certified by: 508 ASW/DV (Jo D. Turner) has changed to Certified by: OO-ALC/CS (Julie T.
Primbs)

2 JUNE 2011
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             HILL AIR FORCE BASE
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                    INSTRUCTION 36-2803

                                                                                20 APRIL 2009
                                                                                      Personnel

                                                   HILL AIR FORCE BASE SPIRIT AWARD



ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: OO-ALC/DPCE                                      Certified by: 508 ASW/DV (Jo D. Turner)
Supersedes: Hill AFB Instruction 36-2803,                                           Pages: 6
            14 January 2000



This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs. This instruction
prescribes the procedures for nomination and awarding of the Hill Air Force Base (AFB) Spirit
Award. It is applicable to all civilian employees and military members whose work location is
Hill AFB, Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR), or Little Mountain, including members of
participating associate units. This award provides for peer and supervisor nomination of
individuals for their superior accomplishment, productivity gain, or other personal effort that
contributes to the efficiency, economy, or other improvement of government operations. The
intent is to generate and maintain a spirit among all employees which fosters continuous
improvement in support of the overall Hill AFB mission. The spirit is expected to begin with the
lowest ranking employees before working its way up to the highest levels. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records      Disposition    Schedule     (RDS)      located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
office of primary responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of
Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes the procedures for purchasing spirit award jackets and pins. It also allows
Wing organizational awards monitors access to the database for tracking award recipients and
assigning inventory numbers. Contractor employees can no longer participate in the Spirit
Award Program.
2                                                           HILLAFBI36-2803 20 APRIL 2009


1. Scope. All employees whose work location is at Hill AFB, UTTR, or Little Mountain are
eligible for this award. This includes military members, appropriated and non-appropriated
civilian employees of participating units. Under special circumstances, off-station federal
employees may be nominated for this award if they have made a significant contribution that
greatly benefits Hill AFB.
2. Responsibilities. The Spirit Award Committee provides overall program guidance.
Organizational award monitors prepare issue documents, maintain the database, file the source
documents, and coordinate procurement of award items. First-level supervisors provide a quality
check of the nomination and make recommendations. Directorate, wing, or group-level
commanders have approval/disapproval authority and make presentations. Organizational
awards monitors provide the final review for meeting the criteria and intent of the award, prepare
certificates, and pick up award items. The Public Affairs Office (OO-ALC/PA) publicizes data
provided on the award and award recipients as often as practical.
3. Criteria for Awards. Though the object is to have the award available for all employees, the
contribution must be regarded in comparison to the individual's pay/grade and job
responsibilities (i.e., more is required of a GS-12 employee or an officer than of a GS-05
employee or an airman). Supervisors must consider the significance of the contribution
compared to normal responsibilities to ensure the employee has exceeded expectations. The
employee’s overall performance must not contain any disciplinary or adverse action information,
or action that reflects unfavorably on the exemplary performance deserving recognition.
Nominations may be submitted for either of the two options that follow:
    3.1. Continual performance with excellence, integrity, and service before self, that results in
    contributions to the efficiency, economy, or other improvement of government operations.
    General examples follow but actual nominations should provide enough details/specifics to
    clearly convey actions and results.
       3.1.1. Demonstrating outstanding leadership over a period of time which resulted in
       improved operations.
       3.1.2. Eagerly taking on several tasks, challenges, and/or changes with outstanding
       results or during a difficult period while also maintaining regular work assignments.
       3.1.3. Displaying consistently high standards and dedication resulting in continuous
       process improvements.
    3.2. A non-recurring accomplishment that would otherwise meet the requirements of, and
    may be an alternative to, a notable achievement award or a time-off award. General
    examples follow but actual nominations should provide enough details/specifics to clearly
    convey actions and results.
       3.2.1. A superior accomplishment that contributes to meeting or exceeding mission
       goals.
       3.2.2. Doing an especially fine job on a difficult task that saved resources or resulted in
       improvements.
       3.2.3. A contribution that resulted in a significant productivity gain.
       3.2.4. Personal effort that significantly contributed to the efficiency, economy, or other
       improvement of government operations.
HILLAFBI36-2803 20 APRIL 2009                                                                  3


4. Submission and Format. Any employee may nominate another employee. Although
supervisors may nominate their subordinate employees, the Spirit Award is primarily intended to
provide an avenue for non-supervisors to recognize their peers. Supervisors are encouraged to
utilize other award options for recognition. Nominations are submitted to the first-level
supervisor or if the first level is nominating, to the second-level supervisor. Nominations must
be submitted on HILLAFB Form 520, Hill Air Force Base Spirit Award Nomination, at
http://www.epublishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/HILLAFB520.XFD.
5. Processing.
   5.1. The recipient’s supervisor (first or second-level supervisor in accordance with paragraph
   4) ensures the reason for nomination meets the criteria and intent of this instruction;
   additional information may be requested and/or the supervisor may add to the justification.
   If the supervisor agrees with the nomination, he/she marks the appropriate block, signs the
   HILLAFB Form 520 and forwards it to the organizational awards monitor. Nominations for
   off-station federal employees will be processed in accordance with paragraph 5.7 as
   applicable. If not recommended, the supervisor informs the nominator and deletes/destroys
   the nomination.
   5.2. The recommended nomination is forwarded to the organizational awards monitor. The
   awards monitor within the recipient’s home office ensures all blocks are completed and that
   the nomination meets the criteria and intent of the award before coordinating. If the
   nomination has missing data or does not meet the criteria and intent, discuss it with the
   supervisor and/or nominator; make appropriate recommendations or changes; update the
   center awards database and assign an inventory control number. The purpose of the database
   is to ensure that only first-time award recipients receive jackets (additional awards are pins
   only, which are redesigned each year). Prepare a Spirit Award Certificate and forward it
   with recommended Spirit Award Nomination to the resource advisor.
   5.3. The organizational resource advisor ensures funds are available, completes blocks 20-22
   and forwards the package to appropriate directorate, wing, or group commander for approval.
   If funds are not available, it may be necessary to hold the nomination until funds become
   available, or to confer with directorate wing, or group commander and possibly with
   financial management. NOTE: If another organization has benefited from an employee’s
   contributions, they may opt to fund the award, which requires completion of paragraphs 5.4,
   5.6, and 5.7.
   5.4. The recipient’s directorate, wing, or group commander approves or disapproves the
   award and signs the nomination and certificate (if disapproved, treats the same as not
   recommended, see paragraph 5.1.). The approved nomination and certificate are forwarded
   to organizational awards monitor.
   5.5. The organizational awards monitor will provide the package to the organizational
   resource advisor who will arrange for the award merchandise to be picked up.
   5.6. The awards monitor prepares a congratulatory letter with the applicable information if a
   jacket is being awarded (recipient’s first award only). This letter explains how employees
   can exchange the jacket for another size and provides a control number for
   tracking/identification purposes. Exchanges should take place within one week after
   presentation and the jacket may not be altered in any way. The organizational awards
4                                                           HILLAFBI36-2803 20 APRIL 2009


    monitor provides the award recipient with a tracking number to be placed, with permanent
    marker, inside the left breast of the jacket for security purposes. Placement of the number
    inside the jacket is optional, at the employee’s discretion, but is intended to assist in
    identifying the jacket if it becomes lost or stolen.
    5.7. The recipient’s directorate, wing, or group commander should present the award in the
    employee's work area, with maximum participation by the recipient's peers and the
    nominator. If another organization is funding the award, invite the director, commander, or
    other representative as appropriate. The reason for the award should be communicated to the
    recipient and the audience.
6. Publicity. The Spirit Award Committee prepares articles and advertisements on the award to
encourage participation.
7. Funding. Units are assessed funds based on participation. Each time an award is given, unit
supply funds are charged for the cost of the merchandise (not to exceed $50 per award item).
Nominations for off-station federal employees will be funded by the nominating organization.
    7.1. Nominations for off-station federal employees will be completed and processed
    similarly to Hill AFB nominations with the following exceptions:
       7.1.1. The nominating organizations’ award monitor will contact the employee’s
       supervisor for his/her recommendation. A copy of the nomination will be faxed to the
       supervisor to obtain a signature and have any missing data completed. A return fax of the
       completed Hill AFB Form 520 containing the signature will be attached to/or replace the
       original nomination package for further processing. If not recommended, the supervisor
       informs the nominator and destroys the nomination.
       7.1.2. The nominating organization completes the steps in paragraphs 5.2. through 5.5. of
       this Instruction. The monitor will arrange for the jacket, pin, and certificate to be sent to
       the employee’s home office for presentation in accordance with paragraph 5.8.
       Whenever possible, the nominator should be present for the presentation.
    7.2. Lost, stolen, or damaged/worn award items may be purchased for replacement by award
    recipients. The cost will be slightly higher due to low-volume orders and shipping costs.
    The award recipient prepares a written request, indicating their name and telephone number,
    which items need to be replaced and the reason. Upon verification of a previous award, the
    recipient will be contacted with instructions for issuing a check and pickup.
    OO-ALC/DPCEE forwards checks and orders to the supplier, and receives the award items
    for replacement.
8. Limitations. There should be no limitation or quota put on the number of awards as the
primary purpose of this award is to foster continuous improvement of government operations by
all employees.
9. Internal Procedures. Items purchased by the committee will be selected for their quality,
desirability by the work force, and will not exceed $50 in value. Award items must display the
Hill AFB Spirit logo which clearly identifies its significance to the Hill AFB mission. The Spirit
Award Committee selects award items with input from a cross section of base personnel. New
pins will be designed each year and will incorporate ideas and suggestions from employees
(normally in the form of a contest during the month of September).
HILLAFBI36-2803 20 APRIL 2009                                                                 5


10. Award. The primary award is a lightweight, casual jacket that is dark blue in color with an
embroidered logo over the left chest area. A small lapel pin will be awarded with the jacket and
for each subsequent award.

11. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

11.1. Prescribed Forms:
HILLAFB Form 520, Hill Air Force Base Spirit Award Nomination




                                            PATRICK C. HIGBY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
6                                                   HILLAFBI36-2803 20 APRIL 2009


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, Incorporating Through Change 2, 12 July 2007

Acronyms
AFB— Air Force Base
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
OO—ALC/DPCEE – Civilian Personnel Flight
OO—ALC/PA – Public Affairs
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
