BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            HILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                            48-105

                                                                             13 FEBUARY 2014

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                     BASE RADIATION SAFETY PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 75 AMDS/SGPB                                                     Certified by: 75 AMDS/CC
                                                                    (Col Mary T. Brueggemeyer)
Supersedes:    HILLAFBI48-105,                                                          Pages: 18
               7 July 2004


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program. This instruction
prescribes the precautionary measures and procedures for requisitioning, handling, storing, using
and disposing of Radioactive Materials (RAM), and ionizing (e.g. x-ray, radioactive sources,
etc.) and nonionizing (e.g. radio-frequency emitters, lasers, microwave, etc.) radiation producing
machines. It applies to all Hill Air Force Base (AFB) personnel, contractors, tenant
organizations, Geographically Separated Units (GSUs; Little Mountain, Utah Test and Training
Range (UTTR), and Carter Creek), and other operating locations controlled by Hill AFB using
RAM or radiation producing machines. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm . Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication through channels to 75th
Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (75 AMDS/SGPB), 7238
6th Street, Building 249, Hill AFB, UT 84056.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised to clarify pregnancy declaration requirements to accommodate
changes in Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 48-125. In addition, new Installation Radiation Safety
Officer (IRSO) responsibilities and a section on the responsibilities of a Permit Radiation Safety
Officer (PRSO) were added to accommodate changes in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 40-201.
 2                                                                                  HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014



        1.      Scope. .....................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Roles and Responsibilities .....................................................................................                2
        3.      Ionizing Radiation ..................................................................................................           6
        4.      Lasers .....................................................................................................................   11
        5.      Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) ........................................................................                       13
        6.      Emergency Procedures ...........................................................................................               14
        7.      Miscellaneous ........................................................................................................         15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 16


1. Scope. The control of ionizing and nonionizing radiological health hazards by the 75
AMDS/SGPB is directed toward safeguarding the health of persons working or living in the
vicinity of Hill AFB. The effectiveness of this publication depends on the personnel responsible
for organizing and implementing the Hill AFB Radiation Safety program. Specifically needed
are the consistent and conscientious efforts practiced by the individual who uses and the
supervisor who guides the use of materials or machines producing ionizing and nonionizing
radiation.
     1.1. As Low As Reasonable Achievable (ALARA) Philosophy. The ALARA concept was
     developed in response to scientific evidence suggesting that no level of radiation exposure is
     entirely risk free. It is a policy which states that although there are acceptable, conservative
     levels of radiation exposure specified by Federal regulations, it is prudent to make every
     effort to reduce exposures to the lowest levels reasonably achievable, thus offering a low risk
     of adverse health effects compared to the other hazards of life and occupation and lowering
     the health risk associated with that exposure. In fact, individual and cumulative radiation
     exposures must be maintained as close to zero as possible given the type of activities
     involved, the state of technology, the risk to the individuals exposed, and the benefit to
     society from the activity being accomplished. The guidance in this instruction provides the
     basis for conducting an effective ALARA Program.
     1.2. The IRSO manages the radiation safety program and ALARA concept at Hill AFB. The
     following summarizes Hill AFB’s ALARA commitment:
        1.2.1. Hill AFB and its senior leadership is committed to the ALARA philosophy for
        maintaining individual and collective radiation doses ALARA.
        1.2.2. Management fully supports modifications to operating and/or maintenance
        procedures and to equipment and/or facilities if they will reduce exposures unless the cost
        is considered unjustified.
2. Roles and Responsibilities
     2.1. The 75th Air Base Wing Commander (75 ABW/CC):
HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014                                                                3


     2.1.1. Appoints the IRSO and alternate, in writing and IAW AFI 40-201, Managing
     Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force, and AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation
     Protection.
     2.1.2. Ensures all base personnel comply with this instruction. This includes military
     personnel, civilian employees, contractor personnel, and visitors.
     2.1.3. Ensures all base activities comply with applicable Federal and USAF directives
     covering the use of ionizing and nonionizing radiation-producing equipment, the
     permitting, procurement, storage, handling, accountability for and disposal of RAM, and
     the reporting of incidents or accidents to the appropriate authorities.
  2.2. The 75th Medical Group Commander (75 MDG/CC) ensures records are maintained,
  medical follow-up is provided, and compliance is achieved as required in AFI 48-148.
  2.3. The Installation Radiation Safety Officer (IRSO).
     2.3.1. Is directly responsible to 75 ABW/CC regarding all radiation producing equipment
     and operations to include radiological health protection matters and will:
     2.3.2. Manage the Hill AFB Radiation Safety Program whose primary goal is to maintain
     radiation exposures to personnel IAW ALARA concept;
     2.3.3. Investigate, evaluate, initiate corrective action and report on defects or
     noncompliance items relating to substantial safety hazards involving materials or devices
     producing radiation;
     2.3.4. Exercise authority to terminate operations when imminent danger to health,
     environment, or USAF resources exists;
     2.3.5. Enforce the rules and regulations stated on all current permits/licenses authorizing
     use of RAM.
     2.3.6. Annually, provide 75th Security Forces Squadron, Plans Office (75 SFS/SFOXP),
     and 775th Civil Engineer Squadron, Civil Engineer Fire Protection Flight (775 CES/CEF)
     with a list of facilities containing radioactive commodities and radiation producing
     equipment that may be potential hazards during emergency operations;
     2.3.7. Develop procedures to assess permit compliance. Note: If organizations are in
     noncompliance, the IRSO has the responsibility to advise 75 ABW/CC, Headquarters Air
     Force Materiel Command, Bioenvironmental Engineering (HQ AFMC/SGPB),
     Radioisotope Committee Secretariat (RICS) and organization’s senior management as
     appropriate. HQ AFMSA/SG3PB or Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has the
     authority to revoke the permit;
  2.3.8. Monitor the base radiation Thermoluminescent Dosimeter (TLD) program. Provide
  initial information/training to all personnel subject to occupational ionizing radiation
  exposure;
         2.3.8.1. Obtain from female Active Duty personnel on the dosimetry program (wears
         an assigned TLD), signed statements that they understand their responsibility to
         notify their supervisor immediately if they become pregnant;
4                                                         HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014


           2.3.8.2. Obtain from female civilian employees on the dosimetry program (wears an
           assigned TLD), a signed statement that they understand if they become pregnant they
           may voluntarily declare pregnancy;
           2.3.8.3. Instruct female TLD wearers on the risks to the fetus if the worker is exposed
           to ionizing radiation while pregnant.
       2.3.9. Monitor areas in which radiation is used;
       2.3.10. Provide technical advice on emergency procedures, e.g., spills, explosions, or fire
       involving RAM;
       2.3.11. Review and approve plans for proposed radiation usage by Hill AFB and
       contractor personnel. Approval is required for RAM and all radiation producing devices
       including laser and;
       2.3.12. Perform radiation protection surveys;
       2.3.13. Provide technical advice and approval/disapproval regarding the receipt,
       shipment, transfer, and disposal of RAM. Furthermore, ensure the receipt, shipment and
       transfer of RAM are properly monitored and identified;
       2.3.14. Maintain all necessary records of the Hill AFB radiation safety program, USAF
       RAM permits, and documentation in support of USAF and Federal instructions, licenses,
       and permits;
       2.3.15. Identify to individual users and their supervisors the protective equipment and
       facilities necessary for the safe conduct of projects and programs involving the use of
       radiation;
       2.3.16. Manage and control the radioactive waste disposal program, which ensures
       proper packaging, storage, transport, and disposal of radioactive waste by Hill AFB
       organizations;
       2.3.17. Annually brief the Environment, Safety and Occupational           Health Council
       (ESOHC) on the use(s) of RAM on the installation;
       2.3.18. Approve the procurement, acceptance, transfer, and use of RAM on the
       installation;
       2.3.19. Assist the UTTR Operating Authority in the identification of RAM in targets or
       target materials prior to placement on the UTTR;
       2.3.20. Provide assistance to the 75th Logistics Readiness Squadron (75 LRS/LGRS) to
       ensure compliance with all laws and regulations relative to the receipt, shipment, and
       transfer of RAM; and,
       2.3.21. Audit all installation RAM permits and brief the 75 ABW/CC on the results by
       31 December of each year.
    2.4. The Permit Radiation Safety Officer (PRSO):
       2.4.1. Must be a member of the Permittee’s unit, unless otherwise specified by the IRSO
       and approved by the RICS. The PRSO cannot be the Permittee;
HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014                                                               5


     2.4.2. Coordinates with the Permittee on requests for an initial permit (as proposed
     PRSO), renewals, amendments to an existing permit, or termination of a permit;
     2.4.3. Ensures compliance with applicable AFIs, parts of 10 Code of Federal Regulation
     (CFR), permit conditions and representations in permit applications;
     2.4.4. Informs the Permittee, supervisors, workers, and IRSO when procedures are not in
     compliance with instructions;
     2.4.5. Records or files documents as required by AFI 40-201 and maintains in binders or
     files; and,
     2.4.6. Completes all duties specified in permit and AFI 40-201.
  2.5. Supervisors will, when applicable:
     2.5.1. Be responsible for implementing the ALARA concept;
     2.5.2. Indoctrinate new employees in the principles of radiation safety to include proper
     wear and storage of personnel dosimeters. Immediately notify 75th Aerospace Medicine
     Squadron Occupational Medicine (75 AMDS/SGPO) and 75 AMDS/SGPB of
     assignment of personnel to work involving ionizing radiation;
     2.5.3. By written request to 75 AMDS/SGPO, ensure personnel are given pre-
     employment physicals prior to assignment to duties involving class 3B and 4 laser
     radiation and request termination physicals when no longer in radiation area; and,
     2.5.4. Immediately notify the IRSO of any equipment, personnel, or procedural changes
     regarding ionizing or nonionizing radiation use;
     2.5.5. Ensure all radiological health emergencies are reported to the IRSO;
     2.5.6. Enforce the requirements imposed by permits/licenses for RAM;
     2.5.7. When applicable, maintain and comply with the RAM permit. Keep a record of
     the RAM within the area of supervision and send a copy to 75 AMDS/SGPB;
     2.5.8. Enforce all health and safety publications relative to the safe handling of RAM and
     machines producing ionizing and nonionizing radiation;
     2.5.9. Ensure the IRSO or alternate IRSO is notified immediately whenever personnel
     listed on the RAM permit are changed;
     2.5.10. Order, maintain, and operate radiation detection equipment necessary to ensure
     compliance with Federal standards;
     2.5.11. Be responsible for the safety of workers in any radiation environment, including
     preoperative checks of safety equipment; for example, monitoring instruments, hood
     flow, eye shields, and interlocks;
     2.5.12. Ensure all necessary safety equipment (such as shields, hoods, protective
     clothing, instruments, and long-handled tongs) is available and used by personnel
     working with radiation sources;
     2.5.13. Conduct inspections necessary to ensure that all safety equipment is operative
     and in a good state of repair;
 6                                                       HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014


        2.5.14. Be alert for equipment failure or malfunction or improper safety procedures by
        personnel, which may result in excessive radiation exposure of personnel;
        2.5.15. Prepare a written training lesson plan in coordination with the IRSO. These
        plans must, at a minimum, address the proper use of equipment and materials, emergency
        procedures, and exposure minimization.
     2.6. Individual users will:
        2.6.1. Learn and implement the rules of ALARA and radiation safety as described in
        applicable Federal, USAF, and Hill AFB instructions as well as in organizational
        instructions;
        2.6.2. Wear personnel monitoring devices if directed by their supervisors and the IRSO.
        Verify that monitoring devices are functioning properly before beginning work;
        2.6.3. Wear appropriate protective clothing and equipment as prescribed by supervisors
        and the IRSO;
        2.6.4. Inform their supervisor of any changes in equipment, procedures, or other factors
        involving RAM or radiation producing devices which may alter the radiation safety
        practices or radiation levels in unrestricted areas; and,
        2.6.5. Report incidents/accidents and hazardous conditions immediately to their
        supervisor, PRSO, or the IRSO, when appropriate.
     2.7. The 75 AMDS/SGPO will:
        2.7.1. Provide pre-employment and termination physical examinations to all persons
        assigned to duties involving potential exposure to laser radiation as required by Air Force
        Occupational Safety and Health Standard (AFOSHSTD) 48-139, Laser Radiation
        Protection Program; and,
        2.7.2. Conduct special examinations and clinical tests as required.
     2.8. The 75th Aerospace Medicine Squadron Public Health Flight (75 AMDS/SGPM) will
     facilitate education of personnel occupationally exposed to radiation.
     2.9. The 75th Force Support Squadron Military Personnel Flight (75 FSS/FSMPS) will
     effect temporary reassignment of military personnel occupationally exposed to ionizing
     radiation when reassignment is recommended by medical personnel. The Ogden Air
     Logistics Complex Civilian Personnel Office (OO-ALC/DPCC) will effect temporary
     reassignment of a declared pregnant civilian.
     2.10. The Hill AFB Contracting Directorate (PK) will coordinate all contractor use of
     radiation producing devices with the IRSO (see paragraph 3.1. for requestor responsibilities).
     Contracts will include appropriate requirements as indicated in the Federal Acquisition
     Regulations for the use of RAM and radiation producing equipment.
3. Ionizing Radiation
     3.1. Procurement. No individual or organization will procure RAM or radiation producing
     devices without prior approval of the IRSO. Requests for approval will be submitted to 75
     AMDS/SGPB for review and approval at least 30 days prior to the expected project/use start
     date. Requests involving use by a contractor require coordination and submission of a
HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014                                                                 7


  requirement package to PK. The request must clearly identify the sources and/or equipment
  to be used on .
  3.2. The user will prepare a letter of justification and supporting documentation indicating
  the materials or equipment desired. This request must be submitted to 75 AMDS/SGPB for
  review. Requests must include, as a minimum, the following:
     3.2.1. Name, title, organization, and telephone number of user;
     3.2.2. Names, titles, and organizations of all personnel who will regularly use the
     material or equipment;
     3.2.3. Exact locations where the material or equipment will be kept; and,
     3.2.4. Brief outline of procedure to be followed and any other special requirements;
     3.2.5. Organizations and contractors performing work at Hill AFB must obtain a Nuclear
     Regulatory Commission (NRC), Agreement State License, USAF, or Navy RAM permit
     in order to possess or use RAM on Hill AFB.
  3.3. Permittees will submit an application for permit amendments to 75 AMDS/SGPB.
  RAM may not be procured until the applicant has received written approval from the IRSO.
  3.4. Receipt of RAM on Hill AFB and associated GSUs.
     3.4.1. All RAM shipped to Hill AFB, regardless of destination, will be coordinated with
     the IRSO who will verify the organization is allowed to receive the RAM IAW applicable
     standards.
     3.4.2. Materials authorized under a USAF RAM Permit must have the approval and
     coordination of both the PRSO and IRSO prior to accepting delivery of RAM.
  3.5. Storage. All RAM storage areas must be preapproved by the IRSO.
     3.5.1. Store all RAM in safe and secure locations to prevent removal by unauthorized
     personnel. Machines which produce ionizing radiation may be stored in convenient
     locations provided they are in a configuration to preclude inadvertent operation.
     3.5.2. RAM or items will be stored as directed by the IRSO.
     3.5.3. Confine shipping and storage containers to the designated storage area, even when
     empty.
     3.5.4. Excess RAM will be processed through 75 AMDS/SGPB. The authorized storage
     area is located in Building 830, Bay B. RAM in Building 830 shall be secured/locked
     and not stored with other hazardous materials. Only 75 AMDS/SGPB staff are allowed
     access to the storage area. The storage area shall be posted with a conspicuous sign or
     signs bearing the radiation symbol and the words “CAUTION RADIOACTIVE
     MATERIAL.”
  3.6. Shipment. All RAM will be shipped through Distribution Depot – Hill, Utah (DDHU),
  DDHU/CGA, Building 849, unless other means are approved by the IRSO. Materials will be
  held in the Transportation Hazardous Material Shipping area until surveyed by the DDHU
  designee or the IRSO. Persons responsible for permitted RAM may not transfer such
  material to another person or organization except as provided in the applicable portions of the
8                                                       HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014


    USAF RAM permit and IAW AFI 40-201. Contact the IRSO and PRSO for coordination
    and assistance.
       3.6.1. Other transfers. Individuals or organizations requiring transfer of RAM must
       notify the IRSO prior to the transfer. The 649th Munitions Squadron (649 MUNS) must
       coordinate all transfers, receipts, and movements of 30 mm rounds containing depleted
       uranium.
       3.6.2. Users will complete a DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping
       Document, when turning in RAM for shipment off base.
    3.7. Disposal. The owning organization where the waste was generated is responsible for
    collection, segregation, and handling of radioactive wastes in consultation with the IRSO.
    The area supervisor will keep inventory records of the type of RAM in each waste container.
    Waste containers will be marked with labels bearing the radiation symbol and the words
    “RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL,” and labeled to indicate the nature of the contents. The
    supervisor will report any lost or misplaced containers/material immediately to the IRSO.
    Under no circumstances will one using organization accept radioactive waste from another
    without written concurrence from the IRSO.
       3.7.1. Using organizations will:
           3.7.1.1. Dispose of radioactive waste IAW guidance provided by the IRSO;
           3.7.1.2. Monitor containers for radiation intensity and take swipe samples to
           determine if there is any removable contamination; and,
           3.7.1.3. Forward waste information as requested by the IRSO.
       3.7.2. Excess permitted, licensed RAM or nonpermitted RAM. These materials will be
       shipped to Building 830 for storage pending disposal upon approval of the IRSO.
       Owners and users of permitted RAM will contact the PRSO and IRSO for approval to
       dispose of their sources. Permitted or licensed RAM received from off-base
       organizations will not be disposed of unless approved by the IRSO.
       3.7.3. Nonpermitted RAM. On-base users needing to dispose of nonpermitted excess
       RAM must submit a completed DD Form 1348A with the RAM when taking the RAM to
       Building 830. Before bringing the RAM to Building 830, contact 75 AMDS/SGPB for
       coordination. Nonpermitted excess RAM received in Building 849 from off-base sources
       shall be surveyed and a DDRW Form 359, Radioactive Material Movement Form, or
       equivalent completed. Transfer of the RAM can then be coordinated with 75
       AMDS/SGPB for storage pending disposal
       3.7.4. The following information must accompany RAM sent to Building 830:
           3.7.4.1. Name and organization of person turning in the material;
           3.7.4.2. Building number and date the material was turned in;
           3.7.4.3. Item name and/or description;
           3.7.4.4. National stock number (if available);
           3.7.4.5. Part number or model number;
HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014                                                                9


         3.7.4.6. Quantity of each item;
         3.7.4.7. Radioactive material (e.g., tritium, Cs-137, Ra-226, etc.); and,
         3.7.4.8. Radioactivity (e.g., 10 mCi, 5 microcuries, 100 nCi, 3 uCi, etc.)
     3.7.5. No RAM will be sent to the Defense Reutilization Marketing Office (DRMO).
     3.7.6. The IRSO will arrange for disposal of RAM with Air Force Radioactive Recycling
     and Disposal (AFFRAD) at Wright-Patterson AFB, OH. They office will provide
     disposal instructions. Disposal will be arranged periodically.
  3.8. Surveys. The IRSO will establish a schedule and conduct surveys deemed necessary.
  Special surveys will be performed upon request; please contact 75 AMDS/SGPB (777-4551)
  to schedule.
     3.8.1. Types of surveys are:
         3.8.1.1. Portable survey meters to detect alpha, beta, gamma, neutrons, or x-rays;
         3.8.1.2. Swipe sample surveys; and,
         3.8.1.3. Evaluations of procedures, materials, and documentation.
  3.9. Leak Testing Sealed Sources. Each generally licensed or permitted sealed source
  acquired from another person or organization, (containing RAM with a half-life greater than
  30 days and in any form other than gas) will be tested for contamination and leakage before
  use, as applicable.
     3.9.1. In the absence of certification indicating a test had been made within six months
     prior to the transfer, the sealed source will not be put in use until tested.
     3.9.2. The test will be capable of detecting the presence of 0.005 microcuries (185
     Becquerels [Bq]) or more of RAM on the test sample.
     3.9.3. Each sealed source the permittee uses (containing by-product material or any other
     RAM with a half-life greater than 30 days and in any form other than gas) will be tested
     for leakage and contamination at intervals of six months, unless otherwise specified in the
     permit.
     3.9.4. If the above tests reveal the presence of 0.005 microcuries (185 Bq) or more of
     removable contamination, the permittee will immediately notify the IRSO and withdraw
     the sealed source from use.
     3.9.5. Sources are to be leak tested before and after long-term storage.
  3.10. Personnel Dosimetry Program (TLD).
     3.10.1. Requests for dosimetry service will be completed before personnel are assigned
     duties involving ionizing radiation. The area supervisor will have the individual report to
     75 AMDS/SGPB, Building 249. The supervisor will submit a written notice to 75
     AMDS/SGPB when personnel are relieved from duties involving ionizing radiation.
     3.10.2. All workers entering radiation areas will wear a Thermoluminescent Dosimeter
     (TLD), as directed by the IRSO.
10                                                    HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014


     3.10.3. TLDs will be worn on the part of the body most likely to receive the greatest
     exposure to radiation. When one badge is issued it will be worn outside of any protective
     equipment such as a lead apron. When two badges are issued, the badge designated as
     the collar badge will be worn outside any protective equipment on or near the collar. The
     body badge will be worn under the protective equipment.
     3.10.4. Never place the badge inside the pocket or behind cloth, cigarettes, coins, or any
     personal obstruction whatsoever.
     3.10.5. Tampering with TLDs is prohibited. If these devices are accidentally damaged or
     exposed, the wearer must immediately return them to 75 AMDS/SGPB for exchange and
     subsequent evaluation. The wearer will explain the nature of the accident to aid in
     evaluation of the TLD.
     3.10.6. Personnel working with industrial x-ray equipment will wear one Electronic
     Pocket Dosimeter (EPD) as prescribed by the IRSO. This will permit frequent reading of
     the dosimeters during hazardous procedures. EPDs should be worn clipped on the breast
     pocket of the outer garment. Never place EPDs behind dense materials in the pocket.
     3.10.7. When visitors enter a radiation area, they are required to register with the
     supervisor before entry. The supervisor will issue an EPD to the visitor and maintain an
     AFTO IMT 115, Digital Alarm Dosimeter Result Log, with the visitor's name, address,
     date, time in and out, EPD number, and final readings on the EPD. The IRSO will
     designate those areas and circumstances in which visitors will wear TLDs in addition to
     the EPD.
     3.10.8. Allowable limits for occupationally exposed individuals, as well as those for the
     general public and action/investigational levels will be documented by 75 AMDS/SGPB.
     3.10.9. The IRSO will investigate abnormal exposures IAW AFMAN 48-125.
  3.11. Occupational Exposure of Declared Pregnant Females. The IRSO, or designee, will
  inform personnel who declare pregnancy of the risks of radiation exposure to the unborn.
     3.11.1. Female military personnel must declare pregnancy and provide the estimated date
     of conception. Female civilian employees may voluntarily notify 75 AMDS/SGPO or the
     IRSO in writing of their pregnancy and date of conception.
     3.11.2. The IRSO may recommend to the referring physician that specific duties of a
     declared pregnant female be limited if the individual may receive a whole body exposure
     greater than 500 mrem (5 millisieverts [mSv]) during the gestational period.
     3.11.3. If the IRSO determines it is unlikely that the declared pregnant female would
     receive a total exposure during the term of the pregnancy (including the period preceding
     the confirmation of the pregnancy) in excess of 500 mrem (5 mSv), she may continue in
     her radiation-related duties; however, if the individual is not on the USAF personnel TLD
     program, she will be enrolled for the duration of her pregnancy.
     3.11.4. Special consideration will be given when a declared pregnant worker's radiation
     duties involve the operation of high output sources or the use of unsealed RAM.
  3.12. Training will be provided to individuals who in the course of their duties are likely to
  receive an occupational dose in excess of ten percent of the occupational limit in a year.
HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014                                                                   11


      3.12.1. Personnel will be provided radiation safety training commensurate with their
      duties. Additionally, training will be provided:
            3.12.1.1. Before the individual is permitted to assume duties with or in the vicinity of
            radiation sources;
            3.12.1.2. Annually during refresher training;
            3.12.1.3. When there is a significant change in duties or radiation safety
            requirements; and,
            3.12.1.4. By the supervisor, PRSO, IRSO or their designee.
      3.12.2. Topics covered will include, but are not limited to:
            3.12.2.1. Applicable regulations and permit conditions;
            3.12.2.2. Areas where radiation sources are used or stored and the types of radiation
            emitted;
            3.12.2.3. Potential hazards from the radiation sources;
            3.12.2.4. Radiation safety procedures;
            3.12.2.5. Work rules pertinent to the radiation source(s);
            3.12.2.6. Employee responsibility to report unsafe conditions or practices;
            3.12.2.7. Emergency response procedures;
            3.12.2.8. Employee right to be informed of occupational radiation exposure results;
            and,
            3.12.2.9. Location where pertinent regulations and documents are available for
            review.
4. Lasers
   4.1. The Installation Laser Radiation Safety Officer (LRSO) manages the laser radiation
   safety program at Hill AFB. The IRSO is also designated as the LRSO. All laser operations
   will be managed IAW AFOSH STD 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program. Prior to
   the start of any operation utilizing Class 3 or 4 lasers, 75 AMDS/SGPB must be contacted to
   conduct a laser safety evaluation. The 75 AMDS/SGPB has final approval authority for laser
   operations.
   4.2. The using activity, when requesting approval of laser operations, shall:
      4.2.1. Prepare an Operating Instruction (OI) for the laser based on the manufacturer’s
      instructions and forward a copy to 75 AMDS/SGPB for review and approval. The
      instruction will contain the following information, as a minimum:
            4.2.1.1. Safety requirements;
            4.2.1.2. Personal hazards including safe eye exposure distance;
            4.2.1.3. Location;
            4.2.1.4. Sequence of operations;
12                                                     HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014


         4.2.1.5. Individual (name) assigned as unit laser safety officer by the unit
         commander;
         4.2.1.6. Biological effects of lasers; and,
         4.2.1.7. Training requirements.
  4.3. Send the following information to 75 AMDS/SGPB on AF Form 2760:
     4.3.1. Location of use (building and room number);
     4.3.2. Type of laser;
     4.3.3. Wavelength;
     4.3.4. Output power;
     4.3.5. Mode of operation;
     4.3.6. Pulse duration, if applicable;
     4.3.7. Beam diameter in millimeters or centimeters;
     4.3.8. Beam divergence in radians;
     4.3.9. Transverse electromagnetic modes, if applicable;
     4.3.10. Pulse repetition rate;
     4.3.11. List of operational personnel giving the last, first, and middle name, rank or civil
     service rating, and last four digits of their Social Security Number (SSN); and,
     4.3.12. The maximum number of personnel required to participate in the operation.
  4.4. Standards. MIL-STD-1425, Military Lasers and Associated Support Equipment, and
  CFR Title 21, Food and Drug Administration, must be complied with in procuring
  nonexempt and exempt lasers respectively.
  4.5. Disposal. Exempt lasers must be disposed of IAW MIL-STD-1425.
  4.6. Training. Training may be provided by the LRSO or other qualified individual, subject
  to LRSO approval, and will be provided upon assignment to laser duties and annually
  thereafter. Users of lasers will receive training commensurate with their duties. At a
  minimum, training will include:
     4.6.1. Location of lasers;
     4.6.2. Hazard evaluation of the emitter (provided by 75 AMDS/SGPB);
     4.6.3. Emergency procedures;
     4.6.4. Biological effects of lasers;
     4.6.5. Protective equipment requirements (e.g., laser goggles);
     4.6.6. Conditions and limitations of use (hazard areas, emergency shut-off location,
     notifications, signage requirements, etc.);
     4.6.7. Potential hazards; and,
     4.6.8. Worker responsibilities.
HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014                                                              13


   4.7. Medical Surveillance. Only personnel who routinely work in a laser environment and
   are exposed to Class 3B or 4 lasers will be monitored.
5. Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR)
   5.1. Operations. All RFR operations will be managed IAW AFOSH STD 48-9, Radio
   Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program. Prior to the start of any operation utilizing RF
   systems, the user must contact the 75th Air Base Wing Frequency Manager (75 ABW/SCOI)
   and 75 AMDS/ SGPB to conduct a hazard evaluation. After the initial evaluation, the
   frequency of future surveys will be based on the risk assessment rating and will be at the
   discretion of the IRSO.
   5.2. RFR Surveys. The surveyor will obtain the following information from the supervisor
   of an area in which RFR emitters are used:
      5.2.1. Location and nomenclature;
      5.2.2. Organization responsible for its use;
      5.2.3. Function of the RFR emitter;
      5.2.4. Operating frequency (or frequencies);
      5.2.5. Antenna gain;
      5.2.6. Output power (state if average or peak);
      5.2.7. Operating mode (continuous wave or pulsed); and,
      5.2.8. Pulse repetition frequency and pulse width.
   5.3. Supervisors will coordinate all modifications and additions to RFR emitters with 75
   AMDS/ SGPB. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring their workers are aware of and
   follow the safety procedures outlined in AFOSH STD 489, equipment technical manuals, and
   unit safety awareness training. Supervisors will review and implement their responsibilities
   as explained in AFOSH STD 48-9.
   5.4. Units will develop a local OI governing the use of the RFR equipment and submit it to
   75 AMDS/SGPB for review and approval. As a minimum, the instruction will include:
      5.4.1. Modes of operation;
      5.4.2. Hazard evaluation data;
      5.4.3. Training requirements;
      5.4.4. Location of emitter; and,
      5.4.5. Biological effects of RF radiation.
   5.5. Training. Personnel who work in a RFR environment and may be exposed to levels
   above the Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL) listed in AFOSH STD 48-9 will receive initial
   and annual training. Training will be provided and documented by the unit. Users of RFR
   emitters will receive training commensurate with their duties. At a minimum, training will
   include:
      5.5.1. Location of emitters;
 14                                                     HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014


      5.5.2. Hazard evaluation of the emitter (provided by 75 AMDS/SGPB);
      5.5.3. Emergency procedures;
      5.5.4. Biological effects of RF radiation;
      5.5.5. Conditions and limitations of use (hazard areas, emergency shut-off location,
      notifications, signage requirements, etc.);
      5.5.6. Potential hazards; and,
      5.5.7. Worker responsibilities.
   5.6. Medical Surveillance. There are no requirements for routine medical surveillance.
6. Emergency Procedures
   6.1. Emergencies include any unusual occurrences that result in contamination of facilities
   or environment, or that may result in the exposure of personnel to hazardous levels of
   radiation. The IRSO must be notified immediately of all emergencies involving radiation.
   6.2. Investigations. The IRSO will conduct an investigation to determine and evaluate the
   extent of exposures from all sources of radiation. All reporting and investigations will be
   IAW AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program; AFI 91-204, Safety
   Investigations and Reports; and AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air
   Force. Reporting under AFI 91-204 does not negate the reporting requirements of AFI 40-
   201 and the NRC.
   6.3. Spills. Treat any RAM spill as a major spill until monitoring can be accomplished to
   determine the actual intensity of the radiation exposure.
   6.4. Basic fire-fighting procedures are:
      6.4.1. The fighting of fires, which may occur in buildings, must be accomplished in such
      a manner that exposure of personnel to radiation is held to a minimum and the spread of
      radioactive contamination is avoided. The supervisor will forward to the 775 CES/CEF a
      set of floor plans showing the locations of radiation areas and RAM storage areas.
      6.4.2. As a general rule, when using fire hoses, water fog is preferable to solid stream
      application to avoid excessive runoff of water that may spread contamination.
      6.4.3. Should a fire ignite, sound the evacuation alarm, call 911 and notify 75
      AMDS/SGPB of its location. If no immediate radiation hazard exists and the potential
      for sustaining injuries is remote, combat the fire using the nearest fire extinguisher, sand,
      or water. If there is sufficient time, personnel who are using RAM and are not in the fire
      area should quickly place their RAM into storage containers, transport containers from
      the area, then close the windows and doors, and shut off the ventilation system before
      leaving the area.
      6.4.4. Firefighters must wear protective clothing and respiratory equipment even though
      there is no evidence of immediate radiation danger. If possible, fire fighting should be
      conducted from the upwind side of the blaze.
   6.5. Ingestion or Inhalation of RAM. Any cases involving the suspected inhalation or
   ingestion of RAM must be reported immediately to the IRSO for guidance.
HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014                                                              15


7. Miscellaneous
   7.1. Consultant Services. The 75 AMDS/SGPB is available to all base and tenant
   organizations for consultant services regarding radiation related issues.
   7.2. Records. Records will be maintained as follows:
      7.2.1. The owner, user, and 75 AMDS/SGPB will maintain records on all USAF permits
      and on all materials licenses, as required by Title 10, CFR, and AFMAN 33-363,
      Management of Records and AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
      7.2.2. The records will have the specific radionuclide, date of original activity, serial
      number, physical nature (solid, liquid, or plated), amount of original activity; and if a
      liquid, the volume and concentration.
      7.2.3. Personnel exposure records will be kept on AF Form 1527, History of
      Occupational Exposure to Ionizing Radiation.
      7.2.4. The 75 AMDS/SGPB will maintain records of routine surveys.
      7.2.5. Area supervisors are responsible for keeping waste disposal records on the
      contents of radioactive wastes accumulating within their areas. These records will
      include the radioisotope identity, estimated activity, radiation level at surface of
      container, and the instrument used to determine surface radiation level.




                                           KATHRYN L. KOLBE, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 16                                                   HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the USAF, 13 April 2007
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, 21 September 2011
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, 4 October 2011
AFOSHSTD 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, 1 August 1997
AFOSHSTD 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, 10 December 1999
Adopted Forms
AF Form 1527, History of Occupational Exposure to Ionizing Radiation
AF IMT 2760, Laser Hazard Evaluation
AFTO IMT 115, Digital Alarm Dosimeter Results Log
DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
ALARA—As Low as Reasonable Achievable
Bq—Becquerels
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DDHU—Distribution Depot – Hill, Utah
EPD—Electronic Pocket Dosimeter
IRSO—Installation Radiation Safety Officer
Mrem—Millirem
mSv—Millisieverts
NRC—Nuclear Regulatory Commission
OI—Operating Instruction
PEL—Permissible Exposure Limit
PRSO—Permit Radiation Safety Officer
RAM—Radioactive Material
SSN—Social Security Number
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeter
HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014                                                                    17


Terms
As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) Concept—ALARA is defined as that set of
management and administrative actions taken to reduce personnel ionizing radiation exposure to
as low a level as possible consistent with existing technology, costs, and operational
requirements.
Controlled AreaAny area in which radioisotopes are used or stored and access to which is
controlled for the protection of individuals from exposure to radiation. In the case of
nonionizing radiation, controlled areas are those that may be occupied by personnel who
accept potential exposure as concomitant of employment or duties; by individuals who
knowingly enter areas where levels above the Permissible Exposure Limits (PEL), defined
in AFOSHSTD 48—9 are to be expected; and by personnel passing through such areas.
Declared Pregnant Woman—A female civilian who has voluntarily, or Active Duty female
who has, informed the licensee, in writing, of her pregnancy and the estimated date of
conception. The declaration remains in effect until the declared pregnant woman withdraws the
declaration in writing or is no longer pregnant.
Electromagnetic Radiation—A term used to mean nonionizing radiation in the frequency range
from about 10 kilohertz (kHz) to 300 gigahertz (GHz).
Ground—Level Hazard EmitterSystems capable of producing power density levels at or above
the PEL in areas accessible to personnel at or near ground level.
MicrocuriesOne—millionth of a curie. A curie is a term that designates a quantity of
radioactive material present. It is the amount of radioactive material that disintegrates at the rate
of 37 billion atoms per second. Becquerels is the internationally recognized unit of measure.
MilliremOne—thousandth of Roentgen Equivalent Man (rem). A rem is a unit of absorbed
radiation by man. Radiation standards are normally expressed in millirem (mrem) or rem per
unit of time. Millisievert is the internationally recognized unit of measure.
Nonhazardous EmitterLow—power devices, as described in AFOSHSTD 48-9, that are not
maintained within 2.5 cm of the body.
Potentially Hazardous EmitterRFR emitters which do not fit the criteria for low—power
devices (nonhazardous emitters) and are capable of producing levels at or in excess of the PELs
given in AFOSHSTD 48-9.
Probe SurveysMeasurements using portable survey meter to detect alpha, beta, gamma,
neutrons, or x—ray radiation.
Radiation AreaAn area in which an individual could receive a radiation dose to a major
portion of the body of 5 mrem or more in any one hour. Thermoluminescent badges and
self—reading pocket dosimeters will be worn in radiation areas.
Radiation Dosimeter ProgramA program described in AFI 48—125 for routinely monitoring
personnel who work with radiation producing devices and who are likely to receive radiation
doses in excess of one-tenth of the applicable radiation standard.
Restricted Area—An area having access limited to protect individual against undue risks from
exposure to radiation or radioactive material.
 18                                                    HILLAFBI48-105 13 FEBUARY 2014


Roentgen (R) A unit of measure of x—ray or gamma radiation in air. Specifically, that amount
of x-ray or gamma radiation that produces a charge of 2.58 X 10-4 coulomb per kilogram (kg) air.
Self—Reading Pocket DosimeterA radiation detection device normally worn by an individual
and designed to detect and quantitatively measure x-ray and gamma radiation. These dosimeters
are not as accurate as TLDs but they are read by the wearer and give a good indication of the
radiation dose received by the wearer. These devices are not to be worn alone. They are to be
worn while wearing TLDs.
Swipe Samples—Samples using filter paper to detect removable radioactive material. Filter
paper is smeared across suspected contaminated areas.
Thermoluminescent Dosimeters (TLD)A radiation detection device normally worn by an
individual and designed to detect and quantitatively measure beta, gamma, x—ray, and, if
required, neutron radiation. These dosimeters are read by the USAF Radiation Dosimetry
Laboratory at Wright-Patterson AFB, OH.
