BY ORDER OF THE                              HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 16-1
SERETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            10 JUNE 2014




                                                                               Operations Support

                                                  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE (SecAF)/
                                                     CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                   (CSAF) COUNTERPART VISIT PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil. If you lack access, contact the OPR to
               obtain a copy.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/CVAI                                       Certified by: AF/CVAI (Lt Col David Learned)
Supersedes: HOI 16-1, 2 March 2011                                                     Pages: 8

This Instruction implements AFPD 16-1, International Affairs, and outlines Secretariat and Air
Staff responsibilities for visits of foreign nationals to the United States (US) under the Secretary
of the Air Force (SecAF)/Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) Foreign Counterpart Visit
Program and Regional Air Chief Symposium Program. Funding is governed by AFI 65-603,
Official Representation Funds-Guidance and Procedures, and implements AFPD 16-1,
International Affairs. All other foreign national visits are conducted according to Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 16-101, International Affairs & Security Assistance Management, and AFI
16-201, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International
Organizations. This publication is applicable to all Headquarters Air Force (HAF) organizations
that plan or execute SecAF/CSAF Foreign Counterpart Visits. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System Records Disposition Schedule.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision incorporates the CSAF-hosted regional air chief symposium as part of the HOI. It
also includes updates in organizational titles as well as new policies and procedures for
coordination with outside agencies.
1. Air Force Guidance: For the United States Air Force (USAF), only the SecAF and the
CSAF may extend official courtesies to foreign guests of the Department of Defense. This
2                                                                 HOI 16-1 10 JUNE 2014

guidance does not preclude Secretariat and Air Staff organizations and the commanders of the
major Air Force commands (MAJCOMs) from extending invitations in accordance with
AFMAN 16-101 and AFI 16-201 to foreign nationals to participate in various meetings and/or
symposiums at the visitor’s own expense.
2. Responsibilities. The Air Force Foreign Liaison and Executive Review Division (AF/CVAI)
is the lead Air Staff office for planning and executing the CSAF Counterpart Visit Program and
the regional multilateral counterpart visits and conferences, with input from regional component
commanders, MAJCOMs and the HAF to include the offices of the Deputy Under Secretary of
the Air Force International Affairs (SAF/IA), the Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans, and
Requirements (AF/A3/5), and the Political Advisor to the CSAF (POLAD). The CSAF
determines how many counterpart visits to host each year. Unless otherwise directed by CSAF
or SecAF, the CSAF-hosted regional multilateral counterpart visits and conferences are held on
the following regularly scheduled basis: The NATO Air Chiefs’ Symposium and the Pacific Air
Chiefs’ Symposium are held on a rotating basis every other year. The Conference of the
American Air Chiefs’ is held annually but is hosted by member countries on a rotational basis;
the US only hosts this event when the organizing committee, the System of Cooperation Among
the Air Forces of the Americas, determines there is no alternative host country and the US has
offered to host. The Global Air Chiefs’ Symposium is held at the discretion of the CSAF.
    2.1. AF/CVAI will:
       2.1.1. Meet with CSAF’s Confidential Assistant not later than the outset of the fourth
       quarter of each calendar year to block dates on CSAF’s schedule for the next calendar
       year’s foreign counterpart visits and regional air chief symposium.
       2.1.2. Contact select Air Force (AF) MAJCOM commanders and component
       commanders to include Pacific Air Forces, US Air Forces in Europe, US Air Forces
       Central, Air Forces Southern, Air Forces Northern, Air Combat Command, Air Force
       Space Command, Air Mobility Command, Air Education and Training Command, Air
       Force Material Command and Air Force Special Operations Command requesting
       recommendations for upcoming air chief counterpart visits or symposiums. Send a
       message mid-year to the identified MAJCOM commanders and Component commanders,
       as well as SAF/IA, POLAD and AF/A3/5, requesting counterpart visit recommendation
       nominations. These organizations should submit a list of not more than ten air chief
       nominations (5 primary and 5 alternates) to AF/CVAI for consolidation and discussion.
       The message will contain CSAF intent and program guidelines.
       2.1.3. Consolidate and distribute all inputs to SAF/IA, POLAD and AF/A3/5 in
       preparation for a AF/CVAI-hosted O-6-level meeting with the agencies. Schedule an O-
       6 level meeting with SAF/IA, POLAD and AF/A3/5 in order to review and discuss all
       inputs and forward a consolidated list of recommendations for top-line coordination by
       SAF/IA, POLAD, AF/A3/5, Assistant Vice Chief of Staff (AF/CVA) and the Vice Chief
       of Staff (AF/CV). Once coordination is complete, send to the CSAF for
       consideration/approval.
       2.1.4. Notify all AF component and MAJCOM commanders as well as appropriate US
       air attachés/representatives of CSAF’s decision regarding upcoming visits and
       symposiums.
HOI 16-1 10 JUNE 2014                                                                         3

        2.1.4.1. Provide dates available for counterpart visits and request US air
        attachés/representatives work with host nations to select dates, requesting one
        primary and two alternate dates.
        2.1.4.2. Provide courtesy letter or notification to Washington DC-based foreign
        attachés informing them of the selection of their air chief to participate in the visit or
        symposium, as appropriate.
     2.1.5 Provide courtesy letter or notification to Washington DC-based foreign attachés
     informing them of the selection of their air chief to participate in the visit or symposium,
     as appropriate.
     2.1.6. Plan itineraries, estimate costs and manage the visits of foreign distinguished
     visitors hosted or sponsored by the SecAF or the CSAF.
        2.1.6.1. Inside the National Capital Region (NCR), coordinate all logistical support
        in the NCR-associated with the SecAF/CSAF Counterpart Program with a single
        focal point at AFDW Ceremonies and Protocol. If the visiting air chief’s spouse is
        attending, AF/CVAI will coordinate with CSAF’s spouse to organize a separate
        spouses’ program.
        2.1.6.2. Outside the NCR, coordinate all logistical support associated with the
        SecAF/CSAF Counterpart Program with a single focal point at the respective host
        wing/organization. If the air chief’s spouse is attending, a separate spouses’ program
        will be organized by the host wing/organization in coordination with AF/CVAI.
        2.1.6.3. Prepare and staff a Legion of Merit presentation for the visiting air chief, if
        applicable.
     2.1.7. Coordinate with the Departments of State, Defense, Army, and Navy, as
     appropriate, for foreign counterpart visits.
     2.1.8. Request MAJCOM commanders nominate a host general officer for CSAF
     consideration, based on background and availability, to serve as escort for each visiting
     air chief from their region of responsibility. CSAF selects host general officers and then
     AF/CVA will notify them. The regional MAJCOM commander will normally serve as
     the escort during the CSAF-hosted regional multilateral counterpart visits and
     conferences.
     2.1.9. Prepare and transmit formal invitation to the selected air chief(s) on behalf of
     SecAF/CSAF inviting the air chief(s) to participate in the SecAF/CSAF foreign bilateral
     counterpart visit, regional multilateral counterpart visit or symposium. Send the
     invitation through the US air attaché/representative in country.
     2.1.10. Ensure appropriate US and foreign representation on the official party.
     AF/CVAI will assign one action officer to escort the official party and another to act as
     paying agent during the official visit. Action officers will remain with the official party
     at all times unless otherwise directed by CSAF or AF/CVA. AF/CVA is the final
     approval authority for assignment of one additional AF/CVAI action officer on a visit for
     training purposes. AF/CVAI action officers may participate on a training basis only
     once.
4                                                                HOI 16-1 10 JUNE 2014

       2.1.10.1. The official party for a SecAF/CSAF counterpart visit consists of the
       visiting air chief and spouse and no more than two accompanying staff officers. The
       Washington DC-based defense or air attaché from the visiting country and spouse (if
       air chief’s spouse is attending) may be included in the official party at the discretion
       of the inviting official. The spouse of the Washington DC-based foreign defense or
       air attaché can only participate in and will only be funded for events in the NCR if
       participation is deemed appropriate. The spouse of the Washington DC-based foreign
       defense or air attaché may not travel with the official party outside the NCR.
       Additionally, the official party will include the US air attaché, the US-host general
       officer and spouse (if air chief’s spouse is attending), AF/CVAI action officers,
       Office of Special Investigation agents and, if necessary, interpreter(s).
       NOTE: The US air attaché is responsible for writing a daily report throughout the
       course of the visit. The unclassified report will be emailed at the end of each day to
       the AF/CVAI Director and will provide a summary of the day’s activities
       emphasizing key issues raised during briefings and/or discussions with USAF senior
       leaders.
       2.1.10.2. The official party for a CSAF-hosted regional air chief symposium and a
       multi-lateral counterpart visit consists of the visiting air chiefs and no more than one
       accompanying staff officer each. The USAF will fund only the transportation costs
       (air travel and ground) for the accompanying staff officer during the official program.
       The staff officer’s air force will be responsible for funding all lodging, meals and
       other expenses for the staff officer for the entirety of the official program, as well as
       the staff officer’s transportation to and from the official program. Additionally, the
       official party will include the US-host general officer (typically the regional
       MAJCOM/CC), AF/CVAI action officers, Office of Special Investigation agents,
       flight doctor, air staff photographer, AF/CVAI leadership, a MAJCOM POLAD
       representative and, if necessary, interpreter(s). Up to two representatives from
       SAF/IA may also be included (at the discretion of the CSAF, MAJCOM/CC or
       AF/CVA).
       NOTE: The MAJCOM POLAD representative is responsible for writing a daily
       report throughout the course of the visit. The unclassified report will be emailed at
       the end of each day to the AF/CVAI Director and will provide a summary of the
       day’s activities emphasizing key issues raised during briefings and/or discussions
       with USAF senior leaders.
       2.1.10.3. AF/CVA is the final approval authority for any personnel added to the
       official party. The requesting US unit/organization will provide funding and logistics
       for additional travelers if approved. Exceptions to guidance and exceptions to
       procedures resulting in an increase in the foreign delegation must be approved by the
       Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) for funding
       considerations.
    2.1.11. Prepare and forward a photo album to the US air attaché/representative or local
    host-nation attaché for presentation to the air chief upon completion of the
    visit/symposium. The album, with photos compiled and printed by Secretary of the Air
    Force Photo Branch (SAF/AAIM), provides pictorial documentation of the official
HOI 16-1 10 JUNE 2014                                                                         5

      visit/symposium and serves as a keepsake for the air chief and his spouse. Funding will
      be provided by official representation funds and will be included in the aggregate gift
      value allowance afforded gifts given by the SecAF/CSAF during foreign bilateral
      counterpart visits, regional multilateral counterpart visits, or conferences.
      2.1.12. After the visit concludes, prepare and forward letters of appreciation to visited
      base/installation commanders for support provided by their visit focal point(s) in
      conjunction with a counterpart visit or regional air chief symposium.
   2.2. Secretariat and Air Staff Offices shall:
      2.2.1. As requested, recommend foreign air chiefs for participation in upcoming
      counterpart visits or symposiums.
      2.2.2. As requested, provide recommendations on content of specific visit, i.e., briefings
      to be presented, locations to be visited, office calls to be held.
      2.2.3. As directed, remain available to attend all NCR briefings and office calls to act as
      the HAF official note taker/task recorder.
      2.2.4. As directed, participate in official receptions, arrival ceremonies or other events in
      honor of the visiting air chiefs.
      2.2.5. As directed, conduct and expedite required security background checks, supply
      information and coordinate and facilitate any Legion of Merit award packages submitted
      for select air chiefs to Office of the Secretary of Defense (SecDef) for approval.
      2.2.6. Prepare and present briefings to the visiting air chief. Collect inputs and build
      briefing books for CSAF, AF/CV and AF/CVA and all principles present at the briefing
      table, including the official party.
      2.2.7. Provide an after action report not later than 30 days after completion of the
      visit/symposium, if requested.
3. Request for Funds/Funding Issues:
   3.1. All funds requests must be coordinated IAW HOI 65-3, HQ USAF Guidance For
   Official Representation Funds, through Secretary of the Air Force Resource Directorate
   (SAF/AAR) and approved in advance of the visit by SAF/AA.
   3.2. As thoroughly as possible, the AF/CVAI paying agent will estimate all costs by
   category of expense (food, lodging, in-flight expense, transportation and entertainment). An
   additional five percent may be provided above the overall projected cost to the paying agent
   to cover unforeseen costs. Utilizing these funds during the trip require approval of the CSAF-
   selected host general officer. If actual costs for an event exceed the estimated cost, the paying
   agent will inform SAF/AAR as soon as practical. If additional funds are not required (i.e.,
   costs are covered by savings in other areas), a memo for record in the reconciliation package
   will meet the requirement of informing SAF/AAR.
   3.3. All expenditures will be in accordance with AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds-
   Guidance and Procedures.
   3.4. In the event a SecAF/CSAF foreign air chief bilateral counterpart visit, regional
   multilateral counterpart visit or symposium proves cost prohibitive for an invited country,
6                                                                     HOI 16-1 10 JUNE 2014

    other funding sources for the travel to and from the CONUS may be considered, consistent
    with AF and DOD policies. Section 1051 of Title 10, U.S. Code allows the SecDef to
    authorize use of appropriated funds for “travel, subsistence and similar personal expenses of
    defense personnel of developing countries” to allow them to attend a “bilateral or regional
    conference, seminar or similar meeting.” The law requires a SecDef level determination that
    attendance by these personnel is in the interest of national security.
    3.5. The AF/CVAI paying agent will turn in excess funds within 30 days after the conclusion
    of a visit. The final accounting will be accomplished within 30 days. If the accounting
    cannot be submitted within 30 days, the paying agent will notify SAF/AAR in writing and
    request an extension with justification for the request and an estimated filing date.
    3.6. The CSAF-selected host general officer escort and escorting US attaché must plan to
    fund TDY expenditures not covered by HAF. These expenses will include the commercial
    flight to the program’s point of origin (to include for the general officer’s spouse if also
    participating) and return travel to their duty stations following the completion of the visit, as
    well as associated lodging and per diem costs.




                                                    PATRICIA ZARODKIEWICZ
                                                    Administrative Assistant
HOI 16-1 10 JUNE 2014                                                                      7


                                         Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 16-1, International Affairs, 2 November 2009
AFI 16-201, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International
Organizations, 1 December 2004
AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds-Guidance and Procedures, 24 August 2011
AFMAN 16-101, International Affairs & Security Assistance Management, 20 June 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
HOI 65-3, HQ USAF Guidance For Official Representation Funds, March 2008


Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF/A3/5 - Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans, and Requirements
AF/CV - Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force
AF/CVA - Assistant Vice Chief of Staff
AF/CVAI - Air Force Foreign Liaison and Executive Review Division
AFMAN - Air Force Manual
CSAF - Chief of Staff of the Air Force
HAF - Headquarters Air Force (Secretariat and Air Staff)
HOI - Headquarters Operating Instruction - An HOI assigns responsibilities, directs actions, and
prescribes procedures within a Headquarters
MAJCOMS - Major Air Force Commands
NCR - National Capital Region
POLAD - Political Advisor to the CSAF
SAF/AA - Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AAIM - Secretary of the Air Force Photo Branch
SAF/AAR - Secretary of the Air Force Resource Directorate
SecAF - Secretary of the Air Force
8                                             HOI 16-1 10 JUNE 2014

SecDEF - Office of the Secretary of Defense
US - United States
USAF - United States Air Force
