BY ORDER OF THE                                HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 10-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                21 October 2011


                                                                                             Operations

                            Headquarters Air Force Emergency Response on the Pentagon Reservation


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: HAF Publications and forms are available on the AF Portal: www.my.af.mil
::Organization A-Z Listing::HAF/IM::HOIs (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=1134204).

RELEASIBILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3/5                                                                     Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                                       (Maj Gen John W. Hesterman III)
                                                                                             Pages: 10

This publication implements Department of Defense (DoD) Administrative Instruction (AI) 111,
Component Emergency Response on the Pentagon Reservation. The procedures prescribed herein are
intended to prepare Headquarters Air Force (HAF) organizations located in the Pentagon for emergencies.
It applies to all AF military and civilian employees assigned to the Pentagon Reservation, including Air
Force Reserve, Air National Guard, contractor personnel and organization visitors. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

1. Overview: It is DoD policy, in accordance with DoD Directive 5105.68, Pentagon Force Protection
Agency (PFPA), and DoD Instruction 3020.43, Emergency Management and Incident Command on the
Pentagon Facilities, that force protection, security and law enforcement for the Pentagon is provided by
the Director, Pentagon Force Protection Agency (PFPA). Leaders and supervisors at all levels in the
Pentagon shall maintain and exercise internal emergency plans for the Pentagon and keep personnel
informed of and trained in emergency response procedures. This HOI applies to the Pentagon
Reservation only. Emergency preparedness and response at Raven Rock Mountain Complex (RRMC)
shall be governed by applicable RRMC regulations.

2. Responsibilities: All AF personnel (active, reserve, guard, civilian, contractor and visitors of AF
personnel) assigned to Headquarters Air Force and working on the Pentagon Reservation will comply
with this HOI.

  2.1 HAF 2-Letter organizations will:

     2.1.1. Appoint a primary and secondary Evacuation Coordinator (EC) responsible for implementation
of this HOI. The appointees should not be the same personnel identified as the HAF 2-Letter Emergency
                                                                     HOI 10-1 21 October 2011

Planning Coordinator (EPC) per the Headquarters United States Air Force Operation Order 3-09,
Continuity of Operations, (HAF COOP OPORD). Provide a copy of the HAF 2-Letter EC appointment
letter to AFDW/A3C.

    2.1.2. Implement policies and procedures IAW PFPA policies and procedures, this HOI and the HAF
COOP OPORD to ensure that shelter-in-place, internal relocation and personnel evacuation are executed
effectively. Specific organizational procedures should be included in the respective 2-Letter Continuity
of Operations (COOP) plans.

   2.2. AFDW/A3C is the OPR for HAF Continuity of Operations (COOP) and personnel evacuation
from the Pentagon Reservation.

3. Procedures: PFPA will alert DoD Components to emergency conditions by various means, such as
fire alarm, Computer Emergency Notification System (CENS), public address systems, Pentagon Police
Directorate (PPD) or through official fire and emergency personnel. PFPA directs emergency actions, in
coordination with the incident or unified commander on the Pentagon Reservation, based upon the unique
nature of the incident or threat. Emergency operations on the Pentagon Reservation generally require one
of three response actions from HAF personnel: shelter-in-place, internal relocation, or evacuation. These
three response actions could be executed simultaneously with COOP procedures. During all three
emergency response actions, HAF supervisors shall maintain control and accountability of assigned
personnel. If personnel are away from their designated work area during an emergency but still within the
Pentagon Reservation, those personnel shall follow the procedures of the organization they are with
during the emergency and report their status in accordance with applicable procedures.

   3.1. Shelter-in-Place: PFPA directs shelter-in-place operations when hazardous conditions warrant
that occupants are safer if they remain inside the space. Each HAF organization will identify a shelter-in-
place location for each occupant – usually the occupant’s work space. Although the shelter-in-place site
may be the occupant’s normal workspace, individuals cannot leave the room, e.g., no coffee runs or
bathroom breaks. Supervisors in each shelter-in-place location should consider purchasing or assembling
office survival kits that include items such as food, water, first-aid kits, etc. It is recommended enough
supplies be available for a duration of 72 hours.

     3.1.1 Upon notification to conduct shelter-in-place operations, personnel should immediately move
to their designated shelter-in-place site, if possible. This location is typically within or in the direct
vicinity of the work place, in a controlled area such as a conference room, or another assigned area with
controlled access. Non-AF personnel visitors should follow the instructions of their sponsor or direction
of the Pentagon Police. Personnel who are not located in their designated shelter-in-place location during
an emergency, should seek shelter in the nearest office in their vicinity and contact their own organization
for accountability as soon as practical.

     3.1.2 A shelter-in-place posture may be directed in the event of an active shooter or another internal
threat within the Pentagon. If a shelter-in-place posture is directed due to an active shooter or another
internal threat, follow the guidance provided by PFPA:

          3.1.2.1. If inside the Pentagon: stay calm and call 911; follow Pentagon Police, CENS
and Big Voice directions; get out of the hallways, shelter in place and lock doors; allow others to seek
shelter and treat the injured.

        3.1.2.2. If outside the Pentagon (i.e., courtyard or parking lot): take cover and put something
    between you and the shooter (i.e., car, truck, concrete planter, bench, etc.).


                                                     2
                                                                   HOI 10-1 21 October 2011

         3.1.2.3. Report the following to Pentagon Police personnel by calling the PFPA Integrated
    Emergency Operations Center (IEOC) at 697-1001: number of shooters, your location, location &
    description of shooter(s) and number of injured and type of injuries.

        3.1.2.4. If you interact with the Pentagon Police, you should be prepared to: raise your arms,
    empty your hands and spread fingers, drop to the deck, have weapons pointed at you, be handcuffed,
    be held for interview and/or be searched. Under any circumstance, do not: point at officers, run
    towards officers, scream or yell or expect officers to assist you if you are injured.

   3.2. Internal Relocation: PFPA directs internal relocation to move occupants from high-risk, hazard
areas to a safe area within the building. This response action minimizes the risk of exposure to potential
hazards. Upon notification to conduct internal relocation, all affected occupants shall move under the
control of PFPA to a designated safe area. PFPA will notify affected personnel through the use of CENS,
public address systems, Pentagon police officer contact, or other official means. During any internal
relocation, HAF supervisors shall maintain control and accountability of assigned personnel.

   3.3. Evacuation: Occupants will be evacuated outside the building when shelter-in-place and internal
relocation response options are not practical to protect them within the building. There are two methods
by which occupants will evacuate a Pentagon facility:

    3.3.1. PFPA-Directed Evacuation. PFPA will manage these unique operations required for
emergencies other than fire, to include the designation and announcement of routes and assembly areas,
based upon the unique nature of the emergency.

     3.3.2 Fire Alarm-Initiated Evacuation. When a fire alarm activates in their assigned facilities,
affected elements of Pentagon Reservation personnel shall immediately evacuate the building using either
the pre-designated route or the route as directed by PFPA. Fire alarm-initiated evacuation for the
Pentagon will occur as follows: the Pentagon fire alarm activation is signaled by a simultaneous high-
pitch alarm, flashing strobe lights, and an automated pre-recorded message directing occupants to
immediately initiate building evacuation. Pentagon personnel shall evacuate along their designated egress
route to their assigned assembly areas.

     3.3.3. Egress Routes and Assembly Areas: The Office of the Pentagon Fire Marshal (OPFM)
manages egress routes for all facilities on the Pentagon Reservation to ensure occupants evacuate in a
coordinated and safe manner according to building design. The OPFM will develop exit routing maps for
the Pentagon Reservation and assign assembly areas based upon office location and their designated
egress route in order to avoid overpopulation at any one location on the Pentagon Reservation. In general
terms, evacuation exits at the Pentagon consist of three distinct means based upon individual office
locations: direct exit from doors along the E-Ring on the basement, first, and second floors; exits via
A&E Drive onward along designated routes to external assembly areas; and exit through the Center
Courtyard to external assembly areas. The Center Courtyard is for movement only and is not an assembly
area. The OPFM Website at https://fire.whs.mil/ provides detailed information about these routes.

     3.3.4. HAF 2-Letter or equivalent organizations will:

       3.3.4.1. Obtain emergency exit maps from the OPFM. HAF supervisors and/or their ECs will send
their space(s) room number, organization and acronym, point of contact (POC) name, phone number,
number of occupants, and e-mail address to fireinfo@whs.mil or via telephone at (703) 693-3683.

      3.3.4.2. Maintain current egress route maps at all exits for their spaces and assembly space
assignments. Post the egress maps or otherwise make them available to all space occupants. Egress maps

                                                    3
                                                                      HOI 10-1 21 October 2011

should be posted by each office exit door. Advise OPFM of significant changes to space populations or
relocation to new space.

       3.3.4.3. The senior member present shall ensure that all personnel within the designated office have
departed and shall indicate the office is vacant by posting a “Cleared” placard by the main entrance to the
office during internal relocation or evacuation.

       3.3.4.4. Personnel with Special Needs. Supervisors/ECs shall: Ask employees to voluntarily
identify any assistance they may require during emergencies due to mental or physical special needs;
ensure those persons with special needs are assigned two “buddies” to assist them during an emergency
response situation; ensure contact is made with OPFM to have an individual evacuation plan prepared
for personnel with special needs.

   3.4. Accountability and Reporting: HAF 2-Letter organizations are responsible to account for all
personnel in their organization: military (active, reserve and guard), government employees, contractors
and people who may be visiting or TDY to the organization. Accountability procedures should also
include a means to account for personnel TDY from the organization. Each HAF organization will
identify a primary and alternate EC or other POC responsible for accountability. Below the 2-Letter
level, each HAF organization may establish a reporting structure that best suits their organization.

     3.4.1. The key to successful personnel accountability in a crisis environment is a clear accountability
chain to ensure all personnel are accounted for, as well as a valid baseline, i.e., an accurate office recall
roster. Since personnel accountability data may drive rescue efforts, it is important to get accurate data to
PFPA and AFDW/11 FSS/FSOXI (Joint Base Andrews-Naval Air Facility Washington). Therefore,
immediately after arrival at evacuation assembly areas, or when directed, ECs, other POCs or the senior
member present will initiate personnel accountability procedures.

      3.4.2. Figure 1 depicts the HAF Personnel Accountability Reporting Chain. HAF ECs,
accountability POCs or the senior member present (if the EC or other accountability POC is not available)
will submit accountability information to PFPA and to AFDW/11 FSS/FSOXI.

      3.4.2.1. The first report to PFPA should be provided 30 minutes after evacuation with updates due
every 30 minutes until 100% accountability is achieved for all personnel as described above. The
following information is due to PFPA every 30 minutes until 100 percent personnel accountability is
achieved:
          a. Organization.
          b. Date and time.
          c. POC name and contact information.
          d. Total number of personnel unaccounted for.
          e. Name(s) of personnel unaccounted for.
          f. Remarks as appropriate.

Report personnel accountability to PFPA at:
       Email: operations@pfpa.mil
       Phone: (703) 697-1001
       Fax: (703) 695- 5435

PFPA may require personnel to sign in as they enter assembly areas. While this will assist in final
accountability, it does not replace the requirement to report through Air Force channels. In a biological or
chemical event, some work places may be evacuated and others quarantined. In the event of quarantine,
submit personnel accountability reports as soon as the situation allows. Based upon the severity of the

                                                     4
                                                                 HOI 10-1 21 October 2011

event, the commercial telephone system may not be functioning or other circumstances may delay the
submission of telephonic reports. In these situations, ECs collect and submit their initial report via
alternate means or to alternate locations; i.e., communicate with roving PFPA personnel.

     3.4.2.2. Once the event is over and all personnel have been accounted for, or as time and the
situation permit, HAF ECs, accountability POCs or the senior member present (if the EC or other
accountability POC is not available) should submit complete personnel accountability reports to
AFDW/11 FSS/FSOXI. The complete report should include, at a minimum, the information indicated in
Figure 2. Submit complete accountability information to AFDW at:

      Email: 316fss.fsoxi@afncr.af.mil or Andrews.idrc@afncr.af.mil
      Phone: 301-981-5922 or DSN 858-5922
      Fax: 301-981-2686 or DSN 858-2686

AFDW/11FSS/FSOXI will report HAF personnel accountability information to the AF Service Watch
Cell at AFWATCH@PENTAGON.AF.MIL.




                                                  5
                                                       HOI 10-1 21 October 2011




 Office Evac            Office Evac                Office Evac             Office Evac
 POC/Senior             POC/Senior                 POC/Senior              POC/Senior
Office Member          Office Member              Office Member           Office Member




                                    Division Evacuation
                                        Coordinator


                                      Sub-Directorate
                                   Evacuation Coordinator
                                       (if applicable)



                                   Directorate Evacuation
                                   Coordinator (3-Letter)


                               Evacuation Coordinator
                                      (2-Letter)




             PFPA IEOC                                        11 FSS/FSOXI
      Email: operations@pfpa.mil                      316fss.fsoxi@afncr.af.mil or
      Phone: (703) 697-1001                           Andrews.idrc@afncr.af.mil
      Fax: (703) 695- 5435                      Phone: 301-981-5922 or DSN 858-5922
                                                Fax: 301-981-2686 or DSN 858-2686




                 Figure 1. HAF Personnel Accountability Reporting Chain




                                           6
                                                                             HOI 10-1 21 October 2011




REPORT TYPE: Interim Report #________DTG________________ or Final Report_____DTG_______________
                                                     Not Accounted
                                                          For
Directorate       Assigned         Accounted For       (Missing)             Injured        Dead
                       Mil   CIV Cont Oth   Mil   CIV Cont Oth   Mil   CIV Cont Oth    Mil    CIV   Cont   Mil   CIV Cont

HAF Organization                                      Mil = Active, reserve, national guard

TDY to directorate                                    CIV = Appointed and civil service

Visiting directorate                                  Cont = Contractor
Directorate Total
                                                      Oth = Other
Missing-Injured-
Dead                   LAST NAME            FIRST NAME                                STATUS
                                                                                      M = Missing
                                                                                      I = Injuried
                                                                                      D = Dead



1. HAF ECs, accountability POCs or the senior member present (if the EC or other accountability POC is not
available) submit the first report to PFPA 30 minutes after evacuation with updates due every 30 minutes until
100% accountability is achieved. Provide the following information is due to PFPA:

   a. Organization
   b. Date and Time
   c. POC name and contact information
   d. Total number of personnel unaccounted for
   e. Name(s) of personnel unaccounted for
   f. Remarks as appropriate

2. HAF ECs, accountability POCs or the senior member present (if the EC or other accountability POC is not
available) collect data from subordinate divisions and submit complete accountability information to
AFDW/11FSS/FSOXI once the event is over and all personnel have been accounted for or as time and the
situation permit.




                        Figure 2. HAF Personnel Accountability Report Information




                                                             7
                                                                     HOI 10-1 21 October 2011

3.5. Training and Exercises: Emergency response training should be a continuous effort in order for
personnel to maintain proficiency.

   3.5.1. HAF 2-Letter or equivalent organizations will ensure their personnel complete initial and
recurring training. Initial training for new employees consists of orientation on the Pentagon emergency
response procedures and training on the emergency escape masks and optional go-bags. Mask and go-bag
training is conducted weekly by PFPA. Call (703) 695-6892 to schedule attendance. HAF 2-Letter or
equivalent organizations should provide their employees with annual refresher training either by
individual or group briefing. Personnel can access additional information in emergency response at
https://extranet.pfpa.mil.

  3.5.2. PFPA will periodically conduct shelter or evacuation exercises. Organizations may conduct
organizational exercises in their own office spaces without prior notification to PFPA. However, any
organizational exercise that will take place outside of offices and especially those that involve the actual
movement of occupants out of the Pentagon must be coordinated with PFPA in advance for an
“Evacuation Exercise Permit.”           Supervisors shall submit a completed DD Form 2798,
“Application/Permit for Use of Space on the Pentagon Reservation,” to the Pentagon Building
Management Office, Special Events Coordinator, Room 2E1040, telephone (703) 697-7351 or email
PBMOSpecialEvents@whs.mil, in order to schedule an evacuation exercise.




                                                           TIMOTHY A. BEYLAND
                                                           Administrative Assistant to the
                                                           Secretary of the Air Force




                                                     8
                                                                     HOI 10-1 21 October 2011

Attachment

                  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Administrative Instruction 111, Component Emergency Response on the Pentagon
Reservation, 2 December 2010
DoD Directive 5105.53, Director of Administration and Management, 26 February 2008
Pentagon Reservation Component Emergency Response Guide, 12 December 2007 1
Pentagon Reservation Occupant Emergency Response Guide, 2 April 2008 2
DoD Directive 5105.68, Pentagon Force Protection Agency (PFPA), 19 December 2008
DoD Instruction 3020.43, Emergency Management and Incident Command on the Pentagon
Reservation, 6 March 2007
Sections 1910.34 through 1910.39 of title 29, Code of FederalRegulations
Section 234 of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations
Headquarters United States Air Force Operation Order 3-09, Continuity of Operations

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DoD - Department of Defense
HAF - Headquarters Air Force
OPR - Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS - Records Disposition Schedule
PFPA - Pentagon Force Protection Agency
AFMAN - Air Force Manual
AF - Air Force
RRMC - Raven Rock Mountain Complex
HOI - Headquarters Operating Instruction
EC - Evacuation Coordinator
EPC - Emergency Planning Coordinator
COOP - Continuity of Operations
OPORD - Operations Order
PPD - Pentagon Police Directorate
CENS - Computer Emergency Notification System
IEOC - Integrated Emergency Operations Center
OPFM - Office of the Pentagon Fire Marshal
TDY - Temporary Duty

Terms
A&E Drive-The secure vehicle access to the interior roadways of the Pentagon Building and the Center
Courtyard.

Buddy-A person designated to assist a person with mental or physical impairments during an emergency.

Center Courtyard-The landscaped area of approximately 5 acres within the interior of the Pentagon.

Computer Emergency Notification System (CENS)-A system operated by PFPA which provides
information directly to all unclassified computer systems on the Pentagon Reservation regarding potential
emergency situations.

1
    https://extranet.pfpa.mil/evacuation_documents/Component_Emergency_Response_Guide.pdf
2
    https://extranet.pfpa.mil/evacuation_documents/Occupant_Emergency_Response_Guide_030208.pdf

                                                      9
                                                                    HOI 10-1 21 October 2011


Go-Bags -Two bags; one inside the other. The inside bag is used for emergency clothing, food, medicine,
car keys, etc. and should be taken anytime emergency escape masks are needed.

Emergency Escape Mask-A device utilized by individuals to protect them from chemical and biological
hazards.

Office-A physical suite location located within the Pentagon Reservation, e.g., 5E1001.

Pentagon Reservation-The area of land consisting of approximately 280 acres and improvements
thereon, located in Arlington, Virginia, on which the Pentagon Office Building, FOB2 and other related
facilities are located, including various areas designated for the parking of vehicles. For the purpose of
this HOI, RRMC or FOB2 is not included.

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2798, Application/Permit for Use of Space on the Pentagon Reservation




                                                   10
