BY ORDER OF THE                                  HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 10-9
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                    11 Jan 2013




                                                                                       Operations

                                     DUTY OFFICERS FOR HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the Air Force Portal
(https://www.my.af.mil) HAF/IM::HOIs (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=1134204).
If you lack access, contact the OPR to obtain a copy.

RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3O-OA                                  Certified by: AF/A3/5 (Lt Gen Burton M. Field)
Supersedes: HOI 10-9, 10 July 2000              Pages: 4

This publication applies to Headquarters Air Force (HAF) organizations. It codifies the need for
duty officers within the HAF and identifies the types of duty officers required. It also identifies
the HAF organizations required to designate Standby Duty Officer positions, and lists the general
duties and responsibilities of each type duty officer. It implements Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES:
This revision clarifies HAF Duty Officer requirements. These changes include Standby Duty
Officer (SDO) responsibilities timeline, the removal of Air Force Duty Officer (AFDO)
requirements, and updates to various contact information.

1. Types of Duty Officers.

   1.1. There are two types of duty officers within the HAF operational reporting chain: The
   AFDO in the Air Force Service Watch Cell (AFSWC), and SDOs in each Secretariat and Air
   Staff organization.
2                                                                          HOI 10-9 11 Jan 2013

    1.2. The AFDO serves as the central point of contact for all duty and after hour
    situations/incidents involving AF resources which are of interest to the HAF leadership.
    These situations/incidents are usually received through, but not limited to, the AF operational
    reporting system. As such, the AFDO takes the lead role in initiating USAF actions in
    response to these incidents.

       1.2.1. SDOs are the central points of contact for their respective organizations during and
       after duty hours. SDOs will be available to receive calls from the AFSWC about
       incidents or events that fall within the purview of their organizations. Calls may provide
       information or request information needed to help the AFSWC clarify an event or
       incident. In many cases, the nature of an incident will require division level assistance or
       involvement; therefore, SDOs must be able to contact key personnel within their
       respective organizations.

    1.3. Types of events or incidents that may require SDO involvement include, but are not
    limited to, Air Force Crisis Action Team activation, execution of the HAF Continuity of
    Operations Plan, and natural disasters. Also included are other emergencies which affect AF
    resources directly or in which AF resources are providing emergency assistance or any event
    or request made to HAF that requires short notice approval, coordination, or action.

2. Duty Officer and Agency Responsibilities.

    2.1. The AFDO:

       2.1.1. Is a member of the AFSWC and provides shift coverage for 24/7 operations. The
       AFDO serves as the Team Chief of the watch shift leading a Senior Watch NCO and
       Watch NCO. The AFSWC is the primary emergency notification center for HAF and is
       the first point of contact for AF units for events or incidents of interest to the Chief of
       Staff of the Air Force, Secretary of the Air Force, or National Military Command Center.

       2.1.2. Serves as the SDO for the Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and
       Requirements (AF/A3/5).

    2.2. The AFSWC is required to be capable of contacting the SDOs for each Secretariat and
    Air Staff organization during all non duty hours to ensure continuity of HAF operations.
    SDOs must have the ability to contact appropriate personnel within their organizations to
    provide requested response to the AFSWC on a timely basis.

       2.2.1. Each Secretariat and Air Staff organization will designate an SDO capable of
       responding to matters that pertain to their organization after normal duty hours. The
       SDO may be a single point of contact (such as an executive officer) or may be rotated
       among the organization’s staff. Organizations with a 24-hour operations center (such as
       AF/A3/5) may designate their duty officer or NCO to fulfill their requirement for a SDO.

       2.2.2. Each organization with an SDO requirement will provide the AFSWC the rank and
       name(s) of its SDO. The memorandum or email will include all methods for contacting
HOI 10-9 11 Jan 2013                                                                               3

      an SDO (office and home phone numbers, cell phone, pager numbers, etc) and the dates
      for which the individual will be providing SDO coverage. SDOs must be able to respond
      back to the AFSWC within 15 minutes of message delivery. If the position is to be
      rotated among an organization’s staff, submit an updated list to the AFSWC not later than
      the 25th of each month. If the scheduled SDO will not be available for an extended
      period (e.g., leave, TDY, or not at a published number), their organization must notify the
      AFSWC and provide contact information for the alternate SDO. For organizations with a
      24-hour operations center, provide the AFSWC with a memorandum from an appropriate
      representative (executive officer or higher authority) of the staff designating the
      operations center to act as agency SDO. The memorandum must include applicable
      phone numbers.

          2.2.2.1. Send memorandums designating primary and alternate SDOs or identifying
          an operations center as the agency SDO to the:
          AF/A3O-OA
          (Attn: Air Force Service Watch Cell)
          1480 AF Pentagon
          Washington DC 20330-1480

          2.2.2.2. Address electronic mail to:
              AFSWC Secure email address: AFWatch@af.pentagon.smil.mil
              AFSWC unclassified email address: AFWatch@pentagon.af.mil
              AFSWC phone number: 697-6103 (DSN: 227)

   2.3. The SDO is not expected to be an expert in all functional areas within the organization.
   The position provides the AFSWC or higher authority with a 24-hour point of contact who
   can locate the functional expert relevant to a situation. Each Secretariat and Air Staff
   organization will develop procedures to ensure their SDO is able to contact key personnel
   within their organization.




                                            TIMOTHY A. BEYLAND, SES, DAF
                                            Administrative Assistant




                                                3
4                                                             HOI 10-9 11 Jan 2013


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References

Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
Air Force Policy Directive 10-2, Readiness, 30 Oct 2006

Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication


Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFCAT: Air Force Crisis Action Team

AFDO: Air Force Duty Officer

AFMAN: Air Force Manual

AFRIMS: Air Force Records Information Management System

AFSWC: Air Force Service Watch Cell

HAF: Headquarters Air Force

OPR: Office of Primary Responsibility

RDS: Records Disposition Schedule

SDO: Standby Duty Officer
