BY ORDER OF THE            HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 23-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                              22 Jul 2013

                                                                                             Supply

                 SUPPLIES AND SUPPLY SERVICES FOR THE HEADQUARTERS (HAF)
                                      IN THE NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION (NCR)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: HAF Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/AAO                            Certified by: SAF/AAO (Mrs. Susan Bench-Snow)
Supersedes: HOI 23-1, 30 September 2010                                       Pages: 7



This Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) implements AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply
Manual and is consistent with AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card (GPC)
Program. This HOI defines how Headquarters Air Force (HAF) in government-owned/leased
facilities within the NCR obtain their supplies and supply services. HAF offices will use the Army
Contracting Command New Jersey (ACC/NJ) Government Purchase Card program for supplies.
This instruction applies to the HAF organizations excluding organizations on military installations.
(The Pentagon is not deemed to be a military installation for the purpose of this instruction). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication and forward to
SAF/AAO. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
aremaintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management Systems
(AFRIMS)           Records        Disposition       Schedule         (RDS)          located        at
https:///www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication has been revised to reflect the following organizational name and procedural
changes: organizational name to Army Contracting Command New Jersey (ACC/NJ); from
Department of Logistics Washington (DOL-W); to Logistics Services Washington (LSW); added
procedural change stating that using LSW for moves requires advanced finding effective 1 October
2010; added and updated process for HAF Supply Depot.
2                                                                     HOI 23-1 22 Jul 2013


1. Overview. The ACC/NJ and the LSW provide Government Purchase Card (GPC) support to
HAF offices for the purchase of supplies. ACC/NJ will authorize the issue of GPC to members of
the Air Force upon the completion of training by the Card Holder and the Card Holder’s Billing
Officials. The GPC is a payment vehicle for supplies and supply services (excluding furniture and
furniture services). The Micro-Purchase spending limits are specified in the current fiscal year
Purchase Card Operating Procedures guide.
2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. The Office of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force, Operations
    Directorate (SAF/AAO):
       2.1.1. Serves as the liaison between Card Holders, Billing Officials and ACC/NJ to resolve
       disputes.
       2.1.2. Develops and distributes ACC/NJ’s program/policies/procedures to organizations’
       Supply Coordinators for redistribution to the Card Holders/Billing Officials.
       2.1.3. Participates in ACC/NJ hosted training conferences and disseminates applicable
       information to organizations’ Supply Coordinators.
       2.1.4. Maintains a webpage located on the Air Force portal web site listed under
       SAF/AAO. The supply webpage is host to a variety of supply related information.
       2.1.5. Maintains the “HAF Supply Depot”, a SharePoint site at
       https://haf.afncr.af.mil/com/HAF/supplydepot/default.aspx where surplus supply items
       can be posted and claimed for use by other organizations.
           2.1.5.1. All HAF personnel have visibility into the HAF Supply Depot however, only
           GPC card holders can post.
           2.1.5.2. Only GPC card holders can “claim” those items for their organizations use.
           2.1.5.3. The posting office will retain the claimed items until arrangements are made
           and items have been picked up by the claiming office.
    2.2. Air Force District Washington, Financial Management Office (AFDW/FMO):
       2.2.1. Assign’s Master Account Codes for GPC accounts IAW AFI 64-117. Submit
       requests to include: Department of Defense Activity Address code (DoDAAC), Billing
       Official (BO), Alternate Billing Official (ABO) and line of accounting. Requests should be
       submitted to: AFDW/FMOO Requisition (WAWF92@afncr.af.mil).
       2.2.2. Notifies organizational Resource Managers/Advisors each month on delinquent BO
       accounts, enforcing their “Pay and Confirm” policy.
       2.2.3. Assigns a single line of accounting to each master account to pay for interest
       penalties incurred on delinquent accounts.
       2.2.4. Updates funding information in the servicing bank accounts as part of their funds
       certification process.
    2.3. HAF organizations within the NCR will:
       2.3.1. Appoint a Supply Coordinator(s) for their organization.
HOI 23-1 22 Jul 2013                                                                   3


      2.3.2. Appoint (GPC) Billing Officials (primary and alternate) and their Card Holders.
      Arrange for initial purchase card training, annual refresher training and annual ethics
      training. The training requirements are located in the Department of the Army Government
      Purchase Card Operating Procedures (GPCOP).
      2.3.3. Submit all administrative changes (e.g., change Billing Official, add or remove
      Card Holder, increase/decrease account spending limits) to the GPC accounts to ACC/NJ
      in writing. Email the central email box at GSASmartpay@conus.army.mil. Refer to the
      current GPCOP for a sample of the information required.
   2.4. Resource Advisor (RA)/ Resource Manager (RM) will:
      2.4.1. If a new user of ABSS, complete DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access
      Request (SAAR), and forward to the ABSS Customer Support Office (abss@afncr.af.mil).
      2.4.2. RA approve AF Form 4009 within ABSS.
      2.4.3. Coordinate funding and spending limits with the BO.
      2.4.4. Establish funds for each Card Holder account in advance of purchases.
      2.4.5. Not be a Credit Card Holder.
      2.4.6. Not be a BO.
      2.4.7. Assign a current single line of accounting for each master account to pay for Card
      Holders purchases.
      2.4.8. Ensure the obligation document is forwarded to the appropriate payment office.
   2.5. Billing Official(s) (BO) and Alternates (ABO) will:
      2.5.1. Distribute their Resource Advisor’s/Manager’s-provided funds to their GPC Card
      Holders once the AF Form 4009, Government Purchase Card Fund Cite Authorization,
      that loads funds to the GPC accounts, is certified. All AF Form 4009 will be prepared
      using the financial system Automated Business Services System (ABSS).
      2.5.2. Review Card Holder(s) monthly statements and logs to ensure that all purchases
      including accountable equipment purchases, are properly recorded, verified/approved.
      2.5.3. Comply with the current fiscal year GPCOP.
      2.5.4. Should be in the Card Holders’ supervisory chain.
      2.5.5. Responsible for ensuring that all purchases made by cardholders within their
      purview are appropriate, bona-fide and that the charges are accurate. Upon discovery of
      any improprieties, the BO or ABO must notify the Commanding Officer.
      2.5.6. Ensure that credits reflected on the BO invoice are deducted from the money owed
      to the bank for that billing cycle.
      2.5.7. Not be a contractor. The BO is an inherently governmental position.
      2.5.8. Not be a GPC Card Holder.
      2.5.9. Not be a RA/RM.
4                                                                   HOI 23-1 22 Jul 2013

       2.5.10. Respond with a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) on time if required after an
       account inspection is completed.
    2.6. Card Holders will:
       2.6.1. Use the GPC to pay for official supplies and supply services in support of the
       organization’s mission. Assure no items are bought for personal use.
       2.6.2. Complete ACC/NJ approved GPC Pre-Approval Form prior to making any
       transactions.
       2.6.3. Comply with the current GPCOP.
       2.6.4. Create a Purchase Card Log to track allocated funding and create a new entry in
       the Log that shows the date of purchase, name of the merchant and the amount of the
       transaction. Card Holders are required to record transactions immediately after
       authorizing a credit card purchase.
       2.6.5. Use the U.S. Bank Access Online (https:// access.usbank.com.) web-based Access
       Online (AXOL system) to facilitate electronic invoicing and payment. The AXOL system
       can be accessed at https:// access.usbank.com.
       2.6.6. Approve all purchases with U.S. Bank within three days of the end of the billing
       cycle and reconcile statement with entries made in the Transaction Log.
       2.6.7. Forward the original purchase card receipts to the BO, unless otherwise directed.
       Receipt retention is six years, three months.
       2.6.8. Ensure funds are available to pay for a purchase prior to making a buy.
       2.6.9. Not be a contractor. The Card Holder is an inherently governmental position.
       2.6.10. Not be a BO for the same account.
       2.6.11. Not be a RA/RM for the funding source.
       2.6.12. Not pay state sales tax on purchases and when needed, obtain state tax exempt
       letters at: https://smartpay.gsa.gov/about-gsa-smartpay/tax-information/state-response-
       letter
 3. Purchase Sources. HAF organizations in government-owned/leased facilities within the
NCR should not use their assigned DoDAACs to obtain supplies and supply services from
sources other than LSW/ACC/NJ. Supplies and supply services not available in LSW/ACC/NJ
can be obtained with the GPC using the prescribed mandatory sources.
4. Purchasing Supplies/Supply Services.
    4.1. GPCs are used to pay for single purchases up to and including the established micro-
    purchase limit. Card Holders use their GPC for payment of supplies or supply services from
    approved sources. See the current fiscal year GPCOP for these sources.
    4.2. Card Holders that have a single purchase limit up to $25,000 must purchase goods and
    services from existing GSA Schedule or contracts that allow payment by a GPC or Blanket
    Purchase Agreement (BPA), when the transaction exceeds the established micro-purchase
HOI 23-1 22 Jul 2013                                                                     5


   limit. Procurements over the micro-purchase threshold that cannot be placed against an
   existing contract must be contracted via the local contracting office.
5. Other Purchases.
   5.1. Submit Move Requests (Furniture and Equipment) to LSW via the Office of the
   Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Armye (OAA) web page located at
   https://eoaa.hqda.pentagon.mil/. The move should require less than 20 man-hours of labor
   and be submitted at least three workdays in advance of the desired move date. There is a one-
   time registration and the requester will need to know their organization’s DoDAAC. Refer to
   the SAF/AAO (Supply) webpage for additional information. Move requests will require
   funding be in place to LSW via DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
   (MIPR).
   5.2. Interpreters required in conjunction with training should be arranged and paid for as a
   training cost.
6. Air Force DoDAACs, Stock Record Account Number (SRAN) and Type Address Code
(TAC).
   6.1. On-line inquiries can be made at the Defense Logistics Agency Publishing System
   webpage located at https://dodaac.wpafb.af.mil/. (Click on Advanced Search.)
   6.2. TACs are assigned to each DoDAAC and limited to four lines, 35 positions per line. The
   Air Force Service Point may construct three different TACs: TAC 1 (mail), TAC 2 (billing),
   TAC 3 (freight). (See AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, PT 2, CH1.)




                                                            TIM BEYLAND
                                                            Administrative Assistant
6                                                                   HOI 23-1 22 Jul 2013



                                          Attachment 1

          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 January 2009
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, 20 September 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2013
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Part 13
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), Part 213.301
DoD 4000.25-6-M, DoD Activity Address Directory, Date Varies
Army GPC Operating Procedures, 14 January 2013
AFI 65-601,Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005


Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access Request (SAAR)
AF Form 4009, Government Purchase Card Fund Cite Authorization
DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABSS--Automated Business Services System
AFI--Air Force Instruction
AXOL--U.S. Bank Access Online
BPA--Blanket Purchase Agreement
CAP--Corrective Action Plan
DoDAAC--Department of Defense Activity Address Code
DoDAAD--Department of Defense Address Directory
DoDD--Department of Defense Directive
DoDI--Department of Defense Instruction
LSW--Logistics Services Washington, Office of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the
Army
GSA--General Services Administration
HOI 23-1 22 Jul 2013                                                                         7


HOI--HQ USAF Operating Instruction
MIPR--Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
SAF/AAO--Air Force Operations Directorate
SRAN—Stock Record Account Number
SSSC--Self Service Supply Centers
TAC--Type Address Code
Terms
DoDAAC--A six-digit alphanumeric code that identifies the mailing, shipping, and billing
addresses for various government agencies. The code provides a uniform method for accounting
and controlling US Government assets.
Leased Space--Any space used, but not held “in fee”, by the Air Force (for example, General
Services Administration-controlled space).
National Capital Region—With respct to this HOI, the geographic area located within 100 miles of
the Pentagon.
Service Point--An activity within each participating military service or federal agency that is
responsible for maintaining DoDAAD data.
Micro-Purchase Thresholds (Supplies and Services)--(a) $3,000 single purchase limit for supplies
(b) $3,000 single purchase limit for services exempt from the Service Contract Act (Training,
Repair and Maintenance, Installation). (c) $2,500 limit for convenience check purchases (d)
$2,500 limit for purchases of services where the Services Contract Act applies
