BY ORDER OF THE            HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 36-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                           6 AUGUST 2014




                                                                                         Personnel

                                                             HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE
                                                       MILITARY DECORATIONS PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release instructions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1SRU                  Certified by: AF/A1S (Brigadier General Patrick J. Doherty)
Supersedes: HOI 36-2, 21 March 2013                                Number of Pages: 10


This Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) implements Air Force Policy directive (AFPD)
36-28, Awards and Decorations Program. This HOI applies to all personnel including active
duty, Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve personnel assigned at the Headquarters Air
Force (HAF). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to
waive requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a
description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through
the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the
Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES:
This revision provides the process for award nominations for members working in the office of the
Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force (AF/CCC).
2                                                               HOI 36-2 6 AUGUST 2014

1. Overview. This HOI sets forth approval levels and submission procedures for recognizing
officer and enlisted personnel assigned to Headquarters Air Force (HAF) (Secretariat and Air
Staff offices).

2. Privacy Act Statement. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The System of Records Notice F036
AFPC V, Awards and Decorations, applies and is available at:
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/.

3. Roles and Responsibilities.

    3.1. Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA):

       3.1.1. Endorses Distinguished Service Medal (DSM) nominations for two-letter
       Secretariats headed by 2-star General Officers or below, and equivalent civilian leaders
       (CL) and forwards nominations to AFPC/DPSIDR Workflow
       (dpsidr.taskmgt@us.af.mil).

       3.1.2. Approval authority for Legion of Merit (LOM) nominations for personnel
       assigned to the office of the Secretary of the Air Force and the Under Secretary of the Air
       Force (SAF/US).

       3.1.3. Approval authority for LOM nominations for two-letter Secretariats headed by 2-
       star General Officers or below, and equivalent CLs.

    3.2. Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (AF/CV):

       3.2.1. Approval authority for DSM nominations for retiring General Officers assigned to
       the office of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (AF/CC).

       3.2.2. Approval authority for DSM nominations for retiring General Officers assigned to
       Air Staff and their Field Operating Agencies (FOAs) and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs).

    3.3. Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (AF/CVA):

       3.3.1. Approval authority for LOM and below nominations for personnel assigned to the
       office of the AF/CC and the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force (AF/CCC).

       3.3.2. Approval authority for LOM nominations for Air Staff directorates headed by 2-
       star General Officers or below, and equivalent CLs.

    3.4. 811th Force Support Squadron (811 FSS):

       3.4.1. Processes all decorations for SAF/OS, SAF/US, SAF/AA, AF/CC, AF/CV,
       AF/CVA, and AF/CCC, and prepares certificates and issues special orders. Excluded
       from this are decorations processed by AFPC/DPSIDR.
HOI 36-2 6 AUGUST 2014                                                                       3



       3.4.2. Obtains AF/CC signature on the DECOR6 for Major Command Commanders
       (MAJCOM/CC) DSM nominations and forwards the nomination to AFPC/DPSIDR
       Workflow (dpsidr.taskmgt@us.af.mil).

       3.4.3. Establish procedures and standards for matters concerning the processing of
       decorations within HAF.

   3.5. Two-Letter Executive Offices:

       3.5.1. Ensures that this instruction is implemented and that nominations are processed in
       a timely manner. (T-3).

       3.5. 2. Act as a focal point where personnel may acquire advice and assistance on any
       questions relating to the application and implementation of this instruction. (T-3).

       3.5. 3. Issue orders for all decorations approved within their organization. (T-1).

   3.6. Pentagon Military Personnel Flight: Maintain adequate supply of decorations,
   service and achievement awards, as well as devices to provide initial issue of these items to
   eligible recipients. Provide initial issue of all U.S. and USAF military decorations,
   service/achievement medals, decoration binders/folders, service award ribbons, individual
   ribbons for unit awards, and subsequent devices awarded, authorized, or presented to the
   recipient. (T-1).

4. Military Awards Policy. Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and
Decorations Program, prescribes the military awards policy. This HOI does not supersede or
take precedence over AFI 36-2803. For decorations criteria and procedures for awarding
decorations to foreign military personnel refer to AFI 36-2803.

5. Approval Authority. Approval authority for HAF is shown in Table 5.1., and is authorized
by AFI 36-2803.
4                                                                        HOI 36-2 6 AUGUST 2014




Table 5.1. Decoration Approval Authority (see note 1)
  An “X” in a column Distinguished Legion of Meritorious Air Force  Air Force
indicates approval   Service Medal   Merit    Service Commendation Achievement
authority for the       (DSM)       (LOM)      Medal      Medal       Medal
decoration in the                             (MSM)      (AFCM)      (AFAM)
heading.

SAF/AA                                          X             X              X          X
                                           (see note 2
                                             and 7)
AF/CV                            X              X             X              X          X
                            (see note 2)
AF/CVA                                          X             X              X          X
                                           (see note 2
                                              and 7)
 Secretariat, DCS and                           X             X              X          X
 two-letter Directors (3-                  (see note 3)
 star Generals or higher
 and CL equivalent)
 DCS, ACS and two-                                            X              X          X
 letter Directors (2-star
 Generals and CL
 equivalent) (see note
 2)
DCS, ACS and two-                                              X              X         X
letter Directors (1-star                                                 (see note 5)
Generals and CL
equivalent) (see note
2)
three-letter Directors                                         X              X         X
(Colonels or above and                                    (see note 4)   (see note 5)
CL equivalent)
Heads of Special Staff                                         X              X         X
(Colonels or above and                                                   (see note 5)
CL equivalent) (see
note 6)
HOI 36-2 6 AUGUST 2014                                                                        5


Notes:

1. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) approved delegation is outlined in this table.
Do not delegate these authorities further. SECAF retains award/approval authority for all
other decorations not mentioned in this table (i.e., Air Force Cross, Silver Star,
Distinguished Flying Cross, etc.).

2. SECAF delegated approval/disapproval authority for DSM nominations that meet the
criteria outlined in AFI 36-2803 to AF/CV for retiring General Officers assigned to Air Staff
and their FOAs and DRUs. In addition, AF/CVA is the LOM approval/disapproval
authority for Air Staff directorates headed by 2-star Generals and below, or equivalent CL;
and SAF/AA is the LOM approval/disapproval authority for two-letter Secretariats headed
by 2-star Generals and below, or equivalent CL.

3. Retirement, separation and posthumous for Colonels and above only that meet the
eligibility criteria.

4. SECAF authorized HAF: Secretariat, Air Staff Deputy Chiefs of Staff and Assistant
Chiefs of Staff to delegate MSM approval authority, all conditions, and lesser decorations,
to their Directors in the grade of Colonel and above (to include equivalent CLs). This
authority may not be further delegated.

5. Not authorized to award the AFCM under Condition for acts of courage (condition code
0).

6. "Heads of special staff" refers to those offices/teams headed by a Colonel or above and
CL equivalent who report directly to AF/CC, AF/CV or AF/CVA, i.e., Inauguration Team,
etc.

7. SECAF added the following positions as LOM qualifying positions: Senior Military
Assistant to the SECAF, Senior Executive Officer to the SAF/US, Senior Military Assistant
to the AF/CC, and Senior Executive Officer to the AF/CV. This eligibility is limited to
Colonel/O-6 and above, and the time in position requirement for these four positions is
waived.

6. Award Procedures:

    6.1. Nomination packets must include: endorsement memorandum from the senior official
    in the member’s chain of command, recommendation for Decoration Printout (DÉCOR-6),
    descriptive justification, and citation.

         6.1.1. Ensure the dates, job titles, etc. on the DECOR-6 matches the nominee’s Duty
         History Rip and include the presentation/ceremony date. A DÉCOR-6 checklist is
         provided in Air Force Handbook (AFH) 33-337, Tongue and Quill.
6                                                           HOI 36-2 6 AUGUST 2014

    6.1.1.2. The justification shall highlight the achievements: what the nominee did, how
    the nominee did it and the impact of the achievements. A justification/approval checklist
    is provided in AFH 33-337. Limit LOM and lesser decoration justification to one page.

    6.1.1.3. Citation shall be prepared in accordance with (IAW) AFI 36-2803. A citation
    checklist is provided in AFH 33-337.

       6.1.1.3.1. For MSM and AFCM, the maximum length of the citation shall not exceed
       14 lines.

       6.1.1.3.2. For AFAM, the maximum length of the citation shall not exceed 12 lines.

       6.1.1.4. A Points Credit Summary is required for all Air National Guard and Air
       Force Reserve members.

    6.1.2. Nominations for the DSM and LOM must be submitted 45 days in advance of
    presentation/ceremony. All lesser decorations shall be submitted 30 days in advance.
    For nominations not meeting this criterion, a late letter must be included in the
    nomination package.

       6.1.2.1. Nominations requiring SECAF, SAF/US, AF/CV, or AF/CVA approval will
       be submitted to 811 FSS for processing. This excludes those decorations processed
       by AFPC/DPSIDR (refer to paragraph 4.5.).

       6.1.2.2. DSM nominations requiring AF/CV approval are routed through AF/CVA
       for coordination.

    6.1.3. Ensure member has not received another decoration for the same act, achievement
    or period of meritorious service.

    6.1.4. Retirement decorations are primarily awarded based on current position and the
    responsibilities and achievements the member made in their current billet.

    6.1.5. Nominations for awards not covered by Table 5.1. are forwarded through the head
    of the two-letter organization to AFPC/DPSIDR Workflow (dpsidr.taskmgt@us.af.mil).

           6.1.5.1. DSM and LOM nominations for Secretariat, DCS and two-letter
           Directors headed by 2-star General Officers or below, and equivalent CLs, refer to
           Table 5.1.

           6.1.5.2. DSM nominations for MAJCOM/CC are forwarded to the 811 FSS.
           Refer to paragraph 3.4.

           6.1.5.3. Nominations for personnel assigned to organizations outside of HAF will
           be forwarded through Air Force District of Washington (AFDW/A1) or the
           appropriate MAJCOM to AFPC/DPSIDR.
HOI 36-2 6 AUGUST 2014                                                                        7



       6.1.6. DSM and LOM eligibility and limitations. Nominations not meeting these criteria
       are processed IAW paragraph 5.

          6.1.6.1. DSM nominations. Criteria requires a minimum of 24 months in a General
          Officer position and 36 months time-in-grade (including frocked time, if applicable).
          There is a limit of 4 DSMs per career (3 for exceptional service and 1 at retirement).

          6.1.6.2. LOM nominations. Restricted to officers in the grade of Colonel or above,
          and Chief Master Sergeants serving in designated key positions. Criteria require a
          minimum of 18 months in a qualifying position.

              6.1.6.2.1. Qualifying positions at HAF are Air Staff Division Chiefs or higher
              positions, Chief of Chiefs’ Group (AF/DPE), and certain HAF-assigned Career
              Field Managers. “Certain HAF-assigned Career Field Managers” are those Chiefs
              who occupy an authorized career field manager billet. LOM nominations for
              Chief Master Sergeants are limited to retirement, except a Chief moving to fill the
              Chief Master Sergeant billet (all other criteria must be met).

              6.1.6.2.2. Upon retirement, after a long and distinguished career, liberal
              interpretation of award criteria is appropriate for officers serving in the grade of
              Colonel and above, provided the officer's most recent performance warrants such
              consideration.

          6.1.7. Exceptional Service Award nominations for spouses of 4-star general officers
          (regardless of position at retirement) and 3-star MAJCOM/CC’s will be endorsed by
          their deputy (e.g. MAJCOM/CV) and forwarded to AFPC/DPSIDR. Nominations are
          processed IAW AFI 36-2803.

7. Exceptions to Policy (ETP): ETP requests are unique in nature and shall be rare. Simply
meeting the routine demands of a challenging job shall not be the sole deciding factor to
determine if someone rates the award.

   7.1. Award nominations that do not meet the criteria outlined in AFI 36-2803 must be
   forwarded as an ETP through the head of the two-letter organization to AFPC/DPSIDR
   Workflow (dpsidr.taskmgt@us.af.mil) for processing to the Air Force Decorations Board for
   consideration. The Air Force Decorations Board coordinates ETP LOM nominations for
   enlisted members with the AF/CCC, prior to approval.

   7.2. Nominations submitted as an ETP must include justification for the exception and an
   endorsement supported by the senior official in the chain of command.

   7.3. Two-letters may disapprove or downgrade nominations from lower offices when they
   deem exceptions inappropriate or not warranted.

8. Foreign Decorations. HQ AFPC/DPSIDR approves or disapproves acceptance of foreign
8                                                            HOI 36-2 6 AUGUST 2014

decorations for Air Force members assigned to HAF. Requests are processed IAW AFI 36-2803.

9. Coins. HOI 36-15, Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of Staff, USAF, Recognition
Program, describes the presentation of coins by SECAF, AF/CC, SAF/US, AF/CV, AF/CVA
and AF/CCC.

10. HAF Quarterly and Annual Recognition Program. HOI 36-3, Headquarters Air Force
Quarterly and Annual Recognition Program, prescribes criteria and processing procedures for
HAF quarterly and annual awards.

11. HAF FOAs and DRUs. Nominations are processed IAW AFI 36-2803.




                                                            Patricia J. Zarodkiewicz
                                                            Administrative Assistant
HOI 36-2 6 AUGUST 2014                                                              9


Attachment 1
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program, 30 July 2012
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, 15 June 2001
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFH 33-337, Tongue and Quill, 1 August 2004
HOI 36-15, Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of Staff, USAF, Recognition Program, 23
August 2010
HOI 36-3, Headquarters Air Force Quarterly and Annual Recognition Program, 21 March 2011

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAM—Air Force Achievement Medal
AFCM—Air Force Commendation Medal
AF/CC—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
AF/CV—Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force
AF/CVA—Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force
ACS—Air Staff Assistant Chief of Staff
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CL—Civilian Leader
DCS—Air Staff Deputy Chief of Staff
DECOR 6—Decoration Printout
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DSM—Distinguished Service Medal
ETP—Exception to Policy
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HOI—Headquarters Operating Instruction
IAW—In Accordance With
LOM—Legion of Merit
MSM—Meritorious Service Medal
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SAF/US—Under Secretary of the Air Force
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
10                                                          HOI 36-2 6 AUGUST 2014


Terms

Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of two-letter
offices).
Chain of Command (Command Channels)—A hierarchy of officials, each reporting to and
taking orders from the next most senior person.
