BY ORDER OF                                      HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 36-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                  21 March 2011




                                                                                          PERSONNEL

                                 HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE QUARTERLY AND ANNUAL
                                                         RECOGNITION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY:           HAF Publications and forms are available on the AF Portal: www.my.af.mil
                         ::Organization A-Z Listing::HAF/IM::HOIs (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                         af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=1134204).
RELEASABILITY:           There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HAF/ES                                             Certified by: AF/CVA (Lt Gen Richard Y. Newton III)
Supersedes: HOI 36-3, 4 August 2009                                                              Pages: 16

This Instruction implements Air Force Policy directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Program. It sets forth eligibility criteria, submission and selection procedures for recognizing
officer, enlisted, and civilian personnel assigned to the Headquarters Air Force (Secretariat and
Air Staff Offices) who have performed their military duties, served their community and had
significant self-improvement either quarterly or annually. Winning any award under this
program does not in itself automatically constitute endorsement or nomination to any other
program. It requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, sets guidelines for collecting, safeguarding,
maintaining, accessing, amending and disseminating personal data kept in systems of records to
comply with the Privacy Act Program. Attachment 1 lists references, abbreviations, acronyms,
and terms used in this instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision adds
Civilian categories, Category I (GS/GG-1 through GS/GG-8 or equivalent), Category II (GS/GG-
9 through GS/GG-12 or equivalent), and Category III (GS/GG-13 and through GS/GG-15 or
equivalent). Also, it adds the requirement that military members must have a current passing
fitness test at the time of nomination and senior non-commissioned officers (SNCOs) with at



                                                                                                          1
least 24 months time-in-grade must have completed the Senior Non-Commissioned Officer
Academy (SNCOA) by correspondence and must have their Community College of the Air
Force (CCAF) degree.

1. Responsibilities:

1.1. AF/CVA:

       1.1.1. Establishes guidance for the Pentagon’s quarterly and annual recognition programs.

       1.1.2. Is the approval authority for any programmatic changes, requests, or waivers to this
       HOI.

       1.1.3. Within the bounds of fiscal constraints, budgets for and authorizes the purchase of
       modest awards or other suitable mementos for quarterly and annual award winners.

1.2. HAF/ES (Pentagon First Sergeant):

       1.2.1. Enforces guidance on behalf of AF/CVA and coordinates any policy changes
       with AF/CVA for final determination.

       1.2.2. Oversees the execution of the Pentagon’s quarterly and annual recognition
       program.

       1.2.3. Acts as the release authority for all award winners on behalf of AF/CVA.

       1.2.4. Releases messages advertising suspense dates and solicits nominations from each
       HAF 2-letter/digit organization (via workflow) for the quarterly/annual recognition
       program.

       1.2.5. Ensures current electronic version of AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, is
       received by the suspense date/time and nominee packages are in the proper format per the
       instructions in this HOI. Packages not in compliance with the requirements of this HOI
       will not be accepted and will be returned to the nominating HAF 2-letter/digit
       organization.

       1.2.6. Assembles and distributes nomination packages, including score sheets, lists of
       nominees, and instructions for each category to board presidents. Board presidents will
       be responsible for distributing packages to each board member.

       1.2.7. Notifies board presidents and board members of scheduled quarterly and annual
       board dates.

       1.2.7.1. Instructs board presidents to deliver all board results, all packages, and all signed
       score sheets to the Pentagon First Sergeant immediately upon completion of the board.

       1.2.7.2. Ensures board members receive instructions on the board process, procedures,
       conduct, scoring, and selection of winners.


                                                                                                    2
1.2.8. Schedules a location to review quarterly/annual recognition packages.

1.2.9. Solicits enlisted board members (primary/alternates).

1.2.10. Appoints an enlisted board president for each board as appropriate.

1.2.11. Solicits Air Force Pentagon Awards Committee members from existing Air Force
Pentagon Enlisted Council (AFPEC) and the Company Grade Officer Council (CGOC).
The Committee:

1.2.11.1. Assembles and distributes CGO nomination packages including score sheets,
list of nominees and instructions and provide them to the board president and board
members.

1.2.11.2. Solicits board members from each HAF 2-letter/digit organization through
workflow.

1.2.11.3. Manages all aspects of the quarterly awards ceremonies and annual awards
luncheon.

1.2.11.4. Through the committee chairperson, is responsible for the creation and
maintenance of a ceremony checklist. The checklist includes, but is not limited to, the
following committee responsibilities:

1.2.11.4.1. Schedules the Pentagon Auditorium one year in advance to host the quarterly
awards ceremonies and coordinates with the Joint Base Anacostia Bolling Club to host
the annual award luncheon.

1.2.11.4.2. Coordinates the annual ceremony date with AF/CVA and AF/CCC through
their respective staffs, and provides both AF/CVA and AF/CCC with courtesy
information concerning the quarterly awards ceremony dates.

1.2.11.4.3. Schedules a Chaplain for the annual awards luncheon.

1.2.11.4.4. Obtains Master(s) of Ceremony and alternates.

1.2.11.4.5. Receives RSVPs for quarterly awards ceremonies.

1.2.11.4.6. Obtains flyers and signs from Air Force Graphics to advertise awards
ceremonies.

1.2.11.4.7. Prepares certificates of recognition for each nominee and obtains signatures of
AF/CVA and Pentagon First Sergeant for each enlisted nominee and the AF/CVA
signature for the officer nominees.

1.2.11.4.8. Coordinates with the USAF Band to participate in the annual awards luncheon
as deemed appropriate by the event committee.

1.2.11.4.9. Plans and orchestrates rehearsal with nominees.


                                                                                          3
      1.2.11.4.10. Solicits volunteers throughout the National Capital Region (NCR) to assist
      with awards ceremony details.

      1.2.11.4.11. Schedules the photographer.

      1.2.11.5. Ensures awards ceremony announcements are published on the AFPEC
      homepage, the Information Bulletin, Pentagram, and other appropriate venues.

      1.2.11.6. Ensures award winner photos are properly displayed and all other photographs
      are returned to the nominees/winners.

      1.2.11.7. Obtains or provides media coverage.

1.3. The Secretary of the Air Force Administrative Assistant (SAF/AA):

      1.3.1. Manages the Civilian Recognition Board.

      1.3.2. Solicits members for the Civilian Recognition Board from each HAF 2-letter/digit
      organization through workflow.

      1.3.3. Distributes civilian nomination packages, including score sheets, list of nominees
      and instructions, to the board president and board members.

1.4. HAF Organizations:

      1.4.1. Organize and manage quarterly and annual award recognition programs within
      their organization.

      1.4.2. Ensure maximum participation to support the HAF Recognition Program.

      1.4.3. Approve nomination packages within their organizations and nominate only one
      individual per category, as applicable, for each award category to represent their
      organization at the HAF Quarterly/Annual Board.

      1.4.4. Ensure nomination packages are submitted electronically to the Pentagon First
      Sergeant or designee by the advertised suspense.

      1.4.5. Provide electronic coordination sheet with nomination package(s) as
      acknowledgment and confirmation of submission. (See Attachment 6)

1.5. The Air Force Protocol Office (AF/CVAP) (Annual Awards Only):

      1.5.1. Prepares request for Official Funds.

      1.5.2. Notifies senior staff via the Protocol “A” List of the annual awards luncheon and
      receives RSVPs.

      1.5.3. Prepares list of attendees and makes seating arrangements for general officers,
      distinguished visitors, and guests.


                                                                                                  4
       1.5.4. Creates event brief for the presiding official of the annual awards luncheon.

       1.5.5. Develops nominee and guest list to invite special guests and track responses.

       1.5.6. Reviews and edits the annual awards ceremony script for AF/CVA approval.

       1.5.7. Obtains coins from AF/CVA and AF/CCC for annual award winners and provides
       them to AFPEC for presentation.

1.6. Supervisors:

       1.6.1. Provide justification which contains specific facts on the nominee’s contributions
       during the award period on the current version of AF IMT Form 1206. Achievements
       should be so outstanding as to clearly distinguish the individual from his/her peers.

       1.6.2. Submit nominations on the current version of AF IMT Form 1206. Specific
       achievements and accomplishments must have occurred only during the quarter for which
       the nomination is submitted. Uncommon acronyms should be listed and spelled out on
       the reverse of the AF IMT Form 1206. Nominations not submitted in the required format
       will be returned to the appropriate organization. Failure to comply with submission
       requirements may result in disqualification. Use bullet format statements for justification
       in the following categories:

       1.6.2.1. LEADERSHIP AND JOB PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY DUTY:

       Describe significant leadership accomplishments and how well the nominee performed
       assigned primary and additional duties. Define the scope and level of responsibilities and
       the impact on the mission including any new initiatives or techniques developed by the
       member that positively impacted the unit and/or the mission. Include results of Air
       Force, MAJCOM, Numbered Air Force-Level inspections and/or evaluations. Include
       awards received (e.g., NCO of the Quarter, Maintenance Professional of the Year).

       1.6.2.2. SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT:

       Show how the nominee developed or improved skills related to primary duties (e.g.,
       formal training, Career Development Course enrollment or completion, on-the-job
       Training, certifications, off-duty education related to primary duties). Include completion
       of any Professional Military Education (PME) and any awards earned during in-residence
       attendance. Include any off-duty education not directly related to primary duties (e.g.,
       class, course, degree, enrollment and/or completion, grade point average). Cite any other
       relevant training or activity that significantly enhanced the member’s value as a citizen.

       1.6.2.3. BASE OR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT:

       Define the scope and impact of the nominee’s positive leadership and involvement in
       both the military and civilian communities. Include leadership, membership, or
       participation in unit advisory councils, professional military organizations, associations,



                                                                                                     5
       and events (e.g., President of Top 3, enlisted dining-out committee, Air Force Sergeants
       Association, Sunday school teacher).

       1.6.3. Quarterly and annual award nomination packages will include an electronic copy
       of the current version of AF IMT Form 1206, an electronic coordination sheet from
       parent HAF 2-letter/digit senior-ranking officer/civilian, and a copy of the nominee’s
       current fitness score. Please refer to Attachments 3 & 4 for instructions for the top half of
       the 1206 and Attachment 6 for an example of the coordination sheet. List the parent
       HAF 2-letter/digit senior-ranking officer/civilian as the recommending unit commander.
       The coordination sheet will serve as certification of concurrence with the nomination.

       1.6.4. Ensure nominees meet dress and appearance standards per AFI 36-2903, Dress and
       Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel. (MILITARY ONLY)

       1.6.5. Ensure nominees are available to participate in the scheduled award ceremony. If a
       member is scheduled to be on leave or TDY out of the local area, ensure the Pentagon
       First Sergeant is notified. Members on leave in the local area should make every effort to
       attend this event.

2. Processing procedures:

       Pentagon First Sergeant or designee will send out taskings through workflow and TMT to
       all HAF 2-letters/digits with suspense dates for award packages. Once the packages are
       received and reviewed for eligibility, the Pentagon First Sergeant or designee will send
       all packages with scores sheets and board instructions to SAF/AA (for Civilians) and the
       CGO awards committee President (for Officers), who will, in-turn, conduct their
       respective boards. For enlisted members, the Pentagon First Sergeant will conduct the
       board for the SNCOs and his designee will submit packages to the designated board
       members for the NCO and Airmen boards. Once the boards are completed, the winners’
       names will be provided to the Pentagon First Sergeant or designee, who will provide the
       names to Air Force Pentagon Awards Committee for the awards ceremony or luncheon.

3. Eligibility:

       3.1. Personnel are nominated by their parent HAF organization based on contributions to
       their individual units or agencies and must be permanently assigned or attached to a unit
       or agency assigned to the Pentagon. HAF organizations may only nominate one nominee
       per category. Exception: Chief Master Sergeants (CMSgt’s) and CMSgt selects are
       ineligible to compete for quarterly or annual awards.

       3.2. HAF organizations may submit members assigned to DRUs and FOAs as long as
       they are not participating or competing with the host base.

       3.3. Nominees cannot have any negative Quality Force indicators during the quarter
       nominated for quarterly awards and any quarter for annual awards. Members must meet
       the standards of AFI 36-2903 and AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, and other applicable
       Quality Force indicators (MILITARY ONLY). Note: Military members must have a
       current passing fitness test at the time of nomination. SNCOs with at least 24 months


                                                                                                  6
      time-in-grade must have completed the SNCOA by correspondence and must have their
      CCAF degree.

      3.4. Personnel are considered for the appropriate award category based on the rank/grade
      they held for the majority of the award period. Exception: CMSgt’s and selects are
      ineligible to compete for quarterly or annual awards.

      3.5. Winning a quarterly award does not constitute an automatic advancement to compete
      in the annual awards. Quarterly winners do not compete at another level. An annual
      award nominee need not be a quarterly nominee or winner for the same calendar year.
      Enlisted annual award winners will compete at the Air Force District of Washington 12
      Outstanding Airman of the Year (OAY) awards board and the winners of this board will
      compete against the rest of the MAJCOM nominees for the Air Force 12 OAY.

4. Board Process:

      4.1. Quarterly and annual award nominations are submitted through their parent HAF
      organization’s first sergeant, executive officer, or designated representative electronically
      to the Pentagon First Sergeant.

      4.2. The award periods for consideration are defined as:
      First quarter: 1 January - 31 March
      Second quarter: 1 April - 30 June
      Third quarter: 1 July - 30 September
      Fourth quarter: 1 October - 31 December
      Annual award: 1 January - 31 December

      4.3. Quarterly nominations will be due electronically to the Pentagon First Sergeant or
      designee by 1200 hours on the date identified in the initial email requesting nominations
      for the upcoming award period. The awards committee will publish all due dates on their
      calendar of events at a minimum of one year in advance. If any of these suspense dates
      fall on a holiday, the packages will be due by 1200 hours on the duty day prior.

      4.4. The suspense for annual nominations will be due the last week of January of the year
      following the year of the award. The specific date will be provided in the tasking
      message sent out by the Pentagon First Sergeant or designee.

      4.5. Quarterly and annual nominations are submitted using the current version of AF IMT
      Form 1206. Quarterly nominations are limited to 15 lines, excluding headings, and
      annual nominations are limited to 30 lines, including headings. There should be no text
      entered to the right of each heading; any text listed on the same line as a heading will not
      be considered by the board.

      4.6. The Pentagon First Sergeant or designee receives and reviews each nomination
      package to ensure compliance with this operating instruction. The Pentagon First
      Sergeant or designee reserves the right to return any package not in compliance of this
      instruction for correction. If the package is not returned back to the Pentagon First



                                                                                                  7
      Sergeant or designee prior to the suspense, the HAF 2-letter/digit organization forfeits the
      right for their nominee to meet the board.

      4.7. The Pentagon First Sergeant or designee will provide electronic packages to the
      board presidents and the awards committee to use to prepare the script for the ceremony.
      The board process will be a paper-only process.

      4.8. Board presidents are given instructions and are provided all packages for their board.
      Board presidents distribute their packages and relay instructions to board members.

      4.9. Upon completion of the board, the board president returns all packages and certifies
      the winners of each board to the Pentagon First Sergeant or designee. The Pentagon First
      Sergeant or designee prepares a memorandum listing the recommendations of the board
      to the AF/CVA for approval. Both quarterly and annual award winners will be
      announced during the appropriate recognition ceremony.

5. Scoring Categories and Point Values:

       5.1. Board members will score each package using the score sheet (see Attachment 5).
      Board members should score their packages first, then rank order the packages (i.e., 1st,
      2nd, 3rd, etc.). The nominee with the lowest aggregate score based on the ranking is the
      winner. If there is a tie, the board president will determine the winner.

      5.2. Quarterly awards. The following categories will be scored using the nominees IMT
      AF Form 1206:
      Leadership and Job Performance in Primary: 0 - 50 points
      Significant Self-Improvement: 0 – 10 points
      Base or Community Involvement: 0 – 5 points

      5.3. Annual awards. The following categories will be scored using the nominees IMT AF
      Form 1206:
      Leadership and Job Performance in Primary: 0 - 70 points
      Significant Self-Improvement: 0 – 20 points
      Base or Community Involvement: 0 – 10 points

6. Award Winner Notifications:

      6.1. Award winners will be announced during the respective awards ceremonies.

      6.2. Award winners will receive a plaque or other modest memento.

7. Board Management Procedures:

      7.1. Enlisted recognition boards will convene quarterly and annually. Board presidents
      and board members will be solicited by the Pentagon First Sergeant from enlisted
      members assigned to the Pentagon and the HAF organizations that compete within the
      guidelines of this operating instruction.



                                                                                                  8
      7.1.1. Enlisted recognition board presidents will be SNCOs and should be selected on a
      rotating or voluntary basis. Board members will be selected based on the criteria set
      below:

      7.1.1.1. The SNCO Board President and three board members will be in the rank of
      CMSgt.

      7.1.1.2. The NCO Board President will be at least a Senior Master Sergeant (SMSgt) with
      three board members in the rank of SMSgt or Master Sergeant (MSgt).

      7.1.1.3. The Airman Board President will be at least a MSgt with three board members in
      the grades of MSgt or Technical Sergeant (TSgt).

      7.2. The CGO recognition boards will convene quarterly and annually. The board
      president and board members will be solicited by the CGO awards committee from
      officers assigned to the Pentagon and the HAF organizations that compete within the
      guidelines of this operating instruction. The board president will be at least a Colonel
      with three board members in the grade of Colonel or Lieutenant Colonel.

      7.3. The Civilian recognition boards will convene quarterly and annually. The board
      president and board members will be solicited by SAF/AA from civilians assigned to the
      Pentagon and the HAF organizations that compete within the guidelines of this operating
      instruction.

      7.4. Board presidents conduct awards boards with the highest standards of excellence and
      integrity. Board presidents facilitate and guide awards board proceedings.

      7.5. Quarterly and annual award boards consist of a review of current version of AF IMT
      Form 1206. Use the scoring sheets at Attachment 5.

      7.6. Board members will review each nomination package thoroughly to identify
      nominee accomplishments, results, and impact on the Pentagon and the Air Force.

      7.7. Board members score sheets are signed by board members and are tallied by the
      board president prior to providing the results to the Pentagon First Sergeant or designee.

8. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT Form 1206, Nomination for Award




                                                           WILLIAM A. DAVIDSON
                                                           Administrative Assistant




                                                                                                   9
                                      Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 1 Jul 2010

AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 Jun 2001

AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2 Aug 2006

AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 Jan 2004

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFPEC                              Air Force Pentagon Enlisted Council
AFSC                               Air Force Specialty Code
CDC                                Career Development Course
CGO                                Company Grade Officer
CGOC                               Company Grade Officer Council
DCS                                Deputy Chief of Staff
HAF                                Headquarters Air Force
MAJCOM                             Major Command
MPF                                Military Personnel Flight
NCO                                Noncommissioned Officer
NCR                                National Capital Region
OAY                                Outstanding Airman of the Year
PDG                                Promotion Development Guide
PME                                Professional Military Education
PPOC                               Personnel Points of Contact
SNCO                               Senior Noncommissioned Officer
SNCOA                              Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy

Terms

Airmen                             Personnel in the grades Airman Basic through Senior
                                   Airman.

CGO                                Personnel in the grades of Second Lieutenant through
                                   Captain.

Civilian (Category I)              Personnel in the grades of GS/GG-1 through GS/GG-8 or
                                   equivalent.




                                                                                           10
Civilian (Category II)              Personnel in the grades of GS/GG-9 through GS/GG-12 or
                                    equivalent.

Civilian (Category III)             Personnel in the grades of GS/GG-13 through GG/GS-15 or
                                    equivalent.

NCO                                 Personnel in grades Staff Sergeant through Technical
                                    Sergeant.

SNCO                                Personnel in the grades Master Sergeant through Senior
                                    Master Sergeant (CMSgt selects are not eligible to compete
                                    for quarterly or annual awards).

Negative Quality Force Indicators   A negative code placed on an individual's record during the
                                    award period (e.g., unsatisfactory progress in the physical
                                    fitness program, establishment of an unfavorable
                                    information file, Article 15, letter of reprimand).

Protocol “A” List                   A listing of key personnel maintained by AF/CVAP. The
                                    list ranges from the Secretary of the Air Force through the
                                    Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force.




                                                                                              11
                                          Attachment 2

               AIRMAN/NCO/SNCO/CGO/CIVILIAN of the QUARTER/YEAR
                       BOARD MEMBER RESPONSIBILITIES

- Scoring: all Board members will use the enclosed score sheets to rate each nomination
package.

- Ties: the Board President’s score will only be used in the event of a tie.

- Confidentiality: board scores will be compiled and held in confidence until public release.
Board members will not know the outcome until the awards ceremony.

- Conduct of members: consider only the text of the packages during your scoring. No outside
discussion of personal knowledge of the nominee or his/her job is allowed. Actual Board
member scores will not be shared with other Board members.

               AIRMAN/NCO/SNCO/CGO/CIVILIAN of the QUARTER/YEAR
                           BOARD MEMBER CHARGE

Oath:

I solemnly affirm that I will perform the duties imposed upon me without prejudice or partiality,
having in view both the special qualities of all of the nominees and the efficiency of the United
States Air Force.

I will hold as sacred the confidentiality of my results, shared with none, until formal public
announcement is made by vested authority.



______________________
Board Member Signature




                                                                                                 12
                                            Attachment 3
                              SAMPLE NOMINATION FOR QUARTERLY AWARD

                                          NOMINATION FOR AWARD
AWARD                                   CATEGORY (If Applicable)            AWARD PERIOD
HQ USAF Quarterly                       Appropriate category                1 Jan - 31 Mar         1 Apr - 30 Jun
Recognition Program                     (Amn, NCO, SNCO, CGO,               1 Jul - 30 Sep         1 Oct - 31 Dec
                                        CIV (I), CIV (II), CIV (III))
RANK/NAME OF NOMINEE (First, Middle Initial, Last)                 SSN           MAJCOM, FOA, DRU
SSgt / John B. Doe                                                 9999           PARENT HAF 2-letter/digit
DAFSC/DUTY TITLE                                          NOMINEE'S TELEPHONE (DSN & Commercial)
3SO71, NCOIC Awards and Decorations                       DSN: 225-1234 Comm: 703-695-1234
UNIT/OFFICE SYMBOL/STREET ADDRESS/BASE/STATE/ZIP CODE
Address of nominee’s parent unit of assignment
RANK/NAME OF UNIT COMMANDER (First, Middle Initial, Last)/COMMANDER'S TELEPHONE (DSN & Commercial)
RANK/NAME OF SENIOR OFFICER/CIVILIAN OF PARENT HAF 2-letter/digit
LEADERSHIP AND JOB PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY DUTY (0-50 points)
 Use single-spaced bullet format. Describe significant leadership accomplishments and how well the nominee
performed his/her assigned primary and additional duties. Define the scope and level of responsibilities and the
impact on the mission. Include any new initiatives or techniques developed by the nominee that positively
impacted his/her unit and/or the mission. Include results of Air Force, MAJCOM, Numbered Air Force-Level
inspections and/or evaluations. Include awards received; e.g., NCO of the Quarter, Maintenance Professional of
the Year, and so forth. Notes: 1. Try to reframe, as much as possible, from using double bullets as it could
lessen the impact. 2. Ensure to use correct bullet formatting and to use spell check.
SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT (0-10 points)
Show how the nominee developed/improved skills related to primary duties; e.g., formal training, CDC
enrollment/completion, On-the-Job Training, certifications, off-duty education, etc. Include completion of any
PME as well as awards earned in-residence attendance. Include any off-duty education not directly related to
primary duties; e.g., class, course degree enrollment and/or completion, grade point average. Cite any other
relevant training/activity that significantly enhanced the nominee's value as a citizen.
BASE OR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT (0-5 points)
Define the scope and impact of the member's positive leadership/involvement in both the military and civilian
community. Include leadership, membership, or participation in unit advisory councils, professional military
organizations, associations, and events; e.g., President of Top 3, enlisted dining-out committee, member of Air
Force Sergeants Association, Sunday school teacher, and so forth.

Please make sure you use the current version of AF IMT Form 1206. Do not exceed 15 lines in bullet
format. Headers do not count towards the 15 lines. Do not extend the lines of the headings, any text on
those lines will not be graded!

(FOUO) In accordance with AFI 33-332 this document contains personal information, the disclosure of
which may constitute an unwarranted invasion of privacy.

List acronyms and their meaning on the back of the AF IMT Form 1206.
AF IMT1206, 20000701 V5          PREVIOUS EDITIONS IS OBSOLETE




                                                                                                                    13
                                                          Attachment 4

                                 SAMPLE NOMINATION FOR ANNUAL AWARD

                                          NOMINATION FOR AWARD

AWARD                                   CATEGORY (If Applicable)            AWARD PERIOD
HQ USAF Annual                          Appropriate category
Recognition Program                     (Amn, NCO, SNCO, CGO,               1 Jan – 31 Dec
                                        CIV (I), CIV (II), CIV (III))
RANK/NAME OF NOMINEE (First, Middle Initial, Last)                 SSN           MAJCOM, FOA, DRU
SSgt /John B. Doe                                                  9999           PARENT HAF 2-letter/digit
DAFSC/DUTY TITLE                                          NOMINEE'S TELEPHONE (DSN & Commercial)
3SO71, NCOIC Awards and Decorations                       DSN: 225-1234 Comm: 703-695-1234
UNIT/OFFICE SYMBOL/STREET ADDRESS/BASE/STATE/ZIP CODE
Address of nominee’s parent unit of assignment
RANK/NAME OF UNIT COMMANDER (First, Middle Initial, Last)/COMMANDER'S TELEPHONE (DSN & Commercial)
RANK/NAME OF SENIOR OFFICER/CIVILIAN OF PARENT HAF 2-letter/digit
LEADERSHIP AND JOB PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY DUTY (0-70 points)
 Use single-spaced bullet format. Describe significant leadership accomplishments and how well the nominee
performed his/her assigned primary and additional duties. Define the scope and level of responsibilities and
the impact on the mission. Include any new initiatives or techniques developed by the nominee that positively
impacted his/her unit and/or the mission. Include results of Air Force, MAJCOM, Numbered Air Force-Level
inspections and/or evaluations. Include awards received; e.g., NCO of the Quarter, Maintenance Professional
of the Year, and so forth. Notes: 1. Try to reframe, as much as possible, from using double bullets as it could
lessen the impact. 2. Ensure to use correct bullet formatting and to use spell check.
SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT (0-20 points)
Show how the nominee developed/improved skills related to primary duties; e.g., formal training, CDC
enrollment/completion, On-the-Job Training, certifications, off-duty education, etc. Include completion of any
PME as well as awards earned in-residence attendance. Include any off-duty education not directly related to
primary duties; e.g., class, course degree enrollment and/or completion, grade point average. Cite any other
relevant training/activity that significantly enhanced the nominee's value as a citizen.
BASE OR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT (0-10 points)
Define the scope and impact of the member's positive leadership/involvement in both the military and civilian
community. Include leadership, membership, or participation in unit advisory councils, professional military
organizations, associations, and events; e.g., President of Top 3, enlisted dining-out committee, member of Air
Force Sergeants Association, Sunday school teacher, and so forth.

Please make sure you use the current version of AF IMT Form 1206. Do not exceed 30 lines in bullet
format. Headers do not count towards the 30 lines. Do not extend the lines of the headings, any text on
those lines will not be graded!

(FOUO) In accordance with AFI 33-332 this document contains personal information, the disclosure of
which may constitute an unwarranted invasion of privacy.

List acronyms and their meaning on the back of the AF IMT Form 1206.
AF IMT1206, 20000701 V5          PREVIOUS EDITIONS IS OBSOLETE


                                                                                                              14
                                           Attachment 5

                                   SAMPLE SCORE SHEET

NOMINEE   Leadership & Job       Significant Self-    Base or               TOTAL                RANK
          Performance in         Improvements         Community                                  ORDER
          Primary Duties                              Involvement

          (0-50 pts)-quarterly   (0-10 pts)-quarterly (0-5 pts)-quarterly   (65 pts)-quarterly
          (0-70 pts)-annual      (0-20)-annual        (0-10)-annual         (100 pts)-annual




    ____________________________________________________________
    Board Member Signature/Date




                                                                                                 15
                                          Attachment 6

To: Pentagon First Sergeant

The attached AF IMT 1206s have been approved by (appropriate HAF 2-letter/digit ranking
officer/civilian) and is submitted to compete at the appropriate board. I certify they meet the
standards of dress and appearance, fitness and do not have any derogatory or negative quality
force indicators.

Civilian (Cat III) Nominee:
Civilian (Cat II) Nominee:
Civilian (Cat I) Nominee:
CGOC Nominee:
SNCO Nominee:
NCO Nominee:
Amn Nominee:




                                                             SIGNATURE BLOCK FOR
                                                             RANKING 2-LTR OFFICIAL




                                                                                                  16
