BY ORDER OF THE                                HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 33-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               10 JUNE 2014




                                                       Communications and Information
                            MANAGEMENT OF PRINTING AND DUPLICATING REQUIREMENT

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ . If you lack access, contact the OPR to
               obtain a copy.

RELEASABILIY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AAIM                                                 Certified by: SAF/AAI Ms Essye B. Miller
Supersedes: HOI 33-2; 19 March 98                                                            Pages: 9

This operating instruction provides guidance, procedures, and responsibilities for obtaining printing and
duplicating services. It implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5330.03, Defense Logistics
Agency (DLA) Document Services, and AFPD 37-1; Information Management. It applies to offices of the
Secretariat and the Air Staff (HAF).


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication supersedes HOI 33-2, Management of Printing and Duplicating Requirements, Mar 1998.
It updates management procedures, commercial procurement of printing, duplicating, copier, and related
services, as well as OPR. It also updates management procedures due to Department of Defense (DoD)
consolidating printing/duplicating activities under DoDI 5330.03.

1. Overview or Background

   1.1 This instruction explains how Headquarters Air Force (HAF) offices obtain printing and
   duplication support through the facilities of the Media Services Division. This printing and
   duplication support includes copier duplication, printing duplication, publication, liaison with,
   Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Document Services, and the management of Multifunction Devices
   (MFDs) within the HAF.

2. Roles and Responsibilities.

   2.1. Secretary of the Air Force, Administrative Assistant (SAF/AA). Establishes guidance and provides
   instructions in accordance with DoDI 5330.03.

   2.2 Director, Information Management (SAF/AAI).
2                                                                                HOI33-2 10 JUNE 2014


        2.2.1. Provides printing, duplicating, and copying guidance to Air Force organizations.

        2.2.2. Office of primary responsibility DoDI 5330.03.

         2.2.3. Interprets and clarifies printing, duplicating, and copying guidance for Air Force
                 organizations.
    2.3. Media Services Division Chief (SAF/AAIM) directs the HAF printing, duplicating, and copying
    programs.

    2.4. Printing Officer (SAF/AAIM).

        2.4.1. Maintains the budget for printing, duplicating, and copying; ensures accuracy and validity of
               vendors’ invoices; and ensures timely reimbursement for services.

        2.4.2. Interprets, clarifies and formulates printing, duplicating, and copying management guidance
               for Air Force printing

        2.4.3. Coordinates and guides the use of available local printing and duplicating capabilities to meet
               HAF customer requirements

        2.4.4. OPR for this instruction.

        2.4.5. Arranges and/or coordinates printing and duplicating services through Defense Logistics
               Agency (DLA) Document Services as necessary to fulfill the HAF mission requirements.

        2.4.6. Maintains contact with DLA Document Services and monitors production, quality, and
               delivery of products.

        2.4.7. Certifies requisitions to reflect that printing and duplication work is authorized, involves
               official business, and does not exceed the allocated budget for the fiscal year.

        2.4.8. Obtains reproduction releases for classified documents and copyright documents before
               printing or duplicating.

    2.5. Multi-Function Device (MFD) Program Manager (SAF/AAIM)

        2.5.1. The MFD Program Manager is the only office authorized to acquire MFDs for HQ USAF.

        2.5.2. Oversees and manages leased and government-owned MFD equipment and services for the
               HAF.

        2.5.3. Evaluates requirements and requests for new MFD capabilities, and recommends MFD
               solutions to requestors.

        2.5.4. Recommends approval or disapproval of new or additional MFD requirements.

        2.5.5. Monitors and tracks centrally-managed MFD supplies, purchases, and inventories.

        2.5.6. Manages the HAF MFD inventory, records, maintenance or service, replacements,
               deliveries, set-ups, and removals; coordinates delivery of all HAF MFDs.
HOI33-2 10 JUNE 2014                                                                                       3

       2.5.7. Ensures and tracks assignment and training of workplace monitors for all assigned MFDs,
              and communicates MFD program information with assigned monitors.
       2.5.8. Verifies validity and accuracy of invoice billing.

       2.5.9. Conducts on-site visits and inspections of facilities, equipment, and usage.

       2.5.10. Ensures each MFD monitor is provided user information pertaining to their machine (i.e.
             serial number, make, model and the necessary contact information to obtain all
             non-chargeable supplies).

  2.6. Using Office (MFD monitor) Responsibilities:

       2.6.1. To better manage printing and copying, each directorate or comparable HAF office will
              appoint a workplace MFD monitor to evaluate MFD requirements and performance in
              collaboration with the SAF/AAIM MFD program manager.

       2.6.2. Each directorate or comparable HAF office will designate its MFD monitor by forwarding
              the point of contact’s (POC) name, organization and telephone number and any changes to
              SAF/AAIM

3. Procedures/Guidance

   3.1. Federal law; Executive Order 13589 §5; the Joint Committee on Printing (JCP); DoD; and Air
   Force policies affect many of our printing and duplicating processes. More information about
   restrictions is available in Title 44, U.S.C. Sections 103, 501, and 502, and DoDI 5330.03.

      3.1.1. Advertising. Do not put advertisements or endorsements in Government publications.

      3.1.2. Calendars. Government funds may be used to buy General Services Administration (GSA)
      desk and wall calendars. These are the only calendars which Departments are authorized to obtain at
      Government expense and they are available from GSA. Schedule and appointments sheets are not
      considered calendars.

      3.1.3. Calling or Business Cards. Only professional recruiters may purchase cards with appropriated
      funds.

      3.1.4. Greeting Cards. Greeting cards may not be purchased with appropriated funds.

      3.1.5. Copyright Notices. The OPR for a publication must obtain and provide a release for
      copyrighted material included in the publication. The publication must include a notice of
      copyrighted material using a type size that is smaller than both text and illustration legends.

      3.1.6. Courtesy Credit Lines. When non-government parties contribute or loan uncopyrighted
      materials, credit the source. When several materials come from a single non-government source,
      credit the source in an un-displayed paragraph using a type size smaller than that of the text and
      illustration legends.

      3.1.7. Legal and Business Contracts. OPRs signing print orders certify that the printing, duplicating,
      or binding work is official business. Do not produce or procure work for private individuals or
      commercial concerns, even though they may ask to reimburse the Government.
      3.1.8. Multicolor Reproduction. Reproduce all documents in one color, unless additional color is
4                                                                                   HOI33-2 10 JUNE 2014

        integral to the purpose (examples are maps, illustrations, medical specimens/diseases, or recruiting
        posters). The JCP requires stringent control on color reproduction. Consult the Printing Officer
        (SAF/AAIM) for specific guidelines.

                  3.1.8.1. Do not use color solely for its decorative effect or for prestige.

                  3.1.8.2. Color should be used primarily to effectively clarify information presented.

        3.1.9. Copiers. SAF/AAIM is the sole source and program manager for all copiers/Multi-Function
        Devices in HAF offices located within the Pentagon. Any copiers purchased without approved
        authorization from the copier management office (SAF/AAIM) will not be included in the copier
        management program.

4. Standards

    4.1. Printing Format. Customers will print all jobs on both sides of the paper (duplex), unless one-sided
    (simplex) printing is essential to effectively meet the publication requirements. The OPR must justify
    ordering simplex printing for multiple-page documents.

         4.1.1. Paper Stocks. (NOTE: Metric measurements are used in procurement of printing jobs and
         other business related activities.)

                  4.1.1.1. Use recyclable offset paper for standard publications, and administrative products,
                  such as histories, reports, and periodicals.

                  4.1.1.2. Use coated paper only when fine-quality publications requiring process color are
                  essential to meet official communication objectives.

         4.1.2. Stationery.

                  4.1.2.1. Only cabinet-level officials are authorized to use engraved or embossed stationery.
                  All other requests for these items require JCP approval (see Terms, Attachment 1).

                  4.1.2.2. Do not use government funds or equipment to personalize stationery. (Names,
                  addresses, and telephone numbers on stationery items create “frozen” stock when
                  personnel or offices change).

                  4.1.2.3. Print only generic memo pads, in black ink, 3½ by 8 inches, and not larger than
                  5½ x 8½ inches. Offices of the Secretary and the Chief of Staff are authorized memo pads
                  with their office designation for use by immediate support staffs; these may be printed in
                  blue ink.


5. Printing Procurement

    5.1. HAF offices submit print requests to SAF/AAIM.

         5.1.1. What Forms to Use.


                5.1.1.1. DD Form 282, DoD Printing Requisition Order, is used to request, track and pay for
HOI33-2 10 JUNE 2014                                                                                     5

            printing work processed through DLA Printing Service Document Services, and the
            Government Printing Office (GPO) activities.

            5.1.1.2. Blank forms can be obtained electronically from Air Force Departmental Publishing
            Office web site (http://afpubs.hq.af.mil/elec-products/forms) repository or from SAF/AAIM.

      5.1.2. Requesting printing service.

            5.1.2.1. Normal and regular production time is usually 10 working days.

            5.1.2.2. Priority or “rush” requirements generally incur additional fees which can add up to
            50% over normal priority printing costs. Additional justification will be required to process
            priority or rush requests.

            5.1.2.3. Requestors should allow for proof-reading time in their production planning to
            reduce re-work, control cost, and improve product quality.

      5.1.3. Security Requirements. All requests for printing or duplicating classified documents must
      comply with DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Manual, and AFI31-401_AFGM2013-03.

6. Multi-Function Device (MFD) Program Management

  6.1. Copying is generally the most expensive form of duplicating. Use MFDs only to satisfy mission
  requirements. The MFD program was established to provide copy/print/scan services necessary to fulfill
  the mission requirements of HAF, and to make sure organizations request, acquire, manage, maintain,
  and use appropriate MFD equipment. SAF/AAIM now procures and administers MFDs to replace
  single-use/inefficient copiers.

      6.1.1. MFD program management was established to control proliferation of MFDs and|
      use/production, and to manage costs, using Title 44 U.S.C., the Congressional JCP Regulations,
      DoDI 5330.03 and Air Force policy as guidelines.

      6.1.2. MFDs are authorized and assigned to directorates and their work centers based on mission
      role, requirements, and MFD-user ratio.

  6.2. SAF/AAIM Responsibilities.

      6.2.1. Ensures organizations request, acquire, manage and properly use multifunction equipment.

      6.2.2. Ensures MFD services are adequate to support mission requirements and that required
      services are funded.

      6.2.3. Establishes and ensures compliance of procedures and controls governing the acquisition and
      use of MFDs.

      6.2.4. Establishes and uses information gathering techniques to maintain accurate recordkeeping,
      location and point of contact regarding each MFD.

      6.2.5. Maintains current and accurate copier contracts.

      6.2.6. Forecasts, budgets for purchases, plans, manage, and provide equipment training and
6                                                                                 HOI33-2 10 JUNE 2014

        maintenance for all MFDs.

              6.2.6.1. Serves as the agent, representative, and liaison with MFD vendors and customers,
              and determines the level of service necessary to support requestor’s mission requirements.

              6.2.6.2. Ensures propriety of all related services and certifies contractual integrity of the
              MFD program.

    6.3. Requests for New or Replacement MFDs: Must be submitted in writing via memorandum and sent
    to SAF/AAIM. The requests must be signed at or GO/SES level. To ensure a fair and objective
    evaluation of your request, include as justification:

        6.3.1. A brief mission statement and description of essential MFD role in meeting that mission.

        6.3.2. Description of specific MFD usage requirements (e.g., letters, books, maps, computer
        printouts, scanning, conversion to electronic format, etc.).

        6.3.3. Estimated monthly use (originals, scans/output pages, etc.).

        6.3.4. Number of people using the MFD.

        6.3.5. Location where the MFD will be installed.

    6.4. MFD Monitor Responsibilities. Office chiefs appoint primary and alternate MFD monitors for
    each workcenter. Provide the following information in writing, to SAF/AAIM: Name, duty telephone
    number, and office symbol of the MFD monitor and alternate; the make, model and serial numbers,
    and location of the equipment they monitor.

        6.4.1. Keep adequate MFD supplies (toner, staples, and paper) stored where office personnel will
        have immediate access. Order toner directly from vendor. All other supplies should be ordered
        through your Supply Authorization Office (SAO).

        6.4.2. Reproducing classified material on non-designated devices is a security deviation which can
        result in a violation. To prevent violations, implement the following controls.

              6.4.2.1. Submit a written request for each MFD to SAF/AAIM.

              6.4.2.2. Post AFVA 205-9, Classified Reproduction Authorized, on or near equipment
              designated for classified reproduction. For equipment not so designated, post AFVA 205-8,
              “STOP Do Not Use this Machine for Classified Reproduction STOP” to warn users that
              copier is for unclassified reproduction only.

              6.4.2.3. Place MFDs where monitors can observe the unit.

        6.4.3. Record quarterly meter readings and provide in response to notification from SAF/AAIM
        MFD program manager. The program manager uses this information to track billing and payment of
        invoice charges.

        6.4.4. Coordinate movement or removal of MFDs with SAF/AAIM. Provide 30 days notice for
        MFD moves to allow the program manager to make arrangements with the vendor.
HOI33-2 10 JUNE 2014                                                                                   7

     6.4.5. Contact vendors directly to schedule maintenance on MFDs and ensure completion of routine
     repairs. MFD monitors are required to keep records of all maintenance requests to ensure repairs are
     done properly and in a timely manner. MFD monitors must contact SAF/AAIM if MFD service
     takes more than two weeks to complete or when MFD monitors note that MFD problems occur on a
     frequent basis.

     6.4.6. Perform user-level preventive maintenance on MFDs to ensure effective equipment
     operations (emptying waste receptacles (if required), adding toner, cleaning glass, and scheduling
     cleaning by service technicians as appropriate).


                                               PATRICIA J. ZARODKIEWICZ
                                               Administrative Assistant
8                                                                       HOI33-2 10 JUNE 2014




                                         Attachment 1


             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


    References:

    AFI31-401_AFGM2013-03; September 18, 2013;
    DoD Information Security Manual, DoDM 5200.01, Volumes 1-4; March 1, 2012;
    DoDD 5330.3, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Document Services; May, 18, 2011
    AFPD 33-3; Information Management; March 28, 2006
    DoD Manual 5200.01, Volume 1; February 24, 2012
    EO 13589-5
    Title 44 USC Sections 103, 501 and 502
    NASIC INSTRUCTION 31-107; Multi-Function Devices Security Operations and Procedures;
    June 1, 2012

    Adopted and Prescribed Forms:

    AF Form 847; Recommendation for Change of Publication
    DD Form 282; DoD Printing Requisition/Order


    Abbreviations and Acronyms:

    Air Force Instructions (AFI)
    Air Force Visual Aids (AFVA)
    Defense Automated Printing Service (DAPS)
    Defense Logistics Agency (DLA)
    Department of Defense (DoD)
    Department of Defense Directives (DoDD)
    General Services Administration (GSA)
    Headquarters Air Force (HAF)
    Joint Committee on Printing (JCP)
    Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
    Printing Control Officer (PCO)
    Publishing Distribution Officer (PDO)
    Supply Authorization Officer (SAO)


    Terms:
    Government Printing and Binding Regulations, Joint Committee on Printing, US 101st Congress,
    N0. 26, February 1990: §43-1. Stationery, Embossed: The Public Printer may furnish, upon
    requisition, to the President of the United States, members of his Cabinet, and the Department
    of State (for diplomatic correspondence exclusively), such quantities of embossed stationery
    as may be necessary for official use. The Comptroller General, the Librarian of Congress, the
    Public Printer, the head of each permanent commission, independent establishment o r
    board, and the judges of the U.S. Courts may requisition embossed noteheads or letterheads
HOI33-2 10 JUNE 2014                                                                                9

     not to exceed 5,000 copies in the aggregate, and envelopes therefor in any one fiscal year:
     Provided, That greater quantities may be furnished upon the approval of the Joint Committee
     on Printing. The Public Printer shall n o t honor requests f r o m any Government activity for
     e m b o s s i n g s e c o n d s h e e t s or o t h e r than standard-size envelopes. No embossed
     stationery other t h a n l i s t e d above shall be produced or procured at Government expense
     unless authorized by the Joint Committee on Printing.
