BY ORDER OF THE            HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 33-18
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                       30 SEPTEMBER 2014




                                                                  Communications and Information

                         HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
                          (FOIA) AND MANDATORY DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW (MDR)
                                                                  PROGRAMS

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil. If you cannot access, contact the OPR to obtain a copy.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/AAII                                            Certified by: SAF/AAI (Dr. Karl S. Mathias)
Supersedes: HOI 33-18, 1 Aug 2006                                            Number of Pages: 20

This Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
33-3, Air Force Information Management. It applies to all Headquarters Air Force (HAF)
military, civilian and contractor personnel. Users must comply with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program (FOIA and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-401,
Information Security Program (MDR) which provide overarching Air Force FOIA and MDR
program guidance, to include roles and responsibilities; and must ensure that records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with the AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. In
addition, this HOI implements DOD5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act
Program, and DOD 5200.1, Vols 1, 2, and 3, DOD Information Security Programs. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) HAF Freedom of Information Act Program Officer, usaf.pentagon.saf-
aa.mbx.haf-foia-workflow@mail.mil or HAF Mandatory Declassification Review Program
Manager at usaf.pentagon.saf-aa.mbx.mdr-workflow@mail.mil on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
2                                                                    HOI33-18 30 September 2014

1. Overview/Background:

    1.1. The FOIA is an access statute that opens the business of government to the general
    public. The FOIA allows anyone, regardless of citizenship, to request copies of existing
    government records without giving a reason for their request.

    1.2. Generally, all government information is subject to the FOIA. This information includes
    all paper and electronic materials (not just records maintained in the organization's official
    filing system), including information maintained in Privacy Act (PA) systems of records. It
    also includes e-mail, word processing files, agency working files, etc. The public may
    inspect or obtain copies of all public filings (public records) maintained by an agency through
    public reference facilities or public web pages. However, requests for access to non-public
    agency records must be submitted in writing under the provisions of the FOIA.

    1.3. The FOIA requires all federal agency records to be released to the public upon written
    request. EXCEPTIONS: There are nine specific exemptions and two specific law
    enforcement record exclusions that may require and/or allow an agency to deny access by the
    requester. For more information on these exemptions and exclusions, refer to AFMAN 33
    302, Chapter 3.

    1.4. The FOIA, as implemented in AFMAN 33-302, requires the government to respond to
    written requests (including facsimile or e-mail) for information within 20 workdays after
    receipt of the request. Therefore, when an office receives a written FOIA request for agency
    records from anyone outside the organization the request must be forwarded to the HAF
    FOIA Requester Service Center (SAF/AAII (FOIA)) for log in and staffing. The request
    must be forwarded by either email to usaf.pentagon.saf-aa.mbx.haf-foia-workflow@mail.mil
    or by fax to (703) 703-693-5728. In addition to emailing or faxing, the original (hardcopy)
    request letter must be forwarded to SAF/AAII (FOIA), 1000 Air Force Pentagon,
    Washington, DC 20330-1000.

    1.5. Once a request has been received by a designated FOIA monitor or OPR, all responsive
    information must be reviewed for release by the office receiving the request; no information
    may be created or destroyed. If the organization's Initial Denial Authority (IDA) determines
    that some or all of the responsive documents should not be released to the public, the letter to
    SAF/AAII (FOIA) must cite the rationale and the applicable FOIA exemption(s) or
    exclusion(s).

    1.6. Accurate recordkeeping is a must! Without authorization from SAF/AAII (FOIA) or as
    provided in this HOI, a copy of all records, legal reviews, and any other applicable
    correspondence related to the request must be forwarded to SAF/AAII (FOIA) for filing and
    final processing.

2. Air Force Program Guidance (see AFMAN 33-302).

    2.1. All HAF organizations must implement both the FOIA and Privacy Act (PA) to comply
    with this HOI and protect the rights of the U.S. Government and persons directly affected by
    Air Force actions.
HOI33-18 30 September 2014                                                               3



  2.2. This HOI applies to contractors performing FOIA/PA management support and those
  contractors performing duties/services/functions in place of, or in support of, U.S.
  Government employees. Performance work statements must include FOIA/PA requirements.

3. HAF Responsibilities

  3.1. HAF FOIA Requester Service Center (SAF/AAII (FOIA)) shall:

      3.1.1. Manage the HAF FOIA program exercising the same procedural and staff
      responsibilities as specified in AFMAN 33-302.

            3.1.1.1. Where SAF/AAII (FOIA) can support FOIA management requirements
            for DRUs, FOAs, or other tenant organizations, that support will be delineated in
            a support agreement.

            3.1.1.2. Help Two-Letter FOIA Monitors and OPRs with requests as required.

      3.1.2. Ensure administrative correctness of all FOIA actions processed.

            3.1.2.1. Control and process FOIA requests.

            3.1.2.2. Provide acknowledgement of the request and interim responses to
            requesters, as required.

            3.1.2.3. Approve or deny initial fee waiver requests.

            3.1.2.4. Approve or initially deny any requests for expedited processing.

            3.1.2.5. Task FOIA requests via eFOIA, the Air Force enterprise FOIA reporting
            and tracking system, to the Two-Letter FOIA Monitor and a notification to the
            Two-Letter workflow via Task Management Tool (TMT).

            3.1.2.6. Refer documents containing external agency information for consultation.

                    3.1.2.6.1. When another federal agency has a clear and substantial interest
                    in the requested documents, consultation with that organization is required.

                    3.1.2.6.2. Processes for FOIA requests for classified Air Force records that
                    contains another federal agency‘s or DOD component‘s equities can be
                    found in AFMAN 33-302, Chapter 5.1.5.

            3.1.2.7. Send extension notices.

                    3.1.2.7.1. In unusual circumstances as defined in 5 U.S.C. § 552(6)(B)(iii),
                    the time limits may be extended by written notice to the requester setting
4                                                           HOI33-18 30 September 2014


            forth the unusual circumstances for such extension and the date on which a
            determination is expected to be dispatched. No such notice shall specify a
            date that would result in an extension for more than ten workdays, except
            as provided in paragraph 3.1.2.6.2.

            3.1.2.7.2. With respect to a request for which a written notice under
            paragraph

            3.1.2.7.3. extends the time limits, SAF/AAII (FOIA) shall notify the
            requester the request cannot be processed within the time limit specified,
            and shall provide the requester an opportunity to limit the scope of the
            request, so that it may be processed within that time limit, or an
            opportunity to arrange an alternative time frame for processing the request
            or a modified request. Refusal by the requester to modify the request
            reasonably or arrange such an alternative time frame shall be considered as
            a factor in determining whether exceptional circumstances exist as
            discussed in 5 U.S.C. § 552(6)(C).

    3.1.2.8. Obtain recommendations from the OPR for records.

    3.1.2.9. Prepare or coordinate on all proposed replies to the requester. Sign replies
    on behalf of the IDA when information is withheld from an Air Force record under
    the DOD policy to withhold the names of DOD personnel, no records replies, and
    when disclosure authorities approve the total release of records.

            3.1.2.9.1. Some FOIA requests, especially at the HAF level, are broad and
            complex, and may involve multiple AF, DOD and other federal agencies.
            In such cases, the FOIA works best when all involved parties (SAF/AAII
            (FOIA), FOIA Monitors, OPRs, and requesters) work together.

            3.1.2.9.2. Accordingly, SAF/AAII (FOIA) will be the focal point for HAF
            FOIA Monitors/OPRs recommendations; process recommendations to
            other AF, DOD, and federal agencies; refer HAF documents, containing
            external agency equities, for consultation to the appropriate office(s) of
            collateral responsibility; provide status updates; and keep requesters
            informed on the progress of response determinations.

    3.1.2.10. Make the final decision on chargeable fees.

            3.1.2.10.1. Ensure that all time expended on FOIA cases (e.g. OPR/legal
            office hours and costs etc.,) is accounted for on DD Form 2086 and entered
            into eFOIA.

            3.1.2.10.2. Collect fees within 30 days and assess interest on overdue fees
            pursuant to AFMAN 33-302
HOI33-18 30 September 2014                                                                 5


                   3.1.2.10.3. Notify SAF/A6PP when a requester is delinquent in paying an
                   assessed fee to assert the non-payment as a basis for denying requests.

           3.1.2.11. Provide the requester with appeal procedures and the basis for any adverse
           determination (i.e., no records, fee denials, fee category determinations, etc.) in
           enough detail to permit the requester to make a decision whether or not to appeal
           the actions taken, and provide the requestor with appeal procedures.

           3.1.2.12. Train HAF personnel on the FOIA program.

           3.1.2.13. Provide a reading room for inspecting and copying records.

           3.1.2.14. Post non-PII records to the FOIA Electronic Reading Room.

           3.1.2.15. Work with Public Affairs Office, OPRs, and Directors to post records that
           are likely to be of public interest in the AF Reading Room ahead of receiving FOIA
           for such information.

           3.1.2.16. Manage RedactXpress licenses for the HAF FOIA program.

           3.1.2.17. Submit annual reports to the Air Force FOIA Monitor (SAF/A6PP) as
           required by AFMAN 33-302, Chap 7, C 7.1.2.

      3.1.3. On Appeal, SAF/AAII (FOIA) will:

           3.1.3.1. Reassess a fee category claim by a requester, overturning or confirming the
           initial determination.

           3.1.3.2. Reassess a request for expedited processing due to demonstrated
           compelling need, overturning or confirming the initial determination.

           3.1.3.3. Reassess a request for a waiver or reduction of fees, overturning or
           confirming the initial determination.

           3.1.3.4. Review a fee estimate, overturning or confirming the initial determination.

           3.1.3.5. Confirm that no records were located in response to a request.

           3.1.3.6. Assemble the initial appeal package in accordance with AFMAN 33-302,
           Appendix 9 (AP9.5), and forward the tasking along with the draft appeal package to
           the applicable HAF organizational FOIA monitor for further processing.

                   3.1.3.6.1. Provide AFLOA/JACL a clean and bracketed copy of the records
                   proposed for release.
6                                                                  HOI33-18 30 September 2014


                      3.1.3.6.2. Notify requester when the appeal has been accepted by
                      AFLOA/JACL.

    3.2. HAF Two-Letter Organizations shall:

        3.2.1. Comply with this instruction and basic guidance contained in AFMAN 33-302.

        3.2.2. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate Initial Denial Authority and FOIA
        Monitor for their two-letter organization (HAF/ES for the offices of the Secretary of the
        Air Force and the offices of the Chief of Staff) with responsibility to assist with the
        implementation of the FOIA Program in their organization.

             3.2.2.1. Prepare and send an appointment letter to HAF FOIA Office
             usaf.pentagon.saf-aa.mbx.haf-foia-workflow@mail.mil (a sample appointment
             letter is at Attachment 3).

             3.2.2.2. Submit changes as they occur, but not later than 5 duty days from date of
             the change

        3.2.3. Ensure RedactXpress is readily available to process FOIA requests; ensure the
        organization has adequate copies of the RedactXpress software to process FOIA requests


    3.3. FOIA Monitors shall:

        3.3.1. Serve as the focal point for FOIA questions, reports, requirements, and
        correspondence.

        3.3.2. Act as liaison between the organization and SAF/AAII (FOIA).

        3.3.3. Create a local log book or database to log in all FOIA tasks for the organization

        3.3.4. Staff request to appropriate office for action and suspense accordingly.

        3.3.5. Ensure OPRs provide a written recommendation for records located and deemed
        releasable. This also applies to "no records" determinations.

        3.3.6. Ensure all time expended on FOIA cases (e.g., OPR/legal office hours, FOIA
        monitors, etc.) are accounted for on DD Form 2086 and sent to SAF/AAII (FOIA) with
        the responsive records.

        3.3.7. Review denial packages to ensure all appropriate coordination was obtained (i.e.,
        IDA's decision and AF/JAA review(s)) and copies are provided to SAF/AAII (FOIA).

        3.3.8. Request an extension.
HOI33-18 30 September 2014                                                                 7


            3.3.8.1. The FOIA requires a government response within 20 workdays upon
            receipt by SAF/AAII (FOIA) of a perfected or correct FOIA request which
            complies with the requirements outlined in AFMAN 33-302, subsection C1.4.3. In
            unusual circumstances, as soon as OPRs determine the need for additional time to
            respond to the initial request, the FOIA Monitor shall acknowledge the request in
            writing, facsimile, or e-mail to SAF/AAII (FOIA) prior to the suspense set by
            SAF/AAII (FOIA); describe the circumstances requiring the delay; and indicate the
            anticipated date for a final response determination by the SAF two-letter
            organization's senior leadership, which at a minimum not exceed 10 additional
            workdays.

            3.3.8.2. Request for extensions beyond the suspense date set by SAF/AAII (FOIA)
            must be signed by a senior officer (0-6 or GS-15). See Chapter 5, paragraph 2.6
            (C5.2.6.) for more details concerning extension requests. Failure to meet extension
            suspense will result in notification of the staff principal (Secretariat Office, Air
            Staff Deputy Chief of Staff or equivalent).

       3.3.9. Use the FOIA Monitor checklist at Attachment 2 to ensure required actions are
       complete.

       3.3.10. Send FOIA responses to usaf.pentagon.saf-aa.mbx.haf-foia-workflow@mail.mil.

  3.4. Offices of Primary Responsibility shall:

       3.4.1. Review the FOIA request and provide SAF/AAII (FOIA) an estimate of fees, if
       cost will exceed $15 or the amount the requester has agreed to pay, whichever is higher.
       Also, notify the FOIA Office if additional information is needed to conduct a reasonable
       search for records. Provide SAF/AAII (FOIA) a fee estimate and request for additional
       information not later than 5 duty days from receipt. The FOIA Office will notify your
       office to resume processing the request upon receipt of the requester’s commitment to
       pay the fees or clarification.

       3.4.2. Conduct a thorough review for requested records.

       3.4.3. Complete the “no records” statement if the office is the OPR for the record and no
       responsive record found. Also, include the records management disposition governing
       the requested documents.

       3.4.4. Identify external agency equities and refer the documents to the SAF/AAII (FOIA)
       to forward to the appropriate organization for consultation. If the external agency fails to
       reply by the suspense date set forth in AFMAN33-302, Chapter 5.1.5, redact and deny
       classified information pursuant to Exemption (b)(1).

       3.4.5. Coordinate the release or denial of records requested with the organization's IDA
       and with AF/JAA on proposed denials.
8                                                                   HOI33-18 30 September 2014


         3.4.6. Provide the organizational FOIA Monitor with the requested records, IDA's
         decision memo, and a copy of the legal review from AF/JAA.

         3.4.7. Provide the FOIA Office a copy of the bracketed and clean copy of the responsive
         documents in a single .adx or .tiff file for Secret and below and hardcopy for Top Secret.

         3.4.8. Provide written recommendations to the disclosure authority to determine whether
         to release records; obtain declassification authority approval when appropriate; and
         forward recommendations to the organization's FOIA Monitor.

         3.4.9. Coordinate with the FOIA Monitor on requests for extensions, clarification, or
         guidance.

         3.4.10. Ensure appeals are prepared IAW AFMAN 33-302, Appendix 9.5 and
         obtain AF/JAA and IDA coordination. Appeal packages should be forwarded to
         SAF/AAII (FOIA) for completion and forwarding to AFLOA/JACL. Organizations that
         process FOIA actions do not have the authority to make a final decision to deny an
         appeal.

               3.4.10.1. OPRs are responsible for ensuring adequate preparation of the FOIA
               appeal package for reconsideration by the IDA. Coordinate with AF/JAA, who
               will provide written opinions on substantive issues raised in the appeal.

              3.4.10.2. If a requester appeals an Air Force “no records” determination, Air Force
              elements must search again or verify the adequacy of their first search. The
              package must include documents that show the Air Force element systematically
              tried to find responsive records. Tell, for example, what areas or offices were
              searched and how the search was conducted manually, by computer, by telephone,
              and so forth. In the event a requester sues the Air Force to contest a determination
              that no responsive records exist, formal affidavits are required to support the
              adequacy of any searches conducted.

              3.4.10.3. All appeals must be reviewed by the Air Force IDA, who may grant some,
              all, or none of the appeal;

              3.4.10.4. Appeals must generally be processed within twenty (20) days.

              3.4.10.5. Capture all processing costs on DD Form 2086.

              3.4.10.6. Use the appropriate OPR checklist(s) at Attachment 2 to ensure the
              required actions are completed.

4. Air Force Mandatory Declassification Review Program Guidance and Basic Principles

    4.1. Basic Principles
HOI33-18 30 September 2014                                                                 9


      4.1.1. A Mandatory Declassification Review (MDR), is a provision of Executive Order
      (EO) 13526, “Classified National Security Information”, that allows members of the
      public to request a declassification review of a classified document(s) in order to obtain a
      publicly releasable version of the document(s). These requests are submitted to the agency
      whose equity, or "ownership", is invested in the document. Once an MDR request has
      been submitted to an agency for the review of a particular document, the agency must
      respond within one year from date of receipt of the request, either with an approval, a
      denial, or the inability to confirm or deny the existence or nonexistence of the requested
      document. Any individual or organization may request a review for declassification of
      information under EO 13526                                                                  9
       4.1.2. Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Field Operating
       Agencies (FOAs) and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) process MDR requests from the
       public for classified information originating within their agency.

       4.1.3. MDRs must:

             4.1.3.1. Clearly delineate the communication as a request for mandatory
             declassification review

             4.1.3.2. Identify the document(s) or information with sufficient specificity to
             enable OPRS to locate it with reasonable effort.

             4.1.3.3. The requester must provide sufficient personal identifying information
             (name, address, phone number, and email address) to enable MDR staff to contact
             them for clarification or other matters concerning their request

  4.2. Responsibilities

      4.2.1. The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) has
       overall responsibility for ensuring Air Force compliance with the MDR program

     4.2.2. The Secretary of the Air Force Information Management Directorate (SAF/AAI),
      through the Office of Mandatory Declassification Review (SAF/AAII (MDR)):

             4.2.2.1. Administers procedures described in this instruction

             4.2.2.2. Submits required reports to the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of
               Defense

             4.2.2.3. Provides guidance and instruction to HAF Two-Letter Organizations

     4.2.3. SAF/AAII (MDR) shall:

             4.2.3.1. Provide written acknowledgement to the requester not later than 24 hours
             after receiving the request
10                                                               HOI33-18 30 September 2014



           4.2.3.2. Ensure each request is logged into the SAF/AAII (MDR) database

           4.2.3.3. Control and process MDR requests until completed

           4.2.3.4. Refer requests to the appropriate Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
           for declassification determination

           4.2.3.5. Establish procedures to assess and collect fees

           4.2.3.6. Notify requester in writing of possible MDR fees

           4.2.3.7. Approve or deny fee waivers

           4.2.3.8. Send extension notices to requester

           4.2.3.9. When information is denied in full or in part, SAF/AAII (MDR) will notify
           the requester of the right of administrative appeal

           4.2.3.10. Submit required annual SF 311, Agency Security Classification
           Management Program Data to SAF/AAZ

           4.2.3.11. Make final determination on all “no records” responses

           4.2.3.12. Provide training to HAF Two Letter Organizations

     4.2.4. HAF Two Letter Organization MDR Officers shall:

           4.2.4.1. Prepare and submit to SAF/AAII (MDR) an appointment letter (see
           attachment 4) designating a primary and alternate MDR Officer, responsible for
           implementing the MDR program within their organization.

           4.2.4.2. Prepare and submit to SAF/AAII (MDR) a letter identifying the agency
           Initial Denial Authority responsible for making final decisions on denial of records.

           4.2.4.3. Staff request to appropriate Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR) and
           suspense accordingly.

           4.2.4.4. Act as liaison between the OCR and SAF/AAII (MDR)

          4.2.4.5. Coordinate the release or denial with the OCR and the SAF/AAII (MDR)
          office on proposed denials.

          4.2.4.6. Request an extension from SAF/AAII (MDR) if necessary. Requests for
          extensions may be submitted to usaf.pentagon.saf-aa.mbx.mdr-workflow@mail.mil
HOI33-18 30 September 2014                                                                11


           4.2.4.7. OPRs are required to conduct a line-by-line review of the information and
           are expected to release the information unless such release is prohibited under
           statutory law (i.e. FOIA). When information cannot be declassified in its entirety,
           OPRs will make reasonable efforts to release the classified portions of the request
           information.

          4.2.4.8. Provide requested records. Records may be provided electronically to
          usaf.pentagon.saf-aa.mbx.mdr-workflow@mail.mil or
          mdr.workflow@af.pentagon.smil.mil

          4.2.4.9. Identify external agency equities and refer the documents to SAF/AAII
          (MDR) for Consultation with the appropriate organization

         4.2.4.10. Assist the disclosure authority in determining release of records and act as
         declassification authority when appropriate/necessary

    4.2.5. Initial Denial Authority shall:

         4.2.5.1. Make final decision to deny records

         4.2.5.2. Notify the requester, through SAF/AAII (MDR), of the nature of records or
         information denied, the exemption(s) supporting the denial with reason and provide
         notification of appeal procedures. NOTE: In accordance with EO 13526, Sec 3.3,
         Para (b)-(d) and (g)-(j), all classified records that are more than 25 years old and
         older have been determined to have permanent historical value under Title 44, United
         States Code, shall be automatically declassified whether or not the records have been
         reviewed.

         4.2.5.3. Ensure unclassified information is not exempt from public release pursuant to
         Exemptions 2 through 9 of the Freedom of Information Act

         4.2.5.4. Identify external agency equities and refer the documents to SAF/AAII
         (MDR) to forward to the appropriate organization for consultation.

         4.2.5.5. Ensure that exemptions are applied to specific information, the release of
         which would clearly and demonstrably be expected to:

                     4.2.5.5.1. Reveal the identity of a confidential human source, a human
                     intelligence source, a relationship with an intelligence or security of a
                     foreign government or international organization, or a non-human
                     intelligence source; or impair the effectiveness of an intelligence method
                     currently in use, available for use, or under development

                    4.2.5.5.2. Reveal information that would assist in the development,
                     production, or use of weapons of mass destruction
12                                                                    HOI33-18 30 September 2014


                        4.2.5.5.3. Reveal information that would impair U.S. cryptologic systems or
                        activities

                        4.2.5.5.4. Reveal information that would impair the application of state-of
                        the-art technology within a U.S. weapon system

                        4.2.5.5.5. Reveal formally named or numbered U.S. military war plans that
                        remain in effect, or reveal operational or tactical elements of prior plans
                        that are contained in such active plans

                        4.2.5.5.6. Reveal information, including foreign government information
                        that would cause serious harm to relations between the United States and a
                        foreign government; or to ongoing diplomatic activities of the United States

                        4.2.5.5.7. Reveal information that would impair the current ability of the
                        United States Government officials to protect the President, Vice President,
                        and other protectees for whom protection services, in the interest of national
                        security, are authorized.

                        4.2.5.5.8. Reveal information that would seriously impair current national
                        security emergency preparedness plans or reveal current vulnerabilities of
                        systems, installations or infrastructures relating to the national security

                        4.2.5.5.9. Violate a statute, treaty, international agreement that does not
                        permit the automatic or unilateral declassification of information at 25 years

5. Mandatory Declassification Review requests must:

     5.1. Clearly delineate the communication as a request for mandatory declassification review

     5.2. Identify the document(s) or information with sufficient specificity to enable OPRs to
     locate the records with reasonable effort.

     5.3. The requester must provide sufficient personal identifying information (name, address,
     phone number, and email address) to enable MDR staff to contact them for clarification or
     other matters concerning their request

6. Information NOT subject to MDR

     6.1. Information in unclassified documents or documents declassified prior to receipt of the
     MDR must be requested under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
     Section 552(b)

     6.2. Information reviewed for declassification within 2 years preceding the date of the receipt
     of the MDR. If this is the case, the requester should be provided the documents as previously
     released and advised of the right to appeal to the DOD Component within 60 days unless the
HOI33-18 30 September 2014                                                                  13


  documents are already under appeal to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel
  (ISCAP)

  6.3. Documents originated by the incumbent President; the incumbent President’s White
  House Staff; committees, commissions, or boards appointed by the incumbent President; or
  other entities within the Executive Office of the President that solely advise and assist the
  incumbent President.

  6.4. Restricted Data or Formerly Restricted Data

  6.5. Information subject to pending litigation

7. MDR Timelines and Requests for Extensions

  7.1. OPRs must make a final determination on MDRs and return to SAF/AAII (MDR) within
  one year of receipt of the request.

  7.2. SAF/AAII (MDR) will set timelines for interim updates on progress in completing
  MDRs. OPRs may submit written requests for extensions to SAF/AAII (MDR) at
  usaf.pentagon.saf-aa.mbx.mdr-workflow@mail.mil or 1000 Air Force Pentagon,
  Washington DC 20330-1000.

  7.3 Extensions should be requested before the one year time period has elapsed to enable
  SAF/AAII (MDR) to provide timely notification of the delay to the requester. Extension
  requests should be signed by an 0-6, GS-15 or equivalent.

8. MDR Appeals

  8.1. MDR appeals are for the denial of classified information only.

  8.2. Appeals must be received by the coordinator within 45-days of the date of mailing of
  the Air Force’s initial decision. Appeals must identify with specificity the documents or
  information to be considered on appeal and may provide a factual or legal basis for the
  appeal.

  8.3. The MDR Manager shall promptly record each appeal received, acknowledge receipt
  to the requester, and task the originator and other interested parties. Additional taskings,
  as determined during the review process, shall be accomplished within 10 days of
  notification

  8.4. Each Air Force officer which originated or has an interest in any of the records
  subject to the appeal, or designee, is a required party to any appeal; other interested
   parties may become involved through the request of the coordinator when it is determined
   that some or all of the information is also within their official cognizance These parties shall
   respond in writing to the coordinator with a finding as to the classified status of the
   information including the category of protected information as set forth by EO 13526. These
14                                                                     HOI33-18 30 September 2014


     parties shall also provide a statement as to whether or not there is any other statutory,
     common law or constitutional basis for withholding information.

9. Appeal Authority

  9.1. The Secretary of the Air Force or designee will make the final Air Force decision on
  appeals of initial denial decisions IAW EO 13526. Matters decided by the Secretary of
  the Air Force or designee will be deemed a final decision by the Air Force.

 9.2. The coordinator shall provide a summation memorandum for consideration of the
 Secretary of the Air Force or designee. The Secretary of the Air Force or designee shall
 personally decide each case; no personal appearance shall be permitted without the
 express permission of the Secretary of the Air Force or designee.

 9.3. The coordinator shall communicate the decision of the SECAF to the requester,
 NARA or the Presidential Library or other government agency within 10 days of such
 decision. The correspondence shall include a notice that an appeal of the decision may be
 made to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel (ISCAP)

10. MDR Fees

     10.1. MDR fees apply to authorized services related to copying, certifying and searching
     records and will be assessed in accordance with the Schedule of Fees and Rates in
     Appendix 2, Volume 11A, Chapter 4 of the DOD Financial Management Regulation.

     10.2. Fees will not be charged if the total amount to process the request is $30.00 or less

     10.3. Itemized listings of operations required to process the job will be maintained along
     with associated costs. OPRs will include the cost listing as supporting documentation
     when finalizing the case and submit to SAF/AAII (MDR).

     10.4. Mailing costs for services (Express Mail, etc.) when request specifically specifies a
     means more expensive than first class mail.




                                                  PATRICIA J. ZARODKIEWICZ
                                                  Administrative Assistant
HOI33-18 30 September 2014                                                        15


                                      Attachment 1
              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION



References
AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Program, 21 Oct 10
AFI 31-401_AFGM2 30 Jan 13, Information Security Program
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
DOD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act, 21 Oct 10
DOD 5200.1, Vol 1, 2 and 3, DOD Information Security Programs, 24 Feb 12
5 U.S.C § 552, The Freedom of Information Act
Executive Order (EO) 13526, Classified National Security Information, 29 Dec 09
Title 44, U.S.C, Chapter 21 §2107, Acceptance of Records for Historical Preservation
DOD Financial Management Regulation, Appendix 2 Vol 11A, Schedule of Fees and Rates

Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2086, Record of Freedom of Information (F01) Processing Cost

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFI – Air Force Instruction
AF/JAA - Administrative Law Division, Office of the Judge Advocate General
AFLOA/JACL - Air Force Legal Operations Agency/General Litigation Division
AFMAN - Air Force Manual
AFRIMS - Air Force Records Information Management System
DOD - Department of Defense
DODI - Department of Defense Instruction
DODR - Department of Defense Regulation
DRUs - Direct Reporting Unit
EFOIA - Electronic Freedom of Information Act
ERR - Electronic Reading Room
FOAs - Field Operating Agencies
FOIA - Freedom of Information Act
FOUO - For Official Use Only
HAF - Headquarters Air Force (Includes Secretariat and Air Staff)
HOI - Headquarters Operating Instruction
IAW - In accordance with
IDA - Initial Denial Authority
MAJCOM - Major Command
MDR-Mandatory Declassification Review
OCR - Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR - Office of Primary Responsibility
PA - Privacy Act
16                                                                HOI33-18 30 September 2014


SAF/AAII – Secretary of the Air Force, CIO Support Division, Operations Branch

Terms& Definitions

Appellate Authority-The Office of the General Counsel to the Secretary of the Air Force
(SAF/GCA).
Denial-an adverse determination on no records, fees, expedited access, or not disclosing records.
Determination—the written decision to release or deny records or information that is responsive
to a request.
Disclosure-providing access to, or one copy of, a record.
Disclosure Authority—Official authorized to release records, normally division chiefs or
higher.
FOIA Manager-the person who manages the FOIA Program at each organizational level.
FOIA Request—a written request for DOD records from the public that cites or implies the
FOIA.
Glomar Response—A reply that neither confirms nor denies the existence or nonexistence of
the requested record.
Initial Denial Authority (IDA)-Persons in authorized positions that may withhold records.
Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel (ISCAP)-a sub-agency of the Information
Security Oversight Office, the ISCAP provides the public and users of the classification system a
forum for further review of classification decisions; panel to which classification decisions on
MDRs can be appealed
Partial Denial-A decision to withhold part of a requested record.
Public Interest—the interest in obtaining official information that sheds light on how an agency
performs its statutory duties and informs citizens about what their government is doing.
Reading Room—A place where the public may inspect and copy, or have copied, releasable
records.
Records—The products of data compilation, such as all books, papers, maps, and photographs,
machine readable materials inclusive of those in electronic form or format, or other documentary
materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or receive by an agency of the US
Government under Federal Law in connection with the transaction of public business and in the
agency‘s possession and control at the time the FOIA request is made. Records include notes,
working papers, and drafts.
Redact-to remove information exempt from release/declassification.
HOI33-18 30 September 2014                                                                                   17

                                                  Attachment 2

                                              FOIA CHECKLISTS
                              A. ORGANIZATONAL FOIA MONITOR CHECKLIST
REFERENCE: DOD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302 and Title 5, United States Code 552.
FOIA Monitors are responsible for monitoring all FOIA requests within their assigned area of responsibility and
assigning action to the appropriate OPR. The monitor must ensure the OPR completes the case by the suspense date
indicated on the staffing package and provide written responses. The FOIA Monitor also serves as liaison between
SAF/AAII (FOIA) and the OPRs.


    No.    Checklist Item                                                               Yes     No     N/A
           Was the FOIA tasker logged into the organization's database or
     1     logbook and tracked to meet required suspense?

           Does the FOIA request have a case number assigned by SAF/AAII
     2     (FOIA)?       '


           If the FOIA request does not have a case number assigned to it:
           Was a copy of the request e-mailed to SAF/AAII (FOIA)
           at: foia@pentagon.af.mil or faxed to them 703-693-5728
           ()
     3a
           DSN 223-5728)?
           Was the original (hardcopy) letter forwarded to SAF/AAII (FOIA),
     3b    1000 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1000?

     4     I f     t h e r e          w a s       a n       a p p e a l :
           Was the package prepared IAW DOD 5400,7-R_AFMAN 33-302,
     4a    AP9.5?

     4b    Was the package coordinated with AF/JAA?

     4c    Was the package coordinated with the IDA?

           Was appeal package forwarded to SAF/AAII (FOIA) for final
     4d    processing and forwarding to AFLOA/JACL?
     5     Have all OPR. Checklist items below been completed?



                         B. OFFICE OF PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY CHECKLIST
OPRs are responsible for the actual processing of FOIA requests within their assigned area of responsibility. The
OPR must complete the case by the suspense date indicated on the staffing package (as adjusted for approved
extensions) and provide written responses to the FOIA Monitor for forwarding to SAF/AAII (FOIA). Request for
extensions and/or guidance must be processed through the FOIA Monitor who serves as the liaison between
SAF/AAII (FOIA) and the OPR.
18                                                                                HOI33-18 30 September 2014

      No.     Checklist Item                                                               Yes     No     N/A
             Was the tasker forwarded and suspensed accordingly to the
       I     appropriate office for action?
             Did the OPR complete a thorough search of all maintained filing
       2     systems and locations of records pertaining to the FOIA request?
             If records are located and determined releasable, did the OPR provide the
       3     FOIA Monitor with a written memo (with documents) addressed to
             SAF/AAII (FOIA) stating the responsive documents are releasable?
      4      If no records were found, did the OPR provide the FOIA Monitor with a
             written negative response addressed to SAF/AAII (FOIA)?
              If a determination is made to withhold part or all of the record(s), did
              the OPR provide FOIA exemption(s) and/or exclusion(s), and
              justification for the denial? (NOTE; All denials must be coordinated
      5       with AF/ JAA. Justification for denial must be provided to AF/JAA
              (which includes the OPR's recommendation, one unmarked copy of the
              requested record and another copy of the requested record on which the
              portions recommended for denial are highlighted in yellow and
              annotated with the appropriate FOIA exemption(s)).
             Did AF/JAA agree with the OPR's response? (If further action is
             required by the OPR or if AF/JAA provided recommendations, the
      6      package is sent back to the OPR. Upon review and/or completion of the
             action, the OPR must obtain another legal coordination with AF/JAA
             prior to forwarding the response to the FOIA Monitor).
             Did the OPR forward the completed package to the FOIA Monitor with all
      7      applicable documentation for forwarding to SAF/AAII (FOIA)?
             Did the OPR fill out the DD Form 2086 (Freedom of Information (F01)
      8      Processing Cost)?
             If The OPR is not able to meet the suspense date, did the OPR contact the
      9      FOIA Monitor to request an extension from SAF/AAII (FOIA)? See
             paragraph 3.3.8. for information concerning requests for extensions.


                     C. OFFICE OF PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY APPEAL CHECKLIST
SAF/AAII (FOIA) will forward appeal packages to the FOIA Monitor who will in-turn forward to the appropriate
denying OPR. The OPR is responsible for the reprocessing and review of their previous recommendation. Appeals
require AF/JAA coordination.

     No.    Checklist Item                                                                Yes     No     N/A
            Was the appeal package forwarded to the appropriate OPR for applicable
            action? See DOD 5400.7-R AFMAN33-302, AP9.5)
      2     Was the package coordinated with the IDA?
      3     Was the appeal package coordinated with AF/JAA for legal review ?
            Was the appeal package returned to the FOIA Monitor for further
      4     processing and forwarding to SAF/AAII (FOIA)?


                                 D. RECORDS MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENT
The OPR must maintain a copy of the records released in full for 2 years and 6 years for records that were denied in full
or in part. See Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Table 37-19 for details.
HOI33-18 30 September 2014                                                                  19


                                           Attachment 3

          SAMPLE APPOINTMENT OF FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
               INITIAL DENIAL AUTHORITITES AND MONITORS


                                                                                   (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR SAF/AAII (FOIA)

FROM: (Sender Two-Letter Organization)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Initial Denial Authority and
         Monitors

        The following duty titles are authorized to serve as the Initial Denial Authorities. Also,
the individuals listed below are appointed FOIA Monitors for this organization and will fulfill
unit FOIA Monitor responsibilities described in HOI 33-18, Headquarters Air Force Freedom of
Information Act Program.

INITIAL DENIAL AUTHORITY:
Duty Title:

PRIMARY FOIA MONITOR:

Rank/Name:
Unit/Office Symbol:
Phone:
Email:
Organizational email:

ALTERNATE FOIA MONITOR:

Rank/Name:
Unit/Office Symbol:
Phone:
Email:
Organizational email:

This letter supersedes previous letter, same subject.



                                                             Signature Block
20                                                                  HOI33-18 30 September 2014


                                          Attachment 4

     SAMPLE APPOINTMENT OF MANDATORY DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW
              INITIAL DENIAL AUTHORITITES AND MONITORS


                                                                                    (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR SAF/AAII (MDR)

FROM: (Sender Two-Letter Organization)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Mandatory Declassification Review Initial Denial Authority and
         Monitors

        The following duty titles are authorized to serve as the Initial Denial Authorities. Also,
the individuals listed below are appointed MDR monitors for this organization and will fulfill
unit MDR Monitor responsibilities described in HOI 33-18, Headquarters Air Force Freedom of
Information Act Program.

INITIAL DENIAL AUTHORITY:
Duty Title:

PRIMARY MDR MONITOR:

Rank/Name:
Unit/Office Symbol:
Phone:
Email:
Organizational email:

ALTERNATE MDR MONITOR:

Rank/Name:
Unit/Office Symbol:
Phone:
Email:
Organizational email:

       This letter supersedes previous letter, same subject.


                                                               Signature Block
