 BY ORDER OF THE                               HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 33-17
 SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                            26 DECEMBER 2013


                                                                        Communications and Information

                                         HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE RECORDS MANAGEMENT
                                                                           PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:           HAF Publications and forms are available on the Air Force e-Publishing
                         website: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY:           There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/AAII                                                 Certified by: SAF/AAII (Mr. Kent Chadrick)
Supersedes: HOI 33-17, 23 June 2009                                                             Pages: 20

This Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Air
Force Information Management and is consistent with AFI 33-322, Records Management Program. It
applies to all Headquarters Air Force (HAF) military, civilians, and contractor personnel. User must
comply with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management Program, which provides
overarching Air Force Records Management program guidance, to include roles and responsibilities; and
must ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. In addition to expanding on that guidance, this
HOI explains the processes of retiring, transferring and accessing records staged in the Washington
National Records Center (WNRC) in reference AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and
Responsibilities. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

1. Overview. Records play a vital role in managing and operating Air Force activities. In simple terms,
records document official business, serve as the memory of the organization, record past events, and are
the basis for future actions. Every Air Force activity must manage its records to achieve legal and
regulatory accountability requirements. There are four keys for ensuring these requirements are met: (1)
The integrity of the filing system--a system which ensures a standard methodology for filing, storing,
preserving, protecting, retrieving, and ultimately disposing of records according to published retention
and disposition schedules such as the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS); (2) A Chief of
the Office of Record (COR) who understands the importance of records and his/her responsibilities (see
Para 9); (3) A Records Custodian (RC) who consults with the COR or 33-322 (FARM) to resolve
2                                                                  HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013

problems with the creation, maintenance, use and disposition of records, and who consistently consults
with each Action Officer (AO) to ensure a full understanding of the overall records management
responsibilities; and (4) A trained AO who conscientiously manages and files in a timely manner all
records within their area of responsibility IAW this HOI (see Para 12).

    1.1 All HAF organizations must implement an effective records management process in order to
    comply with this HOI and to protect the rights of the U.S. Government, its employees, and persons
    directly affected by Air Force actions.

    1.2. Contracts and performance work statements with respect to the use and retention of Air Force
    records by contractors must include Air Force record keeping requirements.

    1.3. HAF organizations at all levels must manage records systematically to make sure they are
    complete, accurate, trustworthy, and easily accessible. HAF leaders must document their
    organization, function, and activities and preserve their records by implementing effective life-cycle
    management procedures within their areas of responsibility.

2. Responsibilities.

    2.1. HAF Records Manager (SAF/AAII). Serves as Command and Base Records Manager for HAF
    organizations exercising procedural and staff responsibilities as specified in AFI 33-322. The HAF
    Records Manager:

       2.1.1. Provides liaison between HAF organizations and the AFRO and Federal Records Centers
       (FRC) on transfer, retirement, retrieval, and destruction of records.

       2.1.2. Provides consulting, technical advice, and assistance to FARMs as required or requested.
       This assistance does not include the actual establishing, maintaining, or disposing of files.

       2.1.3. Conducts staff assistance visits (SAVs) to each FARM at least once every 24 months to
       discuss and evaluate program compliance – see Attachment 5 SAV Guidance. Visits Offices of
       Record as required or requested.

       2.1.4. Conducts records searches when the Air Force is required by law or other legal authority to
       search for records pertaining to a specific subject or event, as detailed in Paragraph 12 below.

       2.1.5. Coordinates changes to appropriate AFIs, AFMANs, HOIs, pamphlets, handbooks, etc. for
       impact to records management such as creation of new types of records due to processes
       prescribed in publications, presence of IT systems and databases whose records data need to be
       properly scheduled with an approved records disposition, discussion of records retentions which
       do not appear in the AF Records Disposition Schedule and are not approved by the National
       Archives and Records Administration.

       2.1.6. Coordinates requests from the FRC for disposal of records with office which generated the
       records.

       2.1.7. Assigns accession numbers from NARA’s Archives and Records Centers Information
       System (ARCIS) to all Standard Forms 135 (SF 135), Records Transmittal Receipt.

       2.1.8. Signs as “Transferring Agency Official” in SF 135, Item 2, for transfer of records to
       Washington National Records Center (WNRC).
HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                             3


     2.1.9. Maintains a master file of SF 135s for all records retirement or transfer by HAF.

     2.1.10. Assists with retrieval of records from WNRC as detailed in Attachment 4, Para 2.

     2.1.11. Evaluates and approves, prior to implementation, HAF electronic record-keeping systems
     (ERKS), including their AF Form 1341, Electronic Record Inventory (or equivalent in the EITDR
     system). Especially during the design and development phases, Program Managers of IT
     investments with records data such as systems and databases shall invite the HAF Records Office
     to participate. Works with HAF Portfolio Manager to identify potential ERKS in HAF portfolio of
     IT investments.

     2.1.12. Establishes Air Force Records Management Information System (AFRIMS) accounts for
     FARMs.

     2.1.13. Approves Files Maintenance and Disposition Plans for each Office of Record.

     2.1.14. Provides training to HAF personnel involved in Records Management, including but not
     limited to CORs, FARMs, and RCs, and ensures training is properly documented.

     2.1.15. Establishes Electronic Records Management (ERM) shares for units and assigns access
     permissions to folders for records professionals.

     2.1.16. Works with Offices of Record in HAF to accession and pre-accession electronic records,
     including records data, of a permanent retention to the National Archives and Records
     Administration, especially through NARA’s Electronic Records Archives (ERA) system.

     2.1.17. Works with Offices of Record in HAF to ensure exit briefings are conducted for senior
     officials on the appropriate disposition of the records, including e‐mail, under their immediate
     control. This action will have increased importance during changes in Presidential administrations
     that may affect politically appointed AF officials.

     2.1.18. Works with Offices of Record in HAF to ensure senior leaders, as well as their Executive
     Officers, understand that senior leader communication must be captured and preserved per Table
     33 – 42, Rule 01.00.

     2.1.19. Review staff compliance on the AF’s e-mail preservation policies outside of Staff
     Assistance Visits.

     2.1.20. Review and validate retention of records and data in Privacy Act System of Records
     Notices (SORNs) and Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) from systems originating in HAF
     organizations.

  2.2. HAF Two-Letter Organizations will:

      2.2.1. Implement this instruction and all Air Force records management publications and
      advocate the creation, use, preservation, protection, and authorized destruction of electronic
      records.

      2.2.2. Appoint a primary FARM and an alternate FARM (if possible) for their Two-Letter
      organization.
4                                                                     HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013


                   2.2.2.1 In cases of large and/or complex organizations, additional FARMs may be
                   appointed as needed to maintain a manageable span of control.

                      2.2.2.1.1. It is recommended that a FARM manage up to approximately 20 file plans.
                      Avoid appointing additional FARMs to manage a small number of file plans.
                      Additional FARMs increase the administrative burden (training, accounts and
                      permissions, SAVs, etc.) for all involved.

                      2.2.2.1.2. All primary FARMs are considered equal and will perform FARM duties
                      and manage the records program in support of the offices assigned. However,
                      SAF/AAII may request a single FARM to serve as the liaison between the unit and the
                      HAF Records Management Office (which falls under SAF/AAII).

                  2.2.3. Executive Services Division (HAF/ES) provides FARM support to the offices of
                  Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of Staff.

           2.2.3. Notify SAF/AAII in writing of the name, rank, phone number, e-mail address, location of
           each FARM, and their areas of responsibility. Submit changes as they occur within 5 working
           days. See sample FARM appointment letter (Attachment 2).

           2.2.4. Ensure FARM initiates corrective actions identified during a SAV. Provides written
           response to all staff visit findings by suspense given in the SAV report and will provide written
           follow-up responses every 30 days until all findings are closed.
    .
        2.3. Chief of the Office of Record (COR):

           2.3.1. The COR has physical possession/supervision of records used in his/her duties, including
           legal custody of the records in his/her Office of Record, with the duties and responsibilities as
           specified in AFI 33-322. The COR is the senior position of authority in the respective office of
           record; however, these duties may be delegated as appropriate - but not the responsibilities.
           Delegation of the COR duties must be made in writing to the HAF Records Manager. Delegation
           should be made to someone with adequate authority and a thorough knowledge of the office’s
           mission and the records created by the office. Delegation of the COR duties should be approved
           at one level higher than the office of records or at a minimum by the inherent COR's supervisor; a
           COR cannot sign their own delegation letter. Ultimately, the COR retains responsibility for the
           legal custody of the records in his or her office of record. The COR:

           2.3.2. Appoints an RC and an alternate RC (if possible) in writing and submits to the FARM. See
           sample RC appointment letter (Attachment 3). Ensures all assigned RCs receive training within 3
           months of date of appointment on the maintenance, use, and disposition of records. Submits
           names of individuals requiring training to the FARM within 5 days of appointment.

           2.3.3. Ensures the AFRIMS file plan identifies all files in the office; reviews file plan with RC
           and FARM. The file plan is considered official after it is signed by the COR.

           2.3.4. Ensures the RC initiates corrective actions identified during a SAV. Provides written
           response to all staff visit findings by suspense given in the SAV report and will provide written
           follow-up responses every 30 days until all findings are closed.

           2.3.5. Determines whether office holds any vital records and ensures those records are properly
HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                            5

     identified on the file plan (See Paragraph 5 and Attachment 6).

     2.3.6. Ensures records are reviewed annually and eligible records are destroyed or retired to the
     FRC. Prepares waiver requests for exceptions and forwards to SAF/AAII for approval.

     2.3.7. Ensures SF 135 is prepared and submitted to the FARM, requesting approval and
     assignment of accession number. Certifies on SF 135 that classified records have been reviewed
     for possible downgrading or declassification per DoDM 5200.1-V1, DoD Information Security
     Program: Overview, Classification and Declassification.

     2.3.8. Ensures records on temporary loan from the FRC are returned in the original box or folder,
     with no documents removed or inserted. These records will be returned to the FRC within two
     weeks of receipt.

     2.3.9. Takes required annual role-based training IAW AFMAN 33-363, paragraph 6.1.1.2.6.1.
     There is no option to waive annual training.

     2.3.10. Provides guidance to RCs and AOs on the appropriate disposition of records the
     organization considers important enough to be declared final and what table and rule to associate
     with each final record.

     2.3.11. Provides guidance to RCs and AOs on appropriate disposition of drafts.

     2.3.12. Ensures a thorough office-wide search for all data calls (e.g. record searches), to include
     active and inactive, physical and electronically stored final and draft documentary materials both
     classified and unclassified.

  2.4. Functional Area Records Manager (FARM):

     2.4.1. Monitors the Records Management Programs for all assigned offices and perform duties
     per AFI 33-322, including creation, use, preservation, protection, and authorized destruction of
     electronic records.

     2.4.2. Coordinates on all AF 525, Records Disposition Recommendation, or changes to the Air
     Force Records Disposition Schedule, prepared by assigned offices and submits to SAF/AAII.
     Ensures AF Form 525s are coordinated by all relevant stakeholders prior to submission to the
     HAF Records Office.

     2.4.3. Reviews AFRIMS file plans prepared by assigned offices to ensure compliance with
     AFMAN 33-363, Chapter 2.

     2.4.4. Submits SF 135 to SAF/AAII for approval and accession number for all records retirement
     actions from assigned offices.

     2.4.5. Assists offices in arranging shipments of records to the WNRC; assures boxes are properly
     packed and contain appropriate shipping documents.

     2.4.6. Maintains a master file of all SF 135s prepared by assigned offices.

     2.4.7. Upon deactivation or re-organization of an Office of Record, prepares SF 135s to transfer
     all records to the gaining organization(s) or retire to an FRC.
6                                                                  HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013


        2.4.8. Conducts office SAVs to assigned offices at least once every 24 months, prepares report of
        findings in AFRIMS, and establishes suspense for corrective actions to be taken, including
        improvements in the creation, use, preservation, and authorized destruction of electronic records.

        2.4.9. Ensures that all RCs are scheduled for initial HAF Records Management training within 90
        days of appointment. Send names of individuals requiring initial training to SAF/AAII for
        scheduling.

        2.4.10. Ensures that all CORs and RCs complete annual role-based training IAW AFMAN 33-
        363, paragraph 6.1.1.2.6.1.

        2.4.11. Maintains a record of personnel completing training and annotates training dates for CORs
        and RCs in AFRIMS.

        2.4.12. Establishes AFRIMS accounts for all RCs in their unit.

        2.4.13. Establishes new offices in AFRIMS and ensures COR information and an organizational
        email is entered for each office in AFRIMS.

        2.4.14. Completes initial HAF Records Management training within 90 days of appointment and
        completes annual FARM role-based training IAW AFMAN 33-363, paragraph 6.1.1.2.6.1.
        Forwards training certificates to HAF Records Manager.

    2.5. Records Custodian. Executes the duties and responsibilities as specified in AFI 33-322,
    paragraph 6.6. The RC:

        2.5.1. Consults with the COR or the FARM on problems with the creation, maintenance, use,
        preservation, protection, and disposition of records (including electronic) and complies with
        applicable instructions.

        2.5.2. Prepares AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation for records created that have
        not been scheduled in the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, and forwards to the FARM.

        2.5.3. Prepares AFRIMS file plan per AFMAN 33-363, Chapter 2. Ensures FARM reviews
        before submitting to SAF/AAII for approval. Obtains the COR signature on the approved file
        plan.

        2.5.4. Reviews records annually and destroys or retires eligible records. Notifies COR when
        waiver requests need to be prepared.

        2.5.5. Prepares SF 135 and forwards to the FARM for coordination.

        2.5.6. Schedules appointment for the FARM to inspect shipment.

        2.5.7. Upon deactivation of an Office of Record, forwards to the COR and FARM copies of SF
        135 identifying those records.

        2.5.8. Transfers records to appropriate office or FRC after approval by SAF/AAII.

        2.5.9. Maintains accountability for records on temporary loan from the FRC.
HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                             7


      2.5.10. Completes any corrective actions identified during a SAV visit by the suspense date
      given.

      2.5.11. Works with each AO to familiarize him/her with their appropriate Tables and Rules and
      the associated dispositions, and overall records management responsibilities.

      2.5.12. Completes initial HAF Records Management training within 90 days of appointment and
      completes annual RC role-based training IAW AFMAN 33-363, paragraph 6.1.1.2.6.1. Forwards
      training certificates to FARM.

      2.5.13. Ensures electronic and non-electronic records with personally identifiable information are
      protected and restricted to individuals who are properly authorized and have a valid need-to-
      know. PII breaches will be reported per AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program and Civil
      Liberties Program.

  2.6. Action Officer (AO). Responsible for the proper handling of each record within his/her area of
  responsibility in a timely manner, from its creation through its formal declaration into the designated
  official records repository.

      2.6.1. To meet these responsibilities successfully, the AO will:

              2.6.1.1 Become familiar with the concepts and practice of distinguishing between drafts
              and final records.

              2.6.1.2. Ensure all drafts and records under his/her purview are maintained and filed
              according to COR direction.

              2.6.1.3. Work with his/her RC to familiarize themselves with their appropriate tables and
              rules and the associated disposition.

      2.6.2. The AO must properly shepherd each record throughout the HAF staffing process in
      accordance with HOI 33-3, Information Workflow Management & Correspondence Preparation.

   2.7. Records Searches. In certain circumstances, the Air Force is required to conduct a search for
   records pertaining to a specific subject or event and to provide those records to an organization or
   individuals outside the Department of the Air Force. Such circumstances are usually triggered by a
   subpoena or other legal action from the Judicial or Legislative Branches of government.

      2.7.1. Normal procedures to be followed for Records Searches:

        2.7.1.1. The Air Force Records Officer will send the Departmental Records Search task to all
        affected records professionals via AFRIMS. FARMs and RCs with an AFRIMS account and
        organizational emails entered in AFRIMS will receive an automatic e-mail notification stating
        that a records search is required with a suspense date. AFRIMS may instruct that more
        information regarding the records search is available on the classified side. FARMs and RCs
        will work with the HAF Records Office via the SIPRnet or other authorized means.

        2.7.1.2. Each RC tasked will conduct a comprehensive search of all data, to include electronic
        and paper data, records and non-records, classified and unclassified data, email, personal
        workstations, shared drives, TMT, SharePoint, etc. Each RC will indicate positive or negative
8                                                                    HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013

           findings in AFRIMS. The RC will input neither classified information nor high-risk personally
           identifiable information in the response in AFRIMS in order to prevent a spillage or a breach,
           respectively.

           2.7.1.3. The RC must consolidate any positive search findings and ensure this data is not altered
           or destroyed until a legal representative (such as the AF managing attorney) or the HAF
           Records Manager contacts them for the data. The normal records disposition that would have
           applied to the records deemed to be responsive to the search is suspended.

          2.7.1.4. The FARM will ensure records searches are completed on time and close the overall
          records search for their unit in AFRIMS after all offices of record have completed the search.

3. Procedures and Guidance.

    3.1. Purpose. Records serve a vital role in documenting the Air Force mission and provide
    evidence and accountability of our organization, function, policy, and procedures to the public,
    Congress, and the Department of Defense (DoD). They serve a crucial role in supporting the
    mission of the Air Force by ensuring information is available to support effective decision
    making through authoritative information and to protect the legal rights of the Air Force, our
    employees, and the public. Consequently, records management includes the planning,
    controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting, and other managerial activities involved
    with respect to records creation, records maintenance and use, and records disposition in order to
    achieve adequate and proper documentation of the policies and transactions of the Federal
    Government and effective and economical management of Air Force operations.

    3.2. Definition. Records consist of recorded information created or received for the business of the
    Air Force. Examples of media in which records can be embodied are unstructured data such as word
    processing documents and spreadsheets, data in information systems and databases, e-mails, and
    social media. Not all electronic files are records; if they are records, most of them are likely to be
    transitory in nature. Based on their subject, electronic records of enduring value to AF business
    should be filed and disposed in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule.

    Records include “…all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable materials, or other
    documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an agency
    of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public
    business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as
    evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities
    of the Government or because of the informational value of data in them. Library and museum
    material made or acquired and preserved solely for reference or exhibition purposes, extra copies of
    documents preserved only for convenience of reference and stocks of publications and of processed
    documents are not included (AFI 33-322, Records Management Program; Title 44 U.S.C. Section
    3301) .”

    3.3. Electronic records.

        3.3.1. A concerted effort should be made to reduce paper storage across the Enterprise as
        reinforced by OMB Memorandum M-12-18, Managing Government Records Directive. All
        temporary records shall be electronic and filed into the official electronic records management
        (ERM) drive located at \\BEGONIA\ERM_HAFORSAF-UNITNAME. Permanent records should
        be maintained in the format received. As with temporary records, permanent electronic records
HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                              9

     will be filed into the ERM drive.

         3.3.1.1. Waivers may be granted for certain circumstances where paper records are required.
         Send waiver requests to the HAF Records Management Office.

         3.3.1.2. Electronic records that are scheduled as permanent shall follow the file format
         guidance established in AFMAN 33-363. Offices wanting to digitize paper and other non-
         electronic records with a permanent retention per the AF RDS must provide a Notification to
         the National Archives and Records Administration; work with the HAF Records Management
         Office first before digitizing permanent records.

     3.3.2. E-mails and attachments containing information about the operations of the Air Force are
     considered Air Force records IAW Paragraph 2 of this HOI.

        3.3.2.1. Information in an e-mail that renders the e-mail an official government record include,
        but is not limited to, information about the functioning of an office; information about
        meetings; recommendations; opinions; government decisions; policies, procedures and
        operations of the government; and any other information that is of “informational value” about
        the operations of the Air Force.

        3.3.2.2. The definition of an “official record” is very broad. E-mails that need NOT be
        retained include administratively trivial matters such as e-mails about schedules, “out of
        office” information (I’ll be at lunch, leave, etc), administrative requests such as “xxx, send me
        this …” and other matters of a purely trivial nature. Such e-mails are transitory in nature.

     3.3.3. Electronic records will be filed according to the Air Force Electronic Records Management
     (ERM) Solution Using Existing Resources guide.

  3.4. Drafts and Final Records.

     3.4.1. Final records are those that need to be filed into the official records repository for
     appropriate disposition, which is the plan approved by the National Archives and Records
     Administration to legally dispose of official records when no longer needed for AF business.
     These records have been signed or officially released and cannot be altered.

          3.4.1.1. The AF Records Disposition Schedule is organized by functional series with tables
          and rules (T&R) that assign dispositions for records that have been determined to be final.
          Each AO will work with his/her Records Custodian (RC) to familiarize themselves with
          their appropriate tables and rules and the associated disposition. Each AO should have a
          clear understanding and working knowledge of what should be filed based on T&R, input
          from the RC, and their COR. If necessary, examples will be presented by the RC in classes
          conducted, training provided, instructions given, or white papers written to delineate which
          records are final; i.e., important enough for the organization to store in official records
          repository. Each COR will ensure his/her people know what should be filed in the official
          records repository for appropriate disposition. If in doubt, file it. Typical final records that
          an organization would consider keeping are:

             3.4.1.1.1. Decision memorandums

             3.4.1.1.2. Policy statements
10                                                                      HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013

                  3.4.1.1.3. Documents that had final input on decisions

                  3.4.1.1.4. Relevant e-mails

                  3.4.1.1.5. Relevant documents uploaded for task fulfillment in Task Management Tool
                  (TMT) and other workflows

          3.4.2. Drafts do not need to be filed into the official records repository, unless there is a specific
          T&R designated for the draft. Drafts have not been signed or officially released and can be
          altered.

              3.4.2.1. Drafts should be candidates for deletion.

              3.4.2.2. Drafts are subject to record searches (discoverable) and must be presented when
              asked (to include lawsuits, litigation holds, electronic discovery, Freedom of Information Act
              requests, and other authorized reasons).

              3.4.2.3. Drafts in an electronic medium take up space on the network.

     3.5. Vital Records are defined as records essential to the continued functioning or reconstitution of an
     organization during and after an emergency and also those records essential to protecting the rights and
     interests of that organization and of the individuals directly affected by its activities. Identification of
     vital records should be incorporated into the organization’s continuity of operations plan or disaster
     plan. Vital records include two basic categories:

           3.5.1. Emergency operating records serve the Federal Government if the country is attacked
           and include records necessary for:

               3.5.1.1. The military effort.

               3.5.1.2. The mobilization and protection of material, personnel, services, and systems.

               3.5.1.3. Maintenance of public health, safety, order and the conduct of civil defense
               activities.

           3.5.2. Rights and interest records uphold the legal rights and interests of individual citizens
           and their Government and include:

              3.5.2.1 Social Security records.

              3.5.2.2. Retirement records.

              3.5.2.3. Payroll records.

              3.5.2.4. Insurance records.

              3.5.2.5. Valuable research records.

     3.6. Air Force Records Management Program Guidance.

          3.6.1. The Air Force Director, Policy and Resources, Office of Information Dominance and Chief
HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                               11

     Information Officer (A6P), oversees the Air Force records management program and appoints the
     Air Force Records Officer (AFRO) to administer the program, represents the Secretary of the Air
     Force on records management issues, and oversees compliance with the legal requirements of
     records disposal. This Director is also the Air Force Senior Agency Official for Records
     Management.

     3.6.2. The HAF Records Manager is assigned to the HAF Chief Information Officer Support
     Division (SAF/AAII) in the Information Management Directorate, Office of the Administrative
     Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force, and implements within the HAF the Air Force
     Records Program guidance from the AF Records Office, and develops local procedures for those
     assigned to the HAF.

     3.6.3. The HAF Records Management program requires each 2-ltr to appoint a FARM to oversee
     records management within the unit and each office to appoint a RC to implement records
     management within the office.

     3.6.4 Air Force Military, Civilian Employees, and Contractors:

             3.6.4.1. Must not conceal, remove, mutilate, obliterate, destroy, or otherwise use
             government records without proper authority. Unauthorized concealment, removal,
             mutilation, obliteration or destruction of records, or any attempt to do so, is a violation of
             Title 18, U.S.C., Section 2071 and may be punished by up to three years confinement and
             a fine. Failure to obey the prohibitions in this paragraph is also a violation of Article 92,
             Uniform Code of Military Justice. Failure of civilian employees to follow the
             prohibitions in this paragraph may also result in administrative disciplinary action under
             applicable civilian personnel instructions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal
             or civil sanctions. Contractor employees may also be administratively disciplined by
             their employer.

             3.6.4.2. Must inform officials of any actual or potential unlawful removal, change, or
             destruction of Air Force records.

             3.6.4.3. Must inform HAF Records Office of the loss of Air Force records not disposed in
             accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule. Depending on the investigation
             by the HAF Records Office, the affected office will have to prepare the Lost Records
             Report for submission to the National Archives and Records Administration.

             3.6.4.4. Must distinguish Federal records from non-Federal record materials (such as
             personal papers) and maintain them separately.




                                                                                TIM BEYLAND
                                                                                Administrative Assistant
12                                                             HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013

                                      Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:

Title 18 USC Part I, Chapter 101, § 2071 Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation of Records
OMB Memorandum M-12-18, Managing Government Records Directive, 24 August 2012
DoDM 5200.1-V1, DoD Information Security Program: Overview, Classification and Declassification,
24 February 2012
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 June 2012
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance For Information Systems, 1 June 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Prescribed and Adopted Forms:

SF 135, Records Transmittal Receipt
AF Form 1341, Electronic Record Inventory
AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation
OF 11, Reference Request - Federal Records Center
NA Form 13016, Notice of Accession Location Change
NA Form 13000, Agency Reviews for Contingent Disposal
NA Form 13001, Notice of Eligibility for Disposal

Abbreviations and Acronyms:

AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRO—Air Force Records Officer
AO—Action Officer
COR— Chief of the Office of Record
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
FRC— Federal Records Center
HAF— Headquarters Air Force (Includes Secretariat and Air Staff)
HOI— Headquarters Operating Instruction
MAJCOM—Major Command
NA—National Archives
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration
OF—Optional Form
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
RC—Records Custodian
RM—Records Manager
RMA—Records Management Application
SAF—Secretariat Offices within the HAF (Headquarters Air Force)
SAV— Staff Assistance Visit
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SF—Standard Form
WNRC—Washington National Records Center
HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                         13

                                               Attachment 2

         SAMPLE APPOINTMENT OF FUNCTIONAL AREA RECORDS MANAGERS



MEMORANDUM FOR SAF/AAII                                                      (Date)

FROM: (Sender Two-Letter Organization)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Functional Area Records Manager

1. The following individuals listed below are appointed as FARMs for this organization. The FARM will
monitor the Records Management Programs for all assigned offices and perform duties in accordance
with AFI 33-322 and HOI 33-17.
Note: If more than one primary FARM is being appointed, specify which offices (ASSIGNED
OFFICES:) they are assigned to monitor.


PRIMARY/NAME:
RANK/GRADE:
OFFICE SYMBOL:
ASSIGNED OFFICES:
DSN PHONE:
COMM PHONE:
E-MAIL:

ALTERNATE/NAME:
RANK/GRADE:
OFFICE SYMBOL:
ASSIGNED OFFICES:
DSN PHONE:
COMM PHONE:
E-MAIL:

2. This letter supersedes previous letter, same subject.




                                                           Signature Block
14                                                                 HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013

                                               Attachment 3

                     SAMPLE APPOINTMENT OF RECORDS CUSTODIANS


MEMORANDUM FOR (2-Ltr FARM)                                                  (Date)

FROM: (Unit/CC)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Records Custodian

1. The following individuals are appointed as Record Custodians:

PRIMARY/NAME:
RANK/GRADE:
OFFICE SYMBOL:
DSN PHONE:
COMM PHONE:
E-MAIL: (Only if not located on the global addressing system)


ALTERNATE/NAME:
RANK/GRADE:
OFFICE SYMBOL:
DSN PHONE:
COMM PHONE:
E-MAIL: (Only if not located on the global addressing system)


2. The individuals named above will fulfill unit RC responsibilities described in AFI 33-322, Paragraph 9
and HOI 33-17.


3. This letter supersedes previous letter, same subject.




                                                                COR’s Signature Block
HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                              15

                                             Attachment 4

                         RETIREMENT OR TRANSFER OF RECORDS

HAF retires inactive records to the Washington National Records Center (WNRC), 4205 Suitland Road,
Suitland, MD 20746. AFI 33-364 provides guidance on how to maintain records in office areas. Transfer
paper records with a retention period of at least three years remaining to WNRC.

A41. Transfer of Records to WNRC:

   A41.1. SAF/AAII will submit SF 135(s) to the records center in advance for approval.

    A41.2. For physical shipments:

       A41.2.1. The HAF RM will arrange for WNRC personnel pick up boxed records from the
       Remote Delivery Facility at the Pentagon on the last Wednesday of January, April, July and
       October each year when required. One or two days in advance, WNRC usually notifies the
       contact official listed in Item 3 of the SF 135 of the time for the records pickup.

       A41.2.2. The RC delivers or arranges for delivery of boxed records to the designated loading
       platform on the scheduled pickup date. AFI 33-364, Figure 8.2. explains how to load boxes on
       delivery skids. Ensure that appropriately cleared personnel accompany the Secret and
       Confidential records to the loading platform and turn them over to authorized WNRC personnel.

       A41.2.3. Place one copy of the approved SF 135 returned from WNRC in the first and last box of
       each accession in the shipment.

    A41.3. After records arrive at the WNRC, a location number will be assigned and the AF 135 will be
    sent to the RM indicating the location of their records. After receiving the SF 135 from WNRC,
    send one copy to SAF/AAII.

A42. How to Retrieve Records from WNRC:

   A42.1. The RC uses OF 11, Reference Request - Federal Records Center, to withdraw records from
   WNRC. Only authorized personnel may request, receive or pick up records at WNRC. Ask
   SAF/AAII for the name of the official authorized to sign the OF 11. Contact SAF/AAII if you need
   to expedite processing of your request during regular duty hours with justification as to why
   expediting is necessary. When completing the OF 11, furnish the accession number, box number,
   location number, and the nature of the service. If you do not need the full box, indicate in the
   “Description of the Record(s) or Information Requested” which folder (s) you want to retrieve.

   A42.2. Return the records to WNRC in the original folders and containers to allow accurate re-filing.
   If for some reason the box is unusable for shipment, copy all information from its front onto the front
   of the replacement box.

A43. Relocation of Records. Occasionally, it becomes necessary to move records within the FRC.
   When this happens, WNRC will send a NA Form 13016, Notice of Accession Location Change. The
   RC annotates the SF 135 to show the new location number for future record retrieval.

A44. Disposition of Records. Before records are destroyed, WNRC will send a NA Form 13000,
   Agency Reviews for Contingent Disposal and NA Form 13001, Notice of Intent to Destroy.
16                                                               HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013

     SAF/AAII will forward the form to the Office of Primary Responsibility for review and destruction
     determination.

        A44.1. To approve the action, the COR signs the form and returns it to SAF/AAII within 30 days.
        SAF/AAII will respond to WNRC, in writing, at least 30 days prior to the disposal date.

        A44.2. To disapprove the action, the COR must sign the form, provide justification for holding
        the records past the approved disposal date, indicate a disposal date, and return the form to
        SAF/AAII within 30 days. The SAF/AAII, in turn, obtains approval from the Air Force Records
        Officer to maintain records in a FRC past their approved disposal date. SAF/AAII forwards the
        NA Form 13000 and OPR justification to the Air Force Records Officer who rejects or approves
        the OPR justification and notifies WNRC.




                                            Attachment 5
HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                            17


                         STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT (SAV) GUIDANCE

 A51. Staff Assistance Visit (SAV). The purpose of the SAV is to evaluate the unit/office records
management program and practices ensuring compliance with Air Force requirements. This is also a time
to discuss and receive guidance regarding any records management issues or concerns. The SAV is
mandatory and must be performed every 24 months.

       A51.1 SAVs to Units (FARMs). SAVs will normally be conducted onsite to the primary
       Functional Area Records Manager (FARM) at least once every 24 months. Part of the purpose of
       the SAV is to assist the FARM by providing guidance and answering questions. The HAF
       Records Management Office is available to discuss in detail the Unit SAV Checklist and any
       questions related to records management practices at any time during the year and not just during
       the SAV timeframe.

       A51.1.2 Scheduling. The HAF Records Manager will schedule the SAV to the units via AFRIMS
       at least 30 working days in advance. An AFRIMS notification will be sent to the FARM
       announcing the SAV date.

               A51.1.2.1 Extensions. Records management practices are required year-round and not
               just during the SAV timeframe. Requests for extensions to the scheduled unit SAV date
               will not be granted.

       A51.1.3 Date of SAV: On the SAV date, the HAF Records Manager will review the Unit’s
       records management program for compliance by analyzing the information recorded in AFRIMS
       and observing records filing practices using the Electronic Records Management (ERM) system (
       “R drive”). The HAF Records Manager will use the “SAV Checklist for Units” that is located in
       AFRIMS to review records management practices for compliance.

               A51.1.3.1 SAV Checklist: The SAV Checklist for Units contains a series of YES/NO
               questions which survey the unit’s records management practices for compliance with the
               HAF Records Management Program. The HAF RM will check either YES, NO, or N/A
               and complete the comments section with observations, along with required corrective
               actions for each checklist item. FARMs can find the most current checklist in AFRIMS
               by stepping through the following menu items: SAV > Initiate/Manage SAVs > SAV
               Unit > View Blank Checklist.

       A51.1.4 SAV Review: Once the SAV Checklist is populated, the HAF Records Manager will
       mark the SAV for review in AFRIMS. An automatic email will notify the FARM that the SAV
       Checklist is ready for review. The email will contain a hyperlink to the SAV location in AFRIMS
       where the FARM can view the populated checklist and post comments in response to the
       populated checklist. The FARM will be given 5 working days to post a response to the SAV
       Checklist in AFRIMS. Posting a response is optional and encouraged if the FARM would like to
       comment on the SAV findings. The FARM can post comments by clicking View Responses >
       Add Posting.

       A51.1.5 SAV Completion: After the 5-day review period, the HAF Records Manager will mark
       the SAV Checklist complete. An official SAV report with the attached checklist will be sent from
       the SAF/AAII Director to the Unit Director requesting corrective actions for observed
       discrepancies. The unit will be given no less than a suspense date of 30 working days to correct
18                                                              HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013

     findings. The official SAV report will be sent and the suspense tracked using the Task
     Management Tool (TMT).

     A51.2 SAVs to Offices (RCs). The FARM conducts SAVs onsite to each Records Custodian
     (RC) in the offices of record he/she is assigned to manage at least once every 24 months. Part of
     the purpose of the SAV is to assist the RC by providing guidance and answering questions. The
     FARM will be available to discuss in detail the Office SAV Checklist and any questions related
     to records management practices at any time during the year and not just during the SAV
     timeframe.

     A51.2.1 Scheduling. The FARM will schedule the SAV to the offices via AFRIMS at least 30
     working days in advance. An AFRIMS notification will be sent to the RC announcing the SAV
     date.

             A51.2.1.1 Extensions. Records management practices are required year-round and not
             just during the SAV timeframe. Requests for extensions to the scheduled office SAV date
             will not be granted.

     A51.2.2 Date of SAV: On the SAV date, the FARM will review the office’s records management
     practices for compliance by analyzing the information recorded in AFRIMS, observing records
     filing practices using the Electronic Records Management (ERM) system (“R drive”), inspecting
     paper records filing procedures, and interviewing and counseling the RC on records management
     practices. The FARM will use the “SAV Checklist for Offices” that is located in AFRIMS to
     review records management practices for compliance.

             A51.2.2.1 SAV Checklist: The SAV Checklist for Offices contains a series of YES/NO
             questions which survey the office’s records management practices for compliance with
             the HAF Records Management Program. The FARM will check either YES, NO, or N/A
             and complete the comments section with observations and required corrective actions for
             each checklist item. FARMs and RCs can find the most current checklist in AFRIMS by
             stepping through the following menu items: SAV > Initiate/Manage SAVs > SAV Office
             > View Blank Checklist.

     A51.2.3 SAV Review: Once the SAV Checklist is populated, the FARM will mark the SAV for
     review in AFRIMS. An automatic email will notify the RC that the SAV Checklist is ready for
     review. The email will contain a hyperlink to the SAV location in AFRIMS where the RC can
     view the populated checklist and post comments in response to the populated checklist. The RC
     will be given 5 working days to post a response to the SAV Checklist in AFRIMS. Posting a
     response is optional and encouraged if the RC would like to comment on the SAV findings. The
     RC can post comments by clicking View Responses > Add Posting.

     A51.2.4 SAV Completion: After the 5-day review period, the FARM will mark the SAV
     Checklist complete. An official SAV report with the attached checklist will be sent (in-writing,
     email, or TMT) from the Unit Director to the Chief of the Office of Record (COR) requesting that
     the items observed be corrected. The office will be given no less than a suspense date of 30
     working days to correct findings. The SAV report shall request an official response from the RC's
     COR stating corrective actions have been taken.

     A51.3 SAV Ratings. A SAV will be rated Satisfactory or Unsatisfactory based on the
     observations of the HAF Records Manager (Unit SAV) and FARM (Office SAV) evaluator.
     Failure to comply with all items marked “critical” on the SAV Checklist will result in an
HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                              19

     Unsatisfactory rating. Additionally, the evaluator may rate a SAV as Unsatisfactory if multiple
     non-critical items are observed. In these cases, the evaluator shall use their own judgment and
     give consistent ratings among the units and within the unit. A rating of Unsatisfactory is not
     always a reflection of the knowledge and practices of the current FARM or RC and in cases
     where this is observed the SAV report will acknowledge this (i.e, the FARM has just been
     appointed, the RC is not receiving needed support from leadership, etc.).

     A51.4 Filing SAV Reports. SAV reports are official records and will be filed under the
     following Table and Rule:

             A51.4.1 SAV reports conducted to offices will be filed under Table 33-46, Rule 14.

             A51.4.2 SAV reports received will be filed under Table 33-46, Rule 15.
20                                                                 HOI33-17 26 DECEMBER 2013


                                             Attachment 6

                HAF BASE AND FUNCTIONAL AREA VITAL RECORDS PLAN


A61. The HAF Vital Records Plan provides for the inventorying of vital records and ensuring records are
available during and after an emergency event.

       A61.2.1. Only those records series or electronic information systems (or portions of them) most
       critical to emergency operations or the preservation of legal or financial rights are to be
       designated as vital.

       A61.2.2. Records Professionals will ensure all vital records are inventoried by indicating the
              series as containing vital records on the office file plan in AFRIMS.

       A61.2.3. Duplicate copies of vital records are kept at a geographically separate location.

               A61.2.3.1. In the HAF, the unclassified and classified official records servers (ERM) are
               backed up on a regular basis and data is archived to a geographically separate location.
               Data can be requested to be restored by submitting a ticket to 844th CS.

               A61.2.3.2. If vital records are required to be paper-based, they can be stored at the
               Washington National Records Center (WNRC) - see Attachment 4 RETIREMENT OR
               TRANSFER OF RECORDS.

               A61.2.3.3. HAF 2-Ltr organizations will take any extra provisions to ensure their vital
               records are protected and available during an emergency if the above options do not meet
               the operational needs of the organization.

               A61.2.3.4. Identification of vital records should be incorporated into the organization’s
               continuity of operations plan or disaster plan.
