BY ORDER OF THE                                 HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 36-6
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                             4 SEPTEMBER 2013




                                                                                                Personnel

        HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE RESPONSIBILITIES FOR CONSULTING WITH LABOR
     ORGANIZATIONS HAVING NATIONAL CONSULTATION RIGHTS WITH THE AIR FORCE

                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICTION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILTY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1PC                                                                         Certified by: AF/A1P
Supersedes: HOI 36-6, 16 Mar 2007                                                     Number of Pages: 6

This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor - Management Relations, 15 December
2008. It specifies responsibilities and procedures applicable to all Headquarters Air Force (HAF)
organizations for consulting with labor organizations granted National Consultation Rights (NCR) by the
Air Force. It informs HAF offices of their responsibilities, explains the nature of these responsibilities,
and describes the procedures for discharging the consultation obligation when formulating and proposing
substantive changes in conditions of employment for civilian employees paid from appropriated funds
and Nonappropriated funds, except for employees of the Army and Air Force Exchange Service. It
applies to civilian employees of the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve, except that it does not
apply to Air National Guard Technicians administered by the National Guard Bureau under Title 32,
U.S.C. Section 309.

This instruction is applicable to all personnel at the HAF, including contractor personnel. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847 and forward to AF/A1PC Civilian Force Policy Division at af.a1pc.workflow@
pentagon.af.mil. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management Systems (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision revises paragraph 4 and updates obsolete office symbols and labor organizations addresses.
2                                                                      HOI 36-6 4 SEPTEMBER 2013

1. OVERVIEW. Title 5, United States Code, Section 7113 requires the Air Force to consult with labor
organizations afforded National Consultation Rights (NCR). Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR),
Part 2426 prescribes rules governing the exercise of NCR. Any issue relating to a labor organizations
eligibility for, or continuation of national consultation, is subject to determination by the Federal Labor
Relations Authority (FLRA). Attachment 2 shows addresses of labor organizations accorded NCR by the
Air Force.

2. RESPONSIBILITIES. The Air Force will inform the labor organizations granted NCR of any
substantive change in conditions of employment proposed by the HAF that are applicable to field
activities. "Conditions of employment” means personnel policies, practices, and matters (whether
established by rule, regulation, or otherwise) affecting working conditions of civilian employees. For
example, if a HAF organization proposed the issuance of an Air Force Instruction (AFI), changing the
safety requirements for flight line employees, it would constitute a change in working conditions. NCR
does not substitute for, nor excuse, an activity from the obligation to give notice and, upon request,
bargain with its recognized labor organization to the extent required by law over changes in conditions in
employment.

3. PROCEDURES/GUIDANCE.

3.1. Considering views and recommendations. The Air Force must give the labor organizations with
NCR reasonable time to present their views and recommendations regarding the proposed change.

    3.1. If any views or recommendations are presented by the labor organizations, the Air Force will
    consider such views or recommendations before taking final action.

    1.3.2. The Air Force will provide labor organizations submitting views or recommendations, a written
    statement of the reasons for taking the final action.

3.2. How the Air Force accomplishes national consultation. The Air Force will provide labor
organizations a reasonable notice of proposed substantive changes in conditions of employment (e.g.,
AFIs). Except in unusual circumstances when the time factor is critical, the transmittal letter will provide
30 calendar days for response from the labor organizations.

    3.2.1. Labor organizations should be provided a copy of the proposed changes in final draft form.
    This is normally after all mandatory and technical/functional review has been accomplished but
    before the proposed policy or procedure is in final form for publication. Providing an action in final
    form to the unions would not meet the spirit and intent of consultation because any helpful or
    important suggestions or comments provided back to the Air Force may not be incorporated into the
    policy.

    3.2.2. The transmittal letter will provide at least 30 calendar days for response from the labor
    organizations, except in unusual circumstances when the time factor is critical.

    3.2.3. Each directorate or equivalent organization level in HAF is responsible for national
    consultation on matters within its jurisdiction. The office of functional responsibility will draft and
    forward national consultation memoranda to labor organizations according to the guidelines specified
    below.

    3.2.4. All memoranda, with attachments, will be coordinated through AF/A1PC prior to being sent to
    labor organizations. AF/A1PC will provide guidance on the necessity of consultation and the content
    of national consultation memoranda. Offices of functional responsibility will keep AF/A1PC
HOI 36-6 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                                      3

  informed of consultation memo, labor organization responses, and any subsequent correspondence so
  that it may monitor the progress of such consultation and compliance with the labor statute. The
  office of functional responsibility will maintain copies of signed/dated documentation reflecting
  compliance with these requirements.

  3.2.5. Timing the issuance of national consultation memoranda to labor organizations granted NCR is
  important. Labor organizations should be provided with a copy of the proposed changes in final draft
  form. Copies should be provided after receipt of major command and HAF coordination, but before
  the proposed action is prepared in final form. Providing an action in final form to the unions would
  not meet the spirit and intent of consultation because any helpful or important suggestions or
  comments provided back to the Air Force may not be incorporated into the policy.

  3.2.6. National consultation memoranda notifying labor organizations of proposed changes in
  conditions of employment should include as a minimum:

  3.2.7. An explanation of why the proposed change is necessary.

  3.2.8. An explanation of the proposed plan for implementing the change.

  3.2.9. A request for the labor organizations views and comments on the effect the proposal will have
  on represented employees.

  3.2.10. A copy of the proposed change (i.e. draft AFI) and related documentation, except where the
  material is extremely lengthy or excessively duplicative in nature.

  3.2.11. The name and telephone number of the Air Force action officer for questions.

  3.2.12. A reasonable date, normally no less than 30 calendar days, by which a formal reply from the
  labor organization is requested. Include a statement that if a reply is not received by that date, it will
  be understood that the labor organization has no comments concerning the proposed change.

  3.2.13. If a labor organization with NCR submits views or recommendations, the office of functional
  responsibility will consider such views and recommendations prior to taking final action. If a
  response is not received by the specified time in the national consultation memorandum, and an
  extension is not granted, NCR will be considered observed and the proposed change may be
  implemented subject to local bargaining.

  3.2.14. Offices of functional responsibility will consider each formal comment received from labor
  organizations, and will add any appropriate changes made as a result of these comments before
  implementation. Copies of any responses from labor organizations should be retained with copies of
  the national consultation memorandum.

  3.2.15. The office of functional responsibility will inform each labor organization of the final action
  taken on its views or comments. Unions will be informed within a reasonable period of time
  following receipt, but not later than implementation of the proposed change. Notification will include
  a brief explanation of why the office of primary responsibility did or did not incorporate the views or
  comments.

  3.2.16. When a labor organization requests a meeting to discuss the proposed changes in the working
  conditions of civilian employees, the office to which the request is made will promptly arrange the
4                                                                     HOI 36-6 4 SEPTEMBER 2013

    meeting. The office will carefully consider the labor organization’s views and comments and make an
    appropriate response either at the time of the meeting, or at a later date in writing.

    3.2.17. The Air Force has an obligation to bargain the impact and implementation of changes to
    conditions of employment for bargaining unit employees at the level of recognition (e.g. the
    Command or Wing level). NCR does not alleviate the responsibility for, or take the place of,
    bargaining. When a labor organization submits unsolicited views and comments in writing, the
    receiving office will carefully consider the labor organization’s submission and provide a timely
    response. The response will include a brief explanation of the action taken.

4. Failure to Consult. Failure to accomplish national consultation can result in the labor organizations
involved filing a complaint with the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA)
charging the Air Force with an unfair labor practice. If investigation establishes an unfair labor practice
occurred, the FLRA may issue a cease and desist order and require the Air Force to accomplish national
consultation. If remedial action is ordered, the Air Force must report back to the FLRA that the required
remedial action has been completed. Remedial action may include rescinding the policy change which
could create considerable operational disruption, cost, and embarrassment to the Air Force.




                                                          TIM BEYLAND
                                                          Administrative Assistant
HOI 36-6 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                                   5

                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor - Management Relations
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 2426
Title 5, United States Code, Section 7103
Title 5, United States Code, Section 7106
Title 5, United States Code, Section 7113

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFI – Air Force Instruction
HAF – Headquarters Air Force
HOI – Headquarters Operating Instruction
NCR – National Consultation Rights

Terms

Bargaining - The mutual responsibility for management and labor officials, at the activity level, to meet
at reasonable times and negotiate in a good faith effort to reach agreement with respect to conditions of
employment, but this obligation does not compel either party to agree to a proposal or to make a
concession.

Conditions of Employment - Those personnel policies, practices, and matters (whether established by
rule, regulation, or otherwise) affecting working conditions of civilian employees.

Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) - The FLRA, also known as the Authority, is responsible
for establishing labor policy and guidance in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. Chapter 71. The
Authority prescribes criteria for granting national consultation rights and resolves labor disputes,
including those related to Unfair Labor Practice complaints.

Labor Organization - An organization composed (in whole or in part) of employees, in which
employees participate and pay dues, and which has as a purpose the dealing with an agency concerning
grievances and conditions of employment.

National Consultation Rights (NCR) - The rights afforded certain labor organizations representing
substantial numbers of agency employees. To fulfill these rights, the Air Force must inform the labor
organization of substantive changes in conditions of employment, give the union time to present its views,
consider those views, and give the labor organization written rationale for the final decision.

Unfair Labor Practice (ULP) - Action by either an employer or union which violates the provisions of
labor relations laws, such as refusal to bargain in good faith.
6                                                                    HOI 36-6 4 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                              Attachment 2

               NATIONAL CONSULTATION RIGHTS LABOR ORGANIZATIONS

The Air Force has granted national consultation rights to four labor organizations. Addresses of those
organizations are provided below.

1. President
American Federation of Government Employees
80 F Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20001

2. President
National Federation of Federal Employees
Federal District 1, Ste. 500
801 15th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036

3. President
National Association of Government Employees
901 North Pitt Street, Suite 100
Alexandria, Virginia 22314

4. President
Association of Civilian Technicians
12620 Lake Ridge Drive
Woodbridge, VA 22192
