BY ORDER OF THE                                            HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 33-10
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                                   December 16, 2003




                                         Communications and Information

      SUSPENSE AND CONTROL OF CONGRESSIONAL AND WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENCE

                       COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAX WWW site at:
http://www.hq.af.mil/saf/aax/hois.htm. If you lack access, contact the OPR to obtain a copy.


OPR: SAF/LLI (Col Thomas Shubert)                             Certified by: SAF/LL (Maj Gen Scott Custer)
Supersedes HOI 33-10, 29 August 2000                          Number of Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management (will convert to AFPD 33-3,
Information Management), as it specifically relates to information management, suspense, and control of
correspondence. This instruction gives more detailed guidance on preparing and processing replies to Congressional
and executive inquiries. It does not alter the provisions on processing and coordinating legislative papers (including
Executive Orders and Proclamations). It applies to all elements of the Secretariat and the Air Staff.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

This instruction clarifies the timelines for processing the various types of Congressional inquiries through Secretariat
and Air Staff agencies. This instruction also responds to processing and preparing replies to Congressional members
and White House inquiries by Secretariat and Air Staff agencies. A star (H) indicates a revision from the previous
edition.

1. General Terms for Inquiries and their Order of Precedence:

1.1. Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) Signature: Inquiries requiring the Secretary’s or designated official’s
signature.

1.2. Secretary of Defense: Routine inquiries addressed to the Secretary or their designated official.

1.3. Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF): Routine inquiries addressed to the Secretary (EXCEPTION: Inquiries
which the SECAF will sign will be processed as priority.)

1.4. Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF): Routine inquiries addressed to the Chief of Staff (EXCEPTION:
Inquiries which the CSAF will sign will be processed as priority.)

1.5. White House: Routine inquiries addressed to the President from constituents (EXCEPTION: Inquiries which
have the personal interest of the President or his staff will be processed as priority.)

1.6. Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL): Routine inquiries addressed to LL representatives.

1.7. Budget and Appropriations Liaison (SAF/FMBL): Routine inquiries addressed to FML representatives.
2. General Time Limitations. Communications with Congress and the Executive Branch of government are
extremely sensitive; therefore, it is imperative the Air Force response be both prompt and accurate. Cases that
require the Secretary of Defense’s signature are top priority and tasked agencies will process them expediently.
After receiving an initial tasker from the SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL action office, the Secretariat or Air Staff action
officer must forward a fully coordinated proposed reply to SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL by the suspense date. Any
coordinating office should not hold responses for more than two working days. After completion of all coordination,
return the proposed response to the SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL action officer.

H2.1. If there is a problem meeting the suspense, the Secretariat or Air Staff action officer must notify, no later than
48 hours from suspense date, the SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL action officer so they may prepare an interim reply. If
partial information is available for a substantive interim reply, the Air Staff or Secretariat action officer will furnish
this information no later than two workdays prior to the suspense date for SECDEF (an extension request must be
submitted with SAF/OS approval with an interim letter signed by an Assistant Secretary of Defense or equivalent
level), SECAF, and CSAF signature cases.

2.2. For telephonic, email, or informal inquiries, SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL will determine whether an interim reply is
required, including type and date of final reply to Congress.

3. Responsibility of the Director of Legislative Liaison and Deputy Assistant Secretary (Budget). AFPD 90-4,
Relations with Congress, prescribes individual and joint responsibility. SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL, as appropriate, will
monitor Secretariat and Air Staff action on inquiries.

4. Responsibility of the Action Officers. The SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL action officer monitors each assigned
Congressional or executive inquiry until the final reply is sent. The SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL action officer normally
works through the Secretariat or Air Staff and avoids direct communication with field agencies.

4.1. The Secretariat or Air Staff action office must furnish factually responsive information on or before the
suspense date or comply with procedures in paragraph 2. For inquiries initiated by a third party, determine whether
the subject of the inquiry needs to furnish a Privacy Act release. If needed, the Secretariat or Air Staff office will ask
the subject to sign a release authorizing the release of information outside of the Department of Defense. If the
subject is no longer on active duty and the requested information is subject to the Privacy Act, the Secretariat or Air
Staff office will provide the requested information and state they could not obtain a Privacy Act release. SAF/LL
and SAF/FMBL will then notify the Member of Congress that the requested information is not releasable until his or
her office obtains the individual’s consent. NOTE: When individuals write on their own behalf requesting
Congressional assistance and sign their request, they in effect authorize release of personal information back to the
Congressional office and no Privacy Act release is needed.

4.2. Should an Air Staff or Secretariat office receive an inquiry not within its purview, the action officer should
immediately contact the SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL action officer to discuss the case. Likewise, if a Secretariat or Air
Staff action officer determines other offices may need to provide information to fully address an inquiry, and the
SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL action officer did not staff the inquiry to the other offices, the Secretariat or Air Staff office
should contact the action officer to discuss the case.

4.3. When the Secretariat or Air Staff action officer asks a field activity to supply information or to coordinate on
the draft response, the action officer will explain that the sole purpose is to obtain information for a Congressional
inquiry, and the field activity should not construe the inquiry otherwise.

    4.3.1. The Secretariat or Air Staff action officer will also caution the field commander or staff agency not to
code, annotate, or otherwise mark any person’s file or record to indicate Congressional or executive interest (AFI 36-
2608, Military Personnel Records System).

     4.3.2. In this regard, Title 10, United States Code, Section 1034 provides that “No person may restrict a
member of the armed forces in communicating with a Member of Congress … does not apply to communication that
is unlawful … No person may take … an unfavorable personnel action … as a reprisal against a member of the
armed forces….”




                                                            2
H5. Coordination Procedure within the Air Staff. Unless otherwise directed, the requirement for a written,
coordinated reply applies equally to written, to include email, and telephonic inquiries referred to the Air Staff. All
Headquarters agencies will use HAF Workflow to effect this coordination to the maximum extent possible. The
action officer will:

5.1. Coordinate the proposed reply and include a statement that the reply is fully coordinated, except for a reply
routed by AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet. Include the name, directorate, and telephone extension of each
person who coordinated before submitting it to SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL.

5.2. Obtain signature and coordination at the most appropriate level for issues on a policy standpoint, generally a
colonel or GS-15.

H5.3. Furnish information copies via HAF Workflow to intermediate or higher levels, as required.

6. Coordination Procedure within the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force. When SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL
sends a proposed Congressional or executive inquiry reply to an office within the Secretariat for coordination, that
office will expedite their review and return it to SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL within 24 hours.

7. Responsibility for Handling Direct Inquiries. When a Secretariat or Air Staff office receives a Congressional
or executive inquiry directly, the recipient will:

7.1. Retain a copy of the correspondence or a summary if received by telephone contact.

7.2. Annotate the original copy to show how soon a reply will be available; offices will respond within ten
workdays.

7.3. Forward the inquiry to SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL within 24 hours.

7.4. Furnish the required information or proposed response to SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL. Note: SAF/LL or
SAF/FMBL will prepare and dispatch the final reply. SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL will determine the appropriate
signature element.

7.5. If an Secretariat or Air Staff member receives a direct inquiry that does not fall within their area of
responsibility, the Secretariat or Air Staff member will immediately contact SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL and forward or
deliver the inquiry within 24 hours for processing.

8. Preparing the Reply. Each proposed reply to a Congressional or executive inquiry must be timely, factual, and
responsive. The Secretariat or Air Staff action officer must submit the reply in draft form. Since the action officer
will generally base the reply on Air Force policy, senior officials must review it. Action officers must adhere to the
following specific procedures:

8.1. Format. Secretariat or Air Staff agencies should provide the reply in a Microsoft Word document by electronic
data file transmittal (e-mail or HAF Workflow, if tasked by HAF Workflow).

8.2. Signature Level. After coordination (paragraphs 5 and 6), each memorandum transmitting a proposed reply
should be signed by:

         (1) An officer, colonel or above; or,

         (2) A civilian official, GS-15 or above.

8.3. Background Information. To ensure SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL will understand the position expressed in the
proposed reply, the action officer will also send background information. If this information should not be included
in the final reply, mark this information “For SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL only.” The decision to release this material
rests with the Office of the Secretary.




                                                          3
9. Direct Replies.

9.1. To the Congress and Executive Branch. Normally, SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL releases communications only to a
Member of Congress or their staff. If direct communication by the Air Staff or Secretariat is appropriate, a colonel
(or above) or GS-15 (or above) should sign the document. In all cases, furnish SAF/LL with an information copy
within 24 hours. These offices should fully coordinate with SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL before release, if the issue is
contentious or substantive. In all cases, the responses must be prompt and must completely address the issue.

9.2. To Constituents. Once SAF/LL answers a Member of Congress on a constituent’s concern, the constituent will
sometimes write directly to SAF/LL disputing the information and/or addressing additional concerns. If appropriate,
HAF/ES will staff these inquiries to the action agency for their direct reply back to the constituent. The action
agency should provide a copy of the reply to SAF/LL for their records. SAF/LL coordinates responses to
Appropriations and Budget Committee member’s constituents with SAF/FMBL prior to release. This applies only to
Congressional inquiries addressed to SAF/LL personnel and not executive correspondence (Presidential or Vice
Presidential, etc.).

H10. Replies to White House Inquiries. When correspondence addressed to the President or Vice President is
referred to the Department of the Air Force for reply, SAF/LL will send it to the cognizant Secretariat or Air Staff
office for reply. Coordinate the reply as stated in paragraphs 5 and 6, and obtain the approval of a colonel (or above)
or GS-15 (or above). Secretariat or Air Staff agencies will provide the reply in a Microsoft Word document by
electronic data file transmittal (e-mail or HAF Workflow) to SAF/LL. If the Secretariat or Air Staff cannot send the
draft response by the suspense date, notify the SAF/LL action officer immediately so SAF/LL can prepare and send
an interim reply.

H11. Replies to Governors, Mayors, and State Legislators Inquiries. When correspondence from a Governor,
Mayor, or a State Legislator is referred to the Department of the Air Force for reply, SAF/LL will send it to the
cognizant Secretariat or Air Staff office for reply. Coordinate the reply as stated in paragraphs 5 and 6, and obtain
the approval of a colonel (or above) or GS-15 (or above). Secretariat or Air Staff agencies will provide the reply in a
Microsoft Word document by electronic data file transmittal (e-mail or HAF Workflow) to SAF/LL. If the
Secretariat or Air Staff cannot send the draft response by the suspense date, notify the SAF/LL action officer
immediately so SAF/LL can prepare and send an interim reply.

H12. Controlling Correspondence. The Information Services Office (SAF/LLIM) is the focal point for
controlling all correspondence from or to Members of Congress. SAF/LLIM is also the focal point for
correspondence from the President and the Vice President.

12.1. SAF/LLIM logs any Congressional or White House correspondence it receives into the SAF/LLI database and
researches the inquiry to determine the appropriate office within SAF/LL or SAF/FMBL to work the issue.

H12.2. SAF/LLIM is responsible for taskings received for SAF/LL from the Headquarters Air Force Executive
Secretariat (HAF/ES). SAF/LLIM receives the tasking, enters it into the database, and determines appropriate
SAF/LL Action Office, and Secretariat or Air Staff responsible for preparing a draft response. In addition,
SAF/LLIM will forward a task information copy to the appropriate two-letter Secretariat or Air Staff office. The
task information copy is for informational purposes only.




                                                      WILLIAM A. DAVIDSON
                                                      Administrative Assistant




                                                          4
