BY ORDER OF THE                                 HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 34-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                    5 MAY 2014


                                                                                                  Services

                                                HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE GIFT LOCKER PROGRAM


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:           This publication is available digitally on the e-publishing website at
                         http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/. If you lack access, contact the OPR to obtain a
                         copy.
RELEASABILITY:           There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AAO                                               Certified by: SAF/AAO (Mr. R.Fletcher Davis)
                                                                                               Pages: 7

This Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) implements AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds,
AFPD 65-6 Budget and AFI 51-901 Gifts from Foreign Governments. It provides procedures and
standards for maintaining Official Representation Funds (ORF) and Special Morale & Welfare funds
(SM&W) gift lockers. Use this HOI when ordering, purchasing and issuing of ORF, SM&W gifts and
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) funded recognition coins within the Headquarters Air Force (HAF)
Gift Locker purview. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication and
forward via email to usaf.pentagon.saf-aa.mbx.workflow@mail.mil. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).

1. Authorities, Terms and Responsibilities.

   1.1. In Accordance With (IAW) Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAF MD) 1-6, The
   Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/OS)
   has delegated to the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) authority
   for the administration of ORF and responsibility for providing resource support to the offices of the
   SECAF and Chief of Staff (AF/CC). This responsibility includes administration of HAF Gift Locker
   for each of the following funding sources: ORF and SM&W funds.

    1.2. The SAF/OS and AF/CC may present gifts and mementos from the HAF Gift Locker to eligible
    recipients IAW Federal, Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force (AF) regulations.
2                                                                            HOI 34-1 5 MAY 2014

    1.3. The Under Secretary of the Air Force may present gifts and mementos from the HAF Gift Locker
    on behalf of SAF/OS, IAW this instruction and HOI 65-3, HQ USAF Guidance for Official
    Representation Funds.

    1.4. The Vice Chief of Staff (AF/CV) , the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff (AF/CVA) , and the Chief
    Master Sergeant of the Air Force (AF/CCC) , may present gifts and mementos from the HAF Gift
    Locker on behalf of the AF/CC, IAW this instruction and HOI 65-3.

    1.5. Separate inventories will be maintained in the HAF Gift Locker for ORF, SM&W funded gifts
    and O&M funded recognition coins.

    1.6. SAF/AA will appoint the HAF Gift Locker custodian(s) and authorize purchases, requests and
    transfers of ORF and SM&W gifts to and from the HAF Gift Locker.

        1.6.1. SAF/AA has appointed SAF/AAO as the HAF Gift Locker custodian.

            1.6.1.1. SAF/AAO is the only purchasing agent, to include transfers for the HAF Gift
            Locker.

        1.6.2. SAF/AA has appointed SAF/AAR as the overall ORF Funds custodian.

    1.7. The SAF/AAO HAF Gift Locker Custodian is responsible for:

        1.7.1. General management of the HAF Gift Locker, including:

            1.7.1.1. Submitting Purchase Requests for gift locker items to SAF/AA for approval.

            1.7.1.2. Securing, wrapping, preparing and issuing gifts from the HAF Gift Locker for
            approved presentations.

            1.7.1.3. Performing periodic inventories and reporting the results to SAF/AAR and SAF/AA.

            1.7.1.4. Developing, maintaining and administering the HAF Gift Locker Custodian training
            program.

             1.7.1.5. Maintaining a real-time inventory of all Gift Locker items.

             1.7.1.6. Maintaining a current record of all gifts presented to ensure no duplication of gifts to
             recurring recipients.

        1.7.2. Administering the collection and disposition of gifts from the foreign government program
        following guidelines listed in AFI 51-901 Gifts from Foreign Government.

    1.8. The Headquarters Air Force Resource Management Directorate (SAF/AAR) is responsible for
    reviewing ORF gift purchase packages for funding sufficiency.

    1.9. The Air Force District of Washington (AFDW) SM&W purchasing agent is responsible for
    ordering and paying vendors for SM&W funded gifts.

2. Selection, Purchase, Accounting and Control, Issue and Return Procedures.
HOI 34-1 5 MAY 2014                                                                                     3

  2.1. Selection of Gifts:

       2.1.1. To the maximum extent possible, gifts should be selected from the existing inventory in the
       HAF Gift Locker. The HAF Gift Locker Custodian will take suggestions from the requesting
       office and investigate the availability and price of other gift items. Unless approved by SAF/AA,
       a thirty (30) day advance notice is required for purchases of gift items not in stock. SAF/AA will
       make final determination whether suggested gifts are in the best interest of the Air Force and
       whether the purchase will be funded.

       2.1.2. ORF mementos and gifts to foreign dignitaries are divided into three categories:

            2.1.2.2. The aggregate cost of mementos and gifts presented to any authorized guest
           (including spouse(s) as appropriate) per visit, not per event, shall not exceed the amount
           published in DoDI 7250.13. Consult the reference for most current authorized amount.

                2.1.2.2.1. High Level: Air Chiefs/general officers or civilian equivalent or higher, and
                their spouses, or as determined by SAF/AA with guidance of Secretary of the Air Force
                General Counsel, Fiscal Ethics and Administrative Law Division (SAF/GCA).

                2.1.2.2.2. Mid-Level: Wing commanders or military/civilian equivalents, Air Attaches,
                foreign escort officers, and spouses (when appropriate), or as determined by SAF/AA
                with guidance of SAF/GCA.

                2.1.2.2.3. Low Level: Group/squadron commanders or military/civilian equivalents and
                spouses (when appropriate), to include hostess, courtesy/docent type gifts, or as
                determined by SAF/AA with guidance of SAF/GCA.

                    2.1.2.2.3.1. Hostess Gifts - Presented when attending a dinner in a private residence
                    hosted by a foreign official. Hostess gifts should not be given at a “principal only”
                    (no spouses) event, a dinner at a restaurant, a reception at an Officer’s Club or a
                    similar event. United States (U.S.) officials and spouses, do not qualify for
                    presentation of hostess gifts.

                    2.1.2.2.3.2. Courtesy/Docent Gifts- Presented to foreign personnel who assist the
                    SECAF or the CSAF during an overseas visit (e.g., drivers, baggage handlers, tour
                    guides or similar service providers). These gifts must be of minimal intrinsic value
                    and are not authorized for U.S. personnel unless approved in advance by SAF/AA.

        2.1.3. SM&W mementos and gifts. IAW AFI 34-201, SM&W Mementos/Gifts must be
        conservative, benefit the military community, and in the best interests of the Air Force and not
        be limited to specific grades. These mementos/gifts should only be used if ORF funds are not
        authorized. IAW AFI 34-201, paragraph 12.4, expenditures for government and non-
        government personnel may include mementos up to a $20 maximum value.

   2.2. Gift Purchase Procedures:

       2.2.1. All requests for ORF or SM&W funds to purchase gifts or supplies will be forwarded by
       the HAF Gift Locker Custodian to SAF/AA.
4                                                                           HOI 34-1 5 MAY 2014

             2.2.1.1. SAF/AA approved ORF requests. HAF Gift Locker Custodian will submit a
             SAF/AAO purchase request and coordinate with purchasing agents for the ordering and
             delivery of gifts for the HAF ORF Gift Locker.

             2.2.1.2. SAF/AA approved SM&W requests. HAF Gift Locker Custodian will coordinate
             with AFDW SM&W funds custodian for the ordering and delivery of gifts for the HAF
             SM&W Gift Locker.

    2.3. Accounting and Control of Gift Items upon Receipt from vendor:

        2.3.1. HAF Gift Locker Custodian will ensure all items listed on the invoice are present and in
        good condition before signing to accept the item(s). If the items are not in acceptable condition,
        the SAF/AAO Purchasing Agent will work with the vendor to rectify the situation.

        2.3.2. Immediately after acceptance of gift item(s), the HAF Gift Locker Custodian will secure
        the gift item(s) in the HAF Gift Locker and enter the item(s) into the gift locker inventory.

        2.3.4. Copies of all source documents will be retained for a minimum of six years, three months.
        IAW AFRIMS, “Records Disposition Schedule Table 65-19 Rule 13.00,” Air Force Records
        Information Management System.

    2.4. Gift Issue Procedures:

        2.4.1. Only the HAF Gift Locker Custodian(s) may remove an item from the HAF Gift Locker.

        2.4.2. Once SAF/AA has approved the gift memorandum, the selected item(s) will be prepared
        for presentation, issued to the appropriate office and placed in the “Checked Out” section in the
        HAF Gift Locker Database by the HAF Gift Locker Custodian.

3. Gift Request and Return Procedures.

    3.1. Gift Request Procedures:

        3.1.1. Requests for presentation of gifts must be approved by SAF/AA before gift(s) are removed
        from HAF Gift Locker.

        3.1.2. The requesting office will submit a gift request package with a memorandum for SAF/AA
        approval/disapproval through the current administrative tasking tool (Task Management Tool
        (TMT) at this writing) no later than three duty days prior to the requested delivery date for each
        event. Exceptions to the three duty days can be made with SAF/AA advance approval. The
        request memorandum will contain the presenter’s name, duty title, grade/rank, and office;
        authorized recipient’s complete name, duty title, grade/rank and office; and the location, date,
        time and name of event at which the gift(s) will be presented for each proposed recipient. If more
        than two recipients will be listed, provide information on an Excel spreadsheet attached to the
        memorandum. Attachment 2 provides example of TMT Electronic Staff Summary Sheet.

        3.1.3. Upon completion of all presentations, the requesting office will update the “TMT” package
        with any changes in presentation(s) and sends to HAF Gift Locker Custodian.

    3.2. Gift Return Procedures: Gifts not used for presentation will be returned to the HAF Gift Locker
    Custodian and appropriate entries will be made in the HAF Gift Locker Database.
HOI 34-1 5 MAY 2014                                                                                  5

4. HAF Gift Locker Security.

    4.1. The HAF Gift Locker will remain secured and under controlled access at all times.

    4.2. Access to the HAF Gift Locker is limited to only authorized personnel listed on the approved
    HAF Gift Locker Authorized Access Memorandum or others as may be authorized and appropriately
    documented by SAF/AA.

5. Inventories.

   5.1. ORF Gift Inventories:

        5.1.1. The HAF Gift Locker Custodian will complete quarterly inventories with a second person
        serving as a witness. All inventories will be signed by both parties and a copy of the completed,
        signed inventory will be placed in the inventory binder. Quarterly inventories will be available
        for SAF/AAR or SAF/AA review upon request.

        5.1.2. IAW AFI 65-603, SAF/AAR will conduct an inventory and records review of ORF items in
        the HAF Gift Locker at least annually, or more frequently as directed by SAF/AA. Once
        completed, a written review will be provided to SAF/AA within 30 days.

        5.1.3. Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) or other authority will conduct annual audits using
        established procedures

   5.2. SM&W Gift Inventories.

        5.2.1. The HAF Gift Locker Custodian will complete quarterly inventories of these gift items
        with a second person serving as a witness. All inventories will be signed by both parties and a
        copy of the completed, signed inventory will be placed in the inventory binder.

        5.2.2. AFDW SM&W representative will conduct an inventory on an annual basis, or more
        frequently, as directed by SAF/AA. Once completed, the written review will be provided to
        AFDW, and a copy will be provided to SAF/AA within 30 days.

   5.3. Other O&M Coin Inventories.

         5.3.1. The HAF Gift Locker Custodian will complete quarterly inventories of these gift items in
        the HAF Gift Locker with a second person serving as a witness. All inventories will be signed by
        both parties, and a copy of the completed, signed inventory will be placed in the inventory binder.

        5.3.2. SAF/AAO will conduct an inventory and records review of these coins in the HAF Gift
        Locker at least annually, or more frequently as directed by SAF/AA. Once completed, a written
        review will be provided to SAF/AA within 30 days.

        5.3.3. Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) or other authority will conduct annual audits of the HAF
        Gift Locker using established procedures.

6. Disposition of Gifts.

    6.1. ORF Gifts: The HAF Gift Custodian will identify out-of-date, broken or unserviceable gifts in a
    memorandum to SAF/AA and obtain SAF/AA’s written approval to turn the items in to DRMO.
6                                                                              HOI 34-1 5 MAY 2014

    6.2. SM&W Gifts: The HAF Gift Custodian will identify out-of-date, broken or unserviceable gifts
    in a memorandum to SAF/AA and obtain SAF/AA’s written approval to turn the items in to AFDW
    SM&W.

    6.3. O&M Coins: The HAF Gift Custodian will identify out-of-date, unserviceable, or personalized
    (for personnel no longer assigned) recognition coins in a memorandum to SAF/AA and obtain
    SAF/AA’s written approval for their destruction.

    6.4. Purchasing Gifts from Locker: Gifts from the ORF or SM&W gift locker will not be
    purchased by any individual for personal use, regardless of rank.

    6.5. Gifts Received by Individuals from Foreign Governments: If recipient either cannot accept a
    gift or gifts (because of aggregate value), does not wish to retain the gift(s), or desires retention of the
    gift(s) for official use, the recipient is required to send a memorandum IAW AFI 51-901 Gifts from
    Foreign Governments to SAF/AA through the HAF Gift Locker Custodian, requesting deposition
    instructions for each gift. SAF/AAO will coordinate with SAF/GCA on specific gift disposition
    considerations, as needed.

    6.6. Gifts from Non-Federal Domestic Sources: Recipients of gifts from domestic sources are
    required to follow Office of Government Ethics Regulation 5CFR 2635.204, as implemented by the
    Joint Ethics Regulation. SAF/GCA will be contacted for advice on specific gift disposition situations.

7. Recognition Coins.

    7.1. See HOI 35-16, (Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of Staff Recognition Program) for
    general guidance.

    7.2. O&M Coins: The HAF Gift Locker Custodian maintains and issues all O&M purchased
    recognition coins for SAF/OS, AF/US, AF/CC, AF/CV, AF/CVA, and AF/CCC. These offices will
    submit a supply request through the SAF/AAO Work Request Site, http://hafap071/fminteract/, for
    O&M coins.

    7.3. ORF Recognition Coins: The HAF Gift Locker Custodian maintains and issues all ORF
    purchased recognition coins for SAF/OS, SAF/US, AF/CC, AF/CV, AF/CVA, and AF/CCC. These
    offices will submit a request through the SAF/AAO Work Order Site, http://hafap071/fminteract/, for
    recognition coins.




                                                                     Tim Beyland
                                                                     Administrative Assistant to the
                                                                     Secretary of the Air Force
HOI 34-1 5 MAY 2014                                                                        7

                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

5 CFR 2635.204, Office of Government Ethics Regulation, 1 Jan 2011
DoDI 7250.13, Official Representation Funds, 30 Jun 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds, 24 Aug 2011
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds, 17 Jun 2002
AFI 51-901, Gifts from Foreign Governments, 16 Feb 2005
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funds Maintenance, Repair, and Construction
Projects, 15 Oct 2003
HOI 65-3, HQ USAF Guidance for Official Representation Funds, 1 Mar 2008
HOI 36-15, Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of Staff Recognition Program, 23 Aug 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AF/CC—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CMSAF— Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
OI—Operating Instruction
ORF—Official Representation Funds
O&M—Operation and Maintenance Funds
SAF—Office of Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AAI—Headquarters Air Force Information Management
SAF/AAO —Secretary of the Air Operations Directorate
SAF/AAR—Headquarters Air Force Resource Management
SAF/OS—Secretary of the Air Force
SM&W—Special Morale and Welfare Funds
TMT—Task Management Tool
VCSAF—Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force
8                                                               HOI 34-1 5 MAY 2014

                                       Attachment 2

         EXAMPLE of TMT E-SSS HAF GIFT LOCKER DISTRIBUTION REQUEST


AO:

SUSPENSE:

OUTSIDE AGENCY SUSPENSE: N/A

SUBJECT: Approval for disbursement of gifts from Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Gift Locker

1. PURPOSE: To obtain SAF/AA Approval for disbursement of gifts from HAF Gift Locker.

2. BACKGROUND: Obtain SAF/AA signature on request memo at Tab one approving ORF
gift distribution from HAF Gift Locker for stated event(s).

3. DISCUSSION: Tab one is request memo, Tab two provides list of complete name, rank/title,
position and country of proposed gift recipients for above mentioned TDY.

4. RECOMMENDATION: Approval for distribution of listed appropriate level gifts from HAF
Gift Locker.




                                          //signed, Date//
                                          Signature Block

Tabs:
1. Request for Counterpart Presentation Gifts Memorandum
2. Gift Requested List
