BY ORDER OF THE            HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 33-4
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                              11 JAN 2013




                                                                   Communications and Information

                                                      HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE
                                   INFORMATION RESOURCE MANAGEMENT GUIDANCE



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY:           HAF Publications and forms are available on the AF Portal: www.my.af.mil ::
                         Organization A-Z Listing::HAF/IM::HOIs (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                         af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=1134204 ).
RELEASABILITY:           There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.




OPR: SAF/AAII                                                    Certified by: SAF/AAI (Ms Essye Miller)
SUPERSEDES: HOI 33-4, 17 March 2006                                                            Pages: 8



This Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) implements AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and
Responsibilities, AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, other applicable Air
Force Communications and Information related policy directives and instructions. The HOI applies only
to Headquarters Air Force (HAF) military, civilian, and contractor personnel within the National Capital
Region (NCR), and contains procedures for developing and managing HAF Information Management
(IM) and Information Technology (IT) guidance. It is the primary HAF publication for already approved
and promulgated IM and IT policy and guidance previously issued by memorandum. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s
through appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
  2                                                                          HOI 33-4 11 Jan 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication updates content from HOI 33-4 and renumbers the HOI. The major changes include
memorandum guidance being rescinded and incorporated into this HOI: HAF/IM memorandum
“HAF Computer Refresh Policy”, 4 March 2010; HAF/IM memorandum “Policy Memorandum on
Email Storage Limits within HAF”, 23 Apr 10; HAF/IM memorandum “Policy on Management of
Space on Shared Drive within HAF”, 26 Aug 09; SAF/AA memorandum “Headquarters Air Force
(HAF) IT Services to Personal Residences,” 14 February 2005.



1. Overview. Information Resource Management (IRM) is a process for managing information
      resources to accomplish the HAF’s mission, managing both the information itself and related
      resources such as personnel, equipment, funds, and information technology (IT) (OMB
      Circular A-130). Central management of HAF information management resources presents
      numerous opportunities for spending and process efficiencies and provides a HAF-wide view
      and focus to direct the HAF IRM process.

2. Responsibilities. The responsibilities for developing official HAF IRM guidance and
   procedures are as follows.

      2.1. Information Technology Management Board (ITMB).
           2.1.1. Co-chaired by SAF/AA and AF/CVA with membership from all HAF two-
           letters, is the senior management oversight forum for IRM within the HAF.
           2.1.2. Provides IRM vision to improve the mission performance of the HAF.

      2.2. HAF Chief Information Officer (HAF CIO).
           2.2.1. Provides strategic direction and oversight for HAF IRM .
           2.2.2. Ensures IRM resources are acquired and managed consistent with applicable
           Air Force policy and guidance, the Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) of 1996, Government
           Performance and Results Act (GPRA) of 1993, and the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA)
           of 1995.
           2.2.3. Defines and implements the IT portfolio management process for the HAF.
      2.3. Information Technology Management Board Working Group (ITMB-WG).
           2.3.1. Chaired by the HAF CIO, consists of O-6 or GS-15 level members representing
           each HAF two-letter member of the ITMB.
           2.3.2. Supports and deliberates on behalf of their ITMB member in matters pertaining
           to HAF IRM.
      2.4. HAF CIO Support Division (SAF/AAII).
           2.4.1. Provides the core staff to manage HAF CIO responsibilities.
           2.4.2. Coordinates HAF IRM guidance and procedures.
HOI 33-4 11 Jan 2013                                                                        3


        2.4.3. Promulgates approved guidance documents. All approved guidance and/or
        procedure documents will be accessible via the Air Force portal and will be
        incorporated into this or other appropriate HOIs during their review and update cycle.
        2.4.4. Maintains HAF IRM guidance-related records.

    2.5. 844th Communications Group (844 CG).
        2.5.1. Functions as the HAF’s IT provider and systems integrator.
        2.5.2. Ensures HAF IRM guidance is compliant and consistent with AF and HAF
        architecture, information assurance, interoperability, and supportability standards.
        2.5.3. Evaluates and recommends the most effective methods to implement IRM
        guidance.
        2.5.4. Evaluates and identifies risks associated with guidance and where necessary
        implements risk-mitigating measures.
        2.5.5. Assists in monitoring the implementation of IRM guidance to ensure uniform
        compliance across the HAF.

3. Guidance. The following paragraphs incorporate coordinated and approved HAF IRM
   guidance that was previously promulgated by official memorandum and, IAW AFI 33-
   360v1, memorandum are now officially rescinded and incorporated into this HOI.
   3.1. Computer Refresh. With the exception of computers located in a sensitive
   compartmented information facility (SCIF), all unclassified HAF desktop computers will be
   replaced with laptop computers except where unique requirements or security restrictions
   demand the use of desktop computers.
   3.2. Common Access Card (CAC) Login for HAF Network.
        3.2.1.   It is mandatory for all HAF computer network user accounts login to be CAC
        only.
        3.2.2. For executive staff members that require the ability to read a senior leader’s
        encrypted email, two options are available: Alternate Token or utilizing a copy of the
        principal’s encryption certificate.
   3.3. Mailbox Storage. All HAF personal and organizational mailbox owners will declare
   and store official sent mail as records on the Record (i.e., R:) drive. Remaining unofficial
   email will be deleted. If email is to be retained, it will be moved to local storage (.pst files)
   on C: or D: drives or onto CD/DVDs. Note: pst files are not permitted on HAF network
   shared storage, including Record drive. The use of the Auto-Archiving capability is
   encouraged to periodically move old emails to a .pst file on local drives.
  4                                                                          HOI 33-4 11 Jan 2013


          3.3.1. HAF user categories and mail storage limits for personal and organizational
          mailboxes are as follows:
Figure 3.1. Mail Storage Limits

      User Category         Email Box Limit Tiered Restrictions Imposed

All General Officers and    1,500 MB/1.5GB      1,400 MB Warning Notice
Senior Executive                                1,450 MB Cannot Send
Service (SES)                                   1,500 MB Cannot Send Nor Receive

O-6 & GS-15                 1000 MB/1GB         900 MB Warning Notice
                                                950 MB Cannot Send
                                                1000 MB Cannot Send or Receive

Organizational Mailbox      500 MB              400 MB Warning Notice
                                                450 MB Cannot Send
                                                500 MB Cannot Send or Receive

All others                  200 MB              160 MB Warning Notice
                                                180 MB Cannot Send
                                                200 MB Cannot Send or Receive

          3.3.2. To obtain a temporary waiver, such as for a special project or a TDY, submit a
          trouble ticket through the 844th Communications Squadron (844 CS)
          (https://www.afncr.hq.af.mil/HomePagePublic/index.cfm?fwa=homePublic ).
          3.3.3. To obtain a more long term waiver send an O-6/GS-15 or above endorsed
          request with rational to SAF/AAII Workflow (safaaii.workflow@pentagon.af.mil.)
          These are not permanent waivers and will terminate when HAF migrates to the Air
          Force Network (AFNet) or other enterprise messaging services.
      3.4. Shared Drive Space Management.
          3.4.1. Only declared official records and official files (including media, i.e., video,
          audio, and pictures) are permitted to be kept on HAF shared drives. All unofficial files
          must be deleted from HAF shared drives.
          3.4.2. 844th CS will delete all files on the shared drives (R: drive excluded) not
          modified in three years or more and will repeat this process every six months.
      3.5. Teleconferencing Video (VTC) Systems.
          3.5.1. Only HAF two-letter offices are authorized classified and unclassified VTC
          capabilities.
          3.5.2. HAF organizations with new mission essential VTC requirements must submit a
          Communications Systems Requirements Document (CSRD) to the 844 CS. These
HOI 33-4 11 Jan 2013                                                                      5


        CSRDs will be processed through the Facility Space Executive Oversight Board for
        review and approval.
        3.5.3. Approved mission essential requirements will be supported using the HAF VTC
        standard.
   3.6. IT Services and Support for Platinum, Gold, and Silver Customers.
        3.6.1. Platinum, gold, and silver customer service levels are established to ensure HAF
        customers receive timely IT services and support from 844 CG. These service levels
        take into account the customer’s position, level of responsibility and reflect a balanced
        approach between mission needs, resource limitations, and contractual obligations.
        3.6.2. Platinum Customers: The Secretary of the Air Force, the Under Secretary the
        Air Force, the Chief of Staff, the Vice Chief of Staff, the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff,
        the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force located in offices located in the Arnold
        Corridor (4E 8 – 9), all 3-4 star Generals/SES equivalents, and other two-letter
        principals are on the platinum list.844 CG is required to respond to trouble calls from
        platinum customers within 10 minutes and resolve the ticket within 4 hours.
        3.6.3. Gold Customers: All 1-2 Star Generals/SES equivalents and up to two front
        office staff members per platinum customer are on the gold list. 844 CG is required to
        respond to trouble calls from gold customers within 4 hours and resolve the ticket
        within 8 hours.
        3.6.4. Silver Customers: All remaining HAF customers are on the silver list. 844 CG
        is required to respond to trouble calls from silver customers within one duty day and
        resolve the ticket within two duty days.
    3.7. IT Services in Private Residences (not applicable to IT services in government-
    owned residences).
        3.7.1. Personnel having legal Command and Control (C2) authority may be
        authorized C2 circuits in their private residence under certain circumstances.
        3.7.2. For those personnel who have C2 responsibilities, IT services such as
        broadband Internet access, official phone, and computer(s) can be provided to their
        private residence.
        3.7.3. 844 CS is the only authorized provider of government-furnished IT support to
        residences. The CSRD request to 844 CS must be approved at the HAF two-letter level.
        "Unit funding" (Government Purchase Card (GPC)) is not authorized for procurement
        of telecommunications (including internet service) to private residences.



                                                            TIM BEYLAND
                                                            Administrative Assistant to the
                                                            Secretary of the Air Force
  6                                                                 HOI 33-4 11 Jan 2013



                                    ATTACHMENT 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 Nov 2008
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 Jan 2011
Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) of 1993
Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996 (ITMRA), also known as the Clinger-
Cohen Act of 1996 -- DoD Requirements for Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) implementation
OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources (Transmittal
Memorandum No. 4)”
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1995

Prescribed Forms

AF Form 847 Recommendation for Change of Publication

AF Form 3215 Communications-Computer Systems Requirements Document (CSRD)

Adopted Forms
No adopted forms.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
844 CG - 844th Communications Group
844 CS - 844th Communications Squadron
AF - Air Force
AF CIO - Air Force Chief Information Officer
AFI - Air Force Instruction
AFNet – Air Force Network
CAC - Common Access Card
CCA - Clinger-Cohen Act (of 1996)
CIO - Chief Information Officer
CSRD - Communications-Computer Systems Requirements Document, AF Form 3215 – utilized
for submitting new IT requirements
DoD - Department of Defense
HAF - Headquarters Air Force
HOI 33-4 11 Jan 2013                                                                     7


HAF CIO - Headquarters Air Force Chief Information Officer
HOI - Headquarters Operating Instruction
HQ - Headquarters
IRM - Information Resources Management
IM - Information Management
IT - Information Technology
ITMB - Information Technology Management Board
ITMB WG - ITMB Working Group
ITMRA - Information Technology Management Reform Act (of 1996)
MAJCOM - Major Command
NCR - National Capital Region
OPR - Office of Primary Responsibility
PRA - Paperwork Reduction Act (of 1995)
SAF/AA - Office of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AAI - HAF Information Management Directorate (Office of the HAF CIO)
SAF/AAII - HAF CIO Support Division
SES - Senior Executive Service
SLA - Service Level Agreement
UITRO - Unit Information Technology Requirements Officer

Terms
Chief Information Officer (CIO) is the person responsible for information management, information
technology, and computer systems that support enterprise goals.
Headquarters, Department of the Air Force (HAF) in the context of this HOI encompasses
Secretariat and Air Staff organizations to include offices of the Secretary of the Air Force, the
Undersecretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force and
Assistant to the Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) is a directive publication similar to a field publication
(MAJCOM level) as it does not apply across the AF. An HOI assigns responsibilities, directs actions,
and prescribes procedures within a Headquarters (in this case HQ Air Force).
Information Assurance (IA) consists of 100 percent accreditation of HAF information systems and
requires the design and implementation of effective risk management.
Information Resources Management (IRM) is the process of managing information resources to
accomplish the agency mission. The term encompasses both information itself and the related resources,
such as personnel, equipment, funds, and IT (OMB Circular A-130).
  8                                                                   HOI 33-4 11 Jan 2013


Service Level Agreement (SLA) is a documented agreement that establishes a common understanding
of service support to be provided and defines mutual responsibilities between is signatories (HAF
Directorates (i.e., two-letters) and the 844 CG for example).
Unit Information Technology Requirements Officer (UITRO) serves as manager and liaison for all
requirements and IT capabilities of their HAF Directorate.
