BY ORDER OF THE          HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 33-19
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                             17 Jan 2012



                                                            Communications and Information

                                                          PRIVACY ACT PROGRAM ROLES
                                                                AND RESPONSIBILITIES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         HAF Publications and forms are available on the AF Portal: www.my.af.mil
                       ::Organization A-Z Listing::HAF/IM::HOIs (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
               af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=1134204).
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HAF/IMIC                                       Certified by: HAF/IM (Mr. Jeffrey Hansen)
                                                                                    Pages: 11

The purpose of this instruction is to establish and describe duties and responsibilities of the
Headquarters Air Force Privacy Act Officer (HAF PAO), Privacy Act Program Monitors
(PAMs), and HAF Two-Letter Offices of Primary Responsibility (OPR). This Headquarters
Operating Instruction (HOI) implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-332, Privacy Act
Program, 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging, and
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance Management, and is applicable to all Headquarters Air
Force (HAF) military, civil service, and contractor personnel. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the
disposition instructions in the System of Records Notice (SORN), consistent with the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) maintained in Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS), https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions to the OPR HAF Privacy Act Program Officer
hafprivacy.office@pentagon.af.mil on Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication.
2                                                                    HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012


Section A – Program Guidance

1. Background.

    1.1. HAF personnel are entitled to the full protection and rights established by the Privacy
    Act (PA). In addition to being protected by this act, those who work with Personally
    Identifiable Information (PII) records are legally responsible for carrying out the
    requirements of the PA. Refer to Department of Defense (DoD) 5400.11-R, Department of
    Defense Privacy Act Program, definition of PII to identify information subject to this
    operating instruction.

2. Air Force Program Guidance.

    2.1. The Director, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF CIO A6) has
    designated the HAF Information and Communications Support Directorate (HAF/IM), Office
    of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA), as the HAF
    organization responsible to implement Air Force Privacy Act (PAP) guidance and developing
    local procedures for Headquarters Air Force personnel assigned within the National Capitol
    Region. Reference to NCR throughout this document uses the definition in the Homeland
    Security Act of 2002 and refers to Headquarters Air Force organizations located in cities and
    units of government within the geographic boundaries of the District of Columbia;
    Montgomery and Prince George’s Counties in the State of Maryland; and the City of
    Alexandria, Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William Counties in the
    Commonwealth of Virginia.

    2.2. Air Force military, civilian, and contractor employees shall comply with the
    requirements and practices governing the collection, maintenance, use, and dissemination of
    personally identifiable information maintained in systems of records by federal agencies as
    outlined in the PA. HAF personnel who fail to comply with the PA may subject themselves
    to the criminal and civil penalties imposed by the PA or to administrative disciplinary action
    accomplished in accordance with applicable Air Force instructions. Contractor employees
    shall be administratively disciplined by their employer.


Section B – Roles, Responsibilities and Training Requirements:

3. HAF PAO shall:

    3.1. Serve as PAO for HAF organizations exercising the procedural and staff responsibilities
    in AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.

    3.2. Train organizational Privacy Act Monitors (PAMs).

    3.3. Promote PA awareness throughout HAF.

    3.4. Review messages, publications, and forms for compliance in accordance with AFI 33-
    332.
                                                                         HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012       3

   3.5. Review and process System of Records Notices (SORN) for all Air Force organizations
   in the National Capital Region (NCR).

   3.6. Review and process Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA) for all Air Force organizations
   in the NCR.

   3.7. Biennial evaluation of PA program compliance in each 2-letter (directorate) for all Air
   Force organizations in the NCR.

   3.8. Resolve complaints or allegations of PA violations arising in all Air Force organizations
   in the NCR, accordng to applicable provisions of AFI 33-332.

   3.9. Report (and investigate, as necessary) findings of PII breaches within the HAF to the
   Air Force Privacy Officer, SAF/A6PP.

   3.10. Review and process denial recommendations.

   3.11. Provide guidance to HAF PAMs and employees implementing a PAP.

4. HAF Two-Letter Organizations shall:

   4.1. Comply with this instruction in accordance with AFI 33-332.

   4.2. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate PAM to assist with implementation of the
   PAP in their organization.

      4.2.1. Prepare and send an appointment letter to HAF PAO
      hafprivacy.office@pentagon.af.mil (a sample appointment letter is at Attachment 2).

      4.2.2. Submit PAM changes as they occur, but not later than 5 duty days from the
      change of event.

   4.3. Authorize their PAM (HAF/ES for the Command Section offices of the Secretary of the
   Air Force and the Chief of Staff) to manage and monitor their PAP.

5. HAF PAMs shall:

   5.1. Serve as the focal point in a functional area for PA questions, reports, requirements, and
   correspondence.

   5.2. Act as liaison between the organization and the HAF PAO.

   5.3. Identify and correct discrepancies in systems of records and system contacts in the
   Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository (EITDR). Consult with system’s
   Program Manager and Portfolio Manager as needed.

   5.4. Assist and advise their organization’s System/Program Managers during implementation
   or development of:
4                                                                       HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012

        5.4.1. DD Form 2930, Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA).

        5.4.2. PIA timeline (120 days) prior to IT system deployment.

        5.4.3. Justification when PIA is not required.

        5.4.4. Privacy Act Statement (PAS) or Privacy Act Advisory (PAA).

        5.4.5. System of Records Notice (SORN).

        5.4.6. PIA, PAS, PAA, and SORN reviews according to Federal Information System
        Management Act (FISMA) of 2002.

        5.4.7. Social Security Number (SSN) use reduction/elimination according to AFI 33-332.

        5.4.8. PIA, PAS, PAA, and SORN revisions processed through the HAF PAO.

        5.4.9. Policy and guidance regarding safeguarding against and responding to breach and
        loss of PII, PII Incident Reporting and Risk Assessments.

    5.5. Conduct inquiries on reported PA violations and complaints.

    5.6. Report actual or suspected violations within 1 hour of discovery of the actual or
    suspected PA breach to the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT)
    at www.us-cert.gov and to the HAF PAO.

    5.7. Provide incident report to HAF PAO within 16 hours of breach using the DoD Breach
    reporting template.

    5.8. Conduct a risk based management assessment on the potential impact of each PA breach,
    present findings within 24 hours of breach discovery to senior-level official (Directorate or
    higher or military commander, O-6 or higher) and the HAF PAO. Findings will be used to
    validate decision to notify or not to notify affected individuals. Complete notification of affected
    individuals, if required, within 10 work days after a PII breach is discovered.

    5.9. Provide specialized PA training for those whose job duties require handling PII and signing
    annual certification of PA training after completion of Total Force Air Force Training (TFAT).

    5.10. Review new and (or) revised publications and forms that gather information covered by
    the PA. Concur or non-concur to indicate all responsibilities in AFI 33-332 have or have not
    been met.

    5.11. Assist and advise the Functional Area Record Managers (FARMs) and Record
    Custodians (RCs) on proper PA protection methods for records and to ensure the “Retention
    and disposal” section on a SORN is consistent with the corresponding tables and rules in the
    RDS.
                                                                         HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012     5

   5.12. Perform regular system reviews (no less than two per calendar year [CY]) to ensure
   administrative, technical, and physical safeguards are in place to protect records against PA
   loss or breach. Advise the HAF PAO of system changes resulting from these reviews.

   5.13. Respond to any PA status reporting requirements from the HAF PAO.

6. PAM training requirements:

   6.1. All appointed PAMs shall complete PA training within 60 days of appointment.
   Contact HAF Privacy Act Office (HAF PAO) (hafprivacy.office@pentagon.af.mil) for
   specific requirements and to schedule training.

   6.2. Training shall meet the DoD requirements outlined in OSD Administration and
   Management memorandum, June 5, 2009, Safeguarding Against and Responding to the
   Breach of Personally Identifiable Information (PII). Training must be job specific and
   commensurate with an individual's responsibilities. Training certification and responsibility
   acknowledgement are a prerequisite (mandatory) before an employee, military, civilian,
   contractor, or business partner is permitted access to a DoD system.

   6.3. Annual Refresher Training and Certification. All personnel authorized access to PII
   shall annually sign a document describing their responsibilities and acknowledging their
   understanding of the PA requirements regarding access, use and maintenance of PII.

       6.3.1. Awareness certification statements are prepared by the organization, signed by the
       individual, his/her supervisor, and maintained by the PAM. When contractor personnel
       are involved, training requirements must be supported in the contract. Contact the HAF
       PAO for information on an approved contract clause.

       6.3.2. Awareness certifications are subject to inspection during reviews by Air Force
       Privacy Act Officials and Inspectors General staff.


Section C – Restrictions when Transporting PII Out of Controlled Areas
7. Organizational PAM will monitor compliance with existing policy on the removal and/or
transporting of PII beyond the premises of HAF facilities in accordance with the guidance set
forth in Chapter 9 of AFI 33-332.
6                                                                  HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012


Section D –Transmitting and Marking E-Mail and Protecting Documents Containing PII

8. Overview. Digitally signing and encrypting Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) are two
measures used to secure PII for e-mail. Password protection is a measure used to ensure only those with
a need to know have access to the PII. Signing, encrypting, and password protecting documents will
reduce the threat of malicious misuse and breach of PII.

    8.1. Do not disclose personal information to anyone outside the DoD unless the information has
    been authorized for release under the PA.

    8.2. Use document encryption (reference Attachment 3) to protect transmissions of PII approved for
    release and for storage of PII data at rest.

    8.3. Apply PA banners when transmitting information protected by the PA or FOUO.

    8.4. Place PII in an e-mail attachment.

    8.5. Ensure identity validation meets release requirements.

    8.6. Validate document encryption.

    8.7. Send password and document in separate e-mails.

    8.8. Retain confirmation/release information according to the RDS.




                                                 TIM BEYLAND
                                                 Administrative Assistant to the
                                                 Secretary of the Air Force
                                                                        HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012          7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging, 24 January 2005
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 23 Dec 2008
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 14 May 2007
Homeland Security Act of 2002
NIST SP 800-122, Guide to Protecting the Confidentiality of Personal Identifiable Information (PII),
April 2010

Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2930, Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CY—Calendar Year
DoD—Department of Defense
FARMs—Functional Area Records Managers
FOUO—For Official Use Only
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
NCR—National Capital Region
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAM— Privacy Act Monitor
PA—Privacy Act
PAO—Privacy Act Office
PAP—Privacy Act Program
PAS—Privacy Act Statement
PIA—Privacy Impact Assessments
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
PKI—Public Key Infrastructure
RCs—Records Custodians
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SMTP—Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
SORN—System of Record Notice
US-CERT— United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team
8                                                                     HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012



Terms & Definitions

Disclosure—To give information from a system, by any means, to anyone other than the record
subject.
Individual—A living US citizen or a permanent resident alien.
National Capital Region (NCR)—Cities and other units of government within the geographic
boundaries of the District of Columbia; Montgomery and Prince Georges Counties in the State of
Maryland; and the City of Alexandria, Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William
Counties in the Commonwealth of Virginia (Homeland Security Act of 2002).
Personal Identifier—A name, number, or symbol that is unique to an individual, usually the
person‘s name or social security number.
Personal Information—Information about an individual other than items of public record.
Personally Identifiable Information—Information which can be used to distinguish or trace an
individual‘s identity, such as their name, social security number, biometric records, etc. alone, or
when combined with other personal or identifying information which is linked or linkable to a
specific individual, such as date and place of birth, mother’s maiden name, etc.
Privacy Act Advisory—Informs an individual why the information is being solicited and how it
will be used.
Privacy Act Record—Any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that
is maintained by an agency, which is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some
identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
Privacy Act Statement—Required when soliciting personally-identifying information by an Air
Force web site or form; advising the individual of the authority, purpose, routine use, if
disclosure is voluntary or mandatory, and any consequences of nondisclosure.
Privacy Impact Assessment—A written assessment of an information system that addresses the
information to be collected, the purpose and intended use; with whom the information will be
shared; notice or opportunities for consent to individuals; how the information will be secured;
and whether a new system of records is being created under the PA.
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)—A set of hardware, software, people, policies and procedures
needed to create, manage, distribute, use, store, and revoke digital certificates. PKI is an
arrangement that binds public keys with respective user identities by means of a certificate
authority.
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)—The most widely used protocol to send messages by
Message Transfer Agents on the Internet. SMTP was designed to transfer mail independently of any
specific transmission subsystem.

System Manager—The official who is responsible for managing a system of records, including policies
and procedures to operate and safeguard it. Local system managers operate record systems or are
responsible for part of a decentralized system.
                                                                      HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012   9

System of Record Notice—Published in the Federal Register and notifies the public of the
existence and content of a “Privacy Act system of records.”
10                                                                 HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012


                                            Attachment 2

                 SAMPLE APPOINTMENT OF PRIVACY ACT MONITORS

                                                                                      (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR HAF/IMI (Privacy Act Officer)

FROM: (Sender Two-Letter Organization)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Privacy Act Monitors (PAMs)

   The following individuals listed below are appointed as PAMs for this organization. PAMs
will monitor the Privacy Act Programs for all assigned offices and perform duties in accordance
with HOI 33-19.

          PRIMARY/NAME:
          RANK/GRADE:
          OFFICE SYMBOL:
          DUTY PHONE:
          E-MAIL:

          ALTERNATE/NAME:
          RANK/GRADE:
          OFFICE SYMBOL:
          DUTY PHONE:
          E-MAIL:


     This letter supersedes previous letter, same subject.




                                               Signature Block
                                                                     HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012          11


                                      Attachment 3


              PASSWORD PROTECTING DOCUMENTS CONTAINING PII

A3.1. Microsoft 2007 document protection:

  Step 1: Click on the ‘File’ button at the top of the page
  Step 2: Click ‘Prepare’
  Step 3: On the Prepare pop-up window, click ‘Encrypt Document’
  Step 4: Type your password in the pop-up window and click ‘OK’
  Step 5: Confirm your password and click on "OK" The document will no longer open
  without the password

A3.2. Adobe.pdf document protection: Adobe products enforce restrictions set by permission
passwords. If third-party products do not support or respect these settings, document recipients are
able to bypass some or all of the restrictions. NOTE: If you forget a password, there’s no way to
recover it from the PDF. Consider keeping a backup copy of the PDF that isn’t password-protected.

In a single PDF or component PDF in a PDF Portfolio, open the PDF and choose Advanced >
Security > Encrypt With Password. (You can also choose File > Properties and select the Security
tab.)

In a PDF Portfolio, open the PDF Portfolio and choose File > Modify PDF Portfolio > Secure
Portfolio. In the Security Method menu, select Password Security. Note: If these options are
unavailable, it’s either because the document or PDF Portfolio already includes security settings, or
the PDF was created in LiveCycle Designer ES.

  Step 1: If you receive a prompt, click Yes to change the security.
  Step 2: Select a compatibility level. This option sets the encryption level and key size.
  Step 3: Encryption algorithm and key size are version specific. Ensure your encryption level is
  equal to or lower than the recipients’ version of Acrobat or Reader.
  Step 4: Select the document components to encrypt.
  Step 5: To allow the document contents to be searched, leave the metadata unencrypted.
  Step 6: To create security envelopes, use Encrypt Only File Attachments.
  Step 7: Select the type of password to add, and then type the password in the corresponding field.
  Step 8: If you are setting a permissions password, determine the level of access.
  Step 9: Click OK. At the prompt to confirm each password, retype the appropriate password in
  the box and click OK.

A3.3. Adobe.pdf password security options: Security options are not available for PDF/X
standards or presets.. Compatibility sets the type of encryption for opening a password-protected
document. Earlier version of Acrobat users cannot open a PDF document with a higher
compatibility setting. For example, if you select the Acrobat 9 And Later option, the document
cannot be opened in Acrobat 8.0 or earlier.
12                                                               HOI 33-19 17 Jan 2012



     Require Password To Open The Document. Select this option to require users to type the
     password you specify to open the document. This option is unavailable if Encrypt Only File
     Attachments is selected.

     Document Open Password. Specify the password that users must type to open the PDF file.

     Remove password security: Document author and server administrator, with permission to
     remove security from open PDF, follow these procedures to remove password security setting:

         Step 1: Select Advanced > Security > Remove Security.
         Step 2: In the Security tab of the Document Properties dialog box, choose No Security from
         the Security Method menu.

Note: Options vary depending on the type of password security attached to the document. If the
document only had Document Open password, click OK to remove it from the document. If the
document had a permissions password, type it in the Enter Password box and then click OK. Click OK
again to confirm the action.
