BY ORDER OF THE                                      HQ OPERATING INSTRUCTION 36-16
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                              20 June 2011
                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                                  TELEWORK



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: HAF Publications and forms are available on the AF Portal: www.my.af.mil
               ::Organization A-Z Listing::HAF/IM::HOIs (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
               af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=1134204).
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFDW/A1CE                                         Certified by: SAF/AAA (Judy A. James)
                                                                                   Pages: 10

This Instruction implements the provisions of Air Force Instruction 36-807, Weekly and Daily
Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, Air Force Policy Directive 36-8, Employee
Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs, and is consistent with Department of
Defense Instruction 1035.01, Telework Policy. It provides guidance and procedures for the
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Telework Program. This Instruction applies to all military and
civilian employees assigned to the HAF (includes Secretariat and Air Staff), including Air Force
Reserve and Air National Guard personnel. Contractors whose work agreement with the
Government does not specifically require work to be performed at a Government facility full
time may also participate under this program at the discretion of the contracting organization.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s through appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
2                                                                    HOI 36-16 20 June 2011

1. Background. Telework is a work flexibility arrangement where workers perform all or part
of their duty assignments at approved worksites away from the traditional office facility. It is
both an instrument of organizational business strategy and a work/life balance enabler for
personnel, involving all members of the organization regardless of their telework status.
Realizing true benefits from telework requires a commitment to establishing a viable program
with measurable goals, such as: improving the work/life balance of people, improving retention
and recruitment, making more effective use of office space and facilities, limiting unproductive
time during area emergency situations or crisis, reducing the environmental impacts of
commuting. Work flexibility arrangements help to maintain a productive workforce and
contribute to the accomplishment of our mission and service to the American taxpayer.

2. Guidance. The HAF Telework Program requires that:

    2.1. HAF organizations establish internal guidance and procedures to maximize appropriate
    use of telework as a work flexibility arrangement, to include integrating telework into
    Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) strategy, as well as continuity of business strategy
    during emergency events such as pandemic or adverse weather. Telework should be
    periodically exercised to ensure its effectiveness in continuing operations.

       2.1.1. When Federal facilities are 'CLOSED to the Public', telework-ready workers not
       on an Alternate Work Schedule (AWS) day and those scheduled to telework are generally
       expected to start the workday in a telework status. Should circumstances such as loss of
       power, loss of internet service, childcare, etc., cause the worker to not meet all conditions
       of being telework-ready, then the worker may be excused from the work expectation as
       long as the circumstance(s) exists.

       2.1.2. When Federal facilities are 'OPEN' on a scheduled telework day, teleworkers are
       expected to start the workday in a telework status or request unscheduled leave.

       2.1.3. When Federal facilities are 'OPEN' on an unscheduled telework day and a
       Delayed Arrival or Early Departure announcement is made, telework-ready workers may
       have the additional flexibility of either requesting unscheduled leave or
       starting/continuing the workday (as applicable) in an unscheduled telework status.

    2.2. Unless the nature of the job or poor performance prohibits it, every individual should be
    eligible for telework, whether on a full-time, regular, or situational basis, and should be made
    telework-ready. While telework is not a worker entitlement, every individual eligible for
    telework should be afforded the opportunity. Eligibility in this context applies to Department
    of Air Force civilian employees, United States Air Force military members, and contract
    employees (when the contract so stipulates).

       2.2.1. Eligibility criteria as established in DoD Instruction 1035.01, Telework Policy,
       Enclosure 3, paragraph 2 applies.
HOI 36-16 20 June 2011                                                                     3

        2.2.2. The standard agreement for Air Force civilian employees will be the DD Form
        2946, DoD Telework Agreement.

        2.2.3. United States Air Force military members are not required, but are encouraged,
        to have a telework agreement on file using DD Form 2946.

        2.2.4. Telework by contractors will be in accordance with their respective contracts.
        The contracting officer technical advisor (COTR), quality assurance (QA), or Program
        Manager must contact the contracting officer and their organization’s Telework
        Manager prior to any discussion of telework with a contracted employee.

   2.3. Telework and AWS are different work flexibility arrangements, but are not mutually
        exclusive.

   2.4. Any additional hardware or software supporting telework beyond that which is covered
   by HAF Enterprise Service must be approved by HAF/IM and the 844th Communications
   Group and funded by the individual organization.

   2.5. Telework, as an alternative workplace arrangement, will be considered in office/facility
   space utilization as a means to make effective use of space and provide flexibility to
   accommodate future space requirements and challenges.

3. Responsibilities.

   3.1. The HAF Telework Officer shall:

       3.1.1. Be appointed by SAF/AA.

       3.1.2. Promote telework within the HAF.

       3.1.3. Create and maintain a central collaborative and informational web site for HAF
       telework.

       3.1.4. Work with appropriate OPRs to ensure training is available to enhance the
       effectiveness of telework for remote workers, supervisors, and their workgroups. At a
       minimum, areas of training should include:

           3.1.4.1. Technology (i.e. collaboration, communication, information sharing,
           security capabilities and tools).

           3.1.4.2. Security of information and equipment.

           3.1.4.3. Results-oriented work.

           3.1.4.4. Basic remote site computer troubleshooting.
4                                                                     HOI 36-16 20 June 2011

       3.1.5. Conduct surveys, collect data, and report on the effectiveness of HAF telework, to
       include information regarding organizational programs and participation rates.

           3.1.5.1. Respond to data call/survey requests from AFDW/A1 or the Air Force
           Telework Coordinator (AF/A1).

       3.1.6. Provide assistance to HAF organizations on telework matters upon request.

       3.1.7. Maintain HAF telework program records.

    3.2. HAF Chief Information Officer (CIO) shall:

       3.2.1. Ensure information management guidance is in place that facilitates secure and
       effective remote work.

       3.2.2. Ensure reliable information and communication technology is in place that
       facilitates secure and effective remote work.

    3.3. The head of each HAF 2-letter/digit organization shall:

       3.3.1. Ensure their organization has a telework program in compliance with federal
       legislation (referenced), this Instruction and its references. Issue organization specific
       Operating Instructions (AF/A1 OI, SAF/AQ OI, etc.) in accordance with AFI 33-360 and
       HOI 33-13.

       3.3.2. Identify positions eligible for telework and ensure each eligible individual is
       afforded the opportunity to become telework-ready. Eligibility determination should start
       from a position that all are eligible for some type of telework (regular or situational), until
       deemed otherwise. Positions should be considered on the basis of assigned duties and
       will not be excluded based on occupation, series, grade or supervisory status.

       3.3.3. Incorporate telework guidance/procedures and routine practice into Continuity of
       Operations Plan (COOP).

       3.3.4. Implement telework to the greatest extent possible during emergency events such
       as a pandemic crisis or adverse weather.

       3.3.5. Appoint an organizational Telework Program Manager (additional duty) in
       writing. Responsibilities are outlined in paragraph 3.4.

    3.4. Each organizational Telework Program Manager shall:

       3.4.1. Serve as the focal point for all organizational telework matters.

       3.4.2. Develop and maintain any internal telework guidance (OI) specific to their
       organization.
HOI 36-16 20 June 2011                                                                       5



      3.4.3. Work with the organizational head, management teams, supervisors, and all
      members of the organization to identify and eliminate/reduce barriers to effective
      telework.

      3.4.4. Collect data and report on the effectiveness of their organizational program.
      Demographic data should include number of eligible positions, number of eligible
      personnel, number of eligible personnel who are telework-ready, etc.

      3.4.5. Respond to data call/survey requests from the HAF Telework Officer in a timely
      manner.

      3.4.6. Ensure organizational telework records are maintained (such as organizational
      guidance, telework agreements, appointment letters, etc.).

   3.5. Supervisors of teleworkers shall:

      3.5.1. Ensure that no distinction is made between teleworkers and non-teleworkers with
      regards to performance standards and appraisals, or other acts involving managerial
      discretion. As for all workers, provide specific, measurable, and attainable performance
      expectations for the teleworker; define work assignments, corresponding deadlines, and
      establish the quality of work expected.

      3.5.2. Communicate expectations regarding roles and responsibilities in relation to
      remote work in the event of a pandemic health crisis, weather emergency or other
      catastrophic event which affect the traditional office facility or the approved telework
      site.

      3.5.3. Discuss and maintain a telework agreement for each individual participating in
      the organization’s telework program. Conditions and expectations not included in the
      terms and provisions of the DoD Telework Agreement should be clearly explained and
      documented in the Component-Specific Terms and Conditions section of the DD Form
      2946. At a minimum, agreements should be reviewed annually.

      3.5.4. Become skilled in the basic use of communication, collaboration, and information
      sharing tools used by their teleworkers.

      3.5.5. Ensure they and their telework-eligible personnel and the office workers they
      interact with are trained on:

          3.5.5.1. Organizational telework guidance and goals.

          3.5.5.2. Use of equipment and software the teleworker and/or workgroup requires
          being effective in a virtual work environment.

          3.5.5.3. Proper use and protection of information and government-furnished
          equipment.
6                                                                   HOI 36-16 20 June 2011



           3.5.5.4. Paperless work processes where applicable.

           3.5.5.5. OPM interactive telework training for managers and employees at
           www.telework.gov.

       3.5.6. Discontinue regular telework arrangements if mission or poor performance factors
       warrant.

    3.6. Teleworkers shall:

       3.6.1. Not sign a telework agreement without completing telework-related training as
       outlined in paragraph 3.5.5.

       3.6.2. Not telework without a telework agreement with their supervisor (DD Form 2946
       mandatory for Civilian employees, encouraged for Service members).

       3.6.3. Maintain telework-readiness throughout the telework agreement period.

       3.6.4. Discontinue participation in the telework program at any time, for any reason,
       upon written or verbal notice to their supervisor, unless required as a condition of
       employment.

       3.6.5. Understand that telework is a work flexibility arrangement, and that operational
       requirements may necessitate cancellation of scheduled telework or recall during a
       telework day.

       3.6.6. Not use telework as a substitute for dependent care, e.g., child or elder care.

       3.6.7. Safeguard government equipment and information IAW AFI 33-100, User
       Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems. At a minimum, the DD Form
       2946 will be used to document and account for issued equipment related to telework
       requirements.

       3.6.8. Return government equipment promptly (as appropriate) following conclusion of
       the telework agreement.

       3.6.9. Ensure a safe remote workspace, as outlined in the DD Form 2946.

           3.6.9.1. Promptly report any on-the-job injury that is incurred during a period of
           telework at the approved worksite to the supervisor.

           3.6.9.2. Understand that as a Civilian employee, she or he is covered by the Federal
           Employees Compensation Act (FECA) only when injured or suffering from a work-
           related illness incurred while conducting official Government business at the
           approved alternate worksite identified in the Telework Agreement.
HOI 36-16 20 June 2011                                                                   7

      3.6.10. Not remove any level of classified information from any approved, secure
      worksite or use classified material in any form at alternative worksites that are not
      approved for classified information, ensure Privacy Act and For Official Use Only
      (FOUO) materials and Government records are protected, and not store Controlled
      Unclassified Information (CUI) or higher on unauthorized computer systems (i.e. home
      computers). As a general guide, conditions 11-13 and 15 of the DD Form 2946 apply.
      Specific guidelines and responsibilities are found in AFI 33-100; AFI 33-119, Air Force
      Messaging; AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use; AFI 33-200, Information
      Assurance (IA) Management; and AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.

      3.6.11. Take responsibility for developing skills in the use of communication,
      information sharing, collaboration, and security tools.

      3.6.12. Ensure timecards account for hours worked in telework status in the electronic
      Management Tracking System (eMTS), using EHO Codes TW (Telework – Regular), TS
      (Telework – Situational), and TM (Telework – Medical). This requirement applies to
      Department of the Air Force Civilians only (for Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
      reporting purposes).




                                                WILLIAM A. DAVIDSON
                                                Administrative Assistant to the
                                                Secretary of the Air Force
8                                                                HOI 36-16 20 June 2011


Attachment 1

GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-100, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 19 November 2008
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging, 24 January 2005
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 23 December 2008
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 24 January 2004
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 12 February 2003
AFI 36-2254, V3, Reserve Personnel Telecommuting/Advanced Distributed learning (ADL)
Guidelines, 18 June 2010
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs, 10 February 2009
ANGI 36-8001, Air National Guard Traditional Guard Member Telecommuting Policy, 28 May
2004
DoD Instruction 1035.01, Telework Policy, October 21, 2010
Public Law 111-292, Telework Enhancement Act of 2010 (to be codified at 5 USC 6501 et seq.)
U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Washington, DC, Area Dismissal and Closure
Procedures, December 2010

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 2946, Department of Defense Telework Agreement, 1 October 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI - Air Force Instruction
AWA - Alternate Workplace Arrangements
AWS - Alternate Work Schedule
DoD - Department of Defense
DoDI - Department of Defense Instruction
eMTS - electronic Management Tracking System
HAF - Headquarters Air Force
HAF CIO - Headquarters Air Force Chief Information Officer
HOI - Headquarters Air Force Operating Instruction
OPM - Office of Personnel Management
OPR - Office of Primary Responsibility
SAF/AA - Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
TM - Telework Medical (eMTS pay code)
TS - Telework Situational (eMTS pay code)
TW - Telework Regular (eMTS pay code)
USC - United States Code
HOI 36-16 20 June 2011                                                                       9


Terms

Alternate Worksite - A place away from the traditional office worksite that has been approved
for the performance of assigned official duties. It may be the teleworker’s home, a telework
center, or other approved worksite. Also known as Alternate Workplace Arrangements (AWA).

Full-time Teleworker - A telework-ready employee, Service member, or contractor who
performs telework on a regular and recurring basis each pay period and the majority of a pay
period’s work hours are at an alternate worksite away from the agency office (home, telework
center, etc.). Telework agreements are mandatory for full-time telework employees.

HAF Telework Officer - Manager responsible for overseeing and reporting on the HAF
Telework Program; appointed by SAF/AA.

Non-Teleworker - An employee, Service member, or contractor who is not eligible to telework
or who does not have an approved Telework Agreement.

Regular Teleworker - A telework-ready employee, Service member, or contractor who
performs telework on a routine and recurring basis a minimum of one workday per week.
Telework agreements are mandatory for regular telework employees. For Air Force civilians,
eMTS Code TW applies.

Situational Telework - Approved telework performed on an occasional, one-time, or irregular
basis, such as inclement weather, occasional work on a special project, short-term arrangement
for accommodating local or other emergencies, etc. For Air Force civilians, eMTS code TS
applies, unless for an employee’s personal medical situation use eMTS code TM.

Situational Teleworker - A telework-ready employee, Service member, or contractor who
performs telework on a situational (ad hoc) basis or on a recurring basis less than one workday
per week. Telework agreements are mandatory for situational telework employees who may be
expected to telework during an emergency event or other operational requirement (as outlined in
the agreement).

Telework - A work flexibility arrangement where an employee, Service member, or contractor
performs assigned official duties at an alternate worksite away from the agency facility/office.

Teleworker - An employee, Service member, or contractor who is Telework-Ready and is
teleworking. Also referred to as a Remote Worker.

Telework Agreement - An agreement on telework arrangements and expectations between the
employer and the teleworker, such as the DD Form 2946.

Telework Center - An alternate facility or office that is approved for telework, such as a GSA-
managed telecenter.
10                                                                   HOI 36-16 20 June 2011

Telework-Ready - A worker who …
   • Has a telework agreement explaining telework arrangements and expectations with the
      employer, such as the DD Form 2946
   • Is equipped to perform remote work
   • Is trained to perform remote work
   • Has an approved alternate worksite/environment that is conducive to work and worker
      safety
   • Has duties/tasks that can be performed at an alternate worksite and warrants regular pay
      status, such as RG-TW, RG-TS, or RG-TM Air Force civilian pay code hours
   • Understands work expectations

Trial Teleworker - An employee who performs telework on a trial basis for the purpose of
evaluating the individual’s position/role, or the employee for telework eligibility or telework-
ready status. Telework agreements are mandatory for trial teleworkers.
