BY ORDER OF THE                                HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 90-41
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               23 APRIL 2014




                                                                                        Command Policy


              HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE ACTION ON CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORIZATION
                                             AND APPROPRIATIONS ACT REPORTS


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:           Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                         publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY:           There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/LLZ                                     Certified by: SAF/LL (Major General Thomas Bergeson)
Supersedes: HOI 65-2, 2 February 2009                                                           Pages: 5

This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive 90-4, Relations with Congress, and outlines
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) responsibilities for monitoring, preparing, and submitting authorization
and appropriations reports to Congress. It explains how the Director of Air Force Legislative Liaison and
HAF offices interact to provide Congress the reports it directs in Defense Authorization, Intelligence
Authorization, and Defense Appropriations Acts. This instruction is applicable to all personnel at the
HAF, including contractor personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
and forward to SAF/LLZ Workflow. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management Systems
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This HOI supersedes HOI 65-2 and was re-named to
signify a change in OPR from SAF/FMBL to SAF/LLZ.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision changes the OPR for congressional reports from Air Force Budget and Appropriations
Liaison (SAF/FMBL) to Air Force Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL). It incorporates changes to the
congressional report process based on a 2010 review, updates organization office symbols, and
incorporates unique delegation of responsibilities by the Secretary of the Air Force.
1. Overview. Congress requests reports from the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the
United States Air Force in the development of annual Defense Authorization and Appropriations Acts.
Report requests are found in the bills themselves and in the committee/conference reports or Joint
Explanatory Statement accompanying the bill. It is OSD policy to treat report requests in the
committee/conference reports and Joint Explanatory Statement as if they were law even though they are
not included in the actual bill. The Air Force must comply with congressional authorization and
2                                                                      HOI90-41 23 APRIL 2014

appropriations acts and accompanying reports. Timely and accurate responses to congressional requests
are imperative to build trust and confidence in the United States Air Force and its leadership.
2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Director of Air Force Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL) will:
        2.1.1. Monitor all Air Force actions relating to congressional authorization and appropriations
        reporting requirements.
        2.1.2. Ensure reports are delivered to Congress by the directed due date.
        2.1.3. If a report cannot be completed and delivered by the due date, inform Congress (usually
        via SAF/LL and/or Air Force Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget (SAF/FMB) signed memo)
        of the reason for the delay and provide an expected date of delivery.
    2.2. Deputy Director of Air Force Legislative Liaison will chair the SAF/LL Murder Board and
    ensure each congressional report is accurate, consistent with Air Force messaging, and adequately
    responds to the congressional request.
    2.3. SAF/LL Congressional Action Division (SAF/LLZ) will:
        2.3.1. Review each Defense Authorization, Intelligence Authorization, Defense Appropriations,
        and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriation Act, and their associated
        committee/conference reports to identify the specific statutory or congressional language
        reporting requirements applicable to the Air Force.
        2.3.2. Schedule and hold Filter Team Meetings to task OPR and OCR responsibilities for each
        report.
        2.3.3. Task HAF 2-Letter offices to prepare congressional reporting requirement responses
        through the Task Management Tool (TMT).
        2.3.4. Maintain a list of OPR and OCRs for each reporting requirement.
        2.3.5. Issue report preparation instructions to OPR.
        2.3.6. Provide direction to the OPR and OCRs regarding appropriate strategy to answer report
        requests.
        2.3.7. Review completed and fully coordinated report by holding a “Murder Board”.
        2.3.8. Submit report package to HAF/ES for Top-4 review and approval.
        2.3.9. Track Top-4 coordination process to ensure timely completion.
       2.3.10. Monitor the Congressional Hearings and Reporting Requirements Tracking System
       (CHARRTS) to ensure all reports tasked to the Air Force are tasked and answered.
        2.3.11. Deliver Air Force approved reports to the designated congressional committees.
        2.3.12. Contact SAF/FMBL when a report is approved and provide the report and signed
        Appropriations Committee transmittal memos to SAF/FMBL for delivery.
        2.3.13. Submit a PDF version of the approved report and signed transmittal memos to the
        Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs (ASD(LA)) through the CHARRTS system
        in order to close out the reporting requirement.
    2.4. SAF/LL Weapon Systems (SAF/LLW) and Programs and Legislation (SAF/LLP) Divisions:
        2.4.1. When tasked by SAF/LLZ, assign an action officer to track the progress of each
        congressional report pertaining to their respective division portfolio.
HOI90-41 23 APRIL 2014                                                                            3

      SAF/LLW or SAF/LLP Action Officer will:
      2.4.2. Serve as the SAF/LL subject matter expert for the congressional report assigned.
      2.4.3. Attend the SAF/LL Murder Board for reports assigned to them.
      2.4.4. “Package” approved interim letters, transmittal memos, and/or approved congressional
      report and deliver to the authorizing committees, as required.
  2.5. Air Force Budget and Appropriations Liaison (SAF/FMBL) will “Package” approved interim
  letters, transmittal memos, and/or approved congressional report and deliver to the Appropriations
  Committees, as required.
  2.6. Congressional Report OPR (HAF 2-Ltr) will:
      2.6.1. Assign action office to prepare the congressional report.
      2.6.2. Prepare interim response letters if a congressional due date cannot be met.
      2.6.3. Draft report with input from designated OCR offices.
      2.6.4. Complete 2-letter coordination of the report with all designated OCR offices, including Air
      Force General Council (SAF/GC) and SAF/FM, prior to the SAF/LL due date.
      2.6.5. Attend SAF/LL Murder Board.4
      2.6.6. Respond in a timely manner to comments from Top-4 during the coordination process.
      2.6.7. For reports that are congressionally directed to a Major Command or other similar
      organization to accomplish, SAF/LL will designate the most appropriate HAF 2-Letter office to
      be the HAF OPR for the report. The HAF OPR will then task the Major Command to draft the
      report and will be responsible for 2-letter coordination with the designated HAF OCR offices.
      (Ex. For a report directed to Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) to complete, the HAF
      OPR may be AF/A10. In that case, AF/A10 would task AFGSC to draft the report. When the
      report is complete, AFGSC will send the report to AF/10 and they will complete 2-letter
      coordination at the HAF level and submit the report to SAF/LL for a Murder Board.
  2.7. Congressional report OCRs:
      2.7.1. Assign action office/officer to coordinate with the OPR.
      2.7.2. Assist the OPR by providing inputs to the report upon request, or proactively.
      2.7.3. When the report is complete, provide 2-letter coordination in a timely manner.
      2.7.4. Attend the SAF/LL Murder Board.
  2.8. SAF/FMBIB exercises a unique liaison function and manages reporting requirements relating to
  Air Force Special Access Programs.




                                                    TIM BEYLAND
                                                    Administrative Assistant
4                                                                          HOI90-41 23 APRIL 2014

                                                Attachment 1

               GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-4, Relations with Congress, 14 June 2012
HOI 65-2, HQ USAF Action on Congressional Authorization and Appropriation Acts and Related
Reports, 2 February 2009
AFI 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Prescribed Forms
None

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
HOI – Headquarters Air Force Operating Instruction
OPR – Office of Primary Responsibility
OCR – Office of Collateral Responsibility
CHARRTS – Congressional Hearings and Reporting Requirements Tracking System

Terms
Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) – A directive publication similar to a field publication
(MAJCOM level) since it does not apply across the Air Force. An HOI assigns responsibilities, directs
actions, and prescribes procedures within a Headquarters.
Congressional Report – Any request for information written in a congressional authorization or
appropriations bill or associated committee or conference report (e.g., report, study, briefing, update,
etc.) is considered a “congressional report” and is covered by this HOI.
Interim Response – A letter to the congressional defense committees stating the reason the Air Force
cannot meet the requested report suspense, including a date that the report will be delivered.
Transmittal Letter – A letter to the congressional defense committees, signed by the approving
authority that accompanies the congressional report.
Approval Authority – The Air Force official responsible for approving the congressional report. The
approval authority for all reports is the Secretary of the Air Force, unless the report specifically directs a
Chief of Staff of the Air Force response.
SAF/LL Congressional Reports Monitor – Overall Headquarters Air Force (HAF) POC for
congressional reports - resides in SAF/LLZ.
Murder Board – A meeting chaired by the Deputy Director of Air Force Legislative Liaison and
organized by the SAF/LL Reports Monitor. Attendees include a representative from the OPR who can
discuss the details of the report and a representative from the OCR offices who can speak for their 2-
Ltr’s approval/coordination on the report.
HOI90-41 23 APRIL 2014                                                                          5

Filter Team Meeting – A meeting to review congressional report language and define an OPR and
OCRs for each report. Attendees will include the SAF/LL Congressional Report Monitor and a
representative from each HAF 2-Ltr authorized to accept OPR or OCR responsibility.
CHARRTS – Congressional Hearings and Reporting Requirements Tracking System. A database and
electronic tasking and tracking system for all congressional reporting requirements. Managed by
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs (ASD(LA)).
Congressional Defense Committees – Per ASD(LA) direction, the congressional defense committees
are the House and Senate Armed Services Committees and the House and Senate Defense
Appropriations Subcommittees.
