BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE                                            INSTRUCTION 33-100

                                                                         21 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                            UNIVERSAL SERIAL BUS (USB)
                                                                         PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 49 CS/SCXS                                                         Certified by: 49 CS/CC
                                                                     (Major Martin T. Jennings)
                                                                                       Pages: 10


This publication implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-100, User Responsibilities And
Guidance For Information Systems. It provides the objective and outline guidance and
procedures for the acquisition and use of devices which connect via Universal Serial Bus (USB)
on Holloman AFB. Further it defines the roles Holloman AFB (HAFB) authorized government
computer users must play in protecting the AF Global Information Network, to adhere to the
Chief of Staff, Air Force (CSAF) e-mail to all airmen to “treat cyberspace the same as our
actions in air and space”. In accordance with (IAW) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-100, User
Responsibilities And Guidance For Information Systems, Air Force Systems Security Instruction
(AFSSI) 8502, Organizational Computer Security, AFSSI 8580, Remanence Security, CSAF e-
mail dated 28 May, 2009, Cyberspace Operations Culture Change, and Removable Storage and
External Connections Technologies STIG v1, r2 dated 28 Jan 2011. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact
supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, to 49th Communications Squadron Wing Cyber Surety Office (49 CS/SCXS), 165
Arkansas Avenue, Holloman AFB, NM 88330-7701.
 2                                           HOLLOMANAFBI33-100 21 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                            Chapter 1
                                     General USB Guidelines
1. IAW AFI 33-100, all Holloman AFB personnel with authorized privileges on all Holloman
owned Networks [Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet), Secure Internet
Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet), Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System
(JWICS), etc.], to include, but not limited to military, civilian, contractors, and summer hires,
WILL NOT attach any unauthorized USB device, regardless of ownership of that device, into
any Holloman Network Computer. This specifically includes plugging in a USB device only to
charge a battery. Further, users will not plug USB devices into a computer that connects to the
Holloman Network via Virtual Private Network (VPN). Approval for authorized USB devices
will be reviewed by 49 CS/SCXS through coordination of the respective Group/Squadron’s
Information Assurance Officer (IAO). This directive does not apply to stand alone or tenant run
networks.
     1.1. Punitive Action: Military personnel who do not comply, including members of the Air
     Force Reserve Command on active duty or on inactive duty for training and the Air National
     Guard in Federal status, may be punished under Article 92 of the Uniformed Code of
     Military Justice. DoD Civilian personnel who do not comply, may be subject to
     administrative actions in accordance with current directives. Violations by contractor
     personnel will be reported to the contracting office for disposition according to the terms of
     the contract.
     1.2. Prior to obtaining access to the HAFB network, all users are to sign an AF Form 4394,
     Air Force User Agreement Statement – Notice and Consent Provision. In this form, users
     agree “at any time, the government may inspect and/or seize data stored on this information
     system” [and any device attached to this information system].
     1.3. Examples of USB devices include, but are not limited to: memory sticks, smart phones,
     tablets, external hard drives and cameras.
     1.4. The only exceptions to this rule are USB devices with absolutely no internal memory,
     such as mice and keyboards. Prior to using a USB device under this exception, users should
     verify that the device has no internal memory by contacting their unit IAO or 49 CS/SCXS.
HOLLOMANAFBI33-100 21 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                         3


                                         Chapter 2
                             External Hard Drive Procurement
2. DoD Directive 8500. 1 requires that “all IA and IA-enabled IT products incorporated into
DoD information systems shall be configured in accordance with DoD-approved security
configuration guidelines” and tasks DISA to “develop and provide security configuration
guidance for IA and IA-enabled IT products in coordination with Director, NSA.”
   2.1. Per DISA’s Removable Storage and External Connection Technologies STIG, Version
   1, Release 2, “DoD components will purchase removable storage media and Data at Rest
   (DAR) products through the Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI) blanket purchase
   agreements program. Devices not purchased from an ESI are prohibited. DoD has adopted
   the Air Force’s Quantum Electronic Buy (QEB) and Army’s Consolidated Buy steps and
   encourages customers to utilize this process to benefit from price breaks.
   2.2. The Air Force QEB refers customers to AFWAY but AFWAY does not offer external
   hard drives for purchase. Therefore, Holloman AFB customers are authorized to purchase
   removable DAR products from www.gsaadvantage.gov. Procurement of external hard
   drives must be requested via Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System/Work Order
   Management System (WOMS). WOMs requests must include justification and location of
   planned use. Solid state drives are prohibited. The use of the encryption tool BitLocker To-
   Go is required for external hard drives on Windows 7 workstations. The requestor must
   contact their Group IAO for labeling, tracking and permission to use the drive.
 4                                           HOLLOMANAFBI33-100 21 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                            Chapter 3
                  How to Approve a USB Device for Unclassified Network Use
3. According to AFI 33-100 para 3.4.2, “Connecting non-government owned Portable
Electronic Devices (PEDs) to the AF network is prohibited. If individuals have a requirement to
use a PED on the AF network, they must request issuance of a government-owned PED”. No
privately-owned media (including but not limited to music/video CD/DVDs, iPods, iPads, and
USB drives) may be used in/connected to government-owned systems. AFI 33-100 defines a
“PED as a generic title used to describe the myriad of small electronic items [e.g. Personal
Digital Assistants (PDAs), Cellular Telephones (CTs), Blackberries, two-way pagers,
audio/video recording devices, and hand-held/laptop computers] widely available”.
     3.1. The only USB device approved for use in a government computer is a government-
     purchased spinning disk (non-flash memory) style hard drive with FIPS 140-2 compliance
     security software installed (such as BitLocker-to-Go for Windows 7 applications). Even
     qualifying government-purchased hard drives must be approved through the group IAO prior
     to use.
     3.2. USB approval letters and the associated USB user training information are available on
     the 49 CS IA SharePoint page located at:
     https://holloman.eim.acc.af.mil/49_MSG/49_CS/SCX/SCXS/Wing%20IAO%20Library
     /Forms/AllItems.aspx, under the 49 CS Library page/USB Device Folder. IAOs must send
     a copy of the letter to the 49 CS/SCXS office. Upon receipt of this letter the 49 CS/SCXS
     office will add the requested devices to the approved list of devices so that the electronic
     detection system attached to the network will no longer alert to the approved items.
     Exception: The 46th Test Group has a locally developed database which permits users to
     enter their USB device information along with all user requirements. It also provides for IAO
     review and approval. The database is made available as a report which is sent to the Wing IA
     office for inclusion in our list of approved devices.
     3.3. Once approved, all authorized USB devices must be labeled with a classification label,
     indicating the highest classification level of the material contained on the device and an ADP
     Data Descriptor Label, and a Privacy Act label as needed.
     3.4. According to AFSSI 8502, “Restrict using PEDs containing High Impact Personally
     Identifiable Information (PII) to a protected workplace. PEDs taken outside protected
     workplaces must adhere to the following additional security requirements: the PED must be
     signed in and out of protected workplace with a supervising official (for logging and tracking
     procedures). Do not use privately-owned information systems to process or store Controlled
     Unclassified Information (CUI) and PII. Privately-owned information systems contaminated
     with CUI or PII will be confiscated and sanitized according to AFSSI 8580”.
HOLLOMANAFBI33-100 21 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                           5


                                          Chapter 4
      Security Actions taken when an Unauthorized USB is detected on the Network
4. The security actions taken when a USB device is discovered, either by visual or electronic
detection, are designed to regain the security posture of the Holloman Network and follow
network tasking orders as given by DoD authorities such as USCYBERCOM and the Integrated
Network Operations Center - East (INOSC-E). They are not to be construed as punishment for
not adhering to this OI. Commanders are at liberty to take additional punitive steps they deem
necessary to prevent recurrence of violations of this OI.
   4.1. Once the 49 CS/SCXS receives notification of an unauthorized USB connection,
   implement tasking steps per Attachment 2. The device that caused the violation will be
   confiscated and taken to the 49 CS Communications Focal Point for analysis and sanitization.
   Device confiscation will apply to any offender; military, civilian, or contractor.
       4.1.1. 49 WG/IP will execute a memorandum (Evaluation of Continued Security
       Clearance) to the unit commander on the individual member who violated the rules,
       procedures, guidelines, or regulations pertaining to information technology systems (i.e.,
       Unauthorized USB connection to the network). (Reference: DoD 5200.2-R, Appendix I,
       Guideline M and AFI 31-501).
       4.1.2. Unit commander will determine whether or not to establish a SIF on the offender
       and will communicate his/her decision, in writing, to the Chief, 49 WG/IP.
   4.2. The offending personnel must re-accomplish the standard AF Information Assurance
   Training. Since their network access is disabled, the Group IAO will instruct the individual
   on how to complete the training.
       4.2.1. Once the IA training is complete, the Group IAO forwards, via e-mail, the
       offender’s training certificate to the 49 CS/SCXS.
       4.2.2. The 49 CS/SCXS office will notify the 49th Communications Squadron
       Commander (49 CS/CC) once the IA training certificate and USB device have been
       received. 49 CS/CC may then reinstate the offender’s account.
       4.2.3. Only 49 CS personnel are authorized to enable an account once it is disabled for a
       USB violation. Unit personnel enabling an account disabled for a USB violation will
       lose their elevated privileges. Exception: 46 Test Group manages their own user
       accounts. They can enable the user accounts when notified by 49 CS/SCXS.
       4.2.4. The second offense will follow the same procedure as outlined in para 4.2, 4.2.1.,
       and 4.2.2., except the offender’s group commander must request, in writing, from the
       49th Wing Vice Commander (49 WG/CV) that the offender’s account be enabled.
       Responsible unit commander will coordinate with 49 WG/IP and establish a SIF on the
       offender.
       4.2.5. The third offense will result in the offender’s account being permanently
       terminated and resolution of the member’s security clearance.
   4.3. Sanitizing unauthorized USB devices connected to the HAFB Networks will be
   accomplished IAW AFFSI 8580, Remanence Security.
6                                           HOLLOMANAFBI33-100 21 SEPTEMBER 2012


       4.3.1. Some devices have the ability to be sanitized without harming the device, while
       other devices’ operating memory or software are destroyed in the process. Once a device
       is plugged into a networked system, the network system and potentially the device are
       modified. 49 CS cannot determine with a high degree of fidelity that malware was not
       located on the device. To ensure all pieces of media in each device are sanitized,
       disassembly or destruction of a device may be required. Most electronic devices that
       store information have multiple forms of media. All local efforts will be made to sanitize
       the device without altering or destroying the device, but in cases where destruction is the
       only option, the device will be destroyed. Members can make a claim through 49 WG/JA
       for the depreciated value of the device if it is destroyed.
       4.3.2. Prior to sanitization or destruction, 49 CS personnel will contact AFOSI,
       Detachment 225, and 49 SFS Investigations to ensure that there are no ongoing criminal
       investigations against the user. If there is an ongoing investigation, the device will not be
       immediately sanitized or destroyed. Further action will be coordinated with the unit
       commander, 49 WG /JA, 49 WG/IP, and the investigating agency.
       4.3.3. Prior to sanitization or destruction, all devices connected to the NIPRNet will be
       held in a locked file cabinet to which 49 CS personnel have limited access. All
       unauthorized devices connected to the SIPRNet will be stored in a GSA-approved
       security container approved to store up to the security level and accounted on the security
       container inventory list. All access to this storage area will be logged with the date and
       time of access, name of person accessing the storage, and the purpose for the access.
       These logs must be kept for a minimum of six months.
    4.4. Connecting an unauthorized USB device to a classified network poses an even greater
    risk to mission critical systems than does the regular NIPRNet violation. Therefore, anyone
    who connects an unauthorized USB device to the SIPRNet will lose all privileges to the AF
    network (NIPRNet and SIPRNet) pending reinstatement by the 49 WG/CV. Responsible
    unit commander will coordinate with 49 WG/IP and establish a SIF on the offender. Unit
    commander will suspend the offender’s access to classified information/material pending the
    final outcome of the preliminary inquiry/investigation report and the 49 WG/CV decision.
    The unit commander will be responsible to ensure that the unauthorized USB device
    connected to the SIPRNet is immediately turned over to 49 CS for safekeeping, quarantine,
    and possible destruction.
       4.4.1. Anyone knowing of an unauthorized USB device connected to the SIPRNet will
       immediately report it to their unit IAO and unit security manager who will pass the
       information to the 49 CS/SCXS and 49 WG/IP.
       4.4.2. In coordination with 49 WG/IP, the responsible unit commander will appoint an
       investigating official to conduct a preliminary security incident inquiry report
       surrounding the violation. The preliminary inquiry/investigation report will be routed
       through unit commander to the Chief, 49 WG/IP for further coordination. The offender’s
       NIPRNet and SIPRNet accounts will be immediately disabled by 49 CS. Only the 49
       WG/CV can reinstate the offender’s accounts upon review and concurrence of the
       preliminary security incident inquiry report by 49 CS/CC and 49 WG/IP.
HOLLOMANAFBI33-100 21 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                   7


     4.4.3. Any subsequent connection of a non-authorized USB device to SIPRNet will
     result in a report through the Group Commander to the 49 WG/CV. The offender will be
     permanently banned from accessing the Holloman AFB networks unless authorized by
     the 49 WG/CV.




                                       ANDREW A. CROFT, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
 8                                          HOLLOMANAFBI33-100 21 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-100, User Responsibilities And Guidance For Information Systems, 19 November 2008
AFI 33-202, v1, Network and Computer Security, unable to find on e-Publishing and it is not
used in publication
AFI 31-401, Information and Security Program Management, 29 May 2008
AFSSI 8502, Organizational Computer Security, 18 September 2008
AFSSI 8580, Remanence Security, 17 November 2008
DODD 8100.2, Use of Commercial Wireless Devices, Services, and Technologies in the
Department of Defense (DoD) Global Information Grid (GIG), 14 April 2004
Removable Storage and External Connection Technologies STIG v1, r2, 28 January 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4394, Air Force User Agreement Statement – Notice and Consent Provision, 31 July
2009
SF707, Secret (Label), January 1987
SF710, Unclassified (Label), January 1987
SF711, ADP Data Descriptor (Label), January 1987

Abbreviations and Acronyms
12 AF/CC—12th Air Force Commander
49 CS/CC—49th Communications Squadron Commander
49 CS/SCXS—49th Communications Squadron Wing Cyber Surety Office
49 SFS—49th Security Forces Squadron
49 WG/CV—49th Wing Vice Commander
49 WG/IP—49th Wing Information Protection
49 WG /JA—49th Wing Staff Judge Advocate
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSSI—Air Force Systems Security Instruction
BitLocker— Proprietary Encryption Software that come bundled with Windows 7 computers
CD—Compact Disk
HOLLOMANAFBI33-100 21 SEPTEMBER 2012                       9


CSAF—Chief of Staff, Air Force
CT—Cellular Telephones
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information
DVD—Digital Video Dist
GSA—Government Services Administration
HAFB—Holloman AFB
IAM—Wing Information Assurance Manager
IAO—Information Assurance Officer
IAW—in accordance with
East INOSC—E-Integrated Network Operations Center
iPod—Proprietary line of music recording devices
iPad—Proprietary line of tablet computers
JWICS—Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System
NIPRNet—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDA—Personal Digital Assistant
PED—Portable Electronic Device
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SIPRNet—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
USB—Universal Serial Bus
VPN—Virtual Private Network
10                                              HOLLOMANAFBI33-100 21 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                             Attachment 2
             PROCESS FOR UNAUTHORIZED USB DEVICES ON NIPRNET

Wing Information Assurance Office (WIAO) identifies unauthorized device. Immediately
contact the following:
    1. Comm Focal Point (CFP)
    2. Organization IAO (IAO)
    3. Office of Special Investigation (OSI)
    4. Security Forces (SFS)
    5. Wing Information Protection Office (WG/IP)
Provide the following information to everyone contacted: User name, Organization, Device ID
Enter information into tracking log

1. CFP: Immediately disable user account
    IAO brings device to CFP:
     CFP will provide another hand receipt showing turnover of the device from IAO to CFP.
      Log in device.
     Scan the device for malware (if possible)
     Hold the device in locked container until WIAO gives permission to wipe contents or turn
      it over to requesting agency
     Once device is wiped, violators Unit Commander or First Sergeant will pick up the device
      at CFP to return to the individual
     CFP will create tracking log of devices. Log it in when it's received, log out when it's
      picked up by law enforcement or unit leadership. Get name/signature of person picking
      up device.

2. IAO's:
    Immediately seize the device. Identify to the user who you are and why you are there. If this
     becomes confrontational, call SFS at 572-7171.
       User will sign hand receipt
      User will sign AF IMT 1364 Consent for Search and Seizure. If user refuses to sign this
        statement, have 2 witnesses sign a statement saying user refused to sign AF IMT 1364
        (date/time).
     Inform user their account has been disabled.
     Provide information the user will need to get account enabled.
     Don't give user a set date/time of when the device will be returned. Let them know it will
       be returned when it's cleared.
     Take device, along with hand receipt and Consent for Search and Seizure to Bldg 202, CFP

3. and 4. OSI and SFS will verify the individual is/is not under investigation.
      Contact WIAO - WIAO does not need to know specifics - just let us know if we can wipe
       the item or if you would like to take possession of the device.

5. WG/IP: Log the event as first, second, third offense of this type for this individual
      Take action based on local IP instruction
