BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE                                            INSTRUCTION 33-303

                                                                        19 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                              SHAREPOINT AND CONTENT
                                                               MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 49 CS/SCOK                                                         Certified by: 49 CS/CC
                                                                          (Maj Gabriel Avilla)
                                                                                        Pages: 9


This instruction extends the guidance of DoD Enterprise SharePoint Standards and Procedures,
Vol 1: Standards v2.0 (dated 31 August 2010), T.O. 00-33D-3001, Air Force Enterprise
Information Management (EIM) Procedures for Site Owners and End Users, and AFI 33-129,
Web Management and Internet Use. This instruction establishes policies and procedures for the
Holloman AFB Knowledge Operations (KO) tools within the Non-Secure Internet Protocol
Router (NIPR) Network and the Secret Internet Protocol Router (SIPR) Network. This
instruction establishes standard collaborations rules for Microsoft Office SharePoint Services
(SP), the Air Force Portal, and Microsoft Office Communicator. This instruction applies to all
49th Wing units, tenants, personnel, contractors and volunteers. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting
records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
to 49th Communications Squadron Knowledge Operations Management Center (49 CS/SCOK),
1321 Tularosa Rd., Holloman AFB, NM 88330-7928.
 2                                           HOLLOMANAFBI33-303 19 SEPTEMBER 2013


1. General. The 49th Communications Squadron Commander will appoint members of the
Knowledge Operations Management Center (KOMC) Content Management staff to serve as:
     1.1. Holloman Air Force Portal Managers.
     1.2. Holloman SharePoint Owners.
     1.3. Holloman Evaluation Management System (EMS) Help Desk.
     1.4. Holloman Office Communicator System (OCS) Managers.
     1.5. Holloman Task Management Tool (TMT) Managers.
2. SharePoint. The purpose of SharePoint is to create a standardized electronic collaborative
workplace. Also, SharePoint is used to provide the right information to the right individuals to
support mission operations through a single common platform and standardized business
processes. SharePoint is a common environment for Airmen to share and acquire information
and knowledge. SharePoint will be the primary tool for management of calendars,
announcements, events, document libraries, document workspaces and workflows. The
SharePoint environment is not to be used for storage purposes.
     2.1. Holloman AFB Customer Base. The customer base includes the Wing, units, and
     tenants supported by the Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) and
     Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet).
     2.2. Classification. The NIPRNet SharePoint environment is only authorized to handle up to
     classification level UNCLASSIFIED. The SIPRNet SharePoint environment is only
     authorized to handle up to the classification level SECRET.
     2.3. Roles and Responsibilities.
        2.3.1. Holloman SharePoint Owners. The base KOMC Content Management section
        serves as the Holloman SharePoint Owners. Holloman SharePoint Owners manage the
        layout (look and feel), structure, design, permissions and operations of the Holloman
        SharePoint. They will:
            2.3.1.1. Oversee the access to and use of individual SharePoint sites.
            2.3.1.2. Develop and enforce standardized site layout (Attachment 2).
            2.3.1.3. Provide SharePoint users with best practices, policies, and procedures for
            using SharePoint in daily activities.
            2.3.1.4. Conduct annual review of all unit sites to ensure all permissions, links,
            content, and document libraries are current, relevant and managed appropriately.
            2.3.1.5. Manage an organized network of appointed Content Managers.
            2.3.1.6. Train, assist, and interact with content managers to ensure content and record
            management integrity. The KOMC Content Management Office can be contacted at
            49 CS/Content Management or 572-2751.
            2.3.1.7. Act as Content Managers for the Holloman SharePoint landing page
            (https://holloman.eim.acc.af.mil/default.aspx). For corrections or additions to the
            landing page, call the Knowledge Operations Management Center at 572-2751 or
            email 49CS.ContentMngt@holloman.af.mil.
HOLLOMANAFBI33-303 19 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            3


     2.3.2. Group Content Managers.      Group Content Managers are the appointed
     organizational knowledge manager for their group. Group Content Managers will be
     appointed by their commanders and will attend advanced classroom training prior to
     establishment of permissions. Group Content Managers will have Full Control
     permissions. They will:
        2.3.2.1. Properly manage their administrative and collaborative workspaces and will
        adhere to the requirements and restrictions of this publication.
        2.3.2.2. Use their elevated permissions to set permissions for all personnel in their
        group.
        2.3.2.3. Attempt to resolve all SharePoint issues for their group prior to elevating the
        problem to the KOMC Content Management section.
        2.3.2.4. NOT grant another individual Full Control permissions.
        2.3.2.5. NOT remove Holloman Owners from any SharePoint site.
        2.3.2.6. Understand that if they violate any restrictions or requirements of this
        publication, their Group Content Manager’s permissions will be reduced to Design
        permissions only.
        2.3.2.7. Utilize the     49    CS/Content     Management       org    mailbox    for   all
        questions/comments.
     2.3.3. Unit Content Managers. Unit Content Managers are the appointed organizational
     knowledge manager for their unit or squadron. Unit Content Managers will have Design
     permissions only. They will:
        2.3.3.1. Properly manage their administrative and collaborative workspaces
        2.3.3.2. Control access to the resources that are available within their site.
        2.3.3.3. Conduct day-to-day administration and support for assigned SharePoint sites,
        to include managing site access and information.
        2.3.3.4. Assist users on how to use SharePoint functionality IAW T.O. 00-33D-3001.
        2.3.3.5. Complete required training to understand and acquire the proper knowledge
        and background to properly manage site access.
        2.3.3.6. Conduct content review and clean up their respective sites and workspaces
        once every 180 days. Ensure the sites and workspaces follow the guidelines
        established in this instruction. Files that meet the definition of a record must be store
        on Holloman Electronic Records Management (ERM), not on SharePoint. Content
        Managers and Records Professionals should team up in this effort to maintain
        document integrity and records management rules.
        2.3.3.7. Build and maintain all sites/folders for respective section/unit using the
        required template outlined in this instruction (Attachment 2).
        2.3.3.8. Conduct OPSEC evaluation of all content before posting.
        2.3.3.9. Elevate any SharePoint problems to their Group Content Manager.
4                                           HOLLOMANAFBI33-303 19 SEPTEMBER 2013


       2.3.4. Functional Content Managers. Functional Content Managers will provide direct
       assistance/serve as focal point to users within their respective function. They should have
       a thorough understanding of the function operations, business, and mission processes.
       They will:
           2.3.4.1. Maintain measures to safeguard site information.
           2.3.4.2. Consult with the KOMC on any issues or problems that cannot be resolved
           within their area.
           2.3.4.3. Functional Content Managers will follow paragraphs 2.3.3.1 through 2.3.3.8.
       2.3.5. Site Member (End User). Site Members are personnel assigned to the workcenter
       or team project. Members have view, insert, edit and delete capabilities (contribute
       rights). Site Members will perform data management on the data they created. This
       includes deleting data no longer required, eliminating redundant data.
    2.4. Permissions.
       2.4.1. Management of permissions for sites on Holloman SharePoint is the responsibility
       of the Holloman SharePoint Owners. Rights will be assigned through Active Directory
       (AD) groups (i.e., SP_49CS_CONTRIB). The Group and Unit Content Manager are
       responsible for placing users in the correct Active Directory group. Individual names
       will not be added to site permissions.
       2.4.2. In-processing and out-processing procedures will be utilized to assign the
       appropriate Active Directory (AD) security groups for personnel. Use of AD security
       groups will help to ensure automatic access and/or denial to organization private content.
    2.5. Personally Identifiable Information (PII). PII is not allowed on SharePoint.
    2.6. Notice and Consent Banner. As SharePoint is a web-enabled application and not a web
    site, notice and consent banners will not be displayed.
    2.7. Training.
       2.7.1. The KOMC staff will complete all training required by higher headquarters.
       2.7.2. Group, Unit and Functional Content Managers will:
           2.7.2.1. Complete the following SharePoint CBTs on the IT E-Learning website:
               2.7.2.1.1. Course ID 250450, SharePoint 2007 Essentials.
               2.7.2.1.2. Course ID 250463, Creating & Managing Personal Sites & Searches in
               SharePoint 2007.
           2.7.2.2. Attend classroom training conducted by the KOMC (Building 839).
           2.7.2.3. Find additional training and suggested SharePoint best practices at
           https://holloman.eim.acc.af.mil/49_MSG/49_CS/SCX/NTC/SharePoint_Training
           /default.aspx.
    2.8. Site Management.
       2.8.1. All sites shall follow the Holloman site template (Figure A2.1.). The look and feel
       of all sites must remain standard across the base. The look and feel includes standard
HOLLOMANAFBI33-303 19 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                             5


       colors, fonts, and backgrounds. The approved unit emblem will be located in the space
       provided by the templates and not presented in other locations. Customization on the site
       must remain very minimal and requires Knowledge Operations Management Center
       approval to avoid any issues for migration to future software versions (see Attachment 2).
       2.8.2. Graphics will only be used for navigation and shall be minimal in size (i.e.,
       thumbnail or icon size). No other graphics are allowed to be displayed on any site as part
       of the site layout. The use of other graphics must be approved by the Knowledge
       Operations Management Center. The size and placement of official photos (i.e.
       commanders, chiefs, deputies, etc.) must comply with the requirements set in this
       instruction (Attachment 2).
       2.8.3. All sites must have the Content Manager’s contact information located on the site.
       2.8.4. Follow standard site naming conventions for organizational and functional sites.
       2.8.5. Sites not visited for at least 180 days are subject to deletion. Group, Unit and
       Functional Content Managers will be notified via e-mail at least two times prior to
       deletion.
       2.8.6. Sites should be maintained at the highest level possible to prevent duplication of
       content and to maintain a consistent architecture.
       2.8.7. All sites shall be uniform in appearance. Always be consistent on the location of
       web zones by using the standard template. This will significantly reduce user frustration.
       2.8.8. Deviation from the SharePoint format described in this instruction is prohibited
       unless authorized (in writing) by the KOMC Content Management Office.
   2.9. Workflow. As it relates to SharePoint, Workflow is the execution of a defined business
   process incorporating the corresponding responsibilities, actions, tasks, and documents into
   the process. Implementing a business process using a Workflow provides many benefits
   since tasks, documentation, and data are maintained in a central location. The KOMC
   encourages Holloman personnel to use Workflow for review/staffing processes. For
   instructions       on        how        to       use          Workflow,          go       to
   https://holloman.eim.acc.af.mil/49_MSG/49_CS/SCX/NTC/SharePoint_Training/defaul
   t.aspx.
3. Air Force Portal. Organizations should remember the AF Portal provides all airmen,
civilians, contractors and authorized guests worldwide access to core Air Force private
information and is the central knowledge source for many combat support and personnel
services. Responsibilities specifically spelled out in AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet
Use, must be followed.
   3.1. The KOMC Content Management staff serve as the AF Portal Content Mangers for
   Holloman AFB.
   3.2. Group and Unit Content Managers for the Air Force Portal will attend classroom
   training conducted by the KOMC (Building 839).
   3.3. All Holloman portal sites will publish the appropriate Content Manager’s contact
   information to ensure content is up-to-date and relevant. Organization e-mail groups are
 6                                          HOLLOMANAFBI33-303 19 SEPTEMBER 2013


     preferred to ensure appropriate personnel are available if there are any issues or problems
     with the content on the site.
     3.4. Organizational portal sites will be maintained for wing level organizations at a
     minimum. Core information about an organization will be published providing key
     information about an organization providing who they are, what they do, what services they
     provide, key functional contacts, and appropriate news and events highlighting organizations
     accomplishments.
     3.5. Group and unit content managers will validate at least on a quarterly basis the site
     content, links published, and ensure authorized content managers and content publishers
     appointed in writing are listed within the user management functions on their organization
     portal sites.
4. Office Communications Server (OCS). Microsoft Communicator® should be used for all
internal communications between two or more people. Microsoft LiveMeeting® is available
when multiple people need to collaborate in real time (conferences, training, etc.). Microsoft
Group Chat is available for situations where people need a persistent communications channel
for live collaboration and support.
     4.1. OCS will be used for official communication only.
     4.2. Contact the KOMC Content Management Office (572-2751/2752) for assistance with
     Microsoft Office Communicator.




                                             ANDREW A. CROFT, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 49th Wing
HOLLOMANAFBI33-303 19 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                         7


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD Enterprise SharePoint Standards and Procedures, Vol 1: Standards v2.0 (dated 31 August
2010),
T.O. 00-33D-3001, Air Force Enterprise Information Management (EIM) Procedures for Site
Owners and End Users, 15 September 2009
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
49 CS/SCOK—-Knowledge Operations Management Center
ACC—-Air Combat Command
AD—-Active Directory
AFRIMS—-Air Force Records Information Management System
EMS—-Evaluation Management System
KO—-Knowledge Operations
KOMC—Knowledge Operations Management Center
NIPRNet— Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OCS—-Office Communicator System
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—-Operational Security
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
SIPRNet— Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
SP—-SharePoint
 8                                          HOLLOMANAFBI33-303 19 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 2
                       STANDARDIZED HOLLOMAN SITE DESIGN

A2.1. All standard SharePoint pages (web pages) must use the default page design template
(light blue). Exception: Functional Pages (i.e., CAT/EOC).
A2.2. No files larger than 50 MB on SharePoint.
A2.3. All SharePoint Main pages shall be set up as described below:
     A2.3.1. Holloman SharePoint Main Page Banner Section:
        A2.3.1.1. IGNITE ACC Patch Symbol – Group Sites: Do not change the Patch Symbol
        at top far left of the page. Squadron Sites: You may put your HHQ's patch and your unit
        patch only. Do not add image description.
        A2.3.1.2. Title - use the full official name of the unit - Example: 49th Communications
        Squadron (use Site Actions tab ----> Look and Feel ---> Title, Description and Icon---
        >Title)
        A2.3.1.3. Description - (leave blank - this will be included below).
        A2.3.1.4. Web Site directory (URL name) - use your official unit acronym - all upper
        case, as your directory name. Example .../49_CS (use Site Actions tab ----> Look and
        Feel ---> Title, fill in directory name). The Web Site directory name (URL name) should
        never be changed after it is set up. If you change your directory name you may break
        external links to your site.

Table A2.1. Site Structure.
Quick Launch Bar           Left Column                            Right Column
1. Squadron/Flights        1. Unit Mission Statement.             1. Image Web Part - display
2. CSS                     2. Announcements Web Part - unit       Unit CC (Mandatory) and
   Additional Duty         level announcements affecting your     Superintendent/First Sergeant
Roster                     SharePoint administration, general     (optional), at approximately 190
   Unit Correspondence     unit announcements, etc., should be    x 238 pixels. Any links in the
Tracker                    displayed here.                        picture should be mapped
   Unit Tasker             3. Calendar Web Part - set up          directly to their official BIO on
   Unit                    calendar items for your unit and all   AF.MIL.
Pubs/FormsLibrary          subordinate units. Give permissions    2. Helpful Links.
   Additional Duty         to all your site Owners below you.     3. Contact Web part -Site
Document Libraries.                                               Owner's Name, DSN and email.
3. Documents.
   Unit Shared
Documents
   Unit Picture Library
4. Evaluation
Management System
(EMS) 3.0.
HOLLOMANAFBI33-303 19 SEPTEMBER 2013      9


Figure A2.1. Example of Site Structure.
