BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 32-2001

                                                                          2 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                    THE FIRE PROTECTION OPERATIONS
                                                      AND FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 49 CES/CEF                                                     Certified by: 49 49 MSG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Robert H. Cole)
                                                                                        Pages: 24


This Holloman AFB Instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001, Fire
Emergency Services Program, 9 September 08, and Air Combat Command (ACC) Supplement,
12 March 09. It establishes policy and procedures and assigns responsibilities and requirements
to ensure a comprehensive fire prevention and protection program for Holloman AFB. It applies
to all military personnel, their family members, civilian personnel, concessionaires and tenants
on Holloman. Violations of specific prohibitions and requirements of this instruction by military
personnel may result in disciplinary action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
Violations by civilian personnel may result in appropriate disciplinary action to include
administrative action such as reprimand or criminal prosecution under applicable State and
Federal statutes. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.myaf.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required. Refer recommended changes and questions to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to 49th Civil Engineer
Squadron Fire Protection Flight (49 CES/CEF), 1000 Delaware Avenue, Holloman AFB, NM
88330.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changed Fire Protection Flight to Fire and Emergency Services Flight throughout the instruction;
Changed AFOSH Standard 127-56 and 127-43 to AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force
Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, throughout instruction; changed extensions 1117,
 2                                           HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


3223, 3224, 3486, 3487, 3488, 5942, 7228, 7229, to 911, 572-3223, 572-3224, 572-3486, 572-
3487, 572-5942, 572-7228, 572-7229 throughout the instruction; changed Fire Protection Flight
to Fire Prevention Section throughout the instruction; Para 3.2.1. changed, from ―Ensure all
newly assigned personnel are given fire prevention and fire extinguisher training within 30 days
of assignment. This training will be accomplished through the base Right Start Plus program,‖
to ―Ensure all newly assigned First Term Airmen are provided fire prevention/fire extinguisher
training within 30 days of assignment. This training will be accomplished through the base First
Term Airmen’s Center Program as part of their in-processing.‖; Para 3.7. inserted, ―…pre-
construction/.‖; Para 5.2. deleted all sub-paragraphs and changed ―9-475-1117 to 9-572-1117 or
911‖; Para 5.3.2., changed from Fire Protection Flight Alarm Room to Fire Alarm
Communications Center; Para 11.1.1. added to ensure the safe evacuation of personnel under
their supervision; Para 11.2.3. deleted ―monthly‖ and inserted ―IAW NMSA 59A-52-7, Teaching
Fire Prevention and Control in Public Schools-Rules for School Building Evacuation and NMSA
59A-52-15, Fire Prevention, Public Occupancies Regulations‖; insert Para 12.1.8. No exit
doors will be blocked unless approved by the Base Fire Chief in writing‖; Para 13.2.3., delete
‖Carbon Dioxide (CO2) total flooding system and insert ―Class ―K‖ kitchen fire extinguishing
systems‖; Para 14. added ―AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, establishes the procedures
for designating smoking areas on military installations‖ deleted this wording from Para 14.1.5.;
Para 14.7. deleted ―Do not use smoking material receptacles for trash.‖; added Para 14.8.
―Receptacles marked ‖Smoking Material Only‖ will not be utilized as trash receptacles.
Personnel noticing refuse in these receptacles will take appropriate corrective actions‖; Para
15.5. changed ―electrical light fixtures‖ to ―heat-producing items; Para 16.2.6. added ―Containers
being filled at dispensing pumps will be placed on the ground (for grounding purposes) and then
filled, to prevent any static charge and possible fire or explosion‖; Para 16.3. added, ―At least
one portable fire extinguisher having a capacity of not less than 40:B shall be located outside of
but not more than 10 feet from the door opening of the storage area.‖ Para17.1., delete‖AFOSH
Standard 91-5‖, Chge Para 18.2., Use of all fireworks on Holloman AFB is prohibited. This is to
include the use of handheld sparklers. Para 18.3. deleted, ―The individual use of fireworks on
Holloman is prohibited.‖ Para 19.1.2. changed CEFB to CEFT; added Para 20.8., ―All areas
around the fire detection/fire suppression systems must be unobstructed and provide free access
for maintenance and firefighting personnel.‖; added Para 20.9., ―Candles, incense or any heat
producing devices to include candle warmers or those used in conjunction with air fresheners
are prohibited. Candles with ―wicks removed‖ are allowed to be used as room fresheners. The
exception is the use in clubs or as part of a religious service‖; Delete Para 22.2.1.-5. and add Para
22.2.1. Flammable/combustible liquids. This does not apply to small amounts of lighter fluid or
butane for refilling cigarette lighters, or model glue and paints, 22.2.2. Explosives or
pyrotechnics, including fireworks, 22.2.3. Cooking appliances other than coffee makers, toasters
and microwave ovens. Heat-producing appliances such as coffee pots/toasters will be
disconnected from wall outlets when no longer in use. Automatic timing devices will not be
used even if they are built into the appliance. Coffee pots will be placed on non-combustible
surfaces, 22.2.4. Motorcycle storage or maintenance of any kind within a facility.‖; Para 22.3
added ―continuously‖.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                                                     3


     1.    Objective. ...............................................................................................................    4
     2.    Authority. ...............................................................................................................    4
     3.    Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       4
     4.    Fire Prevention Visit Process. ................................................................................               6
     5.    Fire/Emergency Reporting Procedures. .................................................................                        7
     6.    Yielding to Emergency Vehicles. ..........................................................................                    7
     7.    Fire Lanes/Restricted Parking. ...............................................................................                7
     8.    Fire Hydrants. ........................................................................................................       8
     9.    Fire Extinguishers. .................................................................................................         8
     10.   Flightline Fire Extinguishers. .................................................................................              8
     11.   Fire Evacuation Drills. ...........................................................................................           9
     12.   Fire Exits and Exit Lights. .....................................................................................             9
     13.   Fire Prevention Training. .......................................................................................            10
     14.   Smoking and Disposal of Smoking Material. ........................................................                           11
     15.   Electrical Installation, Appliances and Heating Equipment. .................................                                 11
     16.   Flammable/Combustible Liquids/Liquefied Petroleum (LP) Gas Storage. ...........                                              13
     17.   Welding, Cutting and Use of Open Flame Torches: ..............................................                               15
     18.   Open Burning and Fireworks: ................................................................................                 16
     19.   Ammunition and Explosives: .................................................................................                 16
     20.   Housekeeping: .......................................................................................................        16
     21.   Warehouse/Storage Facilities: ...............................................................................                17
     22.   Dormitories, Visiting Officers/Airmen's Quarters and Temporary Lodging Quarters:                                             17
     23.   Public Assembly Facilities: ....................................................................................             18
     24.   Decorations and Furnishings. .................................................................................               20
     25.   Self-Help Work Projects: .......................................................................................             20
     26.   Conflict in Guidance. .............................................................................................          21

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          22
 4                                             HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


1. Objective. The objective of the installation Fire Prevention Program is to eliminate the
potential causes of fire, prevent injury, property damage, and loss of life and protect the
environment should fire occur. Accomplishing these objectives is vital if the mission is to
continue without delay due to fire. To reach these objectives, it is necessary to eliminate unsafe
practices and conditions. This is accomplished through the education of all personnel, command
support at all levels and enforcement of safe practices. Fire prevention and fire safety will not be
compromised for reasons of expediency or economy.
2. Authority.
     2.1. Base Fire Marshal. The Base Civil Engineer/Commander, 49th Civil Engineer
     Squadron (49 CES/CC) is the officer designated as the Base Fire Marshal and serves as an
     advisor to the 49th Support Group Commander on fire protection matters and also supervises
     the Fire Protection Flight. The Base Fire Marshal is the Authority Having Jurisdiction and is
     authorized to direct stoppage of operations or processes considered to be a fire or explosive
     hazard.
     2.2. Fire Chief. The Fire Chief is the Fire Protection Flight Chief and is responsible to the
     Base Fire Marshal for establishing and managing an effective fire protection and prevention
     program. Through the Assistant Chief for Fire Prevention, the Fire Chief develops and
     administers the installation Fire Prevention Program. The Fire Chief or Senior Fire Officer
     has full authority over all fire suppression and rescue operations. The On-Scene Commander
     may establish priorities based on prevailing conditions; however, no one outside the fire
     protection organization will give orders or interfere with the Fire Chief or firefighters in the
     performance of fire suppression or rescue operation.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Functional Managers. The functional manager is the commander or senior operating
     official at any level who exercises managerial control of an activity or operation. Functional
     managers are responsible for administering the fire prevention program within their
     functional area and for initiating corrective action on fire hazards and fire deficiencies. In
     addition, functional managers are responsible for notifying the Fire Prevention Office, in
     writing, of changes in facility managers and telephone numbers of facility managers and their
     alternates.
     3.2. Unit Commanders/Supervisors. Unit commanders/supervisors are responsible at all
     levels for ensuring sound fire prevention procedures are established and practiced in each
     activity or facility under their jurisdiction. They will enforce this instruction as it pertains to
     the buildings, areas and property under their control. They will:
        3.2.1. Ensure all newly assigned First Term Airmen are provided fire prevention/fire
        extinguisher training within 30 days of assignment. Training will be accomplished
        through the base First Term Airmen’s Center Program as part of their in-processing.
        3.2.2. Ensure all personnel are knowledgeable of required fire/emergency reporting
        procedures, use of fire extinguishers and fire prevention practices.
        3.2.3. Ensure organizational fire prevention inspections and practices in facilities, rooms
        or areas that are under continuous lock and key are the responsibility of the individual
        supervisor maintaining that secured area. Additionally, it is their responsibility to
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                             5


     arrange/provide access to these facilities, rooms or areas for the Fire Inspectors to
     perform scheduled fire prevention visits.
     3.2.4. Review for completeness, the corrective actions required and the corrective actions
     taken on AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report. The unit commander must sign
     and date the reverse side of the form.
     3.2.5. Initiate appropriate administrative or disciplinary action against personnel who
     willfully damage or tamper with fire protection systems/devices or fail to comply with
     the fire prevention policies or practices that through misconduct, disregard for fire
     directives, or negligence result in fire loss or damage to government property.
  3.3. Facility Managers:
     3.3.1. Each facility manager (as designated in AFI 32-9005, Real Property
     Accountability and Reporting) is responsible to the unit commander for the fire safe
     condition of all facilities under their jurisdiction. The facility manager or designated
     alternate will accompany the Fire Prevention Inspector during the fire prevention visit
     and take immediate corrective action on fire hazards or discrepancies found during the
     inspection.
     3.3.2. In addition, facility managers will accomplish those fire prevention duties as
     outlined both in this instruction and in the Facility Manager’s Fire Prevention Checklist
     provided by the Fire Prevention Office.
     3.3.3. The facility manager will check all fire extinguishers, fire doors, exits, exit lights
     and emergency lights to ensure proper operating conditions. Report all discrepancies on
     AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to the 49 CES Customer Service for
     corrective action.
     3.3.4. The facility manager will ensure the fire/emergency telephone reporting number is
     affixed to every telephone.
     3.3.5. The facility manager will ensure all personnel are knowledgeable of
     fire/emergency reporting, evacuation procedures and the activation procedures for all
     installed fire suppression/alarm systems.
     3.3.6. The facility manager will inspect all designated smoking areas to ensure proper
     receptacles are provided for the disposal of smoking materials.
     3.3.7. The facility manager will ensure a closing or end of shift inspection at the end of
     each work day or activity to ensure the facility or area is left in a fire safe manner.
  3.4. 49th Contracting Squadron, Construction Contracting Team (49 CONS/LGCA). The 49
  CONS/LGCA will establish procedures to ensure the Fire Prevention Office is notified of all
  pre-construction/pre-performance conferences. A Fire Prevention Office representative must
  attend these conferences to coordinate fire prevention requirements with contractors.
  3.5. Corps of Engineers. The senior official of the Corps of Engineers’ office at Holloman
  will establish procedures to ensure the Fire Prevention Office is notified of all pre-construct-
  ion/pre-performance conferences.
  3.6. Concessionaires. Concessionaires are responsible for fire prevention in their work areas
  and will comply with this instruction as it pertains to them.
 6                                           HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


     3.7. Contractor Operations. Employees of private contractors performing work under
     government contracts are exempt from this instruction. Contractors are; however,
     responsible for compliance with Department of Labor and the Occupational Safety and
     Health Administration standards for the protection of their employees. Contractors will be
     provided a copy of the Contractors Fire Prevention Guide by the Fire Prevention Office
     during pre-construction/pre-performance conferences to be used as a reference for fire safety
     during construction operations.
4. Fire Prevention Visit Process. The Fire and Emergency Services Flight’s Fire Prevention
Office is the agency that manages, enforces and executes the Fire Prevention Program. Fire
Prevention Inspectors will conduct quality inspections that contribute to the fire and life safety of
the unit being inspected.
     4.1. Scheduled visits will be conducted on a quarterly, semiannual or annual basis depending
     on the occupancy and hazards of the facility or area.
     4.2. Walk-through visits will be conducted on a no-notice basis when increased activity or
     the nature of special work or functions dictate. These visits will include periods of evening
     opera- ions. Follow-up inspections of previously identified fire hazards and deficiencies will
     be carried out in this manner.
     4.3. The facility manager or designated alternate will accompany the Fire Prevention
     Inspector on all visits.
     4.4. Fire hazards noted during the inspection will be corrected on the spot if at all possible.
     If the fire hazard or condition poses an imminent danger, prompt action will be taken to
     eliminate or reduce the danger. When the hazard involves an operation or process that must
     be stopped and action is not taken to do so, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, 49th Wing Safety
     Officer and the functional manager concerned will be notified to observe and resolve the
     hazardous condition. If the problem cannot be resolved, the 49th Mission Support Group
     Commander and/or the 49th Wing Commander will be notified.
     4.5. Risk Assessment Codes will be assigned to fire hazards and fire deficiencies IAW AFI
     91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
     (AFOSH) Program.
     4.6. The AF Form 1487 will be annotated to show any fire hazard or deficiency found. The
     Fire Prevention Inspector will provide the facility manager with the original copy of the AF
     Form 1487 and brief him/her on the hazards noted with recommendations for corrective
     actions. The facility manager must indicate the actions taken on the reverse side of the form,
     have the functional manager sign and date, and return the form to the Fire Prevention Office
     within the specified time.
     4.7. Fire Prevention Visit Reports identifying hazards or deficiencies that require submission
     of an AF Form 332 to the 49 CES Customer Service Desk for corrective action, will show
     full justification with references.
     4.8. The facility/functional manager will take immediate action to correct the fire hazard or
     fire deficiency. IAW AFI 91-301, any hazard or deficiency not corrected within 30 days will
     be annotated on an AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               7


5. Fire/Emergency Reporting Procedures.
   5.1. Immediate and accurate reporting of a fire or emergency is essential to reduce fire
   damage/loss and minimize fire vehicle response time. Any person discovering a fire,
   potential fire, or emergency situation must report it immediately to the Fire & Emergency
   Services Flight. This includes any fire whether it has burned itself out or has been
   extinguished without the aid of the Fire and Emergency Services Flight.
   5.2. Fire/Emergency Reporting Telephone Number. Report all fires or emergencies to the
   Fire & Emergency Services Flight by dialing 911 or 572-1117.
   5.3. Fire/Emergency Evacuation Procedures:
       5.3.1. Sound the alarm, both mechanically and verbally. In buildings equipped with fire
       alarm systems, activate the nearest fire alarm pull station. In buildings not equipped with
       fire alarm systems, sound the alarm verbally.
       5.3.2. Call the Fire and Emergency Services Flight. When reporting a fire or emergency,
       give your name and telephone number, location/address of the emergency and type of fire
       or emergency. Remain on the telephone. DO NOT HANG UP until released by the Fire
       Alarm Communication Center (FACC) operator.
       5.3.3. Ensure all personnel are evacuated from the facility and assemble at a designated
       area at least 50 feet from the facility and ensure all personnel are accounted for.
       5.3.4. Extinguish the fire, if possible, using fire extinguishers on fires that have just
       started or are small in size. If the fire is uncontrollable, abandon firefighting efforts and
       evacuate the building; do not become trapped and always maintain a clear egress path to
       safety.
       5.3.5. Designate at least one individual outside the building to direct firefighters to the
       location of the fire or emergency.
   5.4. False Fire Reporting. Any person(s) involved in malicious and/or deliberate
   transmission of false information pertaining to a fire or emergency, including falsely
   initiating a Fire and Emergency Services Flight response, will be subject to applicable
   disciplinary action. This includes tampering with fire reporting equipment and devices.
6. Yielding to Emergency Vehicles. All Fire and Emergency Services Flight vehicles should
be given the right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to an emergency. Upon hearing
or observing approaching emergency vehicles with warning lights and siren in operation, traffic
will immediately clear all intersections, move as far as possible to the right, come to a complete
stop and remain stopped until all visible responding emergency vehicles have passed.
   6.1. Do not follow closer than 500 feet behind responding emergency vehicles.
   6.2. Vehicles will not pass stationary fire vehicles with warning lights operating, proceed
   past a fire scene or drive over a fire hose unless directed to do so by Fire and Emergency
   Services Flight or Security Forces personnel.
7. Fire Lanes/Restricted Parking. Fire lanes and restricted parking areas around buildings are
identified and no parking is allowed in these areas; these areas will remain unobstructed at all
times.
 8                                           HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


8. Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants will not be used by any person other than the Fire and
Emergency Services Flight personnel, except when permission is granted by the Fire Chief or a
designated representative.
     8.1. Parking of vehicles or equipment within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, post indicator valve or
     sprinkler system connection is prohibited.
     8.2. Items such as trees, bushes, signs, fences or any other obstacles will not obstruct or
     conceal a fire hydrant, post indicator valve or sprinkler system connection.
     8.3. Tampering with fire hydrants, post indicator valves and sprinkler connections is strictly
     prohibited.
     8.4. Water mains and fire hydrants will not be shut off, nor will any maintenance be per-
     formed that could interfere with the water supply without 24 hours notice to the Fire and
     Emergency Services Flight. Exception to this will be only when emergency work to repair
     these systems is required.
     8.5. The civil engineer plumbing shop will notify the FACC of proposed water curtailments
     which affect fire hydrants. The plumbing shop will also identify inactive/defective fire
     hydrants by placing the appropriate "OUT OF SERVICE" placard on the hydrant.
9. Fire Extinguishers. Fire prevention personnel will determine the type, number, distribution
and placement of portable fire extinguishers as outlined in AFOSH Standard 91-501 and
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 10, Standard for Portable Fire
Extinguishers, of the National Fire Codes.
     9.1. The using organization of a facility is responsible for purchasing/maintenance of
     portable fire extinguishers.
     9.2. It is the responsibility of the using organization to deliver fire extinguishers that have
     been used to extinguish a fire, accidentally discharged or have broken seals, missing pins or
     become inoperative, to a certified company for re-servicing and repair. The facility manager
     will ensure that a replacement fire extinguisher is in place until the unserviceable
     extinguisher is repaired or replaced.
     9.3. Fire extinguishers will not be blocked from immediate use or obscured from sight.
     Signs marking the location of the fire extinguisher will be posted when the extinguisher
     cannot be clearly seen.
     9.4. Fire extinguishers will be permanently mounted to walls using an approved bracket or in
     recessed/semi-recessed fire extinguisher cabinets. No fire extinguisher will be repositioned
     to another location without the approval of the Fire Prevention Office.
     9.5. Fire extinguishers will not be used for any purpose other than the extinguishment of
     fires. Appropriate disciplinary action will be initiated against personnel willfully misusing
     fire extinguishers.
     9.6. Fire extinguishers and installed fire suppression systems will be inspected monthly and
     documented by the facility manager or alternate facility manager.
10. Flightline Fire Extinguishers. The number and type of wheel-mounted flightline fire
extinguishers authorized for Holloman are established in Allowance Standard 490, Civil
Engineer Fire Protection Support and Aircraft Crash Rescue Equipment.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              9


   10.1. The using organization is responsible for moving the extinguishers within their work/
   ramp area to meet required coverage during maintenance and aircraft engine starts.
   10.2. If an extinguisher is used or requires servicing, the using organization will make the
   appropriate arrangement for these critical fire units be returned to service.
11. Fire Evacuation Drills.
   11.1. Fire evacuation drills are the responsibility of the facility manager to ensure the safe
   evacuation of personnel in case of fire. The intent of the fire drills is to expose occupants to
   the sound of the fire alarm system (see paragraph 11.4.), test capacity of the fire exits, and
   practice organizational fire evacuation and reaction plans.
       11.1.1. Unit commanders may conduct fire evacuation drills at their discretion.
       11.1.2. Fire evacuation drills will be conducted at least annually in all facilities, unless
       otherwise indicated.
   11.2. Fire evacuation drills will be conducted at the following intervals for the following
   occupancies:
       11.2.1. Hospital conducted at a minimum once per quarter, for each work shift.
       11.2.2. Child Development Centers - conducted in each child care facility on a monthly
       basis for staff training. The Fire Prevention Office will conduct one fire drill per quarter
       in each child care facility.
       11.2.3. Public Schools - the frequency of fire drills for Alamogordo Public Schools
       located on Holloman will be conducted as required by the State of New Mexico, IAW
       NMSA 59A-52-7&15.
       11.2.4. Places of Public Assembly - managers of these facilities must conduct quarterly
       fire drills for employees to ensure their familiarity with fire evacuation procedures of
       customers and responsibilities during fire/emergency situations. No requirement exists
       for fire drills that require the public to evacuate the premises.
       11.2.5. Munitions Storage Areas – semi-annual fire drills coupled with structural fire
       fighting exercises will be conducted at these facilities. Coordinate with Fire and
       Emergency Services Flight to arrange drills/exercises. Documentation of drills/exercises
       should be maintained by both organizations.
   11.3. The Fire Prevention Office may direct or conduct fire drills in any facility where the
   need for such drills is indicated.
   11.4. Fire alarm systems will not be used to conduct fire evacuation drills without prior
   coordination with the Fire Prevention Office.
12. Fire Exits and Exit Lights.
   12.1. Fire exit capacity and arrangement will be IAW NFPA Standard 101, Life Safety Code.
       12.1.1. Exit doors in occupied facilities will remain unlocked and unobstructed at all
       times. Both doors in double-door exits will be unlocked during periods of occupancy.
       12.1.2. Exit doors must swing in the direction of exit travel, when facility is occupied by
       50 or more people.
 10                                         HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


      12.1.3. Exit doors will be equipped with panic hardware devices in all places of public
      assembly and recreational facilities. During EXERCISE and REAL WORLD increased
      Force Protection levels, exit doors equipped with panic hardware may be locked. Doors
      without panic hardware will not be locked. Signs may be posted to simulate the door is
      locked and personnel will monitor to ensure compliance with Force Protection directives.
      12.1.4. Building exits will be kept clear at all times and properly identified by exit signs
      that will be readily visible from any direction of exit access.
      12.1.5. Do not obstruct exits or exit signs with draperies, decorations, placards, tables,
      chairs, furniture, etc.
      12.1.6. Padlocks, chains, sliding bolts or any device that retards the intended safe action
      of the panic hardware will not be installed on doors.
      12.1.7. If exits become inoperative for any reason, the facility manager will ensure
      immediate corrective action is taken to correct the problem.
   12.1. 8. No exit doors will be blocked unless approved by the Base Fire Chief in writing.
   12.2. Fire exit signs shall be suitably illuminated by a reliable light source. External and
   internal illuminated exit signs shall be visible in both the normal and emergency lighting
   modes. Burned-out lights or inoperative battery backups will be immediately reported to the
   Civil Engineer Service Call Desk at ext. 572-3223/572-3224.
   12.3. It is the responsibility of the Facility Manager to assure all emergency lighting is fully
   operational to provide for the safe evacuation of personnel. If emergency lights are
   inoperative report discrepancy to the Civil Engineer Service Call Desk at ext. 572-3223/572-
   3224.
13. Fire Prevention Training.
   13.1. Upon request, Fire Prevention personnel will conduct fire prevention training for any
   organization or social group. This training is available on any fire safety related subject and
   may consist of lectures, films and demonstrations.
      13.1.1. Fire extinguisher education is required for all personnel upon assignment, and
      annually thereafter. This education will include general principles of fire extinguisher
      and extinguishing systems use, and the hazards involved with initial stage fire fighting.
      Hands-on training will be conducted upon request or during scheduled extinguisher
      classes.
      13.1.2. Fire extinguisher training (initial hands-on) is required for all newly assigned
      aircraft maintenance and servicing personnel on the use of the 150-pound Halon 1211
      flightline fire extinguisher. After initial training, personnel will receive annual refresher
      education on the proper use of these extinguishers.
   13.2. Personnel who work in areas protected by one of the following types of installed fire
   suppression systems will receive initial education, and thereafter annual refresher education.
   The facility manager, alternate facility manager or their designated representative is
   responsible for conducting or scheduling the training.
      13.2.1. Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF) extinguishing systems.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                          11


       13.2.2. Halon 1301 total flooding systems.
       13.2.3. Class ―K‖ kitchen fire extinguishing systems.
       13.2.4. Dry Chemical extinguishing systems.
14. Smoking and Disposal of Smoking Material. AFI 40-102 establishes the procedures for
designating smoking areas on military installations. Industrial areas are defined as, but not
limited to, hangar bays, craftsman shops, vehicle maintenance shops, fuel shops, paint shops,
warehouses, storage areas or areas where processes, servicing, testing or fabricating is done.
Due to the particular hazardous nature of operations in industrial areas, the following must be
adhered to:
   14.1. Smoking, striking matches or operating mechanical cigarette lighters is not permitted:
       14.1.1. Within 100 feet of a hydrant fueling system or aircraft being defueled or
       refueled.
       14.1.2. Within 50 feet of hangars, aircraft repair docks, paint shops, flammable liquid
       storage locations or similar locations where concentrations of flammable/combustible
       vapors/dust may be found.
       14.1.3. Anywhere on the flightline, including the runway, taxiway, ramp and apron
       areas.
       14.1.4. In munitions storage areas.
       14.1.5. In government owned or leased vehicles.
   14.2. Smoking is permitted only in areas that are designated as smoking areas as listed in
   AFI 40-102 and as approved by the installation commander. The areas that present a special
   hazards must be approved by the Fire Chief.
   14.3. Smoking is prohibited while reclining, lying in or on a bed. Signs reading "No
   Smoking in Bed" will be conspicuously posted or placed adjacent to the bulletin board in all
   dormitories and temporary lodging facilities.
   14.4. An adequate number of ashtrays and metal receptacles with self-closing lids will be
   used for the disposal of smoking materials and will be provided for all building areas where
   smoking is permitted. The receptacle will be marked "Smoking Material Only."
   14.5. Supervisors will inspect smoking areas at the close of each shift or duty day to ensure
   all smoking materials have been disposed of properly.
   14.6. Smoking material receptacles will be emptied weekly, or more often as needed. Use
   water to thoroughly wet down the contents to ensure they are extinguished before combining
   them with other wastes in dumpsters, trash collection barrels, etc.
   14.7. Smoking materials will not be thrown in trash receptacles, on the floor or from
   privately owned vehicles.
   14.8. Receptacles marked ‖Smoking Material Only‖ will not be utilized as trash receptacles.
   Personnel noticing refuse in these receptacles will take necessary corrective actions.
15. Electrical Installation, Appliances and Heating Equipment.
12                                        HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


  15.1. All electrical services and installations will conform to the NFPA Standard 70 -
  National Electrical Code (NEC). Only civil engineer electricians, contract service
  electricians, or licensed individuals may alter/repair electrical wiring, outlets, etc.
  Unauthorized wiring will be removed at the occupant's expense, as determined by the Civil
  Engineer.
     15.1.1. All switches, outlet receptacles, fuse/circuit breakers and junction boxes must
     have suitable cover plates.
     15.1.2. Fuses/circuit breakers will not be bridged, by-passed, replaced with one of a
     larger capacity to prevent tripping or secured in the OPEN position.
     15.1.3. All portable extension cords will be equipped with nonconductive plugs and kept
     in good condition.
     15.1.4. Extension cords will not be used in lieu of permanent electrical wiring.
     15.1.5. Extension cords will not be spliced or taped. They will not be draped over nails
     or metal objects, run through windows or doors, under rugs or in any way be placed or
     fixed in a way that may subject the wiring to physical damage.
     15.1.6. The use of multiple extension cords (daisy chaining) into single outlets is
     prohibited, unless the multiple outlets are fused at no more than 15 amperes.
     15.1.7. Worn or deteriorated electrical cords will be removed from service and replaced
     immediately.
     15.1.8. All extension cords must be of sufficient gauge to carry the ampere load of the
     attached equipment, without overheating the extension cord, plugs or other components.
     15.1.9. Extension cords must have the Underwriter's Laboratory (UL), Factory Mutual
     (FM) or other nationally recognized testing authority seal of approval.
  15.2. Explosion-proof electrical equipment will be used in hazardous locations where
  flammable gases/vapors/dusts are present and as required by the NEC.
  15.3. Heat-producing appliances such as coffee pots will be disconnected from wall outlets
  when no longer in use. Automatic timing devices will not be used even if they are built into
  the appliance. Coffee pots will be placed on noncombustible surfaces.
     15.3.1. Cooking with conventional high-heat producing appliances is prohibited in all
     buildings except those having specific areas designated as kitchen facilities.
     15.3.2. Microwave ovens are permitted in all facilities when approved by the
     organizational commander.
  15.4. The use of portable space heaters is permitted, as long as the heater has the UL or FM
  seal of approval.
     15.4.1. Open element electrical heaters not equipped with an operable safety shut-off tip
     switch are prohibited from use.
     15.4.2. Open element electrical or gas-fired heaters are prohibited in areas susceptible to
     explosive/flammable vapors, gases or dust.
     15.4.3. Gas-fired portable heaters are only authorized for use in construction areas.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                         13


      15.4.4. Only assigned/qualified heating maintenance personnel are authorized to adjust
      gas-fired heaters or boilers.
   15.5. A minimum clearance of 18 inches will be maintained between heat-producing items
   and combustible materials.
16. Flammable/Combustible Liquids/Liquefied Petroleum (LP) Gas Storage.
   16.1. Positive control measures will be taken to keep flammable/combustible liquids and
   vapors from all sources of ignition.           Specific guidance on the storage of
   flammable/combustible liquids is contained in AFOSH Standard 91-501,
   Flammable/Combustible Liquids; NFPA Standard 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids
   Code and NFPA Standard 99, Chapter 10, Standard for Health Care Facilities.
   Requirements for the transportation of flammable and combustible liquids are contained in
   the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations or in NFPA 385, Standard for
   Tank Vehicles for Flammable and Combustible Liquids.
   16.2. Flammable liquids and other hazardous materials such as paints, spray paints,
   flammable thinners, gasoline, diesel fuel, etc., will be stored in an approved manner and in
   approved containers.
      16.2.1. Only UL or DOT approved containers will be used for storing or handling
      flammable liquids. The use of glass or plastic containers is strictly prohibited unless
      shipped that way by the manufacturer, and labeled accordingly.
      16.2.2. All flammable liquid containers must be clearly labeled with 1-inch lettering
      clearly identifying contents.
      16.2.3. Dispensing and storage containers, such as tanks and drums, will be bonded and
      grounded at all times.
      16.2.4. Nozzles used to dispense flammable liquids will be spring loaded or otherwise
      self-closing when hand pressure is released. Under no circumstances will they be wired
      or bolted in the open position when dispensing flammable liquids.
      16.2.5. Containers of flammable or combustible liquids will remain tightly sealed, except
      when transferred, poured or applied. Remove only that portion of liquid in the storage
      container required to accomplish a particular job.
      16.2.6. Approved safety cans will be used for transporting and dispensing flammable or
      combustible liquids in quantities of 5 gallons or less. Containers being filled at
      dispensing pumps will be placed on the ground (for grounding purposes) and then filled,
      to prevent any static charge and possible fire or explosion. Quantities in excess of 5
      gallons are required to be transported or stored in their original containers.
      16.2.7. All cleaning tanks and vats will be equipped with self-closing metal lids with
      fusible links. Only approved solvents designated for the purpose of cleaning will be used
      in these tanks/vats.
   16.3. Flammable/combustible liquids stored inside buildings will be stored in flammable
   storage cabinets that comply with the requirements of AFOSH Standard 91-501 or NFPA
   Standard 30. At least one portable fire extinguisher having a capacity of not less than 40:B
14                                       HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


  shall be located outside of, but not more than 10 feet from, the door opening of the storage
  area.
     16.3.1. Flammable storage cabinets will be labeled, in conspicuous lettering that is
     visible from 50 feet away, "Flammable - Keep Fire Away."
     16.3.2. The use of flammable liquid storage cabinets is limited to those organizations
     whose primary work activity requires the use of flammable/combustible liquids at least
     daily.
     16.3.3. When not in use, all flammable/combustible liquids will be stored inside the
     storage cabinet and not more than a one-day supply will be outside the cabinet at any
     time.
     16.3.4. Flammable liquid storage cabinets will be limited to three cabinets per work area,
     unless more are approved in writing by the Fire Prevention Office.
     16.3.5. Flammable storage cabinets will have ventilation ports capped with bung caps
     when inside a building; bung caps will be removed when storage cabinets are located
     outside a building.
     16.3.6. Storage in flammable liquid cabinets will be limited to flammable/combustible
     liquids only. All containers will have tight-fitting lids or covers.
     16.3.7. Total quantities of flammable/combustible liquids permitted per storage cabinet
     will be IAW AFOSH Standard 91-501.
     16.3.8. Inventory sheets will be posted on the front of the storage cabinet, listing the
     contents and quantities stored within. Inventory sheets will be updated when contents
     and quantities change.
  16.4. The use of exterior flammable/combustible liquid storage facilities is limited to those
  organizations whose primary work activities use such liquids at least once a week.
     16.4.1. Exterior storage facilities will be located at least 50 feet away from other
     buildings or hazardous operations and identified with conspicuous lettering readable from
     50 feet, "Flammable - Keep Fire Away." Exception: Storage facilities may be located
     adjacent to blank exterior walls having a 2-hour fire rating.
     16.4.2. The exterior storage facility may be conventional metal or wooden lockers, sheds
     (metal, masonry or wood), conexes or similar structures.
     16.4.3. The storage area must be protected against tampering or trespassers, and shall be
     kept free of weeds, debris and other combustible materials not necessary to the storage.
     16.4.4. Exterior storage facilities may not exceed 500 gallons of flammable/combustible
     liquids, of which no more than 200 gallons may be Class I.
  16.5. Gasoline-powered equipment will not be refueled while running, hot or inside of
  buildings where vapors can accumulate. Gasoline-powered equipment may be stored inside
  a building during off-season use, as long as the equipment is thoroughly cleaned, fuel tank
  drained and spark plug disconnected.
  16.6. Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders, used for barbeques, weed burners, etc., may
  be stored inside a facility as long as the cylinder is stored in a lockable ventilated metal
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                           15


   locker to prevent tampering with valves and pilferage of the cylinder. Quantities of LPG
   stored inside a facility will not exceed one 20-gallon storage cylinder.
   16.7. All equipment, i.e., gas grills, weed burners, with cylinders attached must be stored
   outside.
17. Welding, Cutting and Use of Open Flame Torches:
   17.1. Welding, cutting and brazing operations will be conducted IAW NFPA Standard 51,
   Standard for the Design and Installation of Oxygen-Fuel Gas Systems for Welding, Cutting
   and Allied Processes. When welding operations are conducted outside approved welding
   shops, an AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit, will be issued by the
   Fire and Emergency Services Flight prior to the start of any operation. Issuance of long-term
   permits is not authorized. Exception: long-term permits may be issued to support
   construction contracts or projects. Fire Prevention inspectors will periodically monitor these
   operations.
      17.1.1. The supervisor in charge of the operation is responsible for obtaining the AF
      Form 592 from the Fire and Emergency Services Flight. Operations will not commence
      until approval has been given by the Fire and Emergency Services Flight. The supervisor
      in charge of the operation is responsible for compliance with the precautions and
      instructions outlined on the permit and as directed by the Fire Prevention Inspector.
      17.1.2. Notify the FACC, ext572-7228/572-7229, prior to starting any welding, cutting,
      brazing or soldering operation and again upon completion of the operation.
   17.2. Prior to beginning any welding operation, personnel will ensure that all combustible
   materials/vegetation within 35 feet of the operation have been removed and the proper type/
   class of fire extinguisher are immediately available.
      17.2.1. Where the removal of combustible materials is impractical, a suitable fire
      resistive shield or welding blanket will be placed between the materials and the welding
      operation. A fire watch or Fire and Emergency Services Flight standby will be required.
      17.2.2. Welding will not be permitted in the vicinity of flammable or explosive materials
      until the possibility of fire or explosion has been eliminated.
      17.2.3. Before welding or cutting on flammable liquid tanks, cylinders or containers that
      contain flammable liquids (compressed gas cylinders and pipelines are excluded), they
      will be thoroughly washed, steamed and filled with water or inerted with nitrogen.
      Extreme care will be taken to eliminate the accumulation of vapors by proper venting or
      positioning of the container during the inerting operation.
      17.2.4. To ensure an explosive mixture does not exist, the area or tank will be sampled
      using a flammable/explosive gas detector prior to any welding, cutting or brazing
      operation.
      17.2.5. When aircraft parts require welding, they will be removed from the aircraft, when
      possible, and welded in the appropriate welding shop. When this is not possible, AF
      Form 592 will be required. In addition, an inspection of the area and situation will be
      performed by the Fire and Emergency Services Flight.
 16                                        HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


      17.2.6. When welding in aircraft hangars, ultraviolet/infrared (UV/IR) detectors will be
      deactivated to prevent accidental activation of the under-wing foam system. Suitable
      covers will be used to shield the detectors. Only Fire and Emergency Services Flight or
      CE Fire Protection Systems craftsmen will accomplish this task.
      17.2.7. When welding and cutting operations are completed, the area will be thoroughly
      and carefully checked to ensure no fire hazard exists.
18. Open Burning and Fireworks:
   18.1. Open burning (camp fires, classified document burning, trash/waste burning, grass,
   bonfires, open pit barbecuing, etc.) is prohibited unless approved, in writing, by the Fire
   Chief and 49 CES Environmental Flight.
   18.2. Use of all fireworks on Holloman AFB is prohibited. This is to include the use of
   handheld sparklers.
19. Ammunition and Explosives:
   19.1. The storage, handling and maintenance of these materials will be in strict compliance
   with AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards.
      19.1.1. Fire symbols will be posted on the outside of facilities that contain ammunition
      or explosives. Fire symbols will be posted on doors leading into rooms or areas where
      munitions are stored. Half-sized fire symbols may be used to fulfill the requirements to
      post signs on interior doors leading into rooms or areas storing munitions.
      19.1.2. A copy of AF Form 2047, Explosive Facility License, will be forwarded to the
      Fire Prevention Office (49 CES/CEFT) for filing.
   19.2. Munitions Control will advise the FACC of munitions status and will report all
   movements of munitions, load status and fire symbol of affected munitions. The Munitions
   Control will maintain status (fire symbol) of each munitions storage facility.
   19.3. Weapons Expeditor will notify the Maintenance Operations Center of any changes in
   an aircraft's munitions load status and any change of fire symbol for a munitions storage
   facility.
   19.4. Military Family Housing Only. As modified from NFPA Standard 495, Explosive
   Material Code, the Fire Prevention Office, in concurrence with the base Weapons Safety
   office, has determined smokeless powder, black powder and primers used in loading/
   reloading of ammunition may be used/stored in Military Family Housing units but must not
   exceed these quantities: (1) smokeless powder - 10 pounds, (2) black powder - 3 pounds, and
   (3) primers - 10,000 rounds. These listed materials/quantities must be stored in their original
   containers and personnel must not smoke when using these products. Additionally, the use
   of these products in areas where open flame devices, e.g., gas-fired hot water heaters,
   furnaces, etc., are present while performing ammunition loading/reloading operations is
   prohibited.
20. Housekeeping:
   20.1. Good housekeeping (cleanliness and orderliness in day-to-day activities) is the basic
   foundation of fire prevention. In general terms, any condition relative to the cleanliness of a
   building that could compromise fire safety constitutes poor housekeeping and may be
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                             17


   identified as a fire hazard. Commanders, facility managers and supervisors are responsible
   for maintaining a high state of cleanliness and orderliness throughout their facilities.
   20.2. Trash and rubbish containers used in all areas must have lids. Office trash receptacles
   are exempt from this requirement.
   20.3. Outside trash and rubbish collection containers must be kept closed and will not be
   located within 15 feet of any portion of a building. Containers may be separated from
   adjacent structures by an enclosure or wall.
   20.4. Clean rags, dirty rags, and dirty speedy dry will be stored in separate metal containers
   with self-closing cover and labeled with 1-inch lettering as to its contents.
   20.5. Store steel wool in metal containers with metal lids or self-closing lids. Containers
   will be labeled with 1-inch lettering as to its contents.
   20.6. Storage of extraneous materials in utility rooms, air conditioning compressor/air hand-
   ling rooms, generator rooms, telephone communications rooms and under stairwells is
   prohibited. Attics may be used for storage only when the area contains permanently installed
   floors.
   20.7. Boiler rooms, equipment rooms or other utility rooms will not be utilized as storage
   rooms for gasoline-powered equipment.
   20.8. All areas around the fire detection/fire suppression systems must be unobstructed to
   ensure proper operation and provide access for maintenance and firefighting personnel.
   20.9. Candles, incense or any heat producing devices to include candle warmers or those
   used in conjunction with air fresheners are prohibited. Candles with ―wicks removed‖ are
   allowed to be used as room fresheners. The exception is the use in clubs or as part of a
   religious service.
21. Warehouse/Storage Facilities:
   21.1. These facilities will meet the requirements set forth in DoD Regulation 4145.19-R-1,
   Storage and Materials Handling and/or the National Fire Code. Buildings used for storage
   and warehouses will have aisles between stacks, racks and stored materials. Stacks will be
   properly maintained to inhibit the spread of fire. Aisle width will be determined by the
   appropriate directives or Fire Prevention personnel.
      21.1.1. Stored materials will be kept at least 18 inches away from ceiling light fixtures,
      sprinkler heads and heat, smoke and fire detectors.
      21.1.2. If stacks of materials are over 15 feet high, the clearance for stored materials will
      be 36 inches from sprinkler heads.
   21.2. Power equipment such as mowers, weed eaters, blowers and generators will be
   defueled prior to storage in any area within a facility or storage area.
22. Dormitories, Visiting Officers/Airmen's Quarters and Temporary Lodging Quarters:
   22.1. These facilities pose a high loss of life potential, where the careless act of one person
   places many people in jeopardy. Therefore, the strict compliance and enforcement of fire
   prevention and fire safety standards are especially important. Personnel will not be quartered
 18                                         HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


   in other than designated sleeping facilities unless approved by the Fire Chief or designated
   representative.
   22.2. The following items are prohibited in dormitories and quarters:
       22.2.1. Flammable/combustible liquids. This does not apply to small amounts of lighter
       fluid or butane for refilling cigarette lighters, or model glue and paints.
       22.2.2. Explosives or pyrotechnics, including fireworks.
       22.2.3. Cooking appliances other than coffee makers, toasters and microwave ovens.
       Heat-producing appliances such as coffee pots/toasters will be disconnected from wall
       outlets when no longer in use. Automatic timing devices will not be used even if they are
       built into the appliance. Coffee pots will be placed on non-combustible surfaces.
       22.2.4. Motorcycle storage or maintenance of any kind within a facility.
   22.3. Cooking activities will be restricted to those areas equipped with kitchen facilities.
   While in use, cooking appliances such as skillets and deep fat fryers will be continuously
   monitored by the user.
   22.4. Appliances, such as hair dryers, curling irons and electric blankets shall be unplugged
   from the wall receptacle when not in use. The use of electrical extension cords is prohibited.
   22.5. Curtains and draperies must be flame resistant. The activity or individual installing
   curtains or draperies must provide the Fire Prevention Office with a copy of the
   manufacturer's certification stating the material is flame resistant.
   22.6. "No Smoking" in the dorm areas except in approved areas. Signs will be posted on
   bulletin boards or in other conspicuous locations as to the locations for designated smoking
   area.
   22.7. Utility rooms and linen storage rooms throughout dormitories and quarters will be kept
   neat, clean and orderly at all times.
       22.7.1. Fire alarm panels and electrical panels will be unobstructed and accessible at all
       times.
       22.7.2. A minimum clearance of 18 inches will be maintained around water heaters, hot
       water pipes and furnaces.
       22.7.3. If rack storage is used, a clearance of at least 18 inches will be maintained
       between rack storage materials and the ceiling/ceiling fixtures or fire detection devices.
   22.8. Dormitory managers will store small gasoline-powered equipment in an enclosed one-
   hour fire-rated storage room.
23. Public Assembly Facilities:
   23.1. Places of public assembly include, but are not limited to, clubs, recreational facilities,
   AAFES facilities, commissary, child development centers, chapels, restaurants, snack bars or
   other areas as designated by the Fire Chief. These facilities present a high loss of life
   potential resulting from the possibility of panic and require special fire prevention measures.
       23.1.1. Managers/supervisors of public assembly facilities will ensure a responsible
       individual is assigned during hours of operation to ensure complete and orderly
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                             19


     evacuation of the building in the event of an emergency and for prompt notification of the
     Fire and Emergency Services Flight.
     23.1.2. Operating personnel are directed to check exit doors daily prior to the entry of
     patrons to ensure doors are unlocked and panic hardware is operational.
     23.1.3. Aisles leading to exits are not to be obstructed by tables, decorations, displays,
     partitions, or portable seating (fold-up type chairs), etc., at any time.
  23.2. Managers/supervisors of public assembly facilities will establish and maintain a fire
  prevention certification training folder for all employees/workers. The certification training
  ensures the employees have been properly trained and understand their fire prevention duties
  and responsibilities within their work area. The certification training includes documented
  quarterly exercises for employees (building evacuation is not required) and the immediate
  indoctrination of newly hired employees.
  23.3. The Fire Prevention Office will be notified, ext 572-5942,572-3487 or 572-3488, prior
  to any major social event, activity or concessionaire set-up that involves temporary
  decorations or unusual interior arrangements. At the time of notification, a member of the
  Fire Prevention Office or designated representative will inspect the facility to ensure all fire
  safety measures have been taken.
  23.4. The maximum capacity or occupant load must be posted in the main office of all
  places of public assembly. The capacity or occupancy load will not exceed the maximum
  standard as set forth in NFPA 101.
  23.5. The Fire Prevention Office will be provided a copy of the manufacturer's certification
  showing that curtains, draperies and wall coverings (fabric, insulation, etc.) purchased for use
  in these facilities are flame resistant.
  23.6. For those places of public assembly that have commercial-type cooking facilities, the
  following requirements apply:
     23.6.1. A minimum of one 10 lb. class K-rated fire extinguisher will be located within
     close proximity of deep fat fryer units, but not located in such a position that it cannot be
     reached in case of a fire.
     23.6.2. Each deep fat fryer or cooking unit will be appropriately placed under an exhaust
     hood system to be protected by the installed fire suppression system.
     23.6.3. Each independently operated cooking well or deep fat fryer unit will be equipped
     with a primary and secondary thermostat. The temperature setting of the primary
     thermostat is not to exceed 400 degrees Fahrenheit, and the secondary thermostat must be
     a non-adjustable, fusible or manual resetting thermostat with a maximum cut-off
     temperature not to exceed 475 degrees Fahrenheit. A metal tag showing the date of each
     thermostat’s last calibration/test date will be affixed to the deep fat fryer or cooking well.
     23.6.4. Deep fat fryer units with either primary or secondary thermostatic control devices
     out-of-service or calibration will not be placed into operation until repaired and certified
     by electrical technicians. The using organization shall immediately notify the Fire
     Prevention Office when a deep fat fryer is placed in a non-operational status. Upon
     repair, a copy of all test results must be forwarded to the Fire Prevention Office.
 20                                        HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


       23.6.5. Newly procured or replaced deep fat fryer units will not be placed in service until
       primary and secondary thermostats have been tested, certified and tagged by electrical
       technicians. A copy of test results must be forwarded to the Fire Prevention Office and
       also affixed to the unit.
       23.6.6. Thermostats will be tested annually by the appropriate civil engineer shop or
       certified contractor.
       23.6.7. Hood and exhaust duct systems serving kitchen equipment must be thoroughly
       cleaned to bare metal at frequent intervals to prevent grease accumulation. This cleaning
       cycle also applies to system fans, roof louvers and duct work. Specific cleaning guidance
       is found in NFPA Standard 96, Standard for Ventilation and Fire Protection of
       Commercial Cooking Operations. Documentation must be available to show when
       cleaning of the ducts/filters was last accomplished by the using activity or by a
       contractor.
24. Decorations and Furnishings. The Fire Prevention Office or designated representative will
inspect all decorations to be used and the proposed arrangement of decorations to ensure
compliance with NFPA code requirements before installation. Contact the Fire Prevention
Office at ext 572-5942, or 572-3488 to arrange for an inspection. Decorations not meeting
NFPA requirements and/or Air Force directives will not be used and will be immediately
removed.
   24.1. Only UL-approved flame retardant/resistant decorations will be authorized for use.
   24.2. Christmas tree lighting and wiring must be in good physical condition with no splices
   or short circuiting in the wire. Indoor lighting will not be used for outdoor use.
   24.3. Outdoor lights and wiring will be in good physical condition and must be approved for
   outdoor use by the manufacturer.
   24.4. The use of live Christmas trees is prohibited. Only non-combustible (artificial)
   Christmas trees and decorations are authorized for use in facilities. Exception: Military
   Family Housing (MFH) residences may use live Christmas trees. Live Christmas trees must
   be removed from MFH by the first week of January.
   24.5. Christmas tree lights will be unplugged when the area or facility is unoccupied.
   Christmas tree lights will not be used on metal Christmas trees due to the possible hazard of
   shock or electrocution.
   24.6. All Christmas decorations will be taken down the first week of January. Decorations
   for all other occasions will be removed no later than one day after that event.
   24.7. Decorations will not be placed where they would restrict or impede fire evacuation
   routes or block access to exits for personnel exiting the facility.
25. Self-Help Work Projects:
   25.1. All Self-Help work must be approved in advance on an AF Form 332. Each AF Form
   332 must be coordinated with the Fire Prevention Office. The purpose of this coordination is
   to ensure that fire protection safety is not compromised by the construction, renovation or
   structural alteration. The Fire Prevention Office will review each AF Form 332 and make
   appropriate comments and recommendations relative to fire protection. Unapproved Self-
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                                                            21


   Help work that has created a fire hazard or fire deficiency will be identified on an AF Form
   1487 for immediate correction.
   25.2. Personnel accomplishing Self-Help work will not shut-down, disconnect, alter, modify
   or in any way impede the operation of a fire suppression or fire detection system without
   approval of the Fire Prevention Office.
   25.3. The facility manager will notify the Fire Prevention Office when approved Self-Help
   work that may or will structurally alter a facility begins, so the work may be inspected by the
   Fire Prevention officials during and after completion. All unapproved Self-Help work will
   cease until approval is received through the AF Form 332 and process.
26. Conflict in Guidance. When a conflict occurs between written directives, the most
stringent directive will take precedence.




                                            DAVID A. KRUMM, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 49th Wing
 22                                       HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Publications
DoD Regulation 4145.19-R-1, Storage and Materials Handling, September 1979
Air Force Publications
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 08
AFI 32-2001_ACCSUP, Fire Emergency Services Program, 12 March 2009
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting, 14 August 2008
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 3 June 2002
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, 17 November 2008
AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard, 7 July 2004
Allowance Standard 490, Civil Engineer Fire Protection Support and Aircraft Crash Rescue
Equipment, Current Edition
NMSA 59A-52-7, Teaching Fire Prevention and Control in Public Schools-Rules for School
Building Evacuation, 1978
NMSA 59A-52-15, Fire Prevention, Public Occupancies Regulations, 1978
NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, Current Edition
NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, Current Edition
NFPA 51, Standard for the Design and Installation of Oxygen-Fuel Gas Systems for Welding,
Cutting and Allied Processes, Current Edition
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code (NEC), Current Edition
NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking
Operations, Current Edition
NFPA 99, Chapter 10, Standard for Health Care Facilities, Current Edition
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, Current Edition
NFPA Standard 495, Explosive Materials Code, Current Edition
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011                     23


Adopted Forms
AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
AF Form 2047, Explosive Facility License

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—-Air Force Base
AFFF—-Aqueous Film Forming Foam
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFOSH—-Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFRIMS—-Air Force Restoration Information System
AS—-Allowance Standard
CE—-Civil Engineer
CES—-Civil Engineer Squadron
DOD—-Department of Defense
DoDR—-Department of Defense Regulation
DOT—-Department of Transportation
FACC—-Fire Alarm Communications Center
FM—-Factory Mutual
IAW—-In Accordance With
LPG—-Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MFH—-Military Family Housing
NEC—-National Electrical Code
NFPA—-National Fire Protection Association
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
UL—-Underwriter’s Laboratory
UV/IR—-ultraviolet/infrared
 24                                        HOLLOMANAFBI32-2001 2 NOVEMBER 2011


Terms
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)—A national organization, recognized as the
authority for all matters involving fire emergencies that publishes national consensus standards
and the National Fire Codes.
