BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE                                            INSTRUCTION 36-802

                                                                        30 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                     CIVILIAN OVERTIME
                                                                   REQUEST PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 49 FSS/FSMC                                                       Certified by: 49 FSS/CC
                                                                  (Lt Col Caryn L. Kirkpatrick)
                                                                                        Pages: 5


This instruction expands upon criteria in AFI 36-802, Pay Setting, and establishes procedures on
how to account for civilian overtime work. It applies to all Air Combat Command (ACC)
Holloman Air Force Base appropriated fund civilian employees, excluding the 49th Medical
Group, and 49th Material Maintenance Group. It defines responsibilities for supervisors and
civilian employees in the administration of overtime pay and compensatory time as
compensation for overtime work. This Instruction implements and extends the guidance of Title
5, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-807, Weekly and Daily
Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, DoD 7000.14-R, Financial Management
Regulation, Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, AFI 36-802,
Pay Setting and AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records
managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to 49
FSS/FSMC, 681 Second Street, Holloman AFB, NM 88330-8060.

1. Policy. Management officials must ensure that overtime expenditures are only paid when it is
mission critical. Civilian overtime will be held to an absolute minimum by making every effort
to accomplish work within the normal 40-hour work week or approved Alternative Work
Schedule. Management must use all resources (i.e., flexible schedules, credit hours) to avoid
 2                                            HOLLOMANAFBI36-802 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


overtime. Only overtime determined to be absolutely necessary to carry out the assigned mission
on a timely basis will be considered for approval.
2. Overtime Work.
     2.1. Regular Overtime Work. Regular overtime work means overtime work that is part of an
     employee’s regularly scheduled administrative work week.
     2.2. Irregular or Occasional Overtime Work. Irregular or occasional overtime work means
     overtime work that is not part of an employee’s regularly scheduled administrative work
     week.
3. Computation of Overtime Pay. For employees with rates of basic pay equal to or less than
the rate of basic pay for GS-10, step 1, the overtime hourly rate is the employee’s hourly rate of
basic pay multiplied by 1.5. Holiday premium pay is 2 times the hourly rate.
4. Compensatory Time. Compensatory time is defined as an equivalent amount of
compensatory time off for irregular or occasional overtime work performed in lieu of overtime
pay.
     4.1. Employees who are Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) non-exempt must receive
     overtime pay unless they request compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay.
     4.2. Employees may not be directed or expected to work overtime without compensation
     either in the form of overtime pay or compensatory time. FLSA-exempt employees, whose
     rate of pay exceeds the maximum rate of GS-10, step 10, will receive compensatory time off.
     Exempt employees, whose salary is equal to or is less than GS-10, step 10, may elect
     compensatory time in writing. (Note: When FMA has determined there will be excess
     civilian pay funds, the Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee can permit
     Squadron Commanders to approve overtime pay in lieu of compensatory time for FLSA-
     exempt employees whose rate of pay exceeds the maximum rate of GS-10, step 10.)
     4.3. All non-exempt and Federal Wage System employees may elect compensatory time in
     writing.
     4.4. If an employee is to receive compensatory time in place of receiving overtime pay, the
     employee will be compensated for irregular or occasional overtime work with an amount of
     compensatory time off equal to the number of hours worked.
     4.5. Compensatory time must be used within 26 pay periods or it will be paid at the overtime
     rate in which it was earned.
5. Compensatory Time in Connection with Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel.
     5.1. Time in a travel status includes the time an employee spends traveling between the
     official duty station and a temporary duty station, and the usual waiting time that precedes or
     interrupts such travel. Travel time in connection with an employee’s permanent change of
     station is not time in a travel status.
     5.2. Waiting time. Airline travelers generally are required to arrive at the airport at a
     designated pre-departure time. Such waiting time at the airport is considered usual waiting
     time and is creditable time in a travel status. In addition, time spent at an intervening airport
     waiting for a connecting flight also is creditable time in a travel status. If an employee
     experiences an extended (i.e., not usual) waiting time between actual periods of travel during
HOLLOMANAFBI36-802 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            3


   which the employee is free to rest, sleep, or use the time for his or her own purposes, the
   extended waiting time is not creditable as time in a travel status.
   5.3. Travel involving two or more time zones. When an employee's travel involves two or
   more time zones, the time zone from the point of first departure must be used to determine
   how many hours the employee actually spent in a travel status for the purpose of accruing
   compensatory time off.
   5.4. Payment for unused compensatory time off for travel not covered by FLSA is not
   authorized under any circumstances. Unused compensatory time in connection with travel
   will be forfeited if not used within 26 pay periods.
6. Credit Hours. Credit Hours are time worked by an employee on a flexible work schedule
that are earned and used during the same pay period.
   6.1. Credit hours are authorized at the discretion of the supervisor. The intent is that hours
   are not to be banked. Credit Hours should be earned and used during the same pay period.
   For example: an employee on a flexible work schedule may work 9 hours on Monday
   (earning 1 credit hour) then work 7 hours on Tuesday (using that credit hour).
7. Overtime Requests. AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, is used to request, approve, and
report all civilian overtime/compensatory time. The AF Form 428 must be completely processed
through FMA before overtime is worked, unless overtime is needed due to an emergency. The
AF Form 428 does not need to be processed through FMA for compensatory time.
   7.1. Supervisors must submit an AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, a written justification,
   a description of the nature of the work to be performed and compensatory time request, if
   applicable, for written approval prior to the overtime scheduled to be worked. Prepare a
   separate form for each pay period involved.
   7.2. Upon squadron commander’s approval, all requests for overtime payment must be
   submitted and certified through FMA to ensure funding is available.
8. Supervisor Responsibilities.
   8.1. Supervisors determine requirements for overtime/compensatory time.
   8.2. Requests will be carefully reviewed by the supervisor for appropriateness of substituting
   compensatory time in lieu of payment for overtime.
   8.3. It is the duty of the supervisor to inform the employee, without coercion, of the right to
   request compensatory time rather than overtime payment.
   8.4. Supervisors should contact the Civilian Personnel Section for assistance in determining
   alternatives to overtime requests (i.e., change in work schedules, assignment of shifts, etc).
   8.5. Supervisors must ensure compensatory time off is used within 26 pay periods after it is
   earned or it will convert to overtime pay. Supervisors will make every effort to schedule
   compensatory time off to ensure it is not paid out unless absolutely necessary.
   8.6. Supervisors are to brief employees on the number of hours authorized to work overtime
   and ensure that the total cost of the overtime does not exceed the amount previously
   approved.
 4                                        HOLLOMANAFBI36-802 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


9. Reporting Overtime. Timekeepers must closely review all overtime requests to ensure
compliance with this instruction. Overtime work is recorded on the timekeeping form in quarter
hour increments.




                                           ANDREW A. CROFT, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
HOLLOMANAFBI36-802 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                    5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 550
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting, 1 Sep 1998
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 21 June 1999
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD 7000.14-R, Financial Management Regulation, 3 March 2006
Adopted Form
AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
49 FSS/FSMC—-49th Force Support Squadron Civilian Personnel Section
ACC—-Air Combat Command
AFRIMS—-Air Force Records Information Management System
CFR—-Code of Federal Regulations
FLSA—-Fair Labor Standards Act
FMA—-Comptroller
FWS—-Federal Wage System
GS—-General Schedule
IAW—-In Accordance With
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—-Temporary Duty
