BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE                                          INSTRUCTION 32-1002

                                                                         26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                FACILITY MANAGER RESPONSIBILITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 49 CES/CEOS                                                     Certified by: 49 CES/CC
                                                               (Lt Col Donald R. Ohlemacher)
Supersedes:   HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002,                                                   Pages: 23
              7 September 2001


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities. This instruction establishes guidance for all Facility Managers (FACMAN) assigned
to Holloman Air Force Base (HAFB) facilities. It applies to all HAFB activities and units,
including tenant units located on HAFB. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 7013, Secretary of the
Air Force. System of records notice F033 AF CIC D applies. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting
records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
to 49th Civil Engineer Squadron Operations Support Office (49 CES/CEOS), 550 Tabosa
Avenue, Holloman AFB, NM 88330-8458.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Section one has
been changed to “Requirements for FACMAN duty” from “Terms Explained.” The defined
terms have now been moved to either their own respective section or defined in other sections.
Section two has been changed from “Assignment” to “FACMAN documentation.” The
information has been moved to section one. Section three has been changed from
 2                                                           HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


“Responsibilities” to “Facility Maintenance Visits” and “Responsibilities” has moved to section
7. Sections 4-28 have been added to this instruction.

       1.     Requirements for FACMAN Duty: .......................................................................                        3
       2.     FACMAN Documentation: ....................................................................................                   4
       3.     Requesting Civil Engineer Support: ......................................................................                    4
       4.     Work Request/Work Order Processing: .................................................................                        5
       5.     Base Operating System Installation Priority Listing (BOS-IPL): ..........................                                    6
       6.     FACMAN Responsibilities: ...................................................................................                 7
       7.     Utility Outages: ......................................................................................................      9
       8.     Key Control: ..........................................................................................................      9
       9.     Heating and Cooling Season Changeover: ............................................................                          9
       10.    Access to CE Mechanical Rooms: .........................................................................                    10
       11.    Maintenance and Repair of CE-Owned and Unit-Owned Equipment Items: ........                                                 10
       12.    Carpet Request. ......................................................................................................      11
       13.    Facility Abuse: .......................................................................................................     12
       14.    Portable Facilities: .................................................................................................      12
       15.    Water Conservation Measures: ..............................................................................                 12
       16.    Snow and Ice Control: ...........................................................................................           12
       17.    Standby Generator Operations: ..............................................................................                12
       18.    Exterior Facility Appearance: ................................................................................              13
       19.    Inspections: ............................................................................................................   14
       20.    Interior Signs. .........................................................................................................   14
       21.    Service Contracts: ..................................................................................................       15
       22.    Dumpsters: .............................................................................................................    15
       23.    Space Management. ...............................................................................................           15
       24.    Fire Protection Responsibilities: ............................................................................              16
       25.    Security Issues: ......................................................................................................     17
       26.    Telephone/Computer-Related Items: .....................................................................                     18
       27.    Pest Management for Facilities: .............................................................................               18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            19

Attachment 2—FACILITY MANAGER APPOINTMENT TEMPLATE                                                                                        22

Attachment 3—INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 332                                                                                      23
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                           3



1. Requirements for FACMAN Duty:
  1.1. Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 32-1004, Volume 3, Working in the Operations Flight –
  Facility Maintenance, recommends a Facility Manager (FACMAN) to be of the grade of E-5
  or above, any officer, or a civilian equivalent to E-5 grade.
  1.2. FACMAN: The FACMAN is the representative of the unit commander who is
  responsible for identifying the maintenance, repair, and alteration requirements necessary to
  maintain the facility within acceptable standards to Base Civil Engineer (BCE). The
  FACMAN serves as the POC for facility occupants for identifying and tracking work
  requirements and for the Civil Engineer (CE) personnel conducting inspections within the
  facility.
     1.2.1. For jointly occupied facilities, the unit occupying the largest amount of floor space
     (most square footage) will appoint a primary and alternate FACMAN. The only
     exception will be those facilities in which contractors occupy the most floor space. In
     that situation, the military unit with the most floor space will assume primary FACMAN
     responsibilities. Recommend units occupying smaller areas will each appoint at least one
     alternate FACMAN to work in conjunction with the primary FACMAN. Special cases
     may exist and the commanders of the all the units in the joint occupied facilities may
     submit a suitable alternative.
     1.2.2. The FACMAN database will accept multiple assigned FACMANs. For this
     reason, it is recommended that more than one alternate FACMAN be appointed for each
     facility so that facility occupants are not inconvenienced during periods of leave,
     deployment or other TDYs that take them out of the work place for extended periods of
     time.
     1.2.3. FACMANs must have a minimum of 12 months retainability on base when
     appointed, as to minimize the problems associated with frequent turnover.
     1.2.4. FACMANs must be appointed in writing by their unit commander. A sample
     appointment letter can be found in Attachment 2. The appointment letter may be
     produced and provided electronically to the 49th Civil Engineer Squadron (49 CES). The
     49 CES will not remove a FACMAN from the roster until they are replaced in writing
     and the replacement has attended the FACMAN training course. FACMANs will sign up
     for initial training as soon as appointed. The letter must contain the following
     information: full name and rank, organization and office symbol, e-mail address, home
     and duty phone.
     1.2.5. FACMANs must receive initial training within 60 days of appointment, regardless
     of training received at other bases. If unable to attend the initial training within 60 days
     of appointment, a new letter must be accomplished prior to FACMAN certification.
     Annual refresher training is required for as long as you are an appointed FACMAN.
     1.2.6. FACMAN training is held monthly. Call 49 CES Customer Service at 572-
     3223/3224 for an appointment date/time.
 4                                          HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


        1.2.7. All facilities on HAFB require a FACMAN. In the event that a facility does not
        have an assigned FACMAN, 49 CES will not accept any service calls or work requests
        that are not deemed an emergency until a FACMAN has been established.
     1.3. All letters of assignment are compiled into the FACMAN database.          Listings are
     provided to the following offices:
        1.3.1. 49 CES Operations Management: The Operations Management Section ensures
        all AF Form 332s, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, are routed through the proper
        FACMAN and group work order monitor prior to submittal.
        1.3.2. 49 CES Customer Service Section: The Customer Service Section (CE Service
        Call) manages the FACMAN database, accepts all AF Form 332s, service calls, and
        assigns a work order number for tracking/reference. Normal duty hours are Monday
        through Friday from 0630-1630.
        1.3.3. 49 CES Emergency Communication Center (ECC): The ECC manages the
        base CE Service Call function after duty hours (1630-0630) as well as 24-hour coverage
        on weekends and holidays. The Fire Alarm Communication Center (FACC) phone
        number is 572-3223/3224.
        1.3.4. 49 CES Facilities Self Help Center: The Self Help Center uses the FACMAN
        listing to validate all store customers. Only FACMANs may sign out tools, equipment,
        and material. For hours of operation please contact CE Customer service at 572-
        3223/3224.
        1.3.5. 49 SFS Security Forces Control Center (SFCC): The SFCC uses the list as an
        emergency contact for after duty hour security violations. A copy of the FACMAN
        roster will be provided to Security Forces on a monthly basis.
2. FACMAN Documentation: Every FACMAN will maintain a key control log for their
facility. For jointly occupied facilities, FACMANs will maintain the log for their portion only.
FACMANs must maintain positive control over all keys at all times. See paragraph 9 for more
information on key control.
     2.1. FACMANs will maintain a work control log for the purpose of tracking work orders,
     both service calls and items submitted on an AF Form 332. The log should provide sufficient
     data to identify the job by work control number (direct schedule work order [DSW], work
     request, work order, or contract project number), a description of the work to include the
     facility, and the date submitted or called in.
     2.2. FACMANs will maintain a record of fire inspections in their facility, to include fire
     extinguishers, fire detection/suppression equipment, and appliances/equipment items that can
     pose a fire hazard when left unattended (i.e., coffee pots, toaster ovens, or other heat-
     producing appliances are unplugged at the end of each duty day). See paragraph 25.1 for
     more fire protection responsibilities.
3. Requesting Civil Engineer Support: CE Service Call operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week and can be reached at 572-3223/3224. After normal duty hours, the CE Service Call
phones are transferred to the CE Fire Protection Flight’s Emergency Communication Center.
FACMANs do not need a secondary number for events that happen outside normal duty hours.
FACMANs should visually inspect all repair requirements whenever possible so they are able to
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             5


answer questions about the required repair. For example, if a door does not work, the FACMAN
should be able to say what type of door, what part of the door is not working, if it is an exterior
or interior door, etc. In some instances, service calls can only be called in by an FACMAN.
Additionally, the below timelines for completion are targeted goals. In some situations,
complete repair may take longer because of material, equipment, or manpower limitations.
   3.1. Emergency requirements are those that will result in mission shutdown and/or endanger
   life/limb or property. Anyone can notify CE Service Call to report an emergency. The target
   completion date for emergency conditions is within 24 hours. Examples of emergency
   requirements are a facility completely without power or a broken water line.
   3.2. Urgent requirements are those that do not result in mission shutdown but do negatively
   impact a unit’s ability to perform their mission. Urgent requirements must be called in by a
   FACMAN. The target completion date for urgent conditions is 5 duty days after all
   resources are available (i.e., allow time to order and receive material). An example of an
   urgent requirement is an inoperative HVAC system.
   3.3. Routine maintenance/repair requirements are those that do not qualify for a higher
   priority. Routine requirements should be called into CE Service Call at 572-3223/3224.
   Routine requirements target completion date is within 30 days of request. In some instances,
   complete repair may take longer because of material, equipment, or manpower limitations.
   3.4. CE Service Call desk personnel will properly classify repair requirements based on the
   description provided by the FACMAN.
4. Work Request/Work Order Processing: Any work that cannot be done as a service call
must be submitted on an AF Form 332. This includes work done by both in-house forces (AF
military or civilian employees) and contractors. Instructions on how to complete the AF Form
332 can be found in Attachment 3.
   4.1. The using agency is responsible for proper signature of all AF Form 332s. In jointly
   occupied facilities, work orders must be coordinated through the primary FACMAN.
   4.2. The requestor in block 5 of the AF Form 332 should be the person who knows the most
   about the work being requested. In many instances, this will not be the same person who
   signs the AF Form 332 in block 13.
   4.3. The “Name of Requestor” and signature in blocks 11-13 of the AF Form 332 must be
   either the FACMAN or unit commander as follows:
       4.3.1. For small maintenance or repair work, the FACMAN can sign in blocks 1113.
       4.3.2. For major renovations, new construction or installation, requests to re-key a
       facility, requests for Self Help work, requests for reserved parking, or a request for a
       master key, the unit commander must sign in blocks 11-13.
   4.4. Minimum coordination in block 14 is Fire Protection Flight, Wing Safety, and CE
   Environmental. BCE personnel will obtain the necessary coordination, however; the
   requester or FACMAN may obtain the coordination if time constraints are an issue, or if the
   coordinating organization will have an impact on the work requests' priority.
   4.5. Additional coordination(s) (by BCE personnel or FACMAN) may be required. BCE
   personnel will obtain the necessary coordination, however; the requester or FACMAN may
 6                                             HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


     obtain the coordination if time constraints are an issue, or if the coordinating organization
     will have an impact on the work requests' priority.
        4.5.1. Any work cited as required for security reasons must be coordinated through 49th
        Security Forces Operations (49 SFS/S3OS).
        4.5.2. Any work on or near the airfield must be coordinated through the 49th Operations
        Support Squadron Airfield Manager (49 OSS/OSAA), and 49 SFS/S3OS.
        4.5.3. Any work that will require support for either phone or computer lines must be
        coordinated through the 49th Communications Squadron Plans and Implementation
        Office (49 CS/SCXP).
     4.6. The 49 CES and 49th Contracting Squadron (49 CONS) are authorized to request
     contract for work to be done on real estate or Real Property Installed Equipment. The AF
     Form 332 is the proper way to request this type of work. CE will determine whether the
     work can be accomplished in-house or by a contractor.
     4.7. For work that does not affect real estate or Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE),
     such as requests for furniture or repair/replacement of equipment items, the using agency can
     work directly with a local contractor without first going through CE, except for:
        4.7.1. Purchase of new or replacement equipment items. Users need to identify
        equipment being purchased on an AF Form 332 before any purchase is made. Provide
        information on the required utilities and any other unique facility requirements such as
        ventilation, cooling, or power. This allows CE to ensure required utilities are available
        before any funds are spent.
     4.8. Requests for installation of modular furniture must be processed through 49 CES if the
     furniture is going to be hardwired to the facility. CE will make a site visit to determine if the
     electrical service can handle the additional load. If CE concurs that sufficient power is
     available, the actual wiring of the modular furniture will be included in the using agency’s
     contract to purchase and install the furniture. If modular furniture will not be hardwired,
     permission from CE is not required. Any furniture placement that will block doors or
     otherwise impede egress in case of a fire or other emergency must be coordinated with Fire
     Prevention section.
     4.9. AF Form 332s for the purpose of maintaining, repairing, or modification of RPIE are
     subject to asbestos, mold, and lead based paint testing. A re-evaluation of the work request
     will be made if the results have been determined positive.
5. Base Operating System Installation Priority Listing (BOS-IPL): An efficient and
effective system for prioritizing CE work is critical to ensuring that resources are directed toward
the most important requirements. The BOS-IPL gives the Group Commanders the opportunity to
determine which Restoration and Modernization (R&M) work requests are most critical in
facilities under their command. All organizations on HAFB (excluding the German Air Force)
will utilize the BOS-IPL for management of their R&M work orders IAW HAFBI 32-1001,
Operations Management.
     5.1. Work orders that are approved by the 49 CES Operations Flight Commander (49
     CES/CEO) but exceed in-house capability will be forwarded to the 49 CES Programs Flight
     for project execution. Contract projects are prioritized for funding at the Facilities Utilization
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                            7


   Board (FUB). Questions about the Holloman FUB and MAJCOM budget process can be
   directed to the Programs Flight at 572-5491.
6. FACMAN Responsibilities:
   6.1. Light bulb (including exit signs and emergency lights) replacement is the responsibility
   of the FACMAN for all fixtures which are less than 10 feet from the floor when measured
   from the floor to the light fixture. Lights above the 10-foot mark are CE’s responsibility.
   The FACMAN is responsible for providing the bulbs and CE will replace them. Exception:
   For aircraft hangars that cannot be worked on when a plane is present, the FACMAN will
   call the CE Service Call desk to notify the Electric shop when the hangar will be empty and
   available for re-lamping. The FACMAN is still responsible for providing the bulbs.
      6.1.1. Inoperable lamps from industrial facilities must be managed as Universal Waste
      and should not go into the trash. A lamp becomes a Universal Waste when taken out of
      service for discard. Examples of common universal waste electric lamps include, but are
      not limited to, 2’ to 8’ fluorescent, U-tube, compact fluorescent, high intensity discharge,
      neon, mercury vapor, high pressure sodium, and metal halide lamps.
      6.1.2. Inoperable lamps must be taken to the 90-Day Facility (Bldg 149) or HAZMART
      (Bldg 806) the same day they are taken out of service. Contact the CE Hazardous Waste
      Program Manager for further information at 572-3931.
   6.2. Ceiling tile replacement is the responsibility of the FACMAN for all tiles which are less
   than 10 feet from the floor when measured from the floor to the ceiling. Tiles above the 10-
   foot mark are CE’s responsibility. Ceiling tiles are provided by CE and can be issued to the
   FACMAN at the Self Help Store.
   6.3. All FACMANs should have access to a force-cup toilet plunger so they can dislodge
   clogged toilets. Additionally, stopped up toilets should be called into CE Service Call only
   after the FACMAN has attempted to plunge the toilet.
   6.4. FACMANs should also plunge stopped up sink drains. Sink drains that cannot be
   cleared using a plunger will be repaired by CE craftsmen.
   6.5. The Self Help Center maintains a supply of hand tools and power tools that can be
   signed out. FACMANs are encouraged to tighten screws or make other adjustments within
   their capabilities rather than submitting a work request for accomplishment through CE.
   Again, you must be an assigned FACMAN to sign anything out from the Self Help Center.
   6.6. Housekeeping of Facility. It is the FACMAN’s responsibility to ensure facilities are
   kept neat and clean. The base custodial contract assists with this work, but it is the
   FACMAN’s responsibility to ensure housekeeping that is not covered under that contract is
   being accomplished.
   6.7. Facility Exterior. It is through cooperation between the FACMAN and the base grounds
   contract that the base appearance will remain in an appropriate condition. Area of
   responsibility is halfway to the adjacent building or facility. In open areas, the area of
   responsibility is within 150 feet surrounding a building, facility, or parking lot. In cases
   where the facility includes a parking lot that is greater than 150’ from the building, the area
   of responsibility will include the entire parking lot. An example is the Base Fitness Center
   Parking lot.
8                                           HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


    6.8. Energy Conservation. The FACMAN shall abide by the HAFB Energy Policy. The
    FACMAN shall read the Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) 98-4: Building Manager
    Energy Conservation Handbook and follow direction for energy conservation by completing
    the Building Manager Checklist. Questions regarding energy conservation may be directed
    to the Base Energy Manager at 572-6643.
       6.8.1. Recommend FACMAN complete the “Energy Conservation for Building
       Managers” Course offered at the Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA)
       Virtual Learning Center website at https://afcesa.csd.disa.mil. The FACMAN will keep
       a course completion certificate in their FACMAN records for inspection.
       6.8.2. Space heaters and personal air conditioners are prohibited unless approved by the
       Unit CC for safety or health concerns.
       6.8.3. Minimize use of personal refrigerators, coffee makers, toasters and microwaves by
       consolidating them into common break areas.
    6.9. When accessible, FACMANs will attempt to reset tripped electrical breakers. If breaker
    continues to trip they will call CES Customer Service.
    6.10. FACMANs will inspect light switch covers and outlet covers. Any covers that are
    found damaged will be replaced by the FACMAN. The covers will be available at CE Self
    Help Store.
    6.11. FACMANs will ensure that no items are being stored in any mechanical/electrical
    rooms or electrical closets. No items will be placed within 36 inches of any electrical panels.
    6.12. FACMANs will test emergency lighting and lighted exit signs once a month to ensure
    proper functioning. If any devices are found to be non-operational, they will call CES
    Customer Service.
    6.13. FACMANs will inspect the building’s exterior lighting at least once a month,
    including the parking lot (if applicable). If more than 20 percent of the fixtures are non-
    operational or if a safety hazard is produced because of the lights not working, the FACMAN
    will call CES Customer Service.
    6.14. FACMANs will test all ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI) outlets monthly if the
    GFCI outlet has a test button on the outlet face. To test these outlets, the FACMAN will plug
    in an item into the outlet and press the test button. If the test is successful, the appliance
    should turn off. Any defective outlets will be called into CES Customer Service.
    6.15. As needed, CES electricians will coordinate a visit to label all breakers inside their
    facilities. Facility managers will assist the electricians in identifying which circuits are
    affected by each breaker. If this is to rectify a Fire Inspection discrepancy, FACMANs will
    be responsible for contacting CES and submitting a work order to have their breakers
    labeled.
    6.16. FACMANs will establish a standard procedure for making sure the facility is secure
    from illegal entry at all times to include checking all doors and windows when closing the
    building and be sure all locks are in good working order. Security Police law enforcement
    patrols conduct regular security checks on base facilities. If your building is not secure, you
    will need to respond immediately to lock doors or close windows.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             9


   6.17. FACMANs will assist 49 CES/CEAO during each annual census of their facility. This
   census will be used to determine if the facility is being under or over utilized. The census is
   to include the number of occupants in each room in their facility. The results will be sent to
   49 CES/CEAO at 572-3071.
7. Utility Outages: Primary FACMANs are responsible for coordinating utility outages with all
occupants of their facility. When a primary FACMAN cannot be contacted, the CE Service Call
desk will call alternate FACMANs until one is contacted. That FACMAN will assume
responsibility for notifying all other facility occupants.
8. Key Control: The FACMAN is responsible for maintaining positive key control. For
facilities with more than one organization, alternate FACMANs will maintain key control for
their portion of the facility. Upon assignment, conduct an inventory of all keys and record the
results on AF Form 2427, Lock and Key Control Register. Keys for mechanical or boiler rooms
will not be given to FACMANs. Keys must be returned to the FACMAN when the holders are
reassigned or no longer employed. Master keys are authorized only for Commanders, primary
and alternate FACMANs. High security facilities or facilities that maintain/store firearms,
munitions, or explosives should coordinate key control procedures with their Security Manager
and/or 49 SFS.
   8.1. Missing Keys. It is the FACMAN’s responsibility to ensure 100-percent accountability
   for all facility keys. Lost or unaccountable keys must be reported immediately to minimize
   the possibility of compromise in security. In this situation, replacement keys are funded by
   the using organization/individual and must be tracked through the work order system via the
   AF Form 332 (signed by the unit commander in blocks 11-13). If the justification for the
   additional keys/locks indicates facility abuse or a lack of positive key control, individuals or
   units may be responsible for the costs. Deciding authority is 49 CES/CEO.
   8.2. Reproducing Keys. All requests for reproduction of keys must be submitted on an
   AF Form 332. Work requests for additional keys will have the FACMAN as the requestor in
   blocks 11-13. Requests for reproduction of master keys and/or changing of locks must be
   signed by the unit commander in blocks 11-13. 49 CES will only issue new/replacement
   master keys to the FACMAN. Requests for “non-master” keys can be issued to any building
   occupant but still require unit commander and FACMAN signatures on the AF Form 332.
   8.3. Cipher Locks, Safes, and Vaults. The using agency funds cipher locks and must have
   prior approval via AF Form 332. 49 CES is responsible for installing the type of lock
   required to meet the level of security required by a unit’s mission. Existing cipher locks are
   the responsibility of the using agency. If the using agency no longer needs the cipher lock or
   does not want to maintain it, 49 CES can replace that lock with a standard lockset or
   deadbolt. Cipher locks, magnetic locks, and keypad locks do not enhance facility security.
   Free-standing safes are equipment items and are installed, maintained, and repaired by the
   using agency. Vaults that are permanently attached to, integrated into, or on government-
   owned or leased property are maintained by 49 CES.
9. Heating and Cooling Season Changeover: In order to allow for pre-season maintenance on
both the heating and cooling systems in base facilities, target dates have been established for
seasonal changeover. Target dates were determined using statistical data on average
temperatures for the past 50 years. Facility Managers are responsible for maintaining
temperature set points and lowering the temperature when the facility is unoccupied.
 10                                         HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


   9.1. Cooling Changeover: The CE HVAC shop will begin the cooling changeover on or
   around the second week in April of each year. The final authority for cooling changeover is
   the Wing Commander, through recommendations from the BCE.
   9.2. Heating Changeover: The CE HVAC shop will begin the heating changeover on or
   around the first week in November of each year. The final authority for heating changeover
   is the Wing Commander, through recommendations from the BCE.
   9.3. Space Temperature Settings: In order to comply with ACC policy on Operations of
   Facility Heating and Cooling systems, the following temperature standards are to be used.
Table 9.1. Air Combat Command Energy & Facility Management Standards
S14. Space Temperature Settings:          Administrative Spaces Occupied: 69 degrees F
Maintain facility temperatures in                               Unoccupied: 55 degrees F
accordance with the table below. This     Shop Spaces           Occupied: 65 degrees F
standard applies to occupied portions of                        Unoccupied: 55 degrees F
ACC facilities, tenant organizations, and Warehouse Spaces      60 degrees F
reimbursable customers. Heating Season
(max. settings)
Cooling Season                            Administrative Spaces Occupied: 76 degrees F
(min. settings)                                                 Unoccupied: 84 degrees F
                                          Shop Spaces           Occupied: 76 degrees F
                                          (When authorized)*    Unoccupied: 84 degrees F
                                          Warehouse Spaces      Not cooled unless
                                                                required for proper
                                                                storage of perishables

10. Access to CE Mechanical Rooms: CE mechanical and utility rooms must remain secured
at all times. For that reason, FACMANs are not given keys to the mechanical rooms, nor are
units allowed to have equipment items or storage areas inside CE mechanical rooms. Any
unauthorized items found in a mechanical or utility room will be brought to the attention of the
FACMAN for immediate removal. Should a FACMAN require access to the mechanical room
for authorized work, call CES Customer Service 572-3223/3224 to gain entry. Access to
mechanical rooms for contract work is coordinated through the assigned contract inspector, and
may require FACMAN support.
11. Maintenance and Repair of CE-Owned and Unit-Owned Equipment Items:
   11.1. 49 CES is responsible for installing, maintaining, and repairing Real Property Installed
   Equipment (RPIE). RPIE is equipment that is a facility component. Examples: HVAC
   system, water coolers, installed fire suppression systems, and restroom fixtures such as toilets
   and sinks. Equipment that supports the unit’s mission and that is purchased by the unit is not
   RPIE and is, therefore, maintained by the using agency. Examples include (but not limited
   to) hush houses, Survivable Collective Protective Systems (SCPS-2 and SCPS-M),
   uninterruptible power supplies, KMU-450 Chemical Protective Systems, Tactical Shelter
   Systems, and Chemically Hardened Air Transportable Hospitals. 49 CES support for non-
   RPIE units must be coordinated through a Memorandum of Understanding or Memorandum
   of Agreement. Recurring requirements should be addressed and negotiated for contractual
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                          11


   support. Further examples of RPIE can be found in AFH 32-9007, Managing Air Force Real
   Property attachment 12 or AFI 32-9005. For an updated list please contact 49 CES Real
   Property Office at 572-7166.
   11.2. Permanently installed hoists are considered part of the facility and CE funds a service
   contract to inspect and maintain hoists. Problems with permanently installed hoists can be
   called in to CE Service Call, and the request will be referred to the Quality Assurance
   Evaluation (QAE) for the hoist service contract. Replacement of installed hoists can be
   requested on an AF Form 332 as part of the respective group’s BOS-IPL listing. Portable
   hoists are equipment items and remain the responsibility of the using agency for
   maintenance, repair, and replacement.
   11.3. Ladders that are permanently installed in a facility to allow access to the roof or to
   installed facility components (heating, air conditioning, and electrical system or fire
   suppression) are considered RPIE. Non-RPIE ladders are ladders purchased by the using
   agency to perform their mission or to access their equipment. 49 CES does not purchase,
   inspect, or fund the repair actions on non-RPIE ladders.
   11.4. Interior furnishings such as bulletin boards, fire extinguisher brackets, mirrors, and
   decorative items are considered equipment and are the responsibility of the using agency.
   11.5. Except for appropriated fund dormitories, lodging facilities, and dining facilities, ice
   machines are considered equipment items and are purchased, installed, and maintained by the
   using agency. Permission to install an ice machine will be requested and granted through the
   AF Form 332 process. CE will verify that utilities are available prior to granting permission.
   11.6. Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) units are equipment items. They are purchased,
   installed and maintained by the user. However, an AF Form 332 must be submitted prior to
   purchase of any equipment so CE can validate the requirement and ensure that the proper
   equipment is purchased.
   11.7. Crane support to non-RPIE can be done via contract with a civilian contractor, also at
   the using agency’s expense. Unless the requesting agency can provide compelling
   justification, all crane support must occur during the normal Monday-Friday work week and
   during CE’s normal duty hours (0700-1600).
   11.8. While removed/replaced RPIE items will be disposed of by CE, CE does not transport
   unit-owned items to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO) or the
   recycling center for disposal. Units should contact the local DRMO for turn-in requirements
   prior to transporting any items to DRMO.
   11.9. Unit-owned window A/C units and refrigerators/freezers must be disposed of by the
   using agency. CE will drain refrigerant on non-RPIE items prior to using agency turn in; call
   Customer Service at 572-3223/3224.
12. Carpet Request. Carpet and installation for base facilities must be submitted to 49 CES on
an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request. The AF Form 332 shall include a floor
plan indicating areas to be carpeted or re-carpeted.
   12.1. Funding and Carpet Acquisition. Units are responsible for funding carpet installation.
   There are two options for acquiring carpet:
       12.1.1. The unit may select pre-approved carpet from CE's on-hand stock, free of charge.
 12                                        HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


       12.1.2. The unit can select carpet from the GSA schedule and pay for it with unit funds.
       Carpet selection from the GSA schedule must be approved by 49 CES/CEOSS to ensure
       conformance to ACC Carpet Guidance.
   12.2. Funds Transfer. Funds for carpet and installation, as necessary, must be transferred to
   49 CES/CERF.
   12.3. Office Furniture Removal and Reinstallation. The receiving unit is responsible for the
   removal and reinstallation of all office furniture in area(s) of carpet installation.
   12.4. Carpet Installation. All carpet and carpet installation for base facilities must conform
   to ACC Carpet Guidance.
13. Facility Abuse: Damage to real estate due to abnormal wear and tear, whether accidental or
intentional, is considered facility abuse. If a CE craftsman suspects facility abuse, he/she will
notify 49 CES leadership. At that point, a temporary repair will be made to correct any safety
hazard or security deficiency. The 49 CES Operations Flight Commander shall determine
whether to initiate a request for reimbursement from the using organization. Final repairs will
not be made until liability is assessed by agreement between using organization and 49 CES
through resource advisor channels, or if no agreement is reached, through chain of command,
subject to any applicable fiscal limitations. The Report of Survey process shall be initiated in
accordance with AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, to determine and
assign individual responsibility as appropriate.
14. Portable Facilities: Portable facilities are prohibited on HAFB. If additional work or
storage space is required, submit a Space Request to the CE Real Estate Office 572-7166.
15. Water Conservation Measures: When the City of Alamogordo enforces water rationing,
Holloman will activate water conservation. 49 CES is responsible for maintaining the base
irrigation systems either in-house or by service contract. For flowers and shrubs adjacent to
facilities that are not covered by the grounds maintenance contract, the FACMAN will ensure
those plants are watered during the times specified. Odd numbered facilities may water on
Wednesday and Sunday for a maximum of four hours from 0500-0900 or 1700-2100. Even
numbered facilities may water on Tuesday and Saturday for a maximum of four hours from
0500-0900 or 1700-2100. Base common areas shall be watered on Mondays and Thursdays for a
maximum of four hours from 0500-0900. Questions on water conservation can be directed to the
CE Asset Management Flight at 572-3931.
16. Snow and Ice Control: FACMANs are responsible for obtaining snow removal supplies
and equipment to ensure doorsteps, landings, walkways, facility ramps, utility room accesses,
and catch basins are kept free of snow and ice. FACMANs are responsible for maintaining the
capability to keep their entrances safe at all times.
   16.1. FACMANs and their units will not purchase or otherwise obtain commercial ice-
   melting products for use on their sidewalks and other paved surfaces unless these products
   are specifically approved by 49 CES as safe for the environment and as not causing
   deterioration of the paved surface on which they are used. FACMANs are allowed to use
   sand on sidewalks and other paved surfaces but must be purchase with users O&M funds.
17. Standby Generator Operations: IAW AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems, Para 1.12.
the following will constitute a Memorandum of Understanding between the Base Civil Engineer
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                           13


and using organizations/FACMANs of real property installed generators and associated
equipment to include, but not limited to, fuel systems, generator electrical panels, and operator
training.
   17.1. The using organizations agree to accept the following responsibilities:
       17.1.1. Notify Customer Service/Emergency Service desk, 572-3223/3224 with any
       deficiencies or if the generator is running for any reason when not scheduled.
       Organizations are required to have a trained operator on duty whenever the generator is in
       operation during organizational duty hours and must be trained annually IAW 32-1063.
       To request additions and/or replacements of personnel on to the training letter, submit in
       writing or via e-mail to 49 CES Customer Service. During manual start generator
       operations, if possible, perform a pre-operational inspection on engines by utilizing
       written instructions that are provided by the Power Production Section. These
       instructions will be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the generator. Submit
       proper request through CES Customer Service prior to adding or removing any new
       equipment that may affect the load of the generator. Only mission critical loads are
       authorized to be placed on back-up power sources. Users will allow and participate in the
       1.5 hour monthly scheduled generator tests by operating all critical equipment to ensuring
       the generator will perform correctly during actual power failures. Required monthly
       generator exercises will be conducted during normal business hours and duty days unless
       mission dictates otherwise and approved by the 49 CES Operations Flight Management.
   17.2. FACMANs agree to accept the following responsibilities: FACMANs/owner of using
   organization(s) will obtain tank custodian training from the Fuels Management Flight IAW
   AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks, Para. 13.
       17.2.1. Fuel tank custodians will perform the following: a. Ensure the fuel bung is free
       of water and trash. b. Ensure the drain valve and tank fill are secured when not in use. c.
       Ensure all fuel spills/leaks are reported to 49 CES Customer Service at 572-3223/3224.
       17.2.2. Work closely with Power Production personnel to schedule maintenance and
       monthly runs to ensure all runs are accomplished each month with minimum deviations,
       to the agreed upon schedule.
       17.2.3. Ensure generator and/or mechanical rooms are not used as storage. It is the
       FACMAN’s/owner’s responsibility to coordinate fuel deliveries with base fuels. This
       proves to be significantly more important during periods of continual operation. The 49
       CES Operations Flight pays for all fuel consumed.
18. Exterior Facility Appearance: FACMANs are responsible for maintaining a neat, clean,
and professional facility exterior. This is to include the following items.
   18.1. Re-painting of parking lots is done by 49 CES as needed. FACMANs should submit
   AF Form 332 with their requirements. Any blocking off or cone requirements will be
   handled by FACMANs or designated individual.
   18.2. Exterior signs are also maintained and installed via the paint contract. Specific
   information and guidelines, to include reserved parking, can be found in ACCI 32-1054,
   Exterior Signs.
 14                                         HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


   18.3. Policing of trash, bottles, cans, leaves, and debris of any nature within area of
   responsibility (150 feet perimeter around building) during normal duty day.
   18.4. Edging and cleaning of curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways; removal of grass and
   weeds from building foundations, fences, joints or cracks in sidewalks and gutters. Edging
   will be done so as to avoid trenching.
   18.5. Pruning and trimming of trees, shrubs and bushes within area of responsibility.
   Removal of "water sprouts" or suckers that come up wild at the fence line, within 8 feet of
   structures, or at the base of established trees.
   18.6. Landscaping, planting and transplanting of shrubs only with prior approval of the 49
   CES. Self-help landscaping projects will not be initialized unless they address long-range
   maintenance requirements. A commitment to maintain all vegetation is inherent in any
   landscaping plan.
   18.7. Area of responsibility will be free of unsightly storage and fences.
   18.8. Minor (oil changes, transmission oil changes, etc.) or major repairs of motor vehicles
   and recreation vehicles (RVs) will not be accomplished in the family housing area, industrial
   area, or dormitory area.
   18.9. Bulk materials, RVs, construction materials, household appliances, i.e., refrigerators,
   washer/ dryers, dishwasher, etc., shall not be stored in parking lots, or other undesignated
   places.
   18.10. Users will keep refuse/industrial container lids "on" refuse cans, and lids of industrial
   containers closed.
   18.11. Exterior facility surfaces are maintained through the 49 CES 5-year exterior paint
   plan. Every exterior facility surface is inspected for exterior maintenance requirements every
   5 years. FACMANs are not required to submit an AF Form 332 requesting this work as it is
   covered programmatically.
19. Inspections:
   19.1. Unit commanders will ensure standards outlined in paragraph 18 are maintained for
   their facilities. Unit commanders are responsible for ensuring corrective action is taken in
   those areas which do not comply with established standards.
   19.2. The 49 CES is responsible for inspection and corrective action in those areas not
   covered in the organization areas of responsibility. 49 CES/CC has the authority to remove
   appointed FACMANs that do not adhere to their responsibilities.
20. Interior Signs. The four interior sign categories for information, direction, identification,
and regulation are considered furnishings and are funded by the using agency. However, ACC
policy requires the 49 CES to approve the overall design and material used for interior facility
signs in order to ensure compliance with ACC and HAFB architectural design standards. Submit
requests for new or replacement interior signs on an AF Form 332 along with a sample or
drawing of the proposed signs. The AF Form 332 will be reviewed for compliance with
UFC312001. The approval authority is the 49 CES Commander and is funded by the using
agency.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                           15


21. Service Contracts: 49 CES Operations Support monitors service contracts for grounds
maintenance, custodial, grease trap cleaning, vent hoods, paint (interior paint, exterior paint,
pavement markings and exterior signs), hoist maintenance, elevator maintenance, and chemical
toilets.
   21.1. If your facility receives contract services, the FACMAN and facility occupants will not
   request a change to their service directly through the contractor personnel. This can result in
   unauthorized work being done by the contractor and can evolve into an issue of who is
   responsible for paying the contractor. The FACMAN should contact 49 CES Operations
   Support (49 CES/CEOSC) at 572-5038 with any request for change in service. In jointly
   occupied facilities, heads of staff agency/unit shall coordinate with the FACMANs for any
   change of service.
   21.2. All requests for the paint contractor are submitted on an AF Form 332 and must be
   fully coordinated in block 14. Even when funded by the unit or merely requesting a cost
   estimate, FACMAN must submit the AF Form 332 through CE.
   21.3. CE will provide the FACMAN with a copy of the Performance of Work Statement,
   including a task and frequency chart and floor plan to monitor contract custodial services.
   Promptly report any unsatisfactory services to the 49 CES/CEOSS at 572-5038. The
   complaint will be validated by the COR and the contractor notified. Report any damages
   caused by contractor personnel immediately.
   21.4. Requests for contract carpet cleaning are also coordinated through 49 CES Operations
   Support. Carpet cleaning is dependent on funds availability.
   21.5. FACMAN is responsible for ensuring facility users are conducting daily and monthly
   inspections on their respective hoists and cranes. Documentation history must be saved,
   filed, and readily available. The inspection form is AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support
   Equipment Record.
22. Dumpsters: The Holloman refuse and recycling program is a contract operation. Questions
can be directed to the service contract COR at 572-5038.
   22.1. Problems with dumpster contents or debris lying on the ground will be directed to the
   respective FACMAN for resolution.
   22.2. The 49 CES Asset Management Flight is the POC for current information on what type
   of material can go in each category of dumpster. The FACMAN will instruct facility
   occupants on what type of refuse goes in each dumpster.
   22.3. Dumpster lids must remain closed at all times and no trash will be left outside the
   dumpster. If the dumpster is full, find another dumpster to dispose of trash.
   22.4. FACMAN is responsible for the alleviation of waste. This includes the reduction of
   waste streams through the base recycling program, crushing of boxes and bagging trash.
23. Space Management. Ensure assigned facility space is used for the purpose designated in
the USAF Real Property Inventory list. Accomplish this through:
   23.1. Follow the guidelines set in the Space Management Procedures, AFI 32-1032,
   Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair, and Construction
   Projects. This is provided during initial training or can be obtained by contacting either the
 16                                          HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


   49 CES Real Estate Management Office (49 CES/CEAR) (572-7166) or 49 CES Customer
   Service (572-3223/3224).
       23.1.1. Accompany and assist 49 CES/CEAR personnel on facility inventory and
       inspection as required but not to exceed five years. 49 CES/CEAR will schedule
       inspections with the FACMAN as required. 49 CES/CEAR personnel will inspect
       facilities IAW AFI32-9005, paragraph 3.4, ensuring equipment and facilities meet the
       standards listed in this document. FACMANs will take appropriate action to rectify any
       inspections findings as necessary per the inspection.
       23.1.2. Report any unused or vacant facility space to 49 CES/CEAR. Do not turn the
       space over to another function without first coordinating the action. If vacating a facility,
       FACMAN duties are not terminated until the facility has been cleaned, all organizational
       furniture and equipment have been removed, all keys properly labeled, and facility has
       been accepted by the 49 CES Resources Office.
       23.1.3. Ensure that facility occupants do not alter the arrangement of any permanent
       water, lighting, heating, air conditioning, ventilation, plumbing, or any other related
       fixtures.
24. Fire Protection Responsibilities:
   24.1. Ensure the facility you are assigned to is at all times in a fire safe condition according
   to HAFBI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program, and in the
   following: For fire protection purposes, the FACMAN roster will be used by the Fire
   Protection Flight as the POC for emergency access to a facility within 30 minutes of
   notification. Therefore, if the FACMAN lives more than 30 minutes from the base, they
   must provide a person with the appropriate keys at the facility site within 30 minutes of being
   notified.
   24.2. Accompany Fire Department personnel during fire safety inspections. When AF Form
   1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, is issued on noted discrepancies, the FACMAN must
   take corrective action as recommended by the Fire Safety Inspector. On the AF Form 1487,
   corrective action must be stated on the reverse side of copy 1, signed by the unit commander
   and returned to the Fire Department by the suspense date shown in Block 4. The FACMAN
   must submit an AF Form 332 with a copy of AF Form 1487 attached for corrective action.
   24.3. Schedule periodic fire evacuation drills through the Fire Department (572-7228) IAW
   HAFBI 32-2001.
   24.4. Ensure fire extinguishers, fire doors, and fire exits are in service and unobstructed at all
   times. Fire extinguishers are to be inspected and the inspection annotated on a monthly
   basis.
   24.5. Enforce designated smoking areas and ensure that proper receptacles are provided and
   labeled to prevent misuse.
   24.6. Conduct at least a monthly inspection of the assigned facility and its installed
   equipment. Particular attention should be given to doors, windows, glass, lights, plumbing,
   heating, ventilation, air conditioning, fire suppression and fire detection devices.
   24.7. Fire lanes: Where fire lanes are designated, the FACMAN will monitor them to ensure
   accessibility for emergency response vehicles. In addition to the fire lane, a 15-foot
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                            17


   clearance must be maintained around fire hydrants and standpipe/sprinkler system
   connections. The clearance requirement also includes vegetation growth. If problems with
   illegal parking in fire lanes or around fire hydrants cannot be resolved, they should be
   reported to the 49 SFS/SFCC at 572-7171. Problems with excessive vegetation that require
   removal by the grounds maintenance contractor should be reported to CE Service Call (572-
   3223/3224) for referral to the appropriate COR.
   24.8. All flammable and combustible liquids, i.e., paints, lacquers, oil, grease, etc., will be
   stored IAW AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety
   Standard. All materials will be disposed of in a proper manner. For proper disposal
   instructions, contact Hazardous Waste Management, 49 CES/CEAO (572-3931).
   24.9. Trash receptacles will be of non-combustible material and will be kept free of all
   smoking materials.
   24.10. The FACMAN will ensure the using agency budgets for the purchase and
   maintenance of fire extinguishers located within their areas of responsibility.
   24.11. The FACMAN will conduct monthly visual inspections of all fire extinguishers and
   fire detection and suppression devices for damage and accessibility. For jointly occupied
   facilities, the alternate FACMANs for each unit will coordinate inspection with the building
   primary FACMAN.
   24.12. The FACMAN will establish a closing inspection process in each work area. Closing
   inspections are required in each work area at the end of the work day to ensure the area is in a
   fire safe condition. For continuously manned work areas, inspections will be conducted at
   the end of each shift. These inspections will ensure the area is free of fire hazards while the
   facility is unoccupied and preclude the oncoming shift from working with an unknown
   hazard. Minimum considerations are:
       24.12.1. Empty all trash receptacles into an outside container.
       24.12.2. Disconnect all non-essential appliances.
       24.12.3. Ensure all flammables are properly stored.
       24.12.4. Turn off all lights with the exception of security lighting.
25. Security Issues:
   25.1. Specific questions about FACMAN security responsibilities during force protection
   upgrades or heightened threat conditions should be addressed to 49 SFS.
   25.2. During day-to-day operations, the FACMAN should be aware of all work being done
   in their facilities and challenge any workers they do not personally recognize.
   25.3. The FACMAN may be expected to monitor and escort contractor personnel when COR
   personnel are not available in controlled access areas. For jointly occupied facilities, heads
   of staff agency/unit shall provide escorts of contractor personnel visiting/performing work
   within their work areas. Inability to provide contractor oversight could result in cancellation
   or delay of the contract services.
   25.4. The FACMAN should report any unsecured mechanical rooms to CE Service Call at
   572-3223/3224.
 18                                         HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


   25.5. The FACMAN should report suspected chemical or biological incidents to base first
   responders by dialing 911. The FACMAN is not responsible for shutting down the
   ventilation systems for their facilities. First responders to a suspected chemical or biological
   incident will make that decision and notify CE when that action is appropriate.
   25.6. Security alarm systems are considered equipment items. If any system goes into
   “alarm” or “trouble” condition, the Facility Manager will contact 49 SFS to address the
   problem, 49 SFS will contact 49 CES if necessary.
26. Telephone/Computer-Related Items: Requests for phone repair, additional telephone
jacks, or computer/data line capability should not be called in to CE Service Call, nor should
they be placed on the AF Form 1219 for maintenance. Telephones, computers, and data lines are
a 49 CS issue and should be reported to the 49 CS Help Desk at 572-3000.
27. Pest Management for Facilities: The best practice against a pest infestation in facilities is
sanitation. Do not store food in your desk or work station. If you want to keep food in your
facility overnight, do so in a refrigerator unless in a factory sealed package. Keep break areas
clean, and ensure trash is taken on a routine basis. For larger pests, ensure that all openings are
secure to prevent pest access (i.e. Bats, coyote’s, etc.). If a request is made for pest management
services, the pest management technician will determine the method of treatment using
Integrated Pest Management policy as mandated by DoD & USAF: Integrated Pest Management
(IPM). IPM uses targeted and sustainable (effective, economical, environmentally sound)
methods including education, habitat modification, biological control, genetic control, cultural
control, mechanical control, physical control, regulatory control, and where necessary, the
judicious use of least hazardous pesticides.




                                             ANDREW A. CROFT, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                      19


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:
ACCI 32-1054, Exterior Signs, 23 May 2003
AFH 32-9007, Managing Air Force Real Property, 1 May 1999
AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks, 24 June 2009
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management
AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming of NAF Facility Construction Projects
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair and
Construction Projects 15 October 2003
AFI 32-1032, Space Management Procedures, 15 October 2003
AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems, 10 June 2005
AFI 32-1063, ACC Sup1, Electric Power Systems, 16 October 2006
AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 7 July 2004
AFPAM 32-1004v3, Working In The Operations Flight Facility Maintenance 1 September 1998
Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) 98-4: Building Manager Energy Conservation Handbook,
16 January
HAFBI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program, 2 November
2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 1219, Base Civil Engineer Multi-craft Job Order
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Record
AF Form 2427, Lock and Key Control Register
AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms:
49 CES—-49th Civil Engineer Squadron
49 CES/CEAO—-49th Civil Engineer Squadron Hazardous Waste Management
49 CES/CEAR—-49th Civil Engineer Squadron Real Estate Management Office
49 CES/CEO—-49th Civil Engineer Squadron Operations Flight Commander
49 CES/CEOS—-49th Civil Engineer Squadron Operations Support Office
49 CONS—-49th Contracting Squadron
49 CS/SCXP—-49th Communications Squadron Plans and Implementation Office
 20                                       HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


49 OSS/OSAA—-49th Operations Support Squadron Airfield Manager
49 SFS/S3OS—-49th Security Forces Squadron Operations
ACC—-Air Combat Command
AF—-Air Force
AFB—-Air Force Base
AFCESA—-Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—-Air Force Manual
AFPAM—-Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—-Air Force Records Information Management System
BCE—-Base Civil Engineer
BOS—IPL--Base Operating System Installation Priority Listing
CE—-Civil Engineer
CES—-Civil Engineer Squadron
DRMO—-Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
DSW—-Direct Scheduled Work Order
ECC—-Emergency Communication Center
FACC—-Fire Alarm Communication Center
FACMAN—-Facility Manager
FUB—-Facilities Utilization Board
GFCI—-ground fault circuit interrupter
HAFB—-Holloman Air Force Base
HVAC—-Heating, Ventilation Air Conditioning
IAW—-In Accordance With
MAJCOM—-Major Command
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—-Point of Contact
R&M—-Restoration and Modernization
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
RPIE—-Real Property Installed Equipment
RV—-recreation vehicles
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013          21


QAE—-Quality Assurance Evaluator
SCPS—-Survival Collective Protective System
SFCC—-Security Forces Control Center
TDY—-Temporary Duty
UPS—-Uninterrupted Power Supply
WRRB—-Work Request Review Board
 22                                                 HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013


                                                 Attachment 2

A2.1. FACILITY MANAGER APPOINTMENT TEMPLATE




**NOTES: Link to Template- https://holloman.eim.acc.af.mil/49_MSG/49_CES/FacilityMgrs/default.aspx
1. Letters must be signed by squadron commander or division chief (for wing staff agencies or tenant units).
2. Once home contact information is added, this document requires a Privacy Act statement.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1002 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   23


                                            Attachment 3
                   INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 332

A3.1. The AF Form 332 set consists of a Master File Copy, a Status Copy, and a Customer’s
copy. Retain the Status copy for your organizational files. Submit Master Copy to 49 CES
Customer Service Unit.
A3.2. All like requirements for a single facility may be included on the same AF Form 332.
A3.3. The requester completes the following items on the AF Form 332. If there are any
questions, contact the CES Customer Service Unit or the Self Help Center for assistance.
Table A3.1. AF Form 332 Section I: To Be Completed By Requestor:
1.      Enter the organization assignment of requester.
2.      Enter the organization office symbol of requester.
3.      Self-explanatory.
4.      For internal CES use only.
5.      Self-explanatory.
6.      Enter the date that requested work should be completed. If the proposed work is new work,
        modification, or minor construction, the required completion date should also be explained in
        item 9.
7.      Enter the number of the building or facility on which the work is requested.
8.      Enter a clear and concise description of the desired work, supported by sketches, plans
        diagrams, specifications, photographs, and any other data or information that provides a
        complete description of the location and scope of work requested.
9.      Complete only if the work requested is new work, modification, or minor construction. The
        justification should be factual and indicate the urgency of the request. List any related projects
        and impact if delayed (item 6.) It should be written so reviewers and approving authorities can
        understand it though they may not have access to any referenced documents/directives. If the
        work is required to meet AFI requirements, you must site this in the request and attach a copy.
10.     Indicate the resources that the requester/requesting organization proposes to be donated or
        furnished. Include any details known (amount, quantities, contract/contractor, etc.) on the
        resources in item 8.
11.     If the requested work is new work, modification, or minor construction, the organization’s
        commander must sign the request. Otherwise, the signature of the building manager or requester
        suffices. This signature indicates the work is essential and not prohibited by any directives the
        requester is aware of.
12.     Grade of requester.
13.     Signature (Commander or FACMAN).
14.     When coordination of another agency/section is needed (medical, safety, security, fire
        protection, etc), the requester can expedite processing this form by obtaining the coordination
        prior to the AF Form 332 submittal. If the requester/requesting organization is a contractor or
        proposes to donate contract resources, this form requires the coordination of the appropriate base
        contracting office. This coordination indicates that proposed work to be done is within the
        provisions of the existing contract, or the proposed contracting is appropriate. If the work is to
        be accomplished by Self Help, the form is then rerouted to the Self Help Center after
        coordination is complete. Items 15 through 30: For Base Civil Engineer Use.
