BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 36-2602

                                                                            28 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                     BASE LEVEL DETAIL MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 49 FSS/FSMM                                                       Certified by: 49 FSS/CC
                                                                  (Lt Col Caryn L. Kirkpatrick)
Supersedes:   HOLLOMANAFBI36-2602,                                                      Pages: 7
              4 April 2002


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-26, Total Force
Development, 27 September 2011, and specifies management, operation, responsibilities and
requirements for the Base Detail Program. This instruction defines the roles of the program
manager and program user, defines grades eligible for details, delineates points of contact for
detail requests, and explains how officer and enlisted details are levied against units. This
publication applies to all units assigned to the 49th Wing. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting
records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
to 49th Force Support Squadron Manpower Office (49 FSS/FSMM), 681 Second Street,
Holloman AFB, NM 88330-8060.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changed the OPR from 49 WG/MO to 49 FSS/FSMM. Adds Holloman Base Appearance Team
(BAT) charter, composition and responsibilities.
 2                                              HOLLOMANAFBI36-2602 28 JANUARY 2014


1. Program Management. The program manager will be appointed, by memorandum, by the
49th Wing Vice Commander (49 WG/CV) as the tasking authority. Regardless of organizational
structure, the program manager will work directly for the 49 WG/CV on issues directly involving
the base detail program, and will present to the 49 WG/CV, problems or recommendations
regarding the program. The program manager will ensure all assignments for details are levied
in a fair share manner consistent with the number assigned to each unit. The program manager
will track and report fair share amounts on a quarterly basis to 49 WG/CV. The program
manager will accept requests for detail exemptions. The 49 WG/CV is the approval authority for
exemptions.
2. Program Operation:
     2.1. Requests for details must be faxed, e-mailed, or sent in writing to the program manager.
     Requests must include:
        2.1.1. Type of duty to be performed.
        2.1.2. Number and grade of personnel required.
        2.1.3. Time, date, length of detail, and place personnel are required.
        2.1.4. Detail point of contact (POC).
        2.1.5. Authority to conduct detail.
        2.1.6. Uniform requirements if any.
        2.1.7. Security clearance and any other specific detail requirements.
     2.2. Requests for details not specifically required by this instruction will be sent by the
     program manager to the 49 WG/CV for approval within 3 duty days.
     2.3. Each group and the wing staff to include 49th Comptroller Squadron (49 CPTS) will
     provide a POC for the detail program. The program manager will notify the POCs of detail
     tasking by providing faxed, e-mailed, or written requirements. The POC is then responsible
     for providing requested information to the program manager and detail POC by the suspense
     date, and ensuring attendance at scheduled details.
     2.4. The program manager will provide detail credit to each unit for details assigned based
     on the number of personnel provided times the number of days detailed. This credit will be
     applied on a continuing basis and will be reflected in the quarterly detail summary.
3. Details Requiring Specific Grades:
     3.1. Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, AFI 90-301,
     Inspector General Complaints Resolution, Congressional inquiries, and security violation
     inquiries: The individual detailed for these duties must be in the rank of E-7 or above. For
     Inspector General inquiries, civil service employees must hold an equivalent commissioned
     officer's grade equal or senior to the grade of the subject.
     3.2. Line of Duty Determinations: The individual detailed for this duty must be in the grade
     of captain or above.
     3.3. Inventories specifically required by directive (Company Grade Officer).
     3.4. Security Forces inventories (master sergeant and above).
HOLLOMANAFBI36-2602 28 JANUARY 2014                                                             3


   3.5. Promotion ceremonies and special details (as appropriate to rank structure).
   3.6. Staff sergeants and below will normally be tasked for administrative support (to include
   the set-up and break-down) for higher headquarters inspections, aircraft mishap boards, and
   local exercises.
   3.7. Base Appearance Team (BAT) NCO: The individual for this duty will be provided by
   each group for one month and must be in the grades of staff sergeant through technical
   sergeant. The BAT NCO will perform BAT primary duties outlined in Holloman Base
   Appearance Team, Attachment 2.
   3.8. Base Appearance Team (BAT) Members: Will be Airmen E-4 and below who have
   been assigned to Holloman AFB as their first permanent duty assignment and have
   completed Holloman In-Processing, but who have not yet started First Term Airmen Center.
   BAT members will perform BAT primary duties outlined in Holloman Base Appearance
   Team, Attachment 2.
4. Unit Responsibilities. Specific directives or situations dictate that certain Air Force
members be exempt from base details. Requests for such exemptions must be made by owning
unit (group and the wing staff) to the program manager by 31 January of each year. The
justification must include the publication, page, and paragraph number which authorizes the
exemption from base details, the number of people to be exempted, and their priority of
exemption (in case a contingency warrants use of exempted personnel). If your exemption
request is not supported by a directive, the same procedure applies only with local justification.
All requests will be reviewed by 49 WG/CV for approval/disapproval. If a unit is planning a
deployment, follow the same procedures listed above for a temporary exemption, explaining how
many people, by grade, will be deployed and for how long. Only upon approval by 49 WG/CV
will the unit receive credit for deployment. Last-minute tasking or notifications do not
automatically exempt a unit from the detail. If a unit commander determines that their unit
cannot support the detail, exemption must be approved by the 49 WG/CV.




                                             ANDREW A. CROFT, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 49th Wing
 4                                         HOLLOMANAFBI36-2602 28 JANUARY 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:
AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 9 July 2004
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 23 August 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms:
49 CPTS—-49th Comptroller Squadron
49 FSS/FSMM—-49th Force Support Squadron Manpower Office
49 WG/CV—-49th Wing Vice Commander
AF—-Air Force
AFB—-Air Force Base
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—-Air Force Manual
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—-Air Force Records Information Management System
BAT—-Base Appearance Team
IAW—-In Accordance With
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—-Point of Contact
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
HOLLOMANAFBI36-2602 28 JANUARY 2014                                                                                              5


                                                     Attachment 2
 HOLLOMAN BASE APPEARANCE TEAM (BAT) ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

Table A2.1. Holloman Base Appearance Team (BAT) and Responsibility
Mission.
      Eliminate the bulk of litter accumulated across Holloman AFB from both on- and off-base sources.
      Ensure base meets high standards of cleanliness and good order during all distinguished visitor (DV) visits.
      Maintain the high standards of base appearance throughout Holloman AFB on a day-to-day basis. The team will be
      available Thursday and Fridays from 0700-1600 or as determined by 49 CES/CEO or 49 CES/CEOH.
Management responsibilities.
      49th WG Commander (49 WG/CC): Responsible for overall appearance and maintenance of the grounds assigned to the
      49 WG and tenant units. Informs 49 CES/CC of any special requirements or changes to this plan to support specific
      requirements.
      49 WG Public Affairs (49 WG/PA): Publishes periodic notices in support of BAT operations and annual base clean-up
      days.
      49 WG Protocol (49 WG/CCP): Provides 49 CES/CC and 49 CES/CEO the schedule of DVs and the projected DV routes
      for upcoming visits and sends it to the 49 CES/BAT organization box.
WG Units & Staff Agencies:
      Ensure personnel exercise responsibility for maintenance of grounds and facilities under their control. This includes
      grounds maintenance within the set radius of their facilities and participation in base cleanup (Refer to HAFBI 32-1002,
      Facility Managers Responsibilities).
      Provide personnel to support BAT. Ensure personnel can drive a vehicle with an automatic transmission.
      Encourage all personnel to exercise proper stewardship of the base by picking up trash, closing dumpster lids,
      maintaining their facilities, pulling up weeds, etc., wherever is required.
Tenant Units assigned to Holloman AFB:
      Unit commanders, directors, etc., exercise responsibility for maintenance of grounds and facilities under their command.
      This includes grounds maintenance within the set radius of their facilities and participation in base cleanup (Refer to
      HAFBI 32-1002).
      Encourage all personnel to exercise proper stewardship of the base by picking up trash, closing dumpster lids,
      maintaining their facilities, pulling up weeds, etc., wherever is required.
49th Operations, Maintenance, and Medical Group Commanders (49 OG/CC, 49 MXG/CC, and 49 MDG/CC):
      Ensures squadron commanders in their groups exercise responsibility for maintenance of grounds and facilities under
      their command. This includes grounds maintenance within the set radius of their facilities and participation in base
      cleanup (Refer to HAFBI 32-1002).
      Provides personnel to support the BAT. Ensure personnel can drive a vehicle with an automatic transmission.
      Encourages all personnel to exercise proper stewardship of the base by picking up trash, closing dumpster lids,
      maintaining their facilities, pulling up weeds, etc., wherever is required.
      Provide 49 OG, 49 MXG, 49 MDG POC’s for the BAT. POC’s will coordinate and schedule personnel for the BAT to
      meet the published schedule.
49th Mission Support Group Commander (49 MSG/CC):
      Inspects the base on a regular basis to ensure it is neat and clean.
      Ensures squadron commanders in the 49 MSG exercise responsibility for maintenance of grounds and facilities under
      their command. This includes grounds maintenance within the set radius of their facilities and participation in base
      cleanup (Refer to HAFBI 32-1002).
      Provides personnel to support BAT. Ensure personnel can drive a vehicle with an automatic transmission.
      Encourages all personnel to exercise proper stewardship of the base by picking up trash, closing dumpster lids,
      maintaining their facilities, pulling up weeds, etc., wherever is required.
49th Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (49 CES/CC):
      Advises 49 MSG/CC of the status of sweepers, grounds maintenance equipment and manpower.
      Provides a part-time BAT Chief (49 CES/CEOH).
 6                                                           HOLLOMANAFBI36-2602 28 JANUARY 2014

      CE personnel are exempt from manning for the BAT since they provide full-time management and oversight for this
      detail.
Commander, 49 CES Operations Flight (49 CES/CEO):
      Relays detailed instructions to the BAT Chief (49 CES/CEOH) to ensure proper use and coverage of the BAT.
      Ensures the Chief of Heavy Repair has all equipment and plans to accomplish Base Appearance Team duties detailed in
      this plan.
      Identifies required attention areas on base and provides it to the Base Appearance Team Chief (if required).
Chief of Heavy Repair Section (49 CES/CEOH):
      Responsible to 49 CES/CC and 49 CES/CEO for supervision of personnel and equipment for the BAT.
      Ensures cleanliness and proper maintenance of all equipment assigned to the Base Appearance Team.
      Advises the BCE and 49 CES/CEO of any problems encountered in carrying out this plan which are beyond his/her
      capability to solve.
      Reviews and advises 49 CES/CEO of any suspected Fraud, Waste and Abuse (FW&A) of any type, immediately upon
      notification.
NCOIC of Horizontal Repair (49 CES/CEOHP):
      Responsible to 49 CES/CC, 49 CES/CEO, and 49 CES/CEOH for the proper supervision and management of personnel
      and equipment for the BAT to include providing an alternate BAT Chief.
      Ensures safe operation of equipment and accountability of equipment being loaned to base organizations (e.g., power
      washers, etc.). This may include: operation instructions, videos and/or training classes.
      Ensures all personnel assigned to the BAT are given a thorough briefing on their duties and responsibilities while
      assigned to this detail to include safety.
      Coordinates any type of vehicle maintenance with the proper agencies to ensure a timely turn-in and return so as not to
      disrupt the BAT schedule.
      Reports any type of FW&A to 49 CES/CEOH immediately.
Base Appearance Team Chief:
      Responsible to BCE and 49 CES/CEO for the proper supervision of the BAT personnel and equipment.
      Briefs members performing this detail on the following topics: duty hours, uniform standards, what to do, who to notify
      in case of an emergency, the do’s and don’ts of this detail, breaks, kinds and variations of FW&A, appointments, etc.
      (Appointments should not be occurring while members are assigned as part of the BAT detail. Organizations need to try
      to have all appointments rescheduled while members are on this detail.)
      Briefs detail members thoroughly on safety concerns and issues. Ensures the team members have proper safety gear
      provided to them (e.g., reflective vest, leather gloves).
      Ensures the detail members are properly licensed and have all their necessary items for driving the government owned
      vehicles (GOVs) belonging to the BAT.
      Ensures enough supplies are available for the BAT (e.g., large trash bags).
      Ensures vehicles are properly taken care of (e.g., fueled, cleaned of all trash and litter, parked) prior to releasing members
      of the detail for the day. Ensures at least once a week vehicles are thoroughly washed and cleaned both inside and
      outside.
      Obtains information from BAT members on any problems involved with facility maintenance (e.g., open dumpsters, lots
      of trash blowing around facilities), personnel or vehicles prior to releasing members of the detail for the day. Resolves as
      many problems at the lowest possible level and up-channels any problems not able to be resolved to the next level of
      responsibility.
      Actively monitors base areas to ensure job quality by the BAT.
Chief of Infrastructure Systems Section (49 CES/CEOI):
      Coordinates with 49 CES/CEOH and provides through Entomology, advice and direct action to control the growth of
      weeds and vegetation in hard-to-maintain areas.
Manning.
      Holloman AFB Group Superintendents will either manage the “POC” responsibilities (identified in paragraph 2.3.)
      themselves or select a group POC that will coordinate and schedule personnel for the BAT to meet the published
      schedule.
      Group POC will provide (1) NCO as “NCO Lead” to supervise personnel according to the following schedule. The
      schedule is rotational based on fiscal year. The schedule will not change from fiscal year to fiscal year:
        MSG--Oct, Mar and Aug                    MXG--Nov, Apr and Sep                       MMG--Dec, May
HOLLOMANAFBI36-2602 28 JANUARY 2014                                                                                               7

        MDG--Jan, Jun                            OG--Feb, Jul
      Group POC will provide a list of personnel to 49 CES/CEOH and to the 49 CES/BAT organization box
      (49CESBAT@Holloman.AF.Mil) on the Monday one week prior to the group’s monthly detail. CEOH will notify 49
      MSG/CCC if personnel are not received in a timely manner.
      Personnel identified for this detail will meet the following criteria:
      Will be an Airman who has been assigned to Holloman AFB as their first permanent duty assignment.
      Who is an E-4 and below.
      Who has completed Holloman In-Processing (HIP) and has not started First Term Airmen Center (FTAC).
Schedule.
      49 CES/CEOH will publish the schedule annually and be provided to each Group Superintendent.
      49 FSS will provide a list of names to the 49 CES/BAT organization box (49CESBAT@Holloman.AF.Mil) one week
      prior of personnel performing the detail.
      BAT detail will be performed every Thursday and Friday (excluding Christmas, New Years, Easter, Labor Day,
      Memorial Day and all ACC family days), from 0700-1600 hours with one hour for lunch (subject to changes as
      determined by leadership). This detail must be available to respond to any tasking during these hours, if required.
      Uniform will be Airman Battle Uniform (ABU) and individuals should dress appropriately for weather conditions.
      Personnel will report to the 49 CES/CEOH compound (Bldg 55). POC is the BAT Chief, ext 572-7607.
Base Appearance Team Primary Duties.
      General: The BAT NCO will meet with the BAT Chief in building 55 in the 49 CES/CEO conference room at 1100 on
      the first Monday of each month. The BAT team lead will receive the BAT continuity book and receive a briefing on
      duties and responsibilities.
      The BAT lead NCO will send patrols Thursday and Friday of each week to police all base roads and common areas listed
      in the BAT continuity book to pick up trash and debris adjacent to or along roads, sidewalks, etc. The team will perform
      any duties related to improving general appearance as directed from the BAT Chief.
      Team members will receive a safety briefing before starting their shift (standard briefing will be provided in BAT
      continuity book). They will also be required to keep safety in mind at all times and act accordingly! Reflective safety
      vests and other required PPE are mandatory and must be worn at all times while performing this detail. If it is hot, team
      members can remove their ABU tops, provided they are wearing the proper T-shirt, but they must wear the safety vest
      over their T-shirt.
      If a driver must pull off to the side of a road, they will ensure they use appropriate turn signals and hazard lights and will
      not block traffic or create a hazard to traffic when stopping for trash. Team members will use legal parking spots as much
      as possible and not drive vehicles on off-road surfaces.
      Team members will not use a GOV for personal use at any time.
      End of the Day - Vehicle Turn-In:
      Team members ensure there is at least ¾ of a tank of fuel in the vehicle.
      Team members ensure the vehicle is cleaned, including the bed of the truck at the end of their shift on Friday. Cleaning
      supplies will be available within the 49 CES/CEOHP complex.
      Team members will return the safety vests to the cab of the vehicle.
      Breaks: Since this is primarily a walking detail, breaks are authorized. This privilege shall not be abused. One 10-
      minute break each hour is authorized. The BAT Chief will provide more information as necessary. Breaks will be
      adjusted depending on the heat index and/or any inclement weather.
      Areas: The base will be broken down into sections listed out in a plan within the BAT duty continuity book. Caution:
      Team members will only stop for trash on the main base and not to enter any area that requires a flight line driver’s
      license or line badge. If problems are noticed, report it to the Base Civil Engineer Squadron Duty Officer at 575-491-
      8814 to be up-channeled through to the Chief of Heavy Repair, 49 CES/CEOH, so they can notify the appropriate
      individuals to clean the area.
