BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  HOLLOMAN AFB INSTRUCTION 32-1004
49TH FIGHTER WING                                                                         7 MARCH 1996

                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                       MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF AIRFIELD
                                                                               PAVEMENTS


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally.


OPR: 49 CES/CEOH (MSgt Kevin Walker)                 Certified by: 49 CES/CC (Lt Col Robert R. Henkel)
Supersedes HAFBR 91-3, 23 January 1991                                                         Pages: 4
                                                                      Distribution: L plus HQ ACC/CES

This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and Facilities. This
instruction establishes an airfield maintenance program and outlines the duties and responsibilities of the
49th Civil Engineer Squadron (49 CES) for its implementation. This instruction implements the provi-
sions of, AFI 32-1042, Standards for Marking Airfields, AFR 85-8, Maintenance and Repair of Surface
Areas, and AFR 93-5, Procedures for US Army and US Air Force Airfield Pavement Conditions Survey,
and is applicable to all units, sections, and elements named herein.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Changed from a regulation to an instruction and from the 91 series to the 32 series.



1. Airfield Pavement Maintenance. Maintenance of airfield pavement will be in accordance with this
instruction.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The Horizontal Construction Section of 49 CES will be responsible for furnishing equipment,
   materials, and personnel for maintaining and repairing airfield pavements. They will ensure airfield
   pavements maintenance takes priority over all other tasks in the Horizontal Construction Section.
   2.2. It is the responsibility of the Horizontal Construction Superintendent to establish an Airfield
   Maintenance Team (AMT). The AMT will consist of, as a minimum, one military or civilian 3E271
   AFSC and three military or civilian qualified pavements maintenance personnel. All members of the
   AMT will posses restricted area badges for access to all airfield pavements. It is the responsibility of
   the Horizontal Construction Superintendent to ensure the availability of materials and equipment to
   prevent work stoppages. The Horizontal Construction Superintendent will direct the attention of the
   AMT to maintaining airfield pavements in accordance with priorities established in paragraph 4. The
   Foreman/NCOIC will coordinate with the Chief, Airfield Management, and the 49 CES Horizontal
2                                                        HOLLOMANAFBI32-1004 7 MARCH 1996


    Construction Superintendent will establish a training program in the Horizontal Construction Section
    that will maintain the efficiency of the AMT after key members have departed.
    2.3. The 49 CES Pavements Engineer is responsible for providing technical assistance to the Hori-
    zontal Construction Superintendent. The Pavements Engineer will:
       2.3.1. Approve all repair methods and materials prior to being applied to airfield pavements.
       2.3.2. Identify on AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, the extent and priority of
       in-house pavements repair required as a result of the monthly airfield pavements inspection.
       2.3.3. Identify long range, major in-house repairs.
       2.3.4. Be responsible for conducting and documenting the monthly airfield inspection.
       2.3.5. Be responsible for accomplishing and documenting the annual airfield pavements inspec-
       tion in accordance with AFR 93-5.
    2.4. The Chief, Airfield Management or a designated representative is responsible for:
       2.4.1. Inspecting the airfield in accordance with AFI 13-213, Airfield Management.
       2.4.2. Determining if major repairs can be made to airfield pavements without interfering with
       normal airfield operations and obtain all necessary coordination, clearances, and closures required
       to accomplish the repairs.

3. Inspection of Airfield Pavements.
    3.1. The Airfield Maintenance Foreman/NCOIC will represent the Horizontal Construction Superin-
    tendent as the airfield pavements inspector and will report to Building 571 (Base Operations) by 0600
    to inspect the airfield pavements in conjunction with the Chief, Airfield Management, or a designated
    representative. As a minimum, the inspection will:
       3.1.1. Identify unusual daily airfield sweeping requirements.
       3.1.2. Check condition of:
           3.1.2.1. Overruns and active runways.
           3.1.2.2. Taxiways and ramps.
           3.1.2.3. Lighting systems.
           3.1.2.4. Arresting systems.
           3.1.2.5. Helicopter pads.
    3.2. All discrepancies found by the Airfield Maintenance Foreman/NCOIC will be noted on HAFB
    Form 0-93, Daily Airfield Inspection Report, and special problems will be identified to the Horizontal
    Construction Superintendent.
    3.3. A monthly inspection will be performed on the last Friday of each month. It will be conducted
    jointly by Chief Airfield Management, 49 CES Pavements Engineer, Horizontal Construction Super-
    intendent, and Airfield Maintenance Foreman/NCOIC. Personnel mentioned will report to Building
    571 prior to 0600 to inspect the airfield. The Pavements Engineer is responsible for documentation of
    the monthly inspections and ensuring that all required work is properly input in the various 49 CES
    systems for accomplishment, either by in-house forces or by contract.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-1004 7 MARCH 1996                                                                         3


   3.4. Accomplishment and documentation of the comprehensive annual airfield inspection is the
   responsibility of the Pavements Engineer, according to AFR 93-5. The Pavements Engineer will iden-
   tify all required work in the five-year contract program.

4. Airfield Pavements Maintenance and Repair:
   4.1. Repair priorities are:
      4.1.1. As part of the annual pavements survey outlined in paragraph 3.4., the 49 CES Pavements
      Engineer will prepare and/or update a color coded pavements master plan which reflects airfield
      pavements maintenance and repair priorities. Color coding will be:
          4.1.1.1. Yellow - Priority I areas
          4.1.1.2. Light Blue - Priority II areas.
          4.1.1.3. Red - Priority III areas.
          4.1.1.4. Black - abandoned areas.
      4.1.2. Primary airfield pavements are the runways, taxiways, ramps, arm/de-arm pads, and/or
      quick check areas used by the mission aircraft. These areas will receive first priority.
      4.1.3. Secondary airfield pavements consist of runway overruns, shoulder pavements, hangar and
      maintenance shelter access pavements, and other active pavements not included in the primary
      section. These areas will receive second priority.
      4.1.4. Sterile pavements are those pavements in a salvageable condition which are inactive and
      not required to support any current base mission. Sterile pavements areas will be marked as closed
      in accordance with AFI 32-1044, Visual Air Navigation Systems, and will receive third priority.
   4.2. Materials and equipment for use in repair of airfield pavements will be readily available in Build-
   ing 887, Airfield Maintenance Shop, by the Airfield Maintenance Foreman/NCOIC.
   4.3. Standard repair methods to be used on rigid and flexible pavements will be in accordance with
   AFR 85-8, Maintenance and Repair of Surface Areas.

5. Duty Hours of AMT:
   5.1. Normal duty hours of the AMT are from 0700-1600, Monday through Friday. During these
   hours, the AMT will first eliminate discrepancies found by the airfield management offices. If no dis-
   crepancies are found, the AMT will follow the routine maintenance schedule outlined by the Superin-
   tendent for that day.
   5.2. Only pavement failure or damage of an emergency nature shall be repaired during the hours of
   1600-0700. Pavements damaged due to normal traffic, emergency landings, lightning strikes, and so
   forth shall be considered a hazard to flying operations if the damage has occurred on the active run-
   ways or taxiways. These hazards warrant immediate repair if weather conditions permit. The above
   mentioned procedure shall also apply to Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.

6. Coordination of Repairs:
   6.1. All airfield pavements failures or damage will be reported to Base Operations Dispatch, who will
   request repair through the 49 CES Service Call Desk. The Service Call Desk will contact the Horizon-
4                                                        HOLLOMANAFBI32-1004 7 MARCH 1996


    tal Construction Superintendent with the location, extent, and person requesting the repair. The Air-
    field Maintenance Foreman/NCOIC will inspect the failure or damaged pavements and report the
    findings to Base Operations. The Chief, Airfield Management/Base Operations Dispatcher will deter-
    mine if repair can be made without interfering with normal airfield operations.
    6.2. The Airfield Maintenance Foreman/NCOIC will report to Base Operations before the AMT
    begins any work on the runways or taxiways. Base Operations will be given starting times and esti-
    mated completion dates of all work in these areas.
    6.3. Base Operations Dispatch will notify the airfield control tower of the location, extent, and esti-
    mated completion time of all repairs in these areas.
    6.4. No work will be done on the active runways without radio contact with the Control Tower.
    6.5. All repairs which are not completed during the normal duty day will be reported to Base Opera-
    tions Dispatcher. Unfinished or major repairs requiring several days work in the same area will be
    marked with lights during non-daylight hours.

7. Airfield Sweeping. Airfield sweeping responsibilities and procedures are outlined in HAFBI 91-2.

8. Records Maintenance:
    8.1. The 49 CES Engineering Branch is responsible for developing the Airfield Pavement Plan, Mas-
    ter File C-5, and Aircraft Parking Plan, Master Plan Tab C-1-1. Daily, monthly, and annual inspections
    documentation will be accomplished as stated in paragraph 3.2., 3.3., and 3.4.
    8.2. The 49 CES Horizontal Construction Section will maintain a current record of airfield joint seal
    history.



                                                         BRUCE CARLSON, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                         Commander
