BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           HOLLOMAN AFB INSTRUCTION 10-201
49TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                              11 AUGUST 2009

                                                                                     Operations

                                                           RECALL AND ACCOUNTABILITY
                                                               REPORTING PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available digitally.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

                                                                        Certified by: 49 FSS/CC
OPR: 49 FSS/FSOXI
                                                                        (Major Kurt A. Mencke)
Supersedes:   HOLLOMANAFBI10-201, 21                                                   Pages: 16
              October 2004



This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-218, Personnel Accountability In
Conjunction With Natural Disasters or National Emergencies. It establishes recall procedures
and methodologies of tracking for units assigned to the 49th Fighter Wing (49 FW) and tenant
units stationed at Holloman AFB. It applies to all United States Air Force military personnel and
emergency-essential civilian personnel including tenant organizations. Recall of Holloman AFB
and 49 FW personnel will be directed by the 49th Fighter Wing Commander (49 FW/CC).
Maintain records prescribed by processes in this publication according to Air Force Manual
(AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and dispose of them according to the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at the AF Portal link for the AF Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS). Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer
recommended changes and questions to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to 49th Force Support Squadron
Installation Personnel Readiness Office (49 FSS/FSOXI), 681 Second Street, Holloman AFB,
NM 88330-8060.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. This OI is in two
parts. Chapter 1 deals with Recall Procedures. Chapter 2 deals with HHQ directed
Accountability Actions.
2                                                HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009



                                            Chapter 1

                                           RECALLS

1.1. Purpose. To provide the 49 FW/CC, a process for contacting 49 FW military and
emergency-essential civilian personnel (with or without telephone communications) to either
recall them or to simply convey essential information and/or directives under special
circumstances. The ability of the 49 FW to successfully implement this plan is predicated on
group commanders, unit commanders, and staff agency chiefs developing and maintaining
accurate unit recall rosters for all assigned personnel. A recall is successful if all tasked units
achieve 100% notification of assigned personnel. Additionally, if accountability is directed,
units should report that information to Wing leadership within a specified amount of time,
directed by the 49 FW/CC. The overall objective is to rapidly assure that a sufficient level of
manpower is available to carry out all required tasks directed by the 49 FW/CC or Higher
Headquarters. This plan applies to both real-world and exercise situations.
1.2. Conditions for Implementation. At the discretion of the 49 FW/CC or designated
representative, recalls may be initiated for situations such as:
    1.2.1. Strategic Warning
    1.2.2. Operations Plan (OPLAN) Tasking
    1.2.3. Special Contingency Tasking
    1.2.4. Severe Weather Warnings/Natural Disasters
    1.2.5. Full Spectrum Threat Response
    1.2.6. Wing Readiness Exercises
    1.2.7. Other situations as directed by the 49 FW/CC or designated representative
    1.2.8. Group/Unit recalls may be conducted at the discretion of the respective commanders
1.3. Responsibilities.
    1.3.1. The 49 FW/CC or designated representative will direct recalls as required.
    1.3.2. All subordinate commanders, staff agencies, and tenant commanders will:
       1.3.2.1. Establish internal pyramid recall procedures which will provide for a general
       recall. This includes ensuring all military personnel register in the At Hoc system.
       During exercises, recall of personnel on leave or temporary duty (TDY) is simulated.
       During real-world events, Attachment 2 will be utilized to recall leave/TDY personnel.
       1.3.2.2. Review and update telephone and comm-out recall rosters at least monthly and
       provide a copy to the Command Post and each squadron member. Ensure recall rosters
       include a Privacy Act disclaimer, and are marked "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY." All
       unlisted telephone numbers must be included and annotated as "unlisted."
       1.3.2.3. Ensure unit/organization control centers implement Installation Control Center
       (ICC), general, selective, communication test, augmentation team, and communication-
       out recall procedures, as directed.
HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009                                                                  3


       1.3.2.4. Ensure recall rosters include emergency-essential civilian personnel.
       1.3.2.5. Appoint a squadron recall monitor (usually a Unit Control Center (UCC)
       member) who will be responsible for consolidating unit strength data and reporting as
       required via the Wing Reporting Tool (WRT).
       1.3.2.6. Ensure each member of the unit understands the importance of safeguarding
       their copy of the recall roster IAW AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
   1.3.3. Command Post will:
       1.3.3.1. Maintain an ICC list, with alternates, including their current address and
       telephone numbers. This list will be verified on a monthly basis. Commanders will
       notify their vice/deputy commanders. Commanders will notify the Command Post when
       the primary or alternate ICC member is not available.
       1.3.3.2. Initiate recall procedures as directed and enter Recall Initiation Time (RIT) in
       WRT.
       1.3.3.3. Notify 49th Force Support Squadron (49 FSS) Installation Personnel Readiness
       (IPR) cell phone immediately following RIT.
   1.3.4. IPR will:
       1.3.4.1. Act as focal point for all actions pertaining to recall strength reporting.
       1.3.4.2. Load base personnel/duty status information in WRT. This data will be:
           1.3.4.2.1. Total number assigned.
           1.3.4.2.2. Number of unit personnel on leave.
           1.3.4.2.3. Number of unit personnel in other duty statuses or otherwise unavailable
           {TDY [routine /deployment/training/permissive], hospitalization, confinement,
           quarters, Professional Military Education (PME), First Term Airman Center (FTAC),
           absence without leave (AWOL)}.
           1.3.4.2.4. A by-name listing of data in 1.3.4.2.2. and 1.3.4.2.3.
       1.3.4.3. Maintain a digital copy of 1.3.4.2. data. This will be used in case the WRT is
       unavailable.
   1.3.5. Unit Control Center personnel will:
       1.3.5.1. Use WRT to conduct all recall reporting as directed by Command Post.
       1.3.5.2. Access data in paragraph 1.3.4.2. and populate unit manning numbers in WRT.
       1.3.5.3. Update WRT recall numbers being aware of the reporting periods in paragraph
       1.5.4.
       1.3.5.4. Refer to para 1.4. for procedures to utilize in the event of system outages.
1.4. Hierarchy of Actions. Situations must be anticipated that require notification and response
actions that will vary as conditions dictate.               Power outages/fluctuations, computer
accessibility/usability, telephone availability, or other environmental limitations are just a few of
the contingencies that must be anticipated. The ICC Director will notify UCCs when a change in
4                                               HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009


hierarchy reporting method is required. The following is a hierarchy of methodologies for
accomplishing recall reporting between the Command Post, UCCs, and IPR.
    1.4.1. WRT. Units perform real-time recall/accountability reporting using WRT as directed
    by Command Post.
    1.4.2. Email. In the event of WRT outage, email will be utilized. IPR will send the data in
    1.3.4.2 and Attachment 3 to each UCC org box. Units will email back Attachment 3 to the
    49 FSS Installation Personnel Readiness box each hour until mission complete. IPR will
    consolidate hourly and report data to Command Post.
    1.4.3. Phone. In the event of network outage, the telephone system will be utilized. UCCs
    will call IPR to provide a valid fax number. The data in 1.3.4.2 and Attachment 3 will then
    be faxed to each UCC. Units will fax back Attachment 3 to IPR each hour until mission
    complete. IPR will consolidate hourly and report data to Command Post.
    1.4.4. Runner. In the event of total communications outage, UCCs will send a runner to IPR
    to retrieve hardcopy data of 1.3.4.2 and Attachment 3. UCCs will then send follow-on
    runners to IPR, each hour, with Attachment 3 filled in until mission complete. IPR will
    consolidate hourly and report data to Command Post via runner.
1.5. Execution.
    1.5.1. General:
       1.5.1.1. Higher headquarters, 49 FW/CC, or designated representative will execute this
       program.
       1.5.1.2. When this program is executed, the Command Post Controller will initiate the
       appropriate telephone or comm-out recall procedures.
    1.5.2. Telephone recall procedures:
       1.5.2.1. The Command Post controller will contact the primary, alternate, or most senior
       representative for each group and relay one or more of the following execution messages
       as appropriate for the type(s) of recall(s) to be accomplished.
           1.5.2.1.1. "This is (name of caller), Holloman Command Post. The 49th Fighter
           Wing Commander has directed a (Senior or Full) ICC Recall. Please report to the
           command post. Recall Initiation Time is _____."
           1.5.2.1.2. "This is (name of caller), Holloman Command Post. The 49th Fighter
           Wing Commander has directed a General recall. Recall Initiation Time is ______."
           1.5.2.1.3. "This is (name of caller), Holloman Command Post. The 49th Fighter
           Wing Commander has directed a Selective recall. The following unit(s) is/are
           affected: (state units). Recall Initiation Time is ______."
           1.5.2.1.4. "This is (name of caller), Holloman Command Post. The 49th Mission
           Support Group (49 MSG) commander requires (security forces, search and recovery,
           etc.) augmentation. Please have your augmentees report to their augmentation duty
           locations. Recall Initiation Time is ______."
       1.5.2.2. Each individual, when contacted, will:
HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009                                                                5


        1.5.2.2.1. Initiate their portion of the telephone recall pyramid as detailed in their unit
        recall procedures.
            1.5.2.2.1.1. Positive contact will be made with every individual. Leaving a
            message on an answering machine or activating a pager is not considered positive
            contact. Only the type of recall and RIT will be passed.
            1.5.2.2.1.2. When an individual in the pyramid cannot be contacted, the
            individual who attempted contact is responsible for notifying all personnel the
            absent person would normally contact. In addition, the individual who attempted
            contact will immediately notify their duty station about individuals who they
            could not contact. This will require each individual to have in their possession, at
            all times, a current and complete copy of that portion of their unit’s telephone and
            communication-out recall roster for which they are responsible. UCC/Unit recall
            monitor will account for/attempt contact with all persons who could not be
            contacted during initial recall.
        1.5.2.2.2. Report to their normal duty station unless otherwise directed. Arrive at
        their duty station in appropriate military duty uniform.
     1.5.2.3. Augmentation Team Recall will be accomplished as follows:
        1.5.2.3.1. The using organization (e.g., 49th Security Forces Squadron (49 SFS)) will
        request augmentation use by coordinating with their group commander or designated
        representative. The 49 MSG commander will have authority to recall security forces,
        subsistence operations, search and recovery or shelter management augmentees and
        any mobility augmentees if the situation warrants.
        1.5.2.3.2. Once augmentation has been deemed necessary, the using group
        commander will inform the Command Post of their decision. The Command Post
        will then notify each group of the recall per paragraph 1.5.2.1.4.
  1.5.3. Communications-Out (Comm-Out) Recall procedures. If the commercial telephone
  system is unable for recall, the following procedures will be used:
     1.5.3.1. The Command Post Controller will:
        1.5.3.1.1. Confirm a situation exists which requires the 49 FW/CC or acting
        commander's presence.
        1.5.3.1.2. Inform 49 SFS Control Center of the situation and obtain runner support
        (one patrol car).
     1.5.3.2. Security Forces Operations will:
        1.5.3.2.1. Dispatch one driver and vehicle to the Command Post to receive the
        situation briefing.
        1.5.3.2.2. Have the security forces runner deliver the Command Post situation
        briefing to the 49 FW/CC (or acting responsible officer) with Command Post
        recommendations and notify the Command Post of any commander's instructions.
        1.5.3.2.3. 49 SFS will notify 49 FW/CC, 49th Fighter Wing Vice Commander (49
        FW/CV), 49 OG/CC, 49th Maintenance Group Commander (49 MXG/CC), 49th
6                                                 HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009


           Materiel Maintenance Group Commander (49 MMG/CC), 49 MSG/CC, and 49th
           Medical Group Commander (49 MDG/CC), and affected tenants units who will notify
           their respective personnel.
       1.5.3.3. Units will report data using using the hierarchy in paragraph 1.4.
    1.5.4. For recall of all personnel, the following general objectives apply:
       1.5.4.1. Twenty-five percent of available personnel within 1 hour.
       1.5.4.2. Seventy percent of available personnel within 2 hours.
       1.5.4.3. Ninety percent of available personnel within 3 hours.
1.6. Communication Test. Communication tests are designed to evaluate the effectiveness of
the recall system, but not require personnel to report to their duty stations. Telephonic status
reports are not required. The augmentee program is not implemented.
    1.6.1. A communication test will be initiated to exercise a specific part of or all of the recall
    systems. This test will include the statement: "This is a communication test of recall
    procedures. Record the time you were called. Continue the recall process; however,
    reporting to work immediately is not required."
    1.6.2. Units participating in a communication test will provide the originating agency with
    the time their recall was completed (i.e., their last person contacted). As an example, units
    within the Operations Group (OG) will respond to the OG recall monitor, who will, in-turn,
    provide the Command Post the time their respective communication tests were completed.
HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009                                                               7


                                           Chapter 2

                                    ACCOUNTABILITY

2.1. Purpose. During natural disasters or national emergencies, the ability to quickly assess the
status of Air Force Airmen, Department of the Air Force (DAF) and Nonappropriated Funds
(NAF) civilians and families is critical. Both our ability to recover from these incidents and to
return to normal operations are top priorities.
2.2. Total Force Accountability Concept. Total Force accountability is defined as the accurate
accounting for all Air Force personnel at all times regardless of location.
   2.2.1. For the purpose of this Instruction, the term “Total Force” includes Air Force active
   duty personnel, ANG/AFRES personnel, DAF and NAF civilians, Defense Enrollment
   Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) enrolled family members, and family members of
   DAF/NAF employee (when receiving evacuation entitlements).
   2.2.2. Participation by civilian bargaining employees (both appropriated and non-
   appropriated) is on a voluntary basis. Non-bargaining employees are required to participate.
   Using Attachment 5, civilian employees must elect one of two options:
       2.2.2.1. They agree to voluntarily provide their telephone number to be used for
       accountability and emergency purposes on a civilian recall roster. They understand the
       roster may be maintained by anyone in their chain of command, the Commander’s Staff
       and the Client Support Administrator working in Network Control Centers. Recall
       rosters placed on shared drives will be password protected to ensure only those
       individuals stated above have access. Furthermore, individuals listed above maintaining
       the recall roster at home will ensure it is used for official use only and that Privacy Act
       laws are followed. They also understand that accountability/ emergency notification
       exercises may occur. They will keep their telephone information current with their
       supervisor.
       2.2.2.2. They elect not to provide their telephone number to be used on a recall roster for
       accountability and emergency purposes. They, therefore, release the government from
       liability of accounting for them. They understand this waiver applies only for the
       accountability recall roster and that they must still provide contact information to their
       supervisor for their civilian personnel file.
   2.2.3. Total Force Accountability is making positive contact with any of the aforementioned
   members residing, on leave, deployed, on pass, or TDY in the impacted area, also known as
   the Area Of Concern (AOC).
2.3. Responsibilities. Accountability is first and foremost a command responsibility. Under
certain circumstances however, a commander’s ability to accurately track and account for the
required forces and certain family members may be greatly impeded. Utilizing redundant
systems and ensuring that the individual members are aware of these requirements will ensure
that accountability can be achieved in the direst of situations.
2.4. Execution.
   2.4.1. Command Post.
8                                                 HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009


       2.4.1.1. Receives notification from ACC Operations Center stating base accountability
       actions should be initiated. This accountability message contains the Area(s) Of Concern
       (AOC) and required accountability response times. Calls and forwards copy of message,
       via email, to the 49 FSS Installation Personnel Readiness email account.
       2.4.1.2. Notifies 49 FW/CC or designated representative. Upon direction from 49
       FW/CC or designated representative, notifies unit commanders to initiate UCC activities,
       initiate a standup of the 49 FSS Personnel Readiness Unit, and/or activates ICC.
    2.4.2. IPR will perform the following actions:
       2.4.2.1. Notifies each unit of the AOC parameters, notification timelines, and the
       accountability criteria referenced in paragraph 2.2. Again, this will be sent to each
       UCC’s email organizational account.
       2.4.2.2. As required, sends accountability response products to ACC Operations Center
       to meet suspense criteria established in tasking message. When sending responses,
       courtesy copies 49 FSS/CC, 49 FW/CP CONSOLE, and other designated
       offices/personnel.
           2.4.2.2.1. Using data from DTS, LeaveWeb, DCAPES, and MilPDS, produce a by-
           name listing for each unit for personnel not present for duty. Data will include:
           member's name, rank, location and to/from dates of TDY/leave event. This data will
           be sent to each UCC’s email organizational account.
    2.4.3. Unit Control Centers.
       2.4.3.1. Accesses information referenced in 2.4.2.1., 2.4.2.2., and the Air Force
       Personnel Accountability and Assessment System (AFPAAS - see 2.5.1. below) . Each
       unit must complete two steps with the information:
           2.4.3.1.1. Validate the information. The info provided is a systems baseline product
           only. There is the potential that some of the listed personnel are not in fact in the
           AOC (expired leave, etc). Likewise, there is the potential for personnel to be in the
           AOC but who are not in fact shown on the listing (i.e. member had their family return
           to their home of record during member’s six month deployment). The most accurate
           way for a unit to determine true accountability is to utilize their pyramid notification
           rosters.
           2.4.3.1.2. Contact each member in the AOC to determine their safety/security status.
2.5. Hierarchy of Actions. Situations must be anticipated that require notification and response
actions that will vary as conditions dictate.               Power outages/fluctuations, computer
accessibility/usability, telephone availability, or other environmental limitations are just a few of
the contingencies that must be anticipated. The following is a hierarchy of methodologies for
accomplishing accountability reporting between the Command Post, UCCs, and IPR.
    2.5.1. AFPAAS. The preferred and primary tool of use. AFPAAS (https://afpaas.af.mil) is
    a web-based application that standardizes a method for the Air Force to account, assess,
    manage, and monitor the recovery and reconstitution process for personnel and their families
    affected and/or scattered by a wide-spread catastrophic event. The AFPAAS provides
    valuable information to all levels of the Air Force chain of command, allowing commanders
    to make strategic decisions which facilitate a return to stability.
HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009                                                            9


  2.5.2. Email. If the AFPAAS website is unavailable, email will be used. IPR will send the
  data in 2.4.2. and Attachment 4 to each UCC org box. Units will email back Attachment 4 to
  the 49 FSS Installation Personnel Readiness box IAW suspense criteria established in tasking
  message. IPR will consolidate and report data to Command Post.
  2.5.3. Phone. In the event of network outage, the telephone system will be utilized. UCCs
  will call IPR to provide a valid fax number. The data in 2.4.2. and Attachment 4 will then be
  faxed to each UCC. Units will fax back Attachment 4 IAW suspense criteria established in
  tasking message. IPR will consolidate and report data to Command Post.
  2.5.4. Runner. In the event of total communications outage, UCCs will send a runner to IPR
  to retrieve hardcopy data of 2.4.2. and Attachment 4. UCCs will then send follow-on runners
  to IPR, IAW suspense criteria established in tasking message, with Attachment 4 filled in.
  IPR will consolidate and report data to Command Post via runner.




                                          JEFFREY L. HARRIGIAN, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 49th Fighter Wing
10                                             HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 10-218, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National
Emergencies, 31 October 2006
HOLLOMANAFBI 10-202, Theater Battle Management Core System Unit Level (TBMCS-UL),
10 February 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ICC— Installation Control Center
IPR— Installation Personnel Readiness (formerly known as Personnel Readiness Unit (PRU))
OPLAN—Operations Plan
PFD—Present For Duty
RIT—Recall Initiation Time
UCC—Unit Control Centers

Terms
Augmentation Team Recall—recall of the entire compliment or portions of the base
augmentation team. Recall of augmentees will be accomplished through their chain of
command. The using activity will not contact the augmentees directly except ICC administrative
augmentees, which are a part of the ICC Recall.
Communication Test Recall—recall rosters and communication links are checked. The ICC
does not convene. No one is required to report to work other than normal duty hours. The
Augmentation program is not implemented.
Full ICC Recall—ICC members and the ICC Administration Augmentation Duty team are
required. After reviewing the situation, the ICC may direct further actions to be taken by
specific agencies.
General Recall—all assigned and attached personnel are recalled. All personnel will be
contacted or accounted for. Shift workers may be accounted for via telephone contact and will
follow current duty schedule and remain on telephone standby unless otherwise directed.
Reporting procedures are determined by unit commanders. Unless otherwise directed, unit
commanders will establish Unit Control Centers (UCC), and dispatch augmentees to their work
center. The ICC will convene and review the situation, and direct further action, as required.
Further actions will be conveyed by ICC directives to UCCs.
Pyramid Recalls—used to immediately recall all military personnel to their duty locations. Unit
strength reporting is always required. The urgent matter of a recall requires all affected
personnel to report to duty regardless of date, time or circumstances. Personnel will not delay
for personal grooming (showers, shaving, eating, etc).
HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009                                                                 11


Selective Recall—selected organizations will be recalled as directed by the ICC or unit
commander. Personnel from those selected units will be contacted or accounted for. Reporting
procedures are determined by unit commanders. All group commanders will be notified of the
selective recall regardless if their unit is recalled or not. After reviewing the situation, the ICC
will direct further action, as required.
Senior ICC Recall—group commanders and specified personnel are required. After reviewing
the situation, the Senior ICC may direct further actions to be taken by specific agencies.
Telephone Standby—Personnel placed on telephone standby will remain in the immediate
vicinity (4-ring alert) of the telephone number listed on the recall roster. They will be available
for immediate recall. They will report for duty at their regularly scheduled time unless otherwise
directed. Personnel who have a cellular phone as their primary means of notification must take
all steps necessary to remain in contact with their unit (i.e. battery charged, within calling range,
etc.)
12                                              HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009


                                        Attachment 2
     EXAMPLE LETTER RECALLING PERSONNEL ON LEAVE IN LOCAL AREA

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPROPRIATE LETTERHEAD
MEMORANDUM FOR 49 FW ICC Date
FROM: (UNIT/CC)
SUBJECT: Recall of Personnel on Leave in the Local Area
The following personnel are on leave in the local area. These individuals have been contacted
via telephone and recalled to Holloman AFB.


(Signature)
Typed Name, Grade, USAF
Unit Commander
cc: Unit Deployment Manager
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EXAMPLE DMS (EMAIL) MESSAGE RECALLING PERSONNEL TDY
From: 49mss.cc@holloman.af.mil
To: 2bw.cc@barksdale.af.mil
5bw.cc@minot.afb.mil
Subj: 49 FW Recall
1. The following individuals from the 49 FW are recalled effective immediately. Members
should return to Holloman AFB by the most expedient means available.
     For 2 BW: Capt James, Jessie A., 555-55-5555, TDY to 2MSS/DPM
     For 5 BW: MSgt Truman, Harry D., 444-44-4444, TDY to 5 MSS/DPMA.
2. Members contact their home station duty section upon notification.

EXAMPLE LETTER RECALLING PERSONNEL ON LEAVE
OUTSIDE THE LOCAL AREA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPROPRIATE LETTERHEAD
MEMORADUM FOR 49 FW ICC Date
FROM: (UNIT/CC)
SUBJECT: Recall of Personnel on Leave Outside the Local Area
HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009                                                          13


The following personnel are on leave outside the local area. These individuals have been
contacted via telephone and recalled to Holloman AFB.
NAME/RANK ADDRESS PHONE LEAVE TYPE
John Doe, TSgt 1976 John Deer Dr.
Alamogordo NM 33810
434-0000 Ord Leave
John Friday, Capt 188 Slippery Rock Ln
Cloudcroft NM 88312
477-2116 Emer Leave


(Signature)
Typed Name, Grade, USAF
Unit Commander
cc: Unit Deployment Manager
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
14                                              HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009


                                         Attachment 3
                             RECALL COMM-OUT WORKSHEET



RECALL COMM-OUT WORKSHEET                   DATE ________________               RIT __________

                                     OTHER/               AVAIL      AVAIL      AVAIL     M/C
UNIT            ASGN      LEAVE      UNAVAIL     AVAIL    RIT +1     RIT +2     RIT +3    TIME




Columns defined:
Unit: Self-explanatory.
Asgn: Total number of UMPR-assigned personnel. Do not use authorizations, i.e., UMD
Leave: Normal, Terminal, Appellate, Other Leaves (Duty Status Codes 09, 10, 52, etc).
Other/Unavailable:     TDY    (routine/deployment/permissive),     hospitalization,   confinement,
quarters, PME,
FTAC, AWOL, etc (Duty Status Codes 19-27, 29, 61, 63-67, 70-82, etc).
Available: Those who have signed into unit or been accounted for.
HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009                                                                 15


                                       Attachment 4
                   NON-AFPAAS ACCOUNTABILITY TRACKING SHEET




                                                                                                 EAWUN
                                                                                               DUSTWUN/
As Of:                    Total   Account Unacco                      Evacuated,    Civilian




                                                           Deceased
Sq:                      Assigned ed For  unted                        Alt Duty,    Family
                          in the           For                        Safe Haven   Members
                          AOC                                                      Receiving
                                                                                   Benefits
1. Active Duty
2. DOD Civilians
3. NAF Civilians
4. Dependents of
Active Duty
5. Family Members of
DOD Civilians (as
identified by the
civilian employee)
6. Family members of
NAF Civilians (as
identified by the
civilian employee)
          Total
Definitions:
TOTAL ASSIGNED in the AOC: Self- Explanatory
ACCOUNTED FOR:
The number of personnel who have been accounted for. Positive contact has been made and
their safety/security has been ascertained.
UNACCOUNTED FOR:
The number of personnel who have not been accounted for.
DECEASED:
Self-explanatory
EVACUATED, ALT DUTY, SAFE HAVEN:
The number of personnel who are been confirmed as moving away from the evacuation area,
relocated to an alternate duty location, or placed in designated safe haven location.
CIVILIAN FAMILY MEMBERS RECEIVING BENEFITS:
Number of civilian employees and their dependents receiving authorized entitlements under JTR
Vol II, Chapter 6
DUSTWUN/EAWUN:
Duty Status - Whereabouts Unknown and Excused Absence - Whereabouts Unknown
16                          HOLLOMANAFBI10-201 11 AUGUST 2009


                      Attachment 5
     CIVILIAN ACCOUNTABILITY DESIGNATION STATEMENT
