BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    HOLLOMAN AFB INSTRUCTION 48-131
49TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                      1 DECEMBER 2008
                                                                               Veterinary Health Services

                                                                               CONTROL OF ANIMALS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available digitally.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 49 SFS/S5IP                                           Certified by: 49 SFS/CC (LtCol John W. West)
Supersedes: HOLLOMANAFBI31-205,                                                                Pages: 9
            15 August 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Joint Instruction (AFJI) 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, and
establishes policies and procedures for the control of animals on Holloman Air Force Base (HAFB). It
applies to all personnel living or working on HAFB and all species of animals, domestic and wild.
EXCEPTION: This instruction is not applicable to the HAFB Riding Stables. Maintain records created
as a result of published processes in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and dispose of records IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS),
available from the Air Force Portal at the AF Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) link.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to 49th
Security Forces Squadron Law Enforcement Desk (49 SFS/S5IP), 750 First Street, Holloman AFB, NM
88330-8033.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction provides guidance and corrects administrative errors, and incorporates new references
and terminology. This instruction has been renamed to HAFB 48-131. Chapter 4, Control of Animals
and Animal Bite Incident, has significant procedural and administrative changes.
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. 49th Security Forces Squadron, Commander (SFS/CC) . The SFS/CC is responsible for the
   enforcement of this instruction and ensures the capture and impounding of stray canine(s) to be held
   in building 1199 for a minimum of 48 hours before disposition. The SFS/CC further ensures
   transportation of the canine(s) to Alamogordo Animal Control (AAC) when necessary.
   1.2. 49 Security Forces Squadron (SFS) . SFS personnel will provide food, water and will
   conduct health and welfare evaluations of the stray animal(s) at a frequency of no less than every six
   (6) hours any time there is an animal temporarily housed in Building 1199. The checks will be
   annotated on the building check sheet and will be conducted at the beginning of each shift to ensure
2                                                      HOLLOMANAFBI48131 1 DECEMBER 2008


    no change has occurred in the stray population status. If no animals are present, the check sheet will
    reflect that the evaluation was conducted, and that no animals were present.
       1.2.1. SFS will request Otero County Animal Control (OCAC) respond to all aggressive
       domestic or wild animals.
    1.3. 49th Civil Engineer Squadron (CES) . The base civil engineer is responsible for pickup of
    all domestic felines on base proper, non-aggressive wild animals, and all expired animals. CE will
    determine the necessity for testing dead animals for cause of death.
    1.4. Soaring Heights Communities (SHC) . SHC will ensure that at the time of quarters
    assignment, occupants are advised of this instruction on the control of animals and informed of the
    base requirement to register pets within 72 hours of arrival. All pets will be registered through the
    HAFB Veterinary Services and be micro chipped.
       1.4.1. SHC will track all nuisance complaints filed against a base housing occupant’s pet, to
       include excessive barking, allowing a pet to run loose, destruction of property, failure to pick up
       droppings on a daily basis, etc. SFS will issue a HAFB Form 46, Control and Disposition of
       Domestic Animals Violation Notice for all stray dogs captured and for all substantiated
       complaints of dog bites. 49 SFS/S5IP will contact SHC in the event of an animal bite for
       tracking purposes. SHC will track all pet offenses.
    1.5. HAFB Veterinary Service. The HAFB Veterinary Service is responsible for making
    appointments available at the Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF), through which authorized
    Airmen and their dependents may arrange for rabies vaccinations, other immunizations, and
    microchips for their companion animals, so that their pets are in compliance with the base mandates
    for care. They are also to enforce quarantines as necessary, and for providing both 49 SFS/S5IP
    and SHC a monthly electronic spreadsheet (Excel format), listing all registered pet owner’s names,
    addresses, phone numbers, and the pet’s rabies certification date with tag number.
    1.6. Housing Occupant. If the housing occupant is temporary duty (TDY), on leave, or out of the
    immediate area, he/she must provide the housing office written notification of the name, address and
    telephone number of the individual who will be responsible for the animals(s) during their absence.
2. Animal Control Requirements.
    2.1. Compliance. Personnel maintaining or bringing animals onto HAFB will comply with the
    provisions of this and other applicable regulations. No more than two pets exceeding the age of 3
    months may be kept at any one household. Excluded from these requirements are: caged birds,
    small domesticated rodents, fish, rabbits, reptiles, amphibians, and insects. No animal presenting a
    public health hazard or danger, as determined by the base veterinarian, will be kept on HAFB.
    Personnel are advised against holiday purchases of chicks and rabbits. All unusual or exotic pets
    will be cleared with the base veterinarian prior to purchase. NOTE: Wild animals are prohibited.
    2.2. Vicious Dogs. Vicious dogs as defined below are hereby banned from base housing at
    Holloman AFB. Inbound personnel will not be allowed to bring pets, as listed in para 2.2.1, onto
    Holloman AFB. Existing residents with these types of dogs may continue to keep them on
    Holloman AFB, but may not breed or acquire more of these types of dogs. Additionally, these
    “grandfathered” pets will be banned from base if they escape, threaten to attack when accompanied
    by the means to carry out such a threat, or bite one time. Furthermore, current residents choosing to
    keep “grandfathered” pets will be required to show proof of a liability insurance policy to the
    housing office. The policy must specifically identify the dog(s) and have a minimum of $100,000 of
    coverage.
HOLLOMANAFBI48131 1 DECEMBER 2008                                                                       3


     2.2.1. Vicious dogs are defined as Pit Bulls, American Staffordshire Bull Terriers, English
     Staffordshire Bull Terriers, Rottweilers (full or mixed breed), wolves, or wolf hybrids. These
     animals are not permitted on HAFB. In cases of mixed breeds and other disputes, the base
     military veterinarian’s determination will be final and conclusive.
     2.2.2. A canine bite will be considered unprovoked unless the threat, injury or damage was
     sustained by a person or canine that was, but not limited to:
         2.2.2.1. Trespassing upon premises occupied by the owner or the dog.
         2.2.2.2. Provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or had repeatedly, in the past,
         provoked, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog.
         2.2.2.3. Individual was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         2.2.2.4. The canine was responding to pain or injury, protecting itself or its offspring or
         protecting or defending a human being or domestic animal from attack or assault.
         2.2.2.5. Refer to paragraph 5.3 for specific dog bite citing procedures.
  2.3. All Pets. All pets must be registered with the VTF and SHC office within 72 hours of
  acquiring the pet. Failure to observe the prohibitions contained in this order is a violation of Article
  92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
  2.4. Pet Registration and Vaccination. Pet owners will ensure each required animal is vaccinated
  against rabies by the time it is 3 months old, and begins the distemper combination vaccine at 6-8
  weeks of age, or upon acquisition of the animal. After the animal has completed the initial series,
  the distemper vaccine becomes an annual procedure. Pet owners will also ensure each required
  animal is vaccinated against diseases as listed in paragraphs 2.7.1 and 2.7.2. unless the base
  veterinarian determines that a medical condition would preclude such action. Pets must be
  registered yearly. A Veterinary Health Record (green folder) and a certificate of rabies vaccination
  signed by a military or licensed civilian veterinarian will constitute registration, along with proof of
  vaccinations mentioned in paragraphs2.7.1. and 2.7.2. An invoice or bill from a licensed veterinarian
  or a statement signed by a licensed veterinarian will be accepted as proof. Pet owners will ensure
  the most recent copies of vaccinations are provided to the veterinary clinic. In addition, prior to PCS,
  separation, or when pet ownership status changes, pet owners will pick up their respective animal
  registration folders from the clinic.
     2.4.1. Concurrent with registration and/or “new pet” vaccinations, all personnel will be required
     to enroll their pets in a microchip identification program, either through the base veterinarian or a
     licensed civilian veterinarian of their choice. There may be certain instances where
     microchipping will be delayed from the first “new pet” vaccination visit, which is at the
     discretion of the base veterinarian, and which will be completed at a booster appointment in the
     future. It is the pet owner’s responsibility to ensure that the booster appointment(s) are kept,
     thereby completing the vaccination series and having their pet microchipped. When a civilian
     veterinarian is used, owners must show proof of the procedure.
  2.5. Restrictions.
     2.5.1. Pets will not be permitted in, or immediately adjacent to, any base dormitory. Pets are
     restricted from places of duty, excluding HAFB Veterinarian Services, and service activities on
     HAFB. EXCEPTION: Pets utilized to assist handicap personnel are exempt from these
     restrictions.
4                                                      HOLLOMANAFBI48131 1 DECEMBER 2008


       2.5.2. All pets must be kept indoors or contained within a fenced yard. Pets in unfenced yards
       on a tether are not allowed. Pets kept in fenced yards, on or off tether, must have access at all
       times to adequate food, water and shelter. Pets must not be left unattended while on a tether.
       2.5.3. Pets taken outside the confines of their respective fenced yards and/or structures must be
       on a leash, harness, in a carrier, or otherwise under the positive physical control of the owner.
       Pets may not be exercised on athletic fields or tracks though they may be exercised on paths
       designated for human use, only if constant positive physical control and the owners collect any
       and all feces for proper disposal. NOTE: Pets may be taken off leash at Raptor Lake only if
       positive control of the animal(s) can be maintained with effective voice commands.
       2.5.4. OCAC will deal with all aggressive animals at the request of 49 SFS.
       2.5.5. Inhumane treatment of animals is prohibited. This includes, but is not limited to, the
       following:
           2.5.5.1. Failure to provide adequate food, water, shelter, or veterinarian care.
           2.5.5.2. Driving or working an animal unfit for such labor.
           2.5.5.3. Beating, torturing, or mutilating any animal.
           2.5.5.4. Willfully poisoning, killing, or injuring an animal.
           2.5.5.5. Leaving an animal unattended in a vehicle during extreme hot/cold weather
           conditions (greater than 80° F and less than 30° F) longer than five minutes.
       2.5.6. The law enforcement desk will typically be the first base unit notified of animal neglect or
       abuse. If in the opinion of the security forces patrol there is suspected inhumane treatment of
       animals, the base veterinarian will carefully evaluate suspected cases. If, in the veterinarian’s
       estimation, abuse or neglect has occurred, the animals will be removed from the home
       immediately. The veterinarian will advise the installation commander and security forces on
       such cases. Once briefed, the owning squadron commander/staff agency chief will determine if
       corrective actions should be taken and under advisement of the veterinarian determine the
       disposition of the animal. The commander/staff agency chief will also determine if family
       advocacy should be involved in the case due to a high statistical correlation between animal
       abuse and domestic abuse.
    2.6. Quarantine. If a pet, whose owner resides on base, bites or injures a person, the animal will be
    taken to the base veterinarian for examination. If during non-duty hours, the veterinarian will be
    contacted to determine the disposition of the animal. If the base veterinarian determines quarantine
    is necessary, SFS will transport the animal to Bldg 1199 and maintain it there until the base
    veterinarian determines it can be released to the owner. Security Forces will obtain the following
    information from the bite victim and the dog owner: rank, name, squadron, and duty phone of
    sponsor.
    2.7. Vaccination Requirements .
       2.7.1. Puppies are to be vaccinated for canine distemper and canine parvovirus, in a multivalent
       combination vaccine, at 3 to 4-week intervals beginning no earlier than 6 weeks of age until they
       are 20-22 weeks of age. Unvaccinated dogs over 22 weeks of age are to receive two vaccinations
       approximately 1 month apart for these diseases before they are considered immunized.
       Thereafter, dogs are to receive yearly booster vaccinations for these diseases by a licensed
HOLLOMANAFBI48131 1 DECEMBER 2008                                                                        5


       veterinarian. These requirements are in the best interest of disease control and health for the pet
       and human population of HAFB.
       2.7.2. Kittens are to be vaccinated for feline panleukopenia (feline distemper), feline
       rhinotracheitis, and feline calicivirus at 3 to 4 week intervals beginning no earlier than 6 weeks
       of age until they are 20-22 weeks of age. Unvaccinated cats over 22 weeks of age are to receive
       two vaccinations approximately 1 month apart for these diseases before they are considered
       immunized. Thereafter, cats are to receive yearly booster vaccinations for these diseases by a
       licensed veterinarian. These requirements are in the best interest of disease control and health
       for the pet and human population of HAFB.
       2.7.3. All pets are required to receive the 1 year rabies vaccine.
3. Breeding. Breeding of pets on Holloman AFB is prohibited.
   3.1. Public Safety. In the interest of public safety it is recommended that all pets be either spayed
   or neutered.
4. Control of Animals and Animal Bite Incident.
   4.1. Uncontrolled or Stray Pet Impoundment. SFS personnel will be dispatched to attempt to
   capture stray domestic canines. SFS will transport stray canines to Bldg 1199, the stray canine
   facility, and will be responsible for health and welfare evaluations every six hours until the animal is
   transported to AAC. After 48 hours and when AAC is open, SFS will transport stray canines to
   AAC. CES will be responsible for the pickup and transport of stray felines, wild animals and
   expired animals. If the animal has a HAFB registration tag, SF personnel will consult the
   registration tag list provided by the HAFB Veterinary Services personnel and attempt to contact the
   registered owner of the animal to inform them of the capture. If an owner is contacted, SFS will
   issue a HAFB Form 46, Control and Disposition of Domestic Animals Violation Notice (See
   Attachment 2). One copy will be given to owner and additional copies will be forwarded to S5AR
   and base housing for tracking purposes.
       4.1.1. The cost for SFS impoundment is $25 and will be reimbursed to the Air Force. The
       number of recorded impoundments will return to zero, one year from the date of the first
       impoundment. Security Forces will annotate all animal related responses in the Security Forces
       Blotter for record.
       4.1.2. Upon the first stray animal offense, security forces will issue the owner a HAFB Form 46
       ($25.00 fine) and DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher. The animal will not be released to
       the owner until the owner provides a copy of the processed DD Form 1131 from military pay.
       4.1.3. Upon the second stray animal offense, the owner will be issued another HAFB Form 46
       ($50.00 fine) and DD Form 1131. The animal will not be released to the owner until the owner
       provides a copy of the processed DD Form 1131 from military pay.
       4.1.4. Upon the third stray animal offense, the owner will be issued another HAFB Form 46
       ($75.00 fine) and DD Form 1131. The animal will not be released to the owner until the owner
       provides a copy of the processed DD Form 1131 from military pay.
   4.2. Unclaimed Pets. Pets not claimed within 48 hours will be transported to AAC where they will
   become available for adoption or disposed of in accordance with applicable state laws. SFS will
   incur a $17.60 charge per day until the animal is adopted or disposed of in accordance with
   applicable state laws, for each animal transported to AAC.
6                                                      HOLLOMANAFBI48131 1 DECEMBER 2008


    4.3. Animal Bite. Upon the first incident of an unprovoked bite, the owner will be issued a HAFB
    Form 46 and an appealable notice to remove the animal from Holloman AFB within 10 calendar
    days. If the animal is quarantined at Bldg 1199, the owner will be charged a $25 fine for cost of
    sheltering the animal. The animal will not be released to the owner until the owner provides a copy
    of the processed DD Form 1131 from military pay.
       4.3.1. Upon the second incident of an unprovoked bite, the owner will be issued a HAFB Form
       46 and an unappealable notice to remove their animal from Holloman AFB within 10 calendar
       days. If the animal is quarantined at Bldg 1199, the owner will be charged a $50 fine for cost of
       sheltering the animal. The animal will not be released to the owner until the owner provides a
       copy of the processed DD Form 1131 from military pay.
5. Control of Farm and Ranch Animals.
    5.1. Sheltering. Farm and ranch animals (horses, mules, pigs, goats, cows, etc.) will not be kept as
    pets in homes or yards. These animals may only be kept at the HAFB Riding Stables, subject to the
    approval and restrictions of the base veterinarian and the HAFB Riding Club.
6. Feeding/Capture/Destroying of Wild Animals.
    6.1. Feeding. The feeding or keeping of wildlife as pets is an unsafe practice and will not be
    allowed. Wild animals including ground squirrels, prairie dogs, and coyotes are potential carriers of
    a large number of diseases that can be transmitted to humans. Plague and rabies pose the greatest
    danger in our area. Feeding wild animals increases the possibility of injury to humans and domestic
    animals and lures wildlife into closer contact with members of the Holloman community.
    6.2. Capturing. The New Mexico Department of Fish and Game will be contacted for assistance in
    capturing and disposing of large wild animals (deer, bears, coyotes, etc.).
    6.3. Threat of serious bodily injury or death. SFS personnel will take immediate action to
    terminate any threats of serious bodily injury or death to themselves or others posed by stray or wild
    animals.
7. Disposition of Sick or Expired Animals.
    7.1. Sick, Crippled, and/or Maimed Animals. Security Forces are responsible for contacting the
    New Mexico Department of Fish and Game concerning the disposition of sick, crippled, or maimed
    wild animals (deer, bears, raccoons, skunks, wild canines, wild domestic canine crosses, etc.).
    7.2. Expired Animals. The 49th Civil Engineer Entomology Section will pick up all dead animals
    (raccoons, skunks, exotic cats, wild canines, feral domestic canine crosses), and will consult with the
    base veterinarian prior to disposal if the animal is involved in a bite or scratch case. Dead animals
    should be picked up within 8 hours of notification. Skunks will be picked up immediately. The pet
    owner will dispose of dead privately-owned pets immediately. Deceased privately owned animals
    should be cremated. The base veterinary clinic or the AAC can provide information on preferred
    methods of disposal. At no time will a deceased animal be placed in housing base trash cans or
    dumpsters.
8. Adopted and Prescribed Forms: DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, HAFB Form 46,
Control and Disposition of Domestic Animal Violation Notice.
HOLLOMANAFBI48131 1 DECEMBER 2008                              7


                             JEFFREY L. HARRIGIAN, Col, USAF
                             Commander, 49th Fighter Wing
8                                                       HOLLOMANAFBI48131 1 DECEMBER 2008


                                              Attachment 1
              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29 August 2006

Abbreviation and Acronyms
AAC—-Alamogordo Animal Control
ACC—-Air Combat Command
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
HAFB—-Holloman Air Force Base
IMT—-Information Management Tool
OCAC—-Otero County Animal Control
PCS—-Permanent Change of Station
SHC—-Soaring Heights Communities
TDY—-Temporary Duty
UCMJ—-Uniform Code of Military Justice
WWW—-World Wide Web

Terms
Animal—-Includes all living species other than plants and microbes.
Farm or Ranch Animal—-A domesticated animal normally kept on a farm or ranch rather than in the
home or yard. This includes pigs, goats, etc.
Pet—-Domestic and semi-domestic, such as a parrot species kept as a companion animal within the
home or yard.
Stray—-Any pet outside the house or fenced yard not on a leash or tethered.
Unusual or Exotic Pets—-Examples of unusual or exotic pets are: skunks, opossums, squirrels,
alligators or crocodiles, venomous snakes, large cat breeds (tigers, mountain lions, etc.) and raptor birds.
Wild Animal—-Includes all non-domesticated species including those that are captive, such as:
monkeys and other primates, skunks, ferrets, raccoons, exotic cats, wild canines, wild domestic canine
crosses, venomous lizards and snakes, wild native birds, caimans, alligators, crocodiles, and any
endangered species.
HOLLOMANAFBI48131 1 DECEMBER 2008                                 9


                             Attachment 2
    CONTROL AND DISPOSITION OF DOMESTIC ANIMAL VIOLATION NOTICE
