BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   HOLLOMAN AFB INSTRUCTION 33-103
49TH FIGHTER WING                                                                          8 APRIL 1997

                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                            LAND MOBILE RADIO (LMR) SYSTEMS
                                                                               MANAGEMENT


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally.


OPR: 49 CS/SCML (George O. Royce)                                                Certified by: 49 CS/CC
                                                                         (Maj Armand D. Boudreau, Jr.)
Supersedes HAFBR 700-4, 22 November 1989                                                       Pages: 11
                                                                    Distribution: L plus HQ ACC/SCPP

This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communica-
tions, and Computer (C4) Systems. This instruction establishes the Holloman AFB Land Mobile Radio
(LMR) management program and prescribes procedures and responsibilities for its operation. It refer-
ences AFI 33-106, Land Mobile Radio (LMR) Systems Management.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Changed from a regulation to an instruction and from the 700 series to the 33 series. Updates general text
to conform to AFI 33-106, and eliminates reference to contracted LMR maintenance.



1. General. An LMR system is made up of radio communications nets, each with a specific mission.
Each net is a group of radios linked by one or more frequencies. Excluded from LMR systems are fixed
radio-alarm monitoring systems and low power systems as defined in AFI 33-118, Radio Frequency Spec-
trum Management. For definition of terms, see Attachment 1.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. LMR Systems Management, 49 CS/SCML, will:
       2.1.1. Manage Holloman AFB LMR systems.
       2.1.2. Prepare a base instruction IAW AFI 33-106, to accommodate local base situations.
       2.1.3. Designate a location for turning in and picking up LMR equipment requiring maintenance.
       Establish local procedures to request maintenance services.
       2.1.4. Prepare and maintain a continuity folder/book, including examples of forms used locally.
2                                                           HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997


       2.1.5. Review requests for LMR assets before submitting them to the base Command, Control,
       Communications and Computer Systems Officer (CSO) and ensure:
           2.1.5.1. Requests are capable of satisfying needs.
           2.1.5.2. Compatibility with existing equipment is maintained.
           2.1.5.3. Frequencies requested are authorized and compatible with items in use.
       2.1.6. Train newly assigned net managers.
       2.1.7. Prepare budget requirements for LMR maintenance.
       2.1.8. Maintain a database of all LMR assets assigned to Holloman AFB.
       2.1.9. Schedule preventive maintenance inspections (PMI's) on fixed LMR base stations and
       repeaters to ensure equipment performance is within specifications.
       2.1.10. Serve as net manager for the base paging network.
       2.1.11. Maintain net and systems diagrams showing locations of fixed equipment and any type of
       interfacing with other nets. Diagrams are to be kept in the net folder.
       2.1.12. Coordinate with net managers to inspect newly arrived equipment before it is placed into
       operation and obtain warranty information on equipment.
       2.1.13. Ensure condemned equipment has been demilitarized and assist the net manager in pre-
       paring proper documentation for turn in to supply.
       2.1.14. Prepare documentation on defective equipment items due to equipment abuse for possible
       Report of Survey actions.
       2.1.15. Ensure Intrinsically Safe radios are inspected as required.
       2.1.16. Coordinate the removal, relocation, or installation of fixed and mobile LMR equipment.
       2.1.17. Advise base and unit contingency planners to ensure deployment plans consider LMR
       usage, maintenance, frequency authorization, and compatibility.
    2.2. LMR net managers or alternate will:
       2.2.1. Be appointed, in writing (IAW Attachment 2), by their unit commander or designated rep-
       resentative to serve as a central point of contact within the organization to conduct business with
       the LMR Systems Management office, including LMR malfunctions, purchases, etc. Unit com-
       manders will be responsible to ensure that replacement net managers are appointed prior to current
       personnel being relieved of their duties, maintaining continuity within their units. The net man-
       ager or alternate will be responsible for any actions involving their net. Personnel other than the
       net manager may conduct business with the LMR Systems Management work center if coordi-
       nated in advance.
       2.2.2. Ensure all LMR equipment is properly used and all excess LMR equipment is promptly
       turned in to base supply after coordination with the LMR systems manager.
       2.2.3. Prepare, coordinate, and send requirements for new LMR equipment to 49 CS/SCX for ver-
       ification and presentation to the CSO. Ensure that LMR equipment to be ordered on AF Form 9,
       Request for Purchase, through the base contracting office has necessary CSO approval.
HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997                                                                       3


     2.2.4. Prepare and coordinate documentation for turn-in or transfer of LMR equipment. All
     actions will be coordinated with the LMR Systems Management office prior to forwarding to 49th
     Supply Squadron or 49th Medical Group Medical Equipment Management Office (MEMO).
     2.2.5. Ensure the LMR systems manager has inspected each new item before it is placed in ser-
     vice.
     2.2.6. Promptly report all lost or damaged equipment to the appropriate agencies and the LMR
     systems manager. If reports of survey or cash collection vouchers are required, prepare and pro-
     vide a copy to the LMR systems manager.
     2.2.7. Assist users to ensure that all LMR equipment is accounted for. Unrecorded or unautho-
     rized equipment will be reported to the LMR systems manager. LMR equipment not listed in the
     LMR Tracking and Report System (TRS) will not be maintained by LMR maintenance.
     2.2.8. Ensure sufficient batteries, antennas, battery chargers, mobile harnesses, microphones,
     mounting brackets, and other accessories are available for maximum use of assets. These items are
     obtained through normal supply channels. Information needed to order these items can be
     obtained from the LMR systems manager.
     2.2.9. Ensure that all malfunctions of base stations, remote control units, and other fixed LMR
     equipment are promptly reported to the LMR systems management office and provide assistance
     to maintenance personnel if required. The net manager must verify the problem exists prior to
     reporting it to maintenance and must provide the equipment serial number and an accurate
     description of the malfunction to open a work order against the equipment.
     2.2.10. Deliver malfunctioning radios, pagers and other items of equipment to 49 CS/SCML,
     Building 1099, during customer service hours (0730-1200, Tuesday and Thursday). Prepare a
     work order and/or other applicable paperwork for each item delivered to the central repair point.
     Forms and samples are available at Building 1099. Installations and/or removals must be coordi-
     nated in advance. Units should not hold equipment for turn-in until a quantity needs maintenance
     (batch processing). Operator maintenance is NOT AUTHORIZED and user attempts to install,
     remove, repair or tamper in any way with LMR equipment may void warranty responsibilities
     and/or result in pecuniary liability to the individual.
     2.2.11. Complete an annual inventory of all LMR equipment as directed by the LMR systems
     manager. Send a copy to LMR systems management with all changes and corrections. It is the
     unit's responsibility to initiate actions to reconcile changes or corrections with LMR systems man-
     agement.
     2.2.12. Report frequency requirements to the base frequency manager (49 CS/SCMY) and the
     LMR systems manager.
     2.2.13. Establish a customer education and training program for all operators of LMR equipment
     and include training on operating procedures, safety hazards, spectrum interference resolution
     (SIR), and information security (INFOSEC).
     2.2.14. Immediately report spectrum interference incidents in accordance with AFI 10-707, Spec-
     trum Interference Resolution Program, for possible SIR reporting.
     2.2.15. Perform and document inspection of intrinsically safe (IS) radios.
4                                                             HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997


       2.2.16. Perform immediate operational checks of all LMR equipment before turning equipment in
       and after picking equipment up from maintenance. Report discrepancies to the LMR systems man-
       ager.
       2.2.17. Initiate LMR equipment replacement action when necessary.
       2.2.18. Establish written procedures for loading data encryption standard (DES) or Type 1 (Fasci-
       nator) codes in radios requiring secure operation. Ensure all radio operators are aware of proper
       use and safeguarding of DES/Fascinator keyed equipment.
       2.2.19. Coordinate with local COMSEC custodian to establish keying requirements to support
       DES/Fascinator equipped LMR nets.
       2.2.20. Maintain net and system diagrams showing interfaces with other systems and control cen-
       ters, location of base stations, repeaters and coding devices, and operational ties to other nets. Pro-
       vide a copy of each net diagram to the LMR systems manager.
       2.2.21. Maintain a net folder IAW AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule, with the fol-
       lowing information:
           2.2.21.1. Tab 1. Letter of Appointment. Copies of frequency authorization letters.
           2.2.21.2. Tab 2. Net diagrams. Area Coverage map.
           2.2.21.3. Tab 3. Current inventory. Damaged equipment letters. Reports of survey. The 5-year
           replacement plan.
           2.2.21.4. Tab 4. Special projects.
           2.2.21.5. Tab 5. Correspondence.
           2.2.21.6. Tab 6. Individual record for each net asset.
       2.2.22. Ensure rechargeable (NiCad) batteries are replaced as needed. Batteries should be pur-
       chased in bulk quantities, when possible, to reduce costs. When batteries are no longer serviceable
       (when they will not hold a proper charge and re-conditioning will not restore them to usable lev-
       els), it is the net manager's responsibility to ensure that they are disposed of properly and to pur-
       chase replacements.
    2.3. The 49 SUPS and 49 MEDGP/MEMO will:
       2.3.1. Ensure proper coordination has been made with the base CSO or his/her designated repre-
       sentative when processing requests for new or replacement equipment and turn-ins of LMR equip-
       ment.
       2.3.2. Advise the LMR systems manager when new equipment is received to permit pre-inspec-
       tion before issue to the using organization custodian.
    2.4. The Comptroller Division (49 CPTS) will:
       2.4.1. Provide administrative guidance and assistance to users and custodians in preparing
       Reports of Survey for lost or damaged LMR equipment.
       2.4.2. Certify funds availability, cite accounting classification and forward purchase requests to
       the base contracting officer.
HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997                                                                        5


      2.4.3. Upon request, advise 49 SUPS, 49 MEDGP/MEMO, the LMR systems manager or base
      contracting officer of the availability of funds to support LMR equipment requirements.

3. Processing Requirements:
   3.1. Frequency Assignments - the allowance for an LMR network does not include frequency assign-
   ment. Frequencies will be assigned according to AFI 33-118 and must be assigned before purchasing
   radios requiring a new frequency. Organizations requiring new LMR nets will contact the base fre-
   quency manager (49 CS/SCMY) before submitting a CSRD or AF Form 601, Equipment Action
   Request, for LMRs. Frequencies will be shared, when possible.
   3.2. The net manager will submit requirements through the LMR systems manager. An AF Form
   3215, C4 Systems Requirement Document, and AF Form 601/AF Form 9 will be used for upgrades,
   new requirements, and replacement requirements not previously validated in the base 5 year replace-
   ment program. Only an AF Form 601/AF Form 9 is required for replacement requirements that have
   been previously validated in the 5-year replacement plan. The net manager, or the equipment custo-
   dian through the net manager, initiates the procurement cycle by submitting one or more of the follow-
   ing documents:
      3.2.1. DD Form 1348-6, DoD Single Line Item Requisition System Document, used to ensure
      sufficient data is available for base supply/contracting to procure proper LMR equipment and sup-
      plies.
      3.2.2. AF Form 9, used to purchase LMR equipment directly from the vendor through the base
      contracting squadron.
      3.2.3. AF Form 601, used to purchase LMR equipment through the standard base supply system
      (SBSS).
      3.2.4. AF Form 2005, Issue/Turn-in Request, used for requesting expendable equipment or sup-
      ply items.
      3.2.5. AF Form 3215.
   3.3. The CSO or designated representative will evaluate each request for standardization, technical
   adequacy and compatibility, and cost effectiveness. All new requirements will be engineered to fulfill
   the requirements stated on the AF Form 3215. If the requirement will be approved at base level, engi-
   neering is the responsibility of the base LMR systems manager. Requirements to be validated at base
   level and forwarded to the host MAJCOM or higher will include preliminary engineering documenta-
   tion. This documentation should include such things as antenna gain, transmit and receive frequency,
   RF power output, site elevation above mean sea level (MSL), antenna height above ground (AGL),
   and power and frequency of antennas to have co-located with other LMR equipment.
   3.4. The LMR Systems Manager will continually analyze local LMR requirements and ensure local
   procedures restrict acquisition of LMR equipment to mission-essential requirements. No equipment
   will be procured or added to existing LMR nets without proper need and justification. The base CSO
   will validate, approve, or disapprove LMR requirements.
      3.4.1. Replacement requirements are approved by the CSO. The net manager, or equipment cus-
      todian through the net manager, will process an AF Form 601/AF Form 9 to the CSO and the base
      LMR systems manager, before submitting to the host base supply activity. The requiring unit must
6                                                            HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997


       provide funding for LMR assets. The unit resource advisor will place a funds availability state-
       ment on the AF Form 601/AF Form 9 prior to submitting to the LMR systems manager.
       3.4.2. All new or special-purpose LMR net requirements will be costed by the LMR net manager
       before submission of a CSRD.
       3.4.3. The 49 Supply Squadron Demand Processing unit or 49 MEDGP/MEMO will verify and
       process the request. Demand Processing/MEMO must ensure TA, BOI, and CSO approval before
       initiating the requisition cycle.
       3.4.4. The base contracting office will process requests from supply for LMR equipment and sup-
       plies based on priorities established during the supply process. Contracting personnel and the
       LMR systems manager will make sure all frequency sensitive items are compatible with the
       appropriate net frequency, including sub-audible tone coded squelch and selective call codes, and
       will complete cost analysis, cost comparison, and technical adequacy studies to make sure the
       equipment meets mission parameters.
       3.4.5. The base contracting office will verify CSO approval has been accomplished prior to pro-
       cessing AF Forms 9 for LMR equipment.

4. Operations:
    4.1. LMR nets will be operated in accordance with Allied Communications Publication (ACP) 125,
    Communications Instructions-Telephone Procedures. Transmission should always be brief, concise
    and accurate. Operating procedures in ACP 125 and AFKAO-1, USAF Voice Call-Sign Instructions,
    will be used. The net manager assigned by the using net will be responsible for net control operations.
    4.2. Net impairment can be caused by equipment failure. Report problems to the net manager or LMR
    systems manager for diagnosis prior to SIR reporting.
    4.3. LMRs are extremely vulnerable to interception by third parties. All users must follow proper
    INFOSEC techniques. Never discuss classified information on any LMR other than those using Type
    1 encryption. Some of our nets require protection of information by DES. The DES equipment will be
    used to protect sensitive but unclassified, national security-related information. It cannot be used to
    protect classified transmissions.
    4.4. LMRs, other than intrinsically safe LMRs, should not be used in or near hazardous operating
    areas, such as aircraft alert areas; munitions storage and handling areas; petroleum, oil, and lubricants
    (POL) refueling zones; and other areas outlined in AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards. Only
    intrinsically safe certified, operated, maintained, and marked LMRs will be operated within 50 feet of
    fuel or refuel environments.
    4.5. Pagers may be authorized for personnel with extensive standby duty. Pagers will not be autho-
    rized when standby duty is infrequent or an immediate response is not required. Approval for pagers
    will be based on costs versus benefits. Example benefits include the degree to which pagers will
    reduce the number of two way radios, telephone toll costs, transportation time and costs, or increase
    the morale of personnel with extensive standby duty or readiness posture.
    4.6. A Citizens Band radio is a citizen's service and should not be used to conduct official government
    business. The use of Citizens Band radio by the Air Force is generally not authorized.
HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997                                                                         7


5. Restoration Priorities:
   5.1. Restoration priorities for LMR equipment are:
       5.1.1. Base stations.
       5.1.2. Repeaters.
       5.1.3. Remote control units.
       5.1.4. Mobile radios.
       5.1.5. Portable radios.
       5.1.6. Pagers.
   5.2. In the event of multiple network outages, the following net listing will be used to determine pri-
   orities.
       5.2.1. CC
       5.2.2. FIG
       5.2.3. MED
       5.2.4. F/C
       5.2.5. EXP
       5.2.6. S/P
       5.2.7. SAT
       5.2.8. POL
       5.2.9. RAMP
       5.2.10. EOD
       5.2.11. COMM
       5.2.12. IEO
       5.2.13. SUP
       5.2.14. DIS
       5.2.15. MOBSS
       5.2.16. TTW
       5.2.17. LGX
       5.2.18. TAXI
       5.2.19. OSI
       5.2.20. OSC
       5.2.21. WEG
       5.2.22. TST
       5.2.23. DOA
8                                                           HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997


       5.2.24. MAX
       5.2.25. RAT
       5.2.26. DOD
       5.2.27. DOI
       5.2.28. AMR
       5.2.29. BAL
       5.2.30. INT
       5.2.31. Page
    5.3. Portable radios, mobile radios, and pagers will not be considered as mission impact outages. It is
    the responsibility of each net manager to ensure that enough assets are on hand to sustain the mission
    while equipment is at LMR maintenance for routine repair. LMR systems management does not stock
    equipment for loan while the unit's equipment is in for maintenance.



                                                         DENNIS R. LARSEN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                         Commander
HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997                                                                           9


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Ancillary Equipment—External components of an LMR, such as microphones, speakers, battery
chargers, antennas, key variable loaders, etc.
Base Station—A fixed piece of equipment capable of two-way communications to selectively or
broadcast call one or more users. It may be operated locally or from a distant location by a remote control
unit.
Base Support Radio (BSR)—Pagers and two-way radios used at a single location and not intended for
deployment.
Central Base Paging System—A common-user, one-way radio net serving all organizations on an
installation.
Citizen Band (CB) Radio—A radio operating on a citizen band frequency not authorized for military
use.
Combat Deployable Radio (CDR)—An LMR used for combat related tasks, contingencies, or
deployments. CDR systems are tunable, and can be voice-privacy (DES) or secure-voice (FASCINATOR)
capable.
Command, Control, Communications and Computer Systems Officer (CSO)—T h e i n d i v i d u a l
responsible to the 49 FW Commander for all matters relating to LMR Systems management.
Communications-Computer Systems Requirements Document (CSRD)—A document (AF Form
3215) which identifies, describes, and justifies the need for communications-computer systems facilities,
equipment, and services.
Data Encryption Standard (DES, DES-XL)—An encryption feature which provides limited protection
from interception for the transmissions of unclassified but sensitive national security related information.
Not for dissemination of classified information.
Fascinator—A National Security Agency (NSA) approved Type 1 encryption to provide COMSEC
protection to LMR transmissions to pass classified information. Users requiring Type 1 encryption will
identify this requirement to LMR Systems Management.
Intrinsically Safe (IS) Radios—Radios that are certified not to release a sufficient amount of thermal
energy necessary to cause ignition of a specific flammable or combustible atmospheric mixture in an
ignitable concentration.
Land Mobile Radio (LMR)—Systems or equipment used to provide local transfer of information in a
frequency modulation medium through the use of portable, mobile, base station and repeater radios and
associated equipment.
LMR Systems Manager—The individual responsible to the CSO for implementing and conducting a
comprehensive and responsive LMR program.
Mobile Radio—A two-way radio which operates in a vehicular environment and is capable of single or
multi-channel capacity.
10                                                        HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997


Monitor, Receiver, or Scanner—A radio receiver capable of monitoring one or more frequencies.
Net Manager—The individual responsible for managing a specific LMR Net in accordance with the
policies and procedures established by this and other directives. The LMR Systems Manager is the net
manager for the Central Base Pager Net.
Network (Net)—A collection of LMR assets linked by one or more frequencies used to assist
coordination of a single function.
Pager—A selective signaled or broadcast call, receive-only radio device.
Portable Radio—A two-way hand-held radio capable of single or multichannel operation.
Remote Control Unit (RCU)—A unit which provides the capability to key the base station from a
remote location. It also allows for multiple users, usually called sub-net control locations.
Repeater—A fixed radio with separate transmit and receive frequencies in a special configuration which
retransmits all communications entering its receiver.
Table ofAllowance (TA)—TAs prescribe basic allowances for equipment. Part H of TA 660 contains
allowances for two-way radios and pagers under HQ ACC and for Holloman AFB. Radios and pagers
used in medical treatment facilities are listed in TAs 896, 897 and 903.
HOLLOMANAFBI33-103 8 APRIL 1997                                                   11


                                             Attachment 2

                      NET MANAGER APPOINTMENT LETTER FORMAT
MEMORANDUM FOR 49CS/SCML
FROM: (Unit Office Symbol and Phone Number)
SUBJECT: LMR Net Manager Appointment
The following individual is appointed primary net manager for the ________ net:


(Signature)_________________________
Typed Name, Grade and Duty Phone
The following individual(s) is/are appointed alternate net managers:


(Signature)__________________________
Typed Name, Grade and Duty Phone


(Signature)___________________________________________________
Typed Name and Grade of Commander or Designated Representative
cc: Individuals
