BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  HOLLOMAN AFB INSTRUCTION 32-6005
49TH FIGHTER WING                                                                          30 MAY 1996

                                                                                          Civil Engineer

                                                                       UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 49 CES/CEH (Jonnie L. Kidd)                                              Certified by: 49 SPTG/CC
                                                                            (Col Timothy J. McGoldrick)
                                                                                               Pages: 16
                                                                    Distribution: F plus HQ ACC/CEPH

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-60, Housing, and establishes respon-
sibilities and procedures for dormitory management, room assignment, and occupancy. It applies to all
personnel who reside in or have responsibility for dormitories. Violations of this instruction are punish-
able under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.



1. Unaccompanied Housing (UH). UH will be managed utilizing the Centralized Dormitory Manage-
ment (CDM) concept. This means room assignments will be made without regard to the member's unit of
assignment.
   1.1. The organizational structure will be support group commander, base civil engineer, housing
   flight chief, CDM superintendent and dormitory managers. The dormitory complex will be divided
   into three zones.
       1.1.1. Zone 1. Buildings 330, 333, 334, 337, 338.
       1.1.2. Zone 2. Buildings 335, 336, 340, 341.
       1.1.3. Zone 3. Buildings 452, 457, 473, 517, 518.
   1.2. Responsibilities:
       1.2.1. Support Group Commander:
           1.2.1.1. Maintains 95 percent occupancy of adequate dormitory space.
           1.2.1.2. May authorize basic allowance for quarters (BAQ) when total basewide occupancy of
           dormitories by priority 1, 2, and 3 personnel exceeds 95 percent for 90 days.
           1.2.1.3. Determines who is required to live on base for reasons of military necessity, readi-
           ness, discipline or hardship, and authorizes people to live off base with allowances.
2                                                           HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996


       1.2.1.4. Provides appropriated fund resources to operate and maintain the dormitories.
    1.2.2. Base Civil Engineer. Ensures dormitory policies and rules are established and imple-
    mented.
    1.2.3. Unit Commanders/First Sergeants:
       1.2.3.1. Work closely with the housing flight chief and dormitory superintendent to ensure
       dormitory resident's needs are represented and quality of dormitory life is improved at every
       opportunity.
       1.2.3.2. Visit dormitories regularly.
       1.2.3.3. Enforce standards for occupant discipline and control.
       1.2.3.4. Perform inspections as set by the base dorm inspection program.
       1.2.3.5. Ensure member complies with proper outprocessing and obtains a statement indicat-
       ing the member understands he/she may be recalled due to military necessity or availability of
       quarters.
    1.2.4. Housing Flight Chief:
       1.2.4.1. Serves as the base office of primary responsibility (OPR) for unaccompanied housing
       management.
       1.2.4.2. Keeps and reports occupancy data monthly and semi-annually on DD Form 2085,
       Unaccompanied Personnel Housing Inventory and Utilization Data. Recommends actions
       to the support group commander to correct less than optimum utilization.
       1.2.4.3. Budgets for all dormitory furnishings requirements.
       1.2.4.4. Processes requests for single rate BAQ based on hardship.
       1.2.4.5. Processes authorizations to start and stop allowances.
       1.2.4.6. Authorizes local drayage and storage of personal property for qualified unaccompa-
       nied personnel assigned to government quarters.
       1.2.4.7. Keeps basewide waiting list for personnel who desire to live off-base with BAQ.
       1.2.4.8. Provides data to determine and support dormitory construction and renovation.
       1.2.4.9. Maintains list of personnel authorized to reside off base at their own expense without
       allowances.
       1.2.4.10. Ensures training of dormitory managers.
       1.2.4.11. Conducts semi-annual recertification of members drawing single rate BAQ.
    1.2.5. Dormitory Superintendent:
       1.2.5.1. Responsible for the day-to-day operation of dormitories.
       1.2.5.2. Ensures inspections of individual rooms and public areas to maintain cleanliness.
       1.2.5.3. Ensures occupancy reports to the housing flight are accurate and timely.
       1.2.5.4. Accounts for furniture, appliances, recreation equipment and supplies for dormito-
       ries.
HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996                                                                          3


        1.2.5.5. Assigns and terminates dormitory rooms.
        1.2.5.6. Budgets, purchases and controls UH supplies, including replacement linens. Also
        provides common area supply items, such as toilet paper and paper towels.
        1.2.5.7. Manages and controls hospitality rooms.
        1.2.5.8. Acts as facility manager for dormitories.
        1.2.5.9. Confirms semi-annual single rate BAQ certification to the housing flight chief.
        1.2.5.10. Conducts annual assessment of furniture and provides results to the housing flight
        office.
        1.2.5.11. Serves as OPR for the Quarters Improvement Committee (QIC).
        1.2.5.12. Schedules quarterly commander/first sergeant inspections.
        1.2.5.13. Keeps commanders and first sergeants informed of dormitory issues.
        1.2.5.14. Conducts regular dormitory meetings with all dormitory personnel.
     1.2.6. Dormitory Manager:
        1.2.6.1. Makes dormitory assignments and terminations.
        1.2.6.2. Maintains single rate BAQ waiting list and keeps accurate records of personnel resid-
        ing off base.
        1.2.6.3. Provides UH furniture and furnishings needs annually to the housing flight office.
        1.2.6.4. Assigns bay orderlies and briefs them on their areas of responsibilities.
        1.2.6.5. Provides bay orderlies with required equipment as well as instructions on the proper
        use of the equipment.
        1.2.6.6. Performs building custodial responsibilities to include initiating AF Form 332, Base
        Civil Engineer Work Request, for routine maintenance, minor construction, alterations or
        installation of equipment.
        1.2.6.7. Ensures grounds are properly maintained. Schedules and posts bay orderlies.
        1.2.6.8. Performs inspection of all rooms on a monthly basis.
        1.2.6.9. Bay orderly schedule will be projected in 3-month periods; posted and updated as
        soon as possible.
     1.2.7. Bay Orderlies:
        1.2.7.1. Duty week is for seven days (from Monday to Sunday).
        1.2.7.2. Do general cleaning in common areas (dayrooms, guest latrines, hallways/walkways,
        laundry, storage rooms, etc.).
        1.2.7.3. Perform grounds keeping tasks (sweep, pick-up leaves, litter, empty trash bins, etc.).
        1.2.7.4. Perform other duties as dictated by the CDM staff/noncommissioned officer on duty
        (NCOD).
        1.2.7.5. Specific detailed information and instructions will be provided by the dormitory man-
4                                                                 HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996


           agers.
       1.2.8. NCOD:
           1.2.8.1. NCODs will be those NCO/career senior airman/sergeants who reside in the dormi-
           tory.
           1.2.8.2. On call from 2400 to 0730, Monday through Friday. On Saturdays, Sundays, holidays
           and productivity days the NCOD will be on call 24 hours each day.
           1.2.8.3. NCOD will return the beeper, book and keys at 0800 on the Monday ending their
           detail. If the Monday is a holiday, the outgoing and incoming NCOD will make arrangements
           to meet on that Monday for change over. Receives in-briefing at 1600 on Monday and ensures
           bay orderly accomplished weekend duties.
           1.2.8.4. NCOD is not permitted to consume alcoholic beverages while on duty.
           1.2.8.5. NCOD must respond to beeper/cellular calls within 30 minutes.
           1.2.8.6. This is an on-call detail and the NCOD will be expected to perform the duties nor-
           mally assigned by his/her squadron.
           1.2.8.7. Temporarily assign hospitality rooms to unexpected arrivals.
           1.2.8.8. Perform security and safety checks for the entire dormitory complex at least 3 times
           daily when on call for 24 hours.

2. Individual Responsibilities. Responsible for the overall condition of the dormitory room, relative to
the condition of the room when the occupant is assigned. Occupants will be held liable for loss or damage
of quarters, equipment or furnishings caused by the abuse or negligence of the occupants or their guests
and for failure to satisfactorily clean an assigned room upon termination. Bulletin board will be read daily.
See Attachment 1.
    2.1. Personnel will enter and leave the dormitory in a quiet and orderly manner and not disturb other
    occupants. Personnel working swing and mid-shift will be considerate of others when coming off
    shift. In addition, day workers will be considerate of shift personnel.
    2.2. Personnel, 21 years and older, may possess and consume alcoholic beverages in their room. AFI
    34-119, Alcoholic Beverage Program, applies and further defines alcoholic beverages.
    2.3. Personnel must turn in all firearms/ammo to security police armory (Building 35) for safekeep-
    ing.
    2.4. Prohibited Items:
       2.4.1. Weapons, not openly displayed type B, G, and H, including but not limited to, fireworks,
       firearms, pellet guns, crossbows, bows and arrows, ammunition, spears, chains, knives with blades
       exceeding 3 1/2 inches, num-chucks, and similar types of weapons. See Attachment 1. Ornamen-
       tal items must be approved by CDM.
       2.4.2. Obscene, racist, sexist, pornographic, or materials likely to incite violence or disorder, see
       Attachment 1.
    2.5. Occupants will arrange room to create a comfortable and neat appearance without blocking doors
    and windows.
HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996                                                                             5


  2.6. Each occupant will ensure that standardized name card or plate is posted on the room door.
  Required information to be posted is room number, last name, first initial, duty section, and duty
  phone. Indicate if occupant is a shift worker.
  2.7. Personnel departing on leave or temporary duty (TDY) will secure all valuables within lockers;
  have room in "ready for inspection" order; turn out all lights and unplug electrical appliances; and
  check in with CDM prior to departure.
  2.8. Neatly arrange personal belongings to avoid a cluttered appearance. Do not store tires, automo-
  tive parts, motorcycles, fuel, paints, gunpowder, car batteries, flammables, etc., in your room. Excep-
  tions must be approved through the CDM/first sergeant. Maintain wall lockers in a neat order. Lock
  your lockers when room is not occupied. Lockers not locked are subject to inspection.
  2.9. If extension cords are used, they must be UL approved and of a continuous length without
  splices, with only one male and one female connection. Multiple outlet power strips with built-in cir-
  cuit breakers are preferred. Extension cords for three prong appliances must have a three prong
  grounded plug. Cords are not to be secured to walls or baseboards with metal fasteners or placed under
  carpets.
  2.10. Empty ashtrays daily before departing the room. Do not deposit ashtrays/cigarette butts in trash
  receptacles.
  2.11. Turn off lights (exceptions: grow-lights for houseplants, pump/lights for aquariums, cool-mist
  humidifiers/deodorizers), stereos/radios, and authorized electrical appliances when rooms are not
  occupied. Do not suspend extension cords from any electric light or ceiling drop for the purpose of
  operating any appliance.
  2.12. Always adjust the volume of radios, television sets and stereo equipment low enough so as not
  to disturb others.
  2.13. Trash receptacles will be emptied as often as necessary, but left no more than half full. If recep-
  tacle contains food items it must be emptied.
  2.14. Each individual residing in the dormitory is responsible for proper security and safeguarding of
  personal and assigned property. Immediately report loss or theft of property to the security police. If
  ownership cannot be determined for an item found in the dormitory, the item will be turned over to the
  security police for disposition.
  2.15. Limit cooking in rooms to the following UL approved items: coffee makers, crock pots/slow
  cookers, popcorn poppers, toasters, and microwaves. Do not leave rooms unattended when any appli-
  ance is in use. Keep these appliances clean and stored when not in use.
  2.16. You may not have pets/animals within dormitory rooms, hallways, or any dormitory facilities
  on Holloman AFB. Exception: 50 gallon or less fish aquariums, gerbil, and hamster. These pets seem
  to be conducive to communal living and do not pose a health or safety threat. Prior to purchase the
  occupant must get approval for the pet and the container in which the pet will live from the CDM. Per-
  sonnel who violate this rule will have to get rid of the pet.
  2.17. Do not smoke in bed. Use ashtrays made of metal or other fire resistant material.
  2.18. In the event a smoker must share a room with a non-smoker, the room becomes a non-smoking
  room.
6                                                                HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996


    2.19. The use of open flame devices such as candles, compressed gas torches, incense burners, or
    similar devices producing a constant flame or glowing brand is prohibited.
    2.20. Vinyl wall coverings are not to be punctured. Pictures and other furnishings may be hung on the
    plaster walls using the smallest hooks necessary to support the weight of the item. Do not drill holes
    or hammer nails into the walls or furniture.

3. Dormitory Assignments. Personnel residing in the dormitories must be assigned by orders to this
installation. The dormitory manager will coordinate room assignments for all military personnel. Person-
nel will be assigned quarters based on grade, date of rank, length of service, etc.
    3.1. Enlisted personnel arriving at Holloman AFB during normal duty hours and requiring dormitory
    space will report to the CDM office, Building 336, Room 120.
       3.1.1. Enlisted personnel arriving after normal duty hours will report to lodging, Building 583, for
       assistance.
       3.1.2. Lodging will contact the NCOD who in turn will assign arriving personnel temporarily to a
       hospitality room or suite.
    3.2. Personnel in priorities 4, 5, and 6 must request assignment of dormitory space from the first ser-
    geant or commander, if the stay is for ten days or less. Assignment must be approved by CDM staff.
       3.2.1. The normal stay for personnel in priorities 4, 5, and 6 will be no more than ten days.
       Long-term (90 days or less) requirement for dormitory space will not be considered if the dormi-
       tory occupancy rate is above 90 percent. When the dormitory occupancy rate becomes 95 percent,
       priority 4, 5, and 6 personnel will be given thirty days notice to terminate.
       3.2.2. Commanders of personnel in priorities 4, 5, and 6 who require dormitory space based on
       hardship for more than ten days must submit the request in writing through the housing flight to
       the support group commander for approval. Request must include an ending date. Revalidation
       must be accomplished by the 15th day of the preceding month, if approval is required for the fol-
       lowing quarter. Personnel will be given notice to terminate at the 60-day point by CDM. All
       requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
    3.3. Career Dormitory Assignments:
       3.3.1. Assignments of career senior airman/sergeants and staff sergeants will be made only to
       those dormitories designated as career dormitories, which are: Buildings 330, 333, 340 and 452.
       3.3.2. During the initial room assignment, occupants are required to inspect their assigned room
       and its contents in the presence of the dormitory manager.
    3.4. Honor Guard:
       3.4.1. Active Honor Guard members may be assigned a private room as long as the occupancy
       rate is below 95 percent.
       3.4.2. When a member is no longer active on the Honor Guard, the private room privilege will be
       terminated.

4. Check-In Procedures:
HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996                                                                              7


   4.1. Sponsors for incoming personnel will contact the CDM for room assignment during normal duty
   hours. After duty hours, contact NCOD. If NCOD cannot be contacted, contact first sergeant.
   4.2. The assigned member and dormitory manager will jointly conduct an inventory of the room no
   later than the next duty day, upon room assignment. Annotate any observed room discrepancies on the
   inventory sheet along with a critical count and assessment of all furnishings in use.

5. Check-Out Procedures:
   5.1. The occupant must schedule a pre-inspection with the dormitory manager two weeks prior to the
   expected departure date. During this inspection, needed repairs and cleaning standards will be dis-
   cussed. Final inspection date and time will be set by the CDM.
   5.2. One week prior to final outprocessing, assigned member must make an appointment for final
   room inspection. On the final day, the dormitory manager and occupant will conduct a room inspec-
   tion/inventory. The dormitory manager will bring obvious negligence or abuse to the occupant's first
   sergeant's attention immediately. If damage exceeds reasonable wear and tear, the occupant may be
   held financially and otherwise responsible.
   5.3. The room occupant is responsible for ensuring that the room is cleaned for final inspection.
   Remove all trash, dust the furniture and walls, clean the refrigerator and vacuum carpet. Do not
   unplug refrigerator.

6. Storage Room. Temporary storage space may be available for personnel. Obtain storage room keys
from the dormitory manager. Excess belongings, not required for normal day to-day living, will not be
stored in dormitory living space. Storage items must be properly tagged for identification. Do not store
tires, automotive parts, motorcycles, fuel, paints, gunpowder, car batteries, flammables, etc. in this room.

7. Sleeping Signs. Shift personnel will only display signs if they are on break or worked a midnight shift
and do not want to be disturbed. When maintenance workers need to perform routine maintenance in a
shift worker's room, every effort will be made to avoid disturbing the occupant during sleep periods; how-
ever, there may be occasions when mandatory/emergency work must be accomplished, and a shift worker
may consequently be disturbed.

8. Inspection Program:
   8.1. Dormitory manager will ensure 100 percent coverage for inspections per building per month,
   using the inspection checklist at Attachment 2. Spot inspections will also be accomplished for com-
   pliance to health, morale, and welfare concerns. Anything requiring supervisor/first sergeant attention
   will be immediately referred to the individual's first sergeant for appropriate action.
   8.2. First Sergeant:
       8.2.1. Will inspect on the morning of the scheduled inspection day (January, April, July, October)
       of every quarter. These dates are subject to change.
       8.2.2. First sergeants will be assigned one of the 3 zones, that the dormitories have been divided
       into, to inspect. They will select the three best rooms from each building.
   8.3. Squadron and Group Commanders. Each will inspect the finalists in their zone to determine the
   three "best" rooms for their assigned zone. This will leave these rooms for the 49th Fighter Wing
8                                                                HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996


    Commander (49 FW/CC) inspection. Squadron and group commanders will be rotated each quarter to
    allow all 5 groups to participate.
    8.4. 49 FW/CC and Senior Enlisted Advisor. Wing commander and the senior enlisted advisor, or
    their designated representatives will judge the finalists and select the "Best Rooms of the Quarter for
    Holloman Air Force Base." This should be accomplished as soon as possible after the group com-
    mander inspection, theoretically, the following day. Personnel present for the wing commander
    inspection should, at a minimum, include: the resident of the room, the dormitory manager for that
    building, the inspecting first sergeant, and the 49 SPTG/CD.
    8.5. Awards:
       8.5.1. When the squadron and group commanders select their finalists, a billfold size card will be
       left on the bed of the winners which entitles the occupants to a three-day pass. The occupants will
       take the card to their supervisor for recognition (EPR, etc.) and coordination.
       8.5.2. 49 FW/CC selects the quarterly winners, who will be recognized at the next quarterly
       improvement council (QIC).
       8.5.3. "A - Room" Program:
           8.5.3.1. Each month dormitory residents will have a scheduled inspection done and it will be
           accomplished by using Attachment 2. During this inspection, residents will receive a rating of
           A, B, or C. A rooms exceed the standards and will be eligible for entry into the "A - Room"
           program. B rooms are those that meet standards. C rooms will be inspected daily until stan-
           dards are met.
           8.5.3.2. All dormitory rooms will be susceptible to no-notice inspections. A rooms and B
           rooms will have no-notice inspections not to exceed one per month. C rooms will not have
           no-notice inspections, because scheduled inspections will be performed until they meet stan-
           dards.
           8.5.3.3. For rooms to receive recognition under the "A - Room" program, they will need to
           receive an A rating on their scheduled room inspection three months in a row.
           8.5.3.4. "A - Rooms" will not be scheduled for inspections during the three months following
           the award. However, during these three months, rooms will be susceptible to no-notice inspec-
           tions and all quarterly inspections. B rooms will continue to have monthly inspections as well
           as no-notice inspections.

9. Room Inspections. Room inspections will be conducted as necessary to maintain neat, sanitary living
conditions. Inspections may be announced or unannounced. Room inspections will be conducted by the
dormitory manager, first sergeant, commander or a designated representative.
    9.1. Scheduled inspections will be conducted utilizing the inspection checklist in Attachment 2.
    9.2. For specific room standards see Attachment 2.
    9.3. For common area standards see Attachment 3.

10. Hardship Requests:
HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996                                                                             9


   10.1. Personnel with a bonafide hardship, as determined by the support group commander, may be
   authorized to live off base with BAQ regardless of the basewide occupancy rate or their place on the
   waiting list.
   10.2. Requests to reside off base with allowances based on hardship must be submitted by the indi-
   vidual's unit commander to the housing flight. The information related to the hardship must be fully
   documented and justified, i.e., leave and earning statement; DD Form 1701, Inventory of Household
   Goods; divorce decree; rental lease; etc.
   10.3. Housing flight ensures all required support documents are attached to the request and forwards
   the complete package to the support group commander who makes the final decision. During the anni-
   versary month of the approval, recertification is required by the member to continue the entitlement.
   10.4. A statement indicating the member understands he/she may be recalled due to military neces-
   sity or availability of quarters.

11. Financial Matters:
   11.1. Housing flight chief provides to the civil engineer resource advisor budget inputs for dormitory
   operations, supplies, furniture, etc.
   11.2. People may be ordered to move into and out of UH for the benefit of the government (renova-
   tions, new construction, etc.). The housing flight provides move orders, counsels personnel and autho-
   rizes items for storage.
   11.3. Reconnection fees for telephone and cable are reimbursed. The member must submit the paid
   bill to the housing flight who forwards a request for reimbursement to military pay office.

12. Visitation Procedures:
   12.1. No one under 18 years of age is authorized in the dormitory unless they are active duty.
   12.2. Visiting is permitted in dormitory rooms provided that other residents' right to privacy and quiet
   are respected.
   12.3. In case of shared rooms, the roommate's prior and continued consent is a prerequisite for visita-
   tion.
   12.4. Guests are not allowed to sleep in dormitory.

13. Security:
   13.1. Valuables such as watches, jewelry, wallets, coins, or similar valuables should be secured at all
   times. Room doors, bathroom doors, and windows will be locked when occupant(s) is (are) absent
   from the room or while sleeping. Additionally, lockers should be locked when occupant(s) is (are)
   absent from the room.
   13.2. Should a requirement exist for entry into an occupant's room, two people must be present--the
   person required to enter and one other.

14. Bulletin Boards. All dormitories will maintain a bulletin board in a prominent location within the
dormitory. It will contain, as a minimum: Air Force, ACC, and HAFB publications pertaining to dormito-
10                                                          HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996


ries, Bay Orderly Schedule, Duties of Bay Orderlies, Fire & Safety Guidelines, Emergency phone num-
bers, Wing Inspector General, and Chaplain. All occupants are required to read daily.



                                                     BRUCE CARLSON, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                     Commander
HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996                                                                           11


                                             Attachment 1

                                       49 CES/CEHD LETTER
MEMORANDUM FOR
FROM: 49 CES/CEHD
SUBJECT: Resident Responsibilities
  1. Welcome to Holloman AFB and your dormitory. A lot of effort and planning takes place in order
     to provide you with top quality living quarters. The following responsibilities apply while you
     reside in the dormitory in order to maintain top quality for all dormitory residents:
     a. Beds will be made when they are not being slept in. Furniture will be arranged in an orderly
         manner. Trash cans and ashtrays will be emptied and clean when you leave your room. Cloth-
         ing will be neatly placed in bureaus and/or lockers; and personal items will be neatly placed or
         stored.
     b. Obscene, racist, sexist, pornographic, or materials likely to incite violence or disorder,
         because such material detracts from good order, morale, and discipline of the Air Force, may
         not be openly displayed. However, any items in good taste are welcomed to be displayed.
     c. The following items are permitted in your quarters: refrigerators, television sets, stereos,
         floor/window fans, electric irons, and similar electrical appliance. Coffee pots, microwave
         ovens, air conditioners, and electric heaters must be approved by the Centralized Dormitory
         Management (CDM) staff (zone managers are part of the CDM staff), and/or the first sergeant
         prior to their use. Hot plates, electric frying pans, charcoal grills, and other similar cooking
         items are not permitted.
         (1) You are allowed to use single outlet extension cords, but are prohibited from using multi-
             ple outlet extension cords unless they have approved built-in circuit breakers.
         (2) Before performing any maintenance changes to the construction of your quarters, submit a
             self-help work order request through the CDM staff for approval; no work can take place
             until the work order has been approved.
     d. You may have privately owned draperies in your quarters, provided the materials are fire
         proof or fire retardent, kept clean and in good repair; they must be approved by the CDM
         staff.
     e. Private telephone and cable television may be installed in your room; this is strictly a private
         transaction between you and the respective company; the Air Force assumes no liability.
     f. You may not have pets/animals within dormitory rooms, hallways, or any dorm facilities on
         HAFB. Exceptions: 50 gallon or less fish aquariums, gerbils, and hamsters. Prior to purchase
         you must get approval for the pet and the container in which the pet will live from the CDM
         staff. Personnel who violate this rule will have to get rid of the pet. If dormitory furniture is
         used as an aquarium stand, ensure you provide protective measures; you are liable for any
         damages.
     g. Weapons are prohibited in the dormitory rooms, vehicles, or other unauthorized locations.
         They may be confiscated by the CDM staff, unit commander, first sergeant, or the security
         police. Confiscated weapons may be held as evidence until final disposition is determined or
         administrative action completed. In some circumstances and provided secured storage facili-
12                                                            HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996


        ties are available, the CDM staff, may, on behalf of the respective squadron commander, store
        items not considered firearms, illegal, or explosive. The following items are considered weap-
        ons unless issued for performance of official duties, household duties, or shaving. These items
        may be transported directly off base or on base for activities, such as hunting or archery prac-
        tice, but must be returned directly to the storage area upon their return.
        (1) Knives with blades longer than 3 3/4 inches.
        (2) Bows, arrows, or crossbows.
        (3) Slings and slingshots.
        (4) BB or pellet guns, pistols, or rifles. (Stored at SP Armory, Bldg. 35)
        (5) "Bolo" knives, machetes, swords, spears, or any similar instruments.
        (6) Blank cartridge pistols.
        (7) Blow guns.
        (8) Straight razors.
        (9) Martial Arts weapons.
        (10) Paint pellet guns, and/or any weapon used for survivalist games.
     h. Weapons listed below are considered illegal and are not authorized on Holloman. (Exception
        - personnel with a valid alcohol, tobacco, and firearm license or stamp will be authorized to
        possess these weapons.) These items will be confiscated by the security police and held as evi-
        dence until proper action has been taken. These items will then be destroyed or disposed of.
        (1) Switchblade knives, butterfly knives.
        (2) Brass knuckles.
        (3) Gas pistols, shooting pens (fountain pens, automatic pencil type pens, or other cartridges
            capable of discharging tear gas or other unlawful propellants), or any weapons capable of
            discharging chemical agents, other than an authorized MACE dispenser.
        (4) Shooting weapons and blades equipped to be collapsed, telescoped, or shortened, or
            stripped beyond the normal extent required for hunting or sporting , which are concealed
            in other devices (walking canes, umbrellas, and tubes).
        (5) Ice picks, daggers, or knives longer than 3-3/4 inches.
        (6) Sawed-off shotguns.
        (7) Automatic weapons.
        (8) Silencers for weapons.
        (9) Any other weapon or device from which projectiles can be discharged and which would
            normally be expected to seriously injure or kill another person, other than those listed in
            paragraph 1-g.
        (10)Any weapon listed by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms as being a class III
            weapon.
     i. Flammable or corrosive materials (i.e. gasoline, motor oil, oil based paint, spray paint) of any
        kind are prohibited.
HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996                                                                          13


     j. Visitation hours are 24 hours (anytime); however, visitors will not be permitted for more than
         twelve hours per visit. Visitors, under 18, who are not military, are restricted and not allowed
         beyond the day room on the first floor of the dormitories. Your visitors are your responsibility
         and must be escorted by you while on the dormitory premises. Long term visitors (those who
         present a resident appearance; maintenance of clothing, health and hygiene items) are prohib-
         ited.
     k. Quiet hours are 24 hours a day and must be observed due to the variety of shift workers resid-
         ing in the dormitories. Musical instruments, stereos, televisions, or other sound equipment
         may not be played at a level which can be heard outside your room. You and your guests must
         maintain your voices at that same level.
     l. Room moves, changes, or the removal of any government-owned furniture from the assigned
         rooms, will not be made without the prior approval of the CDM staff.
     m. Personnel under 21 will not possess or consume any alcoholic beverages.
     n. Pictures and posters (except for items in paragraph 1b) may be hung. Occupants are responsi-
         ble for any damage caused by hanging items in their rooms.
     o. Boxes or suitcases stored in your room must present a neat and uncluttered appearance. Stor-
         age lockers are available in each dormitory.
     p. Bicycles may be kept inside your dormitory room; however, the bicycle must not block any
         avenue of exit from your room.
     q. Dayroom, laundry rooms, vending rooms, recreation rooms, or any other common areas in the
         dormitories are your responsibility. You are welcome to use them for their intended purpose,
         but you are expected to clean up after yourself.
     r. Smoking is permitted only in your assigned room, provided it has been designated as a smok-
         ing room, and in designated smoking dayrooms. Smoking in your bed is prohibited.
     s. All motorcycles and other off-road recreational vehicles will be parked in the designated park-
         ing areas only. All other recreational vehicles, trailers, and boats will be stored elsewhere,
         where permitted.
     t. Ceiling coverings, such as fish netting or parachutes, are prohibited in the dormitory. Nothing
         will be hung from the ceiling or hung from or draped over the light fixtures or fire alarm
         devices; this is for your safety.
     u. The use of open flame devices such as candles, compressed gas torches, incense burners, or
         similar devices producing a constant flame or glowing brand are prohibited.
     v. Report all discrepancies/problems with your room to the zone manager as soon as possible, so
         the repair work can be requested.
  2. Failure to comply with these policies could result in disciplinary action.
  3. Room damages will be documented when in-processing into your room. Damages found upon
     out-processing will be shared equally by the occupants unless it can be determined who caused
     the damage.
  4. You will be issued a key for your room, and common areas if applicable. If key(s) is (are) lost,
     you may be held financially responsible for the replacement key(s), and/or lock and labor costs.
14                                                               HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996


     5. All rooms will be inspected by the CDM staff or zone manager prior to terminating your quarters.
        You must schedule a pre-termination inspection with the zone manager at least two weeks prior to
        your expected departure. Any damage other than fair wear and tear will be corrected by you or
        through government reimbursement prior to your out-processing from the dormitory.
     6. The CDM staff is responsible for safety, security, cleanliness, and maintenance of the dormitories.
        Please listen to them; this could prevent needless actions from occurring.
     7. I have read and understand HAFBI 32-6005 and this acknowledgment constitutes your under-
        standing of responsibilities and compliance.
____________________________________________                              _____________________
(Resident Signature and Rank)                                             (Date)
____________________________________________
(CDM Signature and Rank)
HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996                             15


                               Attachment 2

                AF FORM 2519 OVERPRINT, ROOM STANDARDS
16                                   HOLLOMANI32-6005 30 MAY 1996


                      Attachment 3

     AF FORM 2519 OVERPRINT, COMMON AREA STANDARDS
