BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  HOLLOMAN AFB INSTRUCTION 32-7011
49TH FIGHTER WING                                                                          25 MAY 1999

                                                                                       Civil Engineering

                                                          HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally.


OPR: 49 ADOS/SGGFB (Capt Randy R. Smith)                                       Certified by: 49 MDG/CC
                                                                          (Col Marilyn S. Abu-Ghusson)
                                                                                                Pages: 7
                                                                    Distribution: F plus HQ ACC/SGOP

This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-70, Environmental Quality. This
instruction establishes policies and procedures for customers and base agencies to follow when request-
ing, approval, purchase, and turn-in of hazardous materials. The goal of the base program is to reduce the
amount of hazardous material used as much as possible while effectively meeting mission needs. It imple-
ments AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, and ACC Supplement 1 to AFI 32-7086. It is
applicable to all 49th Fighter Wing units and tenant organizations, and to base contractors to the extent
specified in the contract and in accordance with the Contracting Officer's interpretation. References:
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual; AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management; ACC Supple-
ment 1 to AFI 32-7086 (Draft); HQ USAF/LG Hazardous Material Pharmacy (HMP) Implementation
Plan; FED-STD 313D, Material Safety Data, Transportation Data, and Disposal Data for Hazardous
Materials Furnished to Government Activities; and 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication.



1. Responsibilities. (Additional responsibilities not specified in AFI 32-7086, as supplemented.)
   1.1. The 49 FW and Tenant Unit Commanders:
       1.1.1. Ensure all customers and users of hazardous materials follow procedures outlined in this
       instruction.
       1.1.2. Identify, in writing, personnel having hazardous materials-authorized IMPAC cards.
       1.1.3. Provide unit resources required to effectively conduct hazardous materials management.
   1.2. The 49 SUPS/LGSH (HAZMART Pharmacy):
       1.2.1. Serve as the Source of Supply (SOS) for the following base organizations:
           1.2.1.1. The 49th Operations Group.
           1.2.1.2. The 49th Logistics Group.
2                                                          HOLLOMANAFBI32-7011 25 MAY 1999


           1.2.1.3. The 49th Support Group (excluding 49 CES).
           1.2.1.4. The 49th Materiel Maintenance Group.
           1.2.1.5. The 46th Test Group.
           1.2.1.6. German Air Force TTE.
           1.2.1.7. Lockheed Support Systems, Inc. (As specified by Contract).
           1.2.1.8. Additional Tenant Organizations as specified by Host-Tenant Support Agreements.
       1.2.2. Processes orders of stock-listed hazardous items as defined in AFMAN 23-110.
       1.2.3. Bar codes, for tracking purposes, all hazardous materials processed through their organiza-
       tion.
    1.3. The 49 CES/CEV (Civil Engineer Environmental Flight):
       1.3.1. Manage the disposal of hazardous materials that cannot be re-issued through a SOS.
       1.3.2. Serve as the Chair of the Hazardous Materials Management Process (HMMP) Team.
    1.4. The 49 CES/CEOM (Material Management):
       1.4.1. Serve as the SOS for the 49th Civil Engineer Squadron. Follows procedures established in
       AFMAN 23-110 for ordering of stock-listed items through HAZMART.
       1.4.2. Bar codes, for tracking purposes, all hazardous materials processed through their organiza-
       tion which have not already been bar-coded by HAZMART.
    1.5. The 49 MDSS/SGSL (Medical Logistics):
       1.5.1. Serve as the SOS for the 49th Medical Group. Follows procedures established in AFMAN
       23-110 for ordering of stock-listed items through HAZMART.
       1.5.2. Update AF-EMIS for 49th Medical Group hazardous materials purchases using the termi-
       nal at Bioenvironmental Engineering; bar codes items as necessary.
 NOTE: Due to the nature of the vast majority of medical supply purchases being exempt items as
described in paragraph 2., only rare hazardous materials purchases will be made through this SOS. The
rarity of these purchases means that it will not be difficult to use the Bioenvironmental Engineering
AF-EMIS terminal when it is required.
    1.6. The 49 ADOS/SGGFB (Bioenvironmental Engineering):
       1.6.1. Serve as the OPR for this instruction. Review this instruction as required by Base Publica-
       tions and Forms Management.
       1.6.2. Provide access to AF-EMIS system and technical assistance to Medical Logistics when
       entering hazardous material supply issue data into the system.

2. Definition of "Hazardous Material:"
    2.1. "Hazardous materials" purchases are regulated by this instruction. If an item or product is
    defined as non-hazardous material (coded a Health Hazard Flag - HHF), it may be purchased through
    standard supply channels. The definition of hazardous material is taken from FED-STD-313D, para-
    graph 3.2., and will be used by Bioenvironmental Engineering to determine the IEX code assignment.
HOLLOMANAFBI32-7011 25 MAY 1999                                                                       3


   Exemptions to the definitions of hazardous material found in 29 CFR 1910.1200 will also be consid-
   ered in defining a material as "hazardous" or "non-hazardous." A material will either be coded an
   Issue Exception Code (IEX) 7, IEX 8, IEX 9, IEX M, or a Health Hazard Flag (HHF) in the supply
   system. These categories are defined as:
      2.1.1. HHF - A non-hazardous material that can be purchased through standard supply channels.
      2.1.2. IEX 8 - A "hazardous material" that requires an approved AF Form 3952, Chemical Haz-
      ardous Material Request/Authorization, and entry into AF-EMIS prior to the supply system
      authorizing its purchase. Container bar-coding and tracking is not required for IEX 8 items.
      Bioenvironmental Engineering assigns this code.
      2.1.3. IEX 9 - A "hazardous material" of greater seriousness than an IEX 8. An AF Form 3952 is
      required for its purchase. These materials are tracked in AF-EMIS, bar-coded, and more tightly
      controlled. Bioenvironmental Engineering assigns this code.
      2.1.4. IEX 7 - An IEX 8 "hazardous material" that requires container tracking and bar-coding in
      AF-EMIS due to its environmental disposal concerns. Civil Engineer Environmental will replace
      the IEX 8 assigned by Bioenvironmental Engineering with this IEX 7 code if the given material
      requires tracking for environmental regulatory compliance purposes.
      2.1.5. IEX M - An Ozone Depleting Chemical. These materials may or may not be hazardous to
      human health but require container tracking and bar-coding in AF-EMIS to ensure regulatory
      compliance. This IEX code is assigned by Civil Engineer Environmental.
   2.2. The following materials are categorically designated "non-hazardous" (Health Hazard Flag -
   HHF) and may be purchased through standard supply channels without the need for an AF Form
   3952:
      2.2.1. Wood or wood products.
      2.2.2. Finished "articles" as defined in 29 CFR 1910.1200.
      2.2.3. Food, drugs, cosmetics, tobacco products, or beverages packaged for sale in a retail estab-
      lishment to consumers.
      2.2.4. Pharmaceutical products as defined in 29 CFR 1910.1200.
      2.2.5. Alkaline batteries.
      2.2.6. Fluorescent or incandescent light bulbs.
      2.2.7. Copier toner.
      2.2.8. Desktop office supplies such as "white-out," stamp-pad-ink, and paper glue.
      2.2.9. Consumer-use products used in a manner similar to use by the general public.
 NOTE: Although designated "non-hazardous," these materials may require special handling for dis-
posal. Consult 49 CES/CEV for specific guidance on waste disposal issues.
   2.3. Additional materials will be determined to be "hazardous" or "non-hazardous" (HHF), based on
   case-specific details. An item may be downgraded to an HHF if all three reviewing organizations
   (Bioenvironmental Engineering, Wing Safety and Civil Engineering Environmental) agree on the AF
   Form 3952 that this material is non-hazardous. The AF Form 3952 will be maintained for future ref-
4                                                              HOLLOMANAFBI32-7011 25 MAY 1999


    erence by the submitting organization, but the material will not be tracked in AF-EMIS in the future,
    and may be ordered through standard supply channels.

3. Hazardous Materials Purchasing Procedures:
    3.1. The using organization (customer) is responsible for initiating the hazardous materials purchas-
    ing process. All hazardous materials purchases must be reviewed by Bioenvironmental Engineering
    (BES), Wing Safety (SEG), and Civil Engineer Environmental (CEV), regardless of SOS.
    3.2. For initial requests, the customer requests the material through their SOS listed in paragraph 1. of
    this instruction by initiating an AF Form 3952 with a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) attached. To
    initially request a potentially hazardous chemical, the customer must provide a technical order refer-
    ence, shop operating instruction, equipment owner's manual, or other compelling justification to pur-
    chase the material. The customer's SOS is the deciding authority on whether the justification is
    sufficient or not. A hard copy of this is not required; it can be referenced in an E-Mail. The customer
    may send an E-Mail copy of the request, including the AF Form 3952, to the following E-Mail
    address:


    mailto:3952.49supshazmart@holloman.af.mil (For Organizations using Hazmart as SOS).
    mailto:3952.49cessupply@holloman.af.mil (For the 49th Civil Engineer Squadron).
    mailto:3952.49mdgsupply@holloman.af.mil (For the 49th Medical Group).

    3.3. The customer may also initiate the AF Form 3952 at a terminal set up at the SOS. The customer
    is responsible for filling out Part I, Sections I through VI, of this form, either electronically via E-Mail
    or at a terminal set up at the SOS. The SOS will determine if sufficient detail is present to process the
    transaction.
    3.4. After accepting the request, the SOS will enter the supply-related data fields into AF-EMIS. The
    SOS will, as a general rule, establish the Date of Renewal in AF-EMIS as 2 years from the date of
    entry. The SOS will forward the E-Mail form to Bioenvironmental Engineering at the following
    E-Mail address:


    mailto:3952.49mdgbio@holloman.af.mil

NOTE: Medical Logistics will enter the supply-related data fields at the Bioenvironmental Engineering
AF-EMIS terminal after processing the customer's AF Form 3952 request.
    3.5. Bioenvironmental Engineering will review this request within 1 working day and electronically
    complete Part II, Section I of the AF Form 3952. If this material is determined to be "hazardous,"
    Bioenvironmental Engineering will update AF-EMIS with an IEX Code 8 or 9 for this material. If it is
    deemed "non-hazardous," and assigned an HHF, it will still be forwarded to Wing Safety and Civil
    Engineer Environmental for further review, but no IEX Code will be entered into AF-EMIS. Required
    hazard controls will be specified if applicable, and the material will either be authorized or not-autho-
    rized. Regardless of authorization, the AF Form 3952 will still be forwarded to Wing Safety at the fol-
    lowing address: mailto:3952.49fwsafety@holloman.af.mil
HOLLOMANAFBI32-7011 25 MAY 1999                                                                           5


  3.6. Wing Safety will review this request within 1 working day and electronically complete Part II,
  Section II of the AF Form 3952. Regardless of authorization, the form will be forwarded to Civil
  Engineer Environmental at the following address: mailto:3952.49cescev@holloman.af.mil.
  3.7. Civil Engineer Environmental will review this request within 1 working day and electronically
  complete Part II, Section III of the AF Form 3952. Civil Engineer Environmental will change the IEX
  8 code assigned by Bioenvironmental Engineering to an IEX 7 or IEX M if bar-coding and tracking is
  required for environmental compliance purposes. Regardless of authorization, the form will be for-
  warded to the SOS. See paragraph 3.2. for E-Mail addresses of the SOS.
  3.8. The SOS will update the Authorized User's List in AF-EMIS, and notify the customer that the
  order has been approved. The SOS will bar-code all IEX 9, IEX 7, and IEX M items prior to issue. The
  SOS will forward the completed AF Form 3952 to the customer either electronically with all the rout-
  ing included, or in hard copy if the customer does not have E-Mail capabilities. The customer is
  responsible for maintaining the completed AF Form 3952 and routing package for their files, either in
  electronic format or in hard copy. The SOS will also maintain a copy for their files. These copies will
  be kept on file for the duration of the authorization period for the material.
  3.9. The electronic approval procedures listed in subparagraphs 3.2. through 3.8. are intended to sim-
  plify the approval process for the customer. If due to computer problems, an electronic routing is not
  possible, the customer may initiate a hard copy of the AF Form 3952 at the SOS. The customer is
  responsible for routing this form to the approval agencies (BES, SEG, CEV) and back to the SOS.
  Each approval agency will maintain the same 1 working day processing time for hard copy forms as
  for the electronic versions.
  3.10. If one of the approval organizations (BES, SEG, CEV) disapproves the request, the disapprov-
  ing organization will identify why in the "REMARKS" section in Part II of the AF Form 3952. The
  customer may contact this organization upon completion of the routing process to attempt to resolve
  the problem with the material. The customer and the disapproving organization will work together to
  identify a suitable substitute. Once a suitable substitute is identified, it must be requested in the same
  manner through the SOS as the original material, for approval by all organizations.
  3.11. Materials designated IEX 8 by Bioenvironmental Engineering, and not subsequently changed
  into an IEX 7 or IEX M by Civil Engineer Environmental, will be entered into AF-EMIS, but not
  bar-coded for eventual return to the SOS. If a material is designated "non-hazardous" (HHF) in the
  "REMARKS" section by Bioenvironmental Engineering, it will not be entered into AF-EMIS. If all
  three reviewing agencies agree with this assessment, it will be permanently designated "non-hazard-
  ous." This material will then be ordered through standard supply channels without need for future
  approvals. If the approval agencies (BES, SEG, CEV) disagree on whether something should be
  tracked, it will be addressed by the HMMP Team. The consensus decision of the HMMP Team will
  determine if the material is to be assigned an IEX Code other than "HHF."
  3.12. The customer's authorization for a hazardous material is valid for 2 years from the date of entry
  into AF-EMIS, as a general rule. For subsequent purchases of an approved material during this time
  frame, the customer only needs to go the their SOS and place the order, since they will now be listed
  as a authorized user in AF-EMIS.
  3.13. All customers, regardless of SOS, are required to use material maintained as "free issue" by
  HAZMART, rather than purchase a new item, if it meets mission requirements. Once a customer is
  approved to purchase the material, their SOS will access AF-EMIS to determine if the requested prod-
6                                                             HOLLOMANAFBI32-7011 25 MAY 1999


    uct is available through "free-issue." If it is, then the customer will be given written authorization by
    their SOS to pick up the material from the "free issue" area. If no "free issue" material is available for
    the given request, it will be purchased through the customer's SOS.
    3.14. The vast majority of initial hazardous materials approvals will not require less than the 3-4
    working days turn-around time specified in subparagraphs 3.2. through 3.9. However, it is understood
    that there will be occasional emergencies requiring rapid approval of a hazardous material purchase to
    maintain mission requirements. If the emergency occurs during duty hours, each of the approval agen-
    cies (BES, SEG, CEV) will accept telephone or in-person requests to expedite an AF Form 3952. If
    the emergency occurs after duty hours, or for some reason a telephone or in-person request is not prac-
    tical, HAFB Form 15, Emergency Request for Hazardous Materials Approval, will be used. This
    form must be signed by the Production Superintendent for aircraft maintenance emergencies, or the
    shop supervisor on duty for non-aircraft maintenance-related emergencies. This form will allow the
    SOS to immediately process a hazardous material request. An AF Form 3952 must then be processed
    for the hazardous material as soon as practical, and no later than 15 working days, after the emergency
    request.

4. Maintenance of AF-EMIS Database for Customers:
    4.1. The Authorized User's List in AF-EMIS will list the hazardous materials authorized for a shop.
    The authorization will, as a general rule, be 2 years from the date the approval was granted. The SOS
    will send a list of the authorized hazardous materials to each shop for review on a schedule established
    by the SOS. A written response will be required from the shop supervisor by the suspense date estab-
    lished by the SOS, or the shop will lose all hazardous materials authorizations from the SOS.
    4.2. The shop supervisor must reply, in writing, stating that the list provided by the SOS is current, or
    requires items to be deleted or added. Items stated as current in the written response from the shop
    supervisor will be authorized for the next 2 years by the SOS. Items to be deleted will be deleted from
    AF-EMIS by the SOS upon receipt of the written response. If an item is deleted, and again becomes
    needed by the customer, another AF Form 3952 must be generated and the complete approval process
    must be accomplished.
    4.3. If shop supervisors want to add items during the review process, each requested item must follow
    the complete approval process outlined in paragraph 3.
    4.4. Bioenvironmental Engineering will review the AF Form 3952 and AF Form 2761, Hazardous
    Material Data, listings maintained in AF-EMIS for a shop during the routine Industrial Hygiene sur-
    vey process established by AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations. If chemicals are discovered
    in a shop without an AF Form 3952 or not listed in AF-EMIS, the shop is required to dispose of the
    material in an approved manner, or complete the approval process outlined in paragraph 3. An AF
    Form 3952 must be processed for the hazardous material as soon as practical, and no later than 15
    working days after the date on the Bioenvironmental Engineering Industrial Hygiene Survey memo-
    randum. A copy of the Industrial Hygiene Survey memorandum will be forwarded to the shop's SOS
    if unauthorized chemicals are found. If the shop does not begin the AF Form 3952 process within the
    15 working days, the shop will lose all hazardous materials authorizations from the SOS.
    4.5. The SOS, Bioenvironmental Engineering, and Civil Engineer Environmental are all responsible
    for maintaining portions of the AF-EMIS database for Holloman AFB, as outlined in AFI 37-7086/
    ACC Supplement 1 (Draft). Each of these organizations will develop internal procedures to keep their
HOLLOMANAFBI32-7011 25 MAY 1999                                                                        7


   portions of AF-EMIS current. The HMMP Team will oversee management of the AF-EMIS database,
   and periodically review the quality of the data.

5. IMPAC Card Purchases of Hazardous Material:
   5.1. Standard IMPAC cards authorized by 49 CONS will be permitted to purchase non-hazardous
   material only. "Non-hazardous material" will be defined consistent with paragraph 2. of this instruc-
   tion. A HAZMAT-authorized IMPAC card is required for the purchase of hazardous material.
   5.2. The unit commander will authorize, in writing, individuals to be issued a HAZMAT-authorized
   IMPAC card. These individuals will be issued HAZMAT-authorized IMPAC cards by 49 CONS only
   upon receipt of this written certification. This approval must be renewed annually in accordance with
   procedures established by 49 CONS.
   5.3. The HAZMAT-authorized IMPAC card purchase cannot be conducted until a completed and
   approved AF Form 3952 is received by the card-holder. For emergencies only, a HAFB Form 15 is
   acceptable to authorize an IMPAC card purchase. The IMPAC card purchaser must maintain a copy of
   the AF Form 3952 and routing package for their records. This authorization is valid for 2 years from
   the initial purchase date as described in paragraph 4. of this instruction, and must be renewed in the
   same manner as for any other customer.
   5.4. Personnel issued HAZMAT-authorized IMPAC cards are solely responsible for ensuring the pur-
   chase is entered into AF-EMIS and properly bar-coded (if IEX 9, 7, or M item) at their unit's SOS.
   Failure to enter a purchase into AF-EMIS within 15 working days of the purchase will constitute
   grounds for removing the HAZMAT-authorized IMPAC card from the individual.

6. Turn-in of Unused and Partially Used Hazardous Materials, and Empty Containers:
   6.1. The customer will turn in all unused and partially used IEX 9, IEX 7, and IEX M hazardous
   materials, and empty containers to 49 SUPS/LGSH (HAZMART) for disposal, reuse, or recycling.
   HAZMART will be the focal point for this activity, regardless of the original SOS the material came
   from.
   6.2. HAZMART will coordinate with 49 CES/CEV (Civil Engineer Environmental) on proper dis-
   posal of hazardous materials that cannot be used. Policies for disposal, reuse, or recycling of these
   items will be established by 49 CES/CEV on a case-specific basis.
   6.3. HAZMART will operate a "free-issue" area that all authorized base organizations may use to
   obtain hazardous material at no cost. A customer must be authorized in AF-EMIS for the material in
   order to obtain it from the HAZMART free issue area.

7. Form Prescribed. HAFB Form 15, Emergency Request for Hazardous Materials Approval.



                                                       WILLIAM J. LAKE, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                       Commander
