BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   HOLLOMAN AFB INSTRUCTION 90-821
49TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                         27 JANUARY 2009
                                                                                     Special Management

                                                           HAZARD COMMUNICATION (HAZCOM)
                                                                                PROGRAM


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available digitally.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

                                                                                Certified by: 49 MDG/CC
OPR: 49 AMDS/SGPB
                                                                               (Colonel Crescenio Torres)
Supersedes:    HOLLOMANAFBI48-107,                                                              Pages: 10
              13 November 1998


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, and
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-821, Hazard Communication, and establishes the procedures and
responsibilities for the 29 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910.1200, Hazard Communication. This
instruction will serve as the base installation written hazard communication program as defined by the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) in 29 CFR 1910.1200. Following this
instruction will ensure workcenter compliance with the OSHA standard. This instruction does not apply
to contractor personnel unless included in contract specifications or specifically referenced as
applicable. This instruction applies to all Air Force and military personnel and direct hire foreign
nationals (as established by Status of Forces Agreements), the Air National Guard, and AF Reserve that
use, produce, or work in close proximity to hazardous chemicals in industrial and non-industrial work
areas. It does not apply to those exemptions found in 29 CFR 1910.1200, paragraph (b). Maintain
records created as a result of published processes in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of records IAW the AF Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS), available from the Air Force Portal at the AF Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) link. Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended
changes and questions to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, to 49th Aerospace Medicine Squadron Bioenvironmental
Engineering Flight (49 AMDS/SGPB), 280 First Street, Holloman AFB, NM 88330-8273.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is changed from the 48 series to the 90 series instruction. Updates and replaces
superseded regulations, duty titles and base organizations. Changes include placing primary
responsibility for HAZCOM training and worker awareness on the work area/shop supervisor and
formalizing the hazardous material request and authorization process.
1. Exceptions: This instruction does not apply to the following materials:
2                                                       HOLLOMANAFBI90-821 27 JANUARY 2009


    1.1. Hazardous waste.
    1.2. Wood or wood products.
    1.3. Consumer Products. When these products are used in the workplace in the same manner as
    normal consumer use and when use results in a duration and frequency of exposure that is not
    greater than exposures experienced by consumers. This will be a case-by-case judgment.
    1.4. Warehousing. As long as employees only handle materials in sealed containers that are not
    opened under normal conditions.
    1.5. Pharmaceuticals. Drugs as defined by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act which are in
    solid, final form for direct administration to the patient (i.e., tablets, pills, or capsules). However,
    this instruction does apply to such items which are not in "final form" such as those designed to be
    dissolved or crushed by employees prior to administration to a patient, as well as to pharmaceuticals
    that the drug manufacturer has determined to be hazardous and that are known to be present in the
    workplace in such a manner that employees are exposed under normal conditions of use or in a
    foreseeable emergency.
    1.6. Laboratories. Laboratories which are covered under 29 CFR 1910.1450, Occupational
    Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories and AFOSH STD 48-22, Occupational Exposure
    to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories (see also paragraph 2.10 of this instruction).
2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. The 49th Fighter Wing Commander (49 FW/CC):
       2.1.1. Ensure that the HAZCOM program is prepared, implemented, and its effectiveness
       assessed in work area/shops where hazardous chemicals are stored, used or handled.
       2.1.2. Ensure supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to
       hazardous materials in the course of official Air Force duties are provided information and
       training on the AF HAZCOM Program and the specific hazards in their work area/shops.
       2.1.3. Ensure supervisors of work area/shops where hazardous chemicals are used or handled,
       prepare and implement a work area/shop-specific HAZCOM program.
    2.2. Public Health (PH) (49 AMDS/SGPM): PH is the point of contact for occupational health
    education, and provides consultation on training and technical matters to work area/shop supervisors
    on the AF HAZCOM Program. While primary responsibility for performing HAZCOM training
    rests with the work area/shop supervisor, PH will make the appropriate training available to work
    area/shop supervisors.
    2.3. Flight Medicine (FM) (49 AMDS/SGPF): FM assigns a physician to serve as the installation
    occupational medicine consultant and integrates efforts with other medical professionals through the
    Occupational and Environmental Health Working Group (OEHWG). FM personnel are available as
    an occupational health resource for installation workplaces and workers.
    2.4. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) (49 AMDS/SGPB):
       2.4.1. Maintains a current listing of the hazardous chemicals used by each industrial work area
       on Holloman AFB located in an industrial hygiene case file for each industrial work area.
       2.4.2. Provides technical expertise to work area/shops on potential health hazards, training
       requirements, and regulatory requirements (OSHA Expanded Standards) associated with
       hazardous chemicals.
HOLLOMANAFBI90-821 27 JANUARY 2009                                                                     3


     2.4.3. Develops and publishes installation written HAZCOM guidance.
     2.4.4.  Assists Commanders and work area/shop supervisors by providing specific
     implementation/compliance technical guidance on the AF HAZCOM program.
         2.4.4.1. Assesses work area/shop compliance with the AF HAZCOM program and
         effectiveness of worker HAZCOM program training during annual or subsequent shop
         industrial hygiene surveys using an established questionnaire.
     2.4.5. Advises installation work area/shops and personnel on labeling of hazardous chemical
     containers.
     2.4.6. Reviews the workplace’s HAZCOM program during annual or subsequent shop industrial
     hygiene surveys.
     2.4.7. Assists workplace supervisors in obtaining Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). If
     requested, BE provides explanations or interpretations of the MSDS to supervisors and affected
     workers for routine training and planning, and be available during emergency situations to assist
     in interpretation of the MSDS.
     2.4.8. Reviews and approves (as appropriate) work area/shop AF Form 3952, Chemical
     Authorization Request Form, requests/authorizations in accordance with AFI 32-7086,
     Hazardous Materials Management, prior to adding the new authorizations to the work area/shop
     hazardous chemical inventories. Periodically review the hazardous chemical inventory in
     conjunction with routine shop surveillance or through an automated Environment, Safety and
     Occupational Health Management Information System (ESOH-MIS).
     2.4.9. Provides hazard communication advice to the Installation Contracting Office upon request
     to assist in ensuring all contracts include hazardous material identification and data requirements.
     2.4.10. BE will coordinate with HAZMART for issue exception (IEX) codes and health hazard
     flags required for hazardous materials. BE will input IEX codes into the environmental
     management information system.
  2.5. Fire & Emergency Services (F&ES) (49 CES/CEF): Provides technical expertise to work
  area/shop supervisors on potential fire hazards, make recommendations to work area/shop
  supervisors regarding fire-prevention controls, storage and handling to minimize or eliminate
  potential fire and explosion hazards. F&ES personnel will inform Bioenvironmental Engineering
  and Public Health of HAZCOM compliance problems identified during inspections.
  2.6. Hazardous Materials Management (HAZMART) (49 LRS/LGRM):
     2.6.1. Manages the receipt, storage, issue, inspection, distribution, authorization and disposal of
     all HAZMAT.
     2.6.2. Ensures that all requests for HAZMAT have been approved and authorized for use on
     Holloman AFB. Customers will submit an AF Form 3952, prior to the purchase of any
     HAZMAT. This includes any purchase made with a Government Purchase Card, contractor
     purchased/used, contracting purchased or supply transactions. Upon approval of AF Form 3952,
     the HAZMART or other designated Material Control section will affix a bar-code tracking label
     to indicate that the material is being tracked within the HAZMART. Periodic inspections will be
     conducted to ensure regulations are being adhered too.
  2.7. Squadron Commanders will provide a safe and healthy work environment and ensure all
  assigned personnel are familiar with the hazards within the work area/shop, understand appropriate
4                                                     HOLLOMANAFBI90-821 27 JANUARY 2009


    ways to manage risk associated with hazardous materials in the work area/shop, and provide the
    resources to maintain an effective HAZCOM program under their areas of control.
       2.7.1. Squadron Commanders, or their designated representatives, shall approve their written
       work area/shop specific HAZCOM training prior to implementation in the work area/shop.
    2.8. Supervisors:
       2.8.1. Maintain a HAZCOM program binder in the work area according to paragraph 3. Make
       sure all work area personnel (1) know where the binder is located, and (2) know the information
       it contains.
       2.8.2. Conduct annual review of shop specific written HAZCOM program and training plan and
       note any changes. NOTE: Any training changes need to be forwarded to Occupational Health
       Element of the Public Health Flight (49 AMDS/SGPM), 49 AMDS/SGPB, Ground Safety (49
       FW/SEG) and Fire & Emergency Services Flight (49 CES/CEF) for approval.
       2.8.3. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). Ensure every MSDS received with an incoming
       shipment are (1) maintained in the work area, (2) made readily available to workers, and (3)
       reconciled annually. Access to MSDSs in the work area/shops will be provided as follows:
           2.8.3.1. Ensure all workers on all shifts must know how to obtain an MSDS, and have
           unrestricted direct access to MSDSs during all shifts.
           2.8.3.2. Maintain a hardcopy MSDS or electronic version, as long as no barriers to
           immediate employee access of the MSDS. If the primary means for MSDS access is
           electronic, a back-up system for MSDS access must be established in case primary computer
           access is disrupted.
           2.8.3.3. The location of the MSDSs and/or means of access for any work area/shop will be
           determined locally. Where personnel must travel between work area/shops during a work
           shift, the MSDS may be kept at the primary work area/shop facility.
       2.8.4. Labeling. Proper labeling of hazardous chemical containers will be accomplished in
       accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1200(f) and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6050.5.
       Labels are not to be removed or defaced.
           2.8.4.1. Make sure container of hazardous materials are marked with the following
           information at minimum:
              2.8.4.1.1. Identity of the hazardous chemical(s) in the container.
              2.8.4.1.2. Appropriate hazard warnings that include information about specific physical
              and health hazard(s), including target organ effects of the chemical(s) in the container.
              This may be accomplished using any combination of words, symbols, or pictures.
           2.8.4.2. Transfer containers, vats, tanks, bottle, or other containers filled with hazardous
           materials will be labeled as stated above in accordance with AFI 90-821, labeling
           requirements.
           2.8.4.3. Immediate-use containers are exempt from this requirement only if the same person,
           who fills the container, also empties it during the same shift.
       2.8.5. Hazard Communication Training. The supervisor is responsible for ensuring all workers
       are properly trained on the chemical hazards in their work area. Supervisors will develop
HOLLOMANAFBI90-821 27 JANUARY 2009                                                                      5


     workplace-specific hazard training plans and ensure 49 AMDS/SGPM, 49 AMDS/SGPB, 49
     FW/SEG and 49 CES/CEF review and approve prior to implementation in the workplace.
        2.8.5.1. Initial Training. Workers will receive comprehensive HAZCOM training that will
        include the following:
            2.8.5.1.1. Identification of operations or processes in the work area where hazardous
            chemicals are used, and the complete list of hazardous materials in the shop.
            2.8.5.1.2. Identification of relevant hazard categories associated with each chemical used
            (e.g., flammability, carcinogenicity, etc.) or the individual chemical hazards; including,
            but not limited to, those with specific regulatory requirements (OSHA expanded
            standards).
            2.8.5.1.3. Location and contents of the work area/shop-specific written hazard
            communication program.
            2.8.5.1.4. How to access and read MSDSs.
            2.8.5.1.5. Controls (engineering, administrative, and personal protective equipment)
            workers must use to minimize or eliminate exposure to hazardous chemicals specific to a
            task. Supervisors shall refer to the installation BE survey reports for specific control
            requirements.
            2.8.5.1.6. Emergency procedures, such as recognition of a spill or accidental chemical
            release (e.g., visual, odor, alarm) and escape procedures to include locations of
            emergency eye wash stations, showers, and monitoring capabilities.
            2.8.5.1.7. Chemical hazards associated with non-routine tasks.
        2.8.5.2. Supplemental Training. Training for all potentially affected employees is required
        when either a new hazard is brought into the work area/shop or a new chemical is introduced.
        Training must include all elements for initial training. Supervisors may use the AF Form
        3952 or BE special survey letters as sources of information to meet this training requirement.
        When workers change work area/shops either by assigned duties or location, work area/shop-specific
        training as described above will be accomplished only to the extent needed to cover changes in
        working conditions and potential exposures.
        2.8.5.3. OSHA Expanded Standard Chemicals: For chemicals such as asbestos, benzene,
        lead, etc., that have an OSHA Expanded Standard, contact PH for training guidance. Refer to
        BE industrial hygiene survey letters to identify if expanded standards apply in your work
        area/shop.
        2.8.5.4. Documentation of Hazard Communication Training. As per AFI 90-301, ensure
        annual and refresher training is documented on an AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
        Record. Training provided to supervisors and employees from contractor organizations
        should also be documented.
     2.8.6. Chemical Inventory. Develop and maintain an updated hazardous chemical inventory in
     the work area. Notify BE of any change(s) (addition and deletion) that is made to the work area
     chemical inventory. At the very least, the chemical inventory should contain the following
     information:
        2.8.6.1. Nomenclature or product name (as it appears on the MSDS).
        2.8.6.2. Manufacturer.
6                                                    HOLLOMANAFBI90-821 27 JANUARY 2009


          2.8.6.3. National stock number or local purchase number.
          2.8.6.4. Storage location (e.g., Bldg 1111, Room 111).
       2.8.7. List all non-routine tasks performed in the work area that involve hazardous materials.
       This can be in the form of Technical Orders, Job Safety Analyses, BE survey letters, Operating
       Instructions or specific task lists. Ensure workers review all procedures before performing any
       non-routine tasks.
    2.9. Contracting (49 CONS):
       2.9.1. Ensures the required exchange of information described below between the government
       and contractors regarding hazardous materials used at work sites on Holloman AFB. Each
       MSDS furnished must be legible, which is specifically defined as capable of being input to a
       computer as text using an optical scanning device.
          2.9.1.1. Provisions contained in paragraph 2.10. of AFI 90-821 specifically govern the
          interface between contractors and the Air Force with regard to Hazard Communication.
          Contractors are required to train their own personnel according to OSHA Hazard
          Communication Standard, 29 CFR 1910.1200. Contractors are responsible for their own
          HAZCOM program.
          2.9.1.2. The Contracting Officer (CO) will ensure a pre-performance conference is available
          for each contract where hazardous materials are involved. At this conference, the CO, with
          assistance from BE and workplace supervisors, if requested, will advise contractors of
          hazardous chemicals that may be encountered during operations at Holloman AFB and the
          protective measures needed during the normal course of their work. The contractor will be
          informed that MSDSs are available through BE and/or Hazardous Materials Management
          (HAZMART) and provide information on the labeling system.
          2.9.1.3. At the pre-performance conference and during the contract performance period, the
          requiring activity Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE) government inspector, for contracts
          that require a QAE, will ensure that workplace supervisors and Air Force employees are
          advised of hazardous chemicals introduced by the contractor and any protective measures
          necessary based on these hazards.
          2.9.1.4. The contractor is required to submit information on use of hazardous materials
          according to Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.223-3. "Hazardous Material
          Identification and Material Safety Data", as prescribed by FAR Clause 23.303. FAR Clause
          52.223-3 must be included in all solicitations, when applicable.
       2.9.2. Quality Assurance Personnel and Contractor Reporting Responsibility: The requiring
       activity’s quality assurance personnel (QAP) must report all hazardous chemicals that a
       contractor introduces to the work area. The QAP provides the data to the work area supervisor
       and to all Air Force employees who may be affected by the hazardous materials introduced into
       the work area. A contractor is required to submit information on hazardous material in
       accordance with FAR, Clause 52.223-3. The QAP ensures contractors remove any unused
       chemicals from the facility upon completion of the project.
    2.10. Laboratories: Laboratories which are covered by AFOSH STD 48-22 are not required to
    establish a written HAZCOM program or maintain a chemical inventory, but the following
    requirements do apply:
       2.10.1. MSDSs received must be maintained.
HOLLOMANAFBI90-821 27 JANUARY 2009                                                                       7


       2.10.2. Labels on in-coming containers must be maintained.
       2.10.3. Workers must be trained on the hazards they are exposed to IAW AFOSH STD 48-22.
3. Written Documentation: Each workplace using or handling hazardous materials will maintain a
copy of this document. Unless an existing document exists which covers all requirements, this
instruction serves as the workplace written program required under 29 CFR 1910.1200. The following
items are required elements for a shop-level written Hazard Communication Program and will be
maintained together (i.e.: in a 3-ring binder) in a readily accessible location in each work area. Organize
the binder as follows:
   3.1. TAB A - a copy of this instruction.
   3.2. TAB B - a copy of AFI 90-821 or cross-referenced with a local form placed in this tab.
   3.3. TAB C - a copy of the hazardous chemical inventory.
   3.4. TAB D - copies of Bioenvironmental Engineering Survey Reports that must be kept for 10
   years.
   3.5. TAB E - a copy of the MSDS for each hazardous chemical used in the workplace and listed on
   the chemical inventory. Due to the large number of hazardous materials that may be used in a
   workplace, separate binders may need to be used and a local cross-referenced form will be placed in
   this tab.
   3.6. TAB F - a copy of each worker’s AF Form 55 or equivalent. AF Form 55(s) may be
   maintained in a decentralized location (i.e., in individual mobility or training folders) and be cross-
   referenced using a local form that's placed in this tab.
   3.7. TAB G - a copy of the shop-specific hazard communication training plan addressing process
   hazards unique to Holloman AFB.
   3.8. TAB H - a list of all non-routine tasks performed in the work area referencing applicable
   directives or operating instructions.
4. Observance of Guidelines Mandatory. Commanders will ensure conformance with the guidelines
established by this instruction to the maximum extent possible under actual conditions. Seek the
guidance of medical personnel where complete adherence to these principles would significantly
degrade mission accomplishment.
5. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3952, Chemical Authorization Request Form




                                              JEFFREY L. HARRIGIAN, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 49th Fighter Wing
8                                                   HOLLOMANAFBI90-821 27 JANUARY 2009


                                           Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 6050.5, DOD, Hazard Communication Program, 15 August 2006.
DOD 4145.19-R-1, Storage and Materials Handling, September 1979.
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 3 October 2005.
AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program, 5 March 2008.
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005.
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 November 2004.
AFI 91-301, The Air Force Occupational Safety, Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health (AFOSH)
Program, 1 June 1996.
AFOSH STD 48-22, Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories, 21 March 1994.
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, 31 January 2006.
AFOSH STD 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, 10 February 2005.
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 January 2009.
AFMAN 24-204, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, 15 April 2007.
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Title 29, Part 1910, Section 1200, Hazard Communication, 1 July
2007.
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Title 29, Part 1910, Section 1450, Occupational Exposure to
Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories, 1 July 2007.
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Clause 52.223-3, Hazardous Material Identification and
Material Safety Data, January 1997.
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Clause 23.303, Hazardous Material Identification and Material
Safety Data, January 1997.
Federal Standard 313D, Material Safety Data, Transportation Data, and Disposal Data for Hazardous
Materials Furnished to Government Activities, 3 April 1996.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health
AFOSHSTD—Air Force Occupational Safety, Fire Prevention and Health Standard
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CO—Contracting Officer
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
ESOH—MIS—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Management Information System
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulations
F&ES—Fire & Emergency Services
HOLLOMANAFBI90-821 27 JANUARY 2009                                                                     9


FM—Flight Medicine
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HAZMART—Hazard Materials Management
IAW—in accordance with
IEX—issue exception
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
OEHWG—Occupational and Environmental Health Working Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PH—Public Health Flight
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
QAP—Quality Assurance Personnel

Terms
Administrative Controls—-Administrative controls are restrictions on worker activities during an
operation or process that has the effect of protecting a worker by limiting the worker’s opportunity for
exposure to hazardous materials. Examples are time limits, rotating duties among several workers, etc.
Authorized Users List (AUL)—-A list maintained by HAZMART showing all installation-level work
areas authorized to use specific HAZMAT.
Engineering Controls—-Engineering controls are devices installed in order to prevent hazardous
chemicals or contaminants from reaching workers who would otherwise be exposed.
HAZMART—-This is the only entity on the installation authorized to issue government-owned
HAZMAT. HAZMART is a facility located in Bldg 1911 where customers can receive support for
obtaining HAZMAT, and where HAZMATs are managed and tracked. This is the primary location on
the installation where personnel stock, store, issue, and distribute HAZMAT.
Hazardous Material (HAZMAT)—-A substance of any quantity or form that has the potential to affect
human health or the environment. Any chemical that is a physical or health hazard and requires an
MSDS as defined in AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, and all Class I and Class II ozone-
depleting substances (ODS). A hazardous chemical is also known as a hazardous material or HAZMAT.
Definitions of specific hazardous substances may be found in 29 CFR 1910.1200, Table Z, Toxic and
Hazardous Substances; hazardous material stock class number and their definitions can be found in
Federal Standard 313C, Table I and Table II.
Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)—-Each MSDS is a detailed information bulletin prepared by the
chemical manufacturer describing the physical and chemical properties, physical and health hazards,
routes of exposure, precautions for safe handling and use, emergency and first-aid procedures, and
control measures of the listed hazardous chemicals. The MSDS shall be prepared to be consistent with
29 CFR 1910.1200(g) requirements.
Non—Routine Tasks--Included in the normal activities of a work area but are infrequently performed;
for example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent, or cleaning up spills; or temporary duties
performed outside an individual’s normal Air Force specialty code or job series.
10                                                   HOLLOMANAFBI90-821 27 JANUARY 2009


Personal Protective Equipment—-Personal protective equipment is an item of apparel or a device
worn by a worker that is used to prevent entry of a hazardous material to the body via the respiratory
tract, mucous membranes, eyes or the skin. Examples are respirators, gloves, boots, aprons, coveralls,
face shields, etc.
Sources of Supply (SOS)—-SOS includes all Air Force controlled supply organizations and other SOS
operating on an installation. Other SOS include, but are not limited to, contractor-operated civil
engineer supply store, government-operated civil engineer supply store, base maintenance contractors,
contractor-operated parts store and non appropriated funds.
Work Area/Shop—-A room or defined space in an installation where HAZMAT is produced or used,
and where employees are present.
Workspace—-Defined as an establishment, job site, or project at one geographical location containing
one or more work areas. Within the Air Force, a workplace includes all work areas within the
boundaries of a base, installation or station. This also includes all geographically separated units,
remote sites, and other non-collocated activities that are supported by the host base.

Written Hazard Communication Program--A written Hazard Communication Program is a typed
document prepared for each work area that informs workers about the work area’s Hazard
Communication Program. Mandatory attachments include a work area hazardous chemical inventory,
the listing of non-routine tasks for the work area, and a copy of AFI 90-821.
