BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               HOMESTEAD AIR RESERVE BASE
482D FIGHTER WING                                                INSTRUCTION 48-101

                                                                                  6 JULY 2011

                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                          FETAL PROTECTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 482 MSG/SGPB                                    Certified by: 482 MSG/CC (Colonel Elwin
                                                                            A. Rozyskie, Jr.)
                                                                                   Pages: 10


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 41-1, Health Care Programs
and Resources, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 44-102, Medical Care Management and Air Force
Reserve Command Instruction (AFRCI) 41-104, Pregnancy of Air Force Reserve Personnel. It
establishes the Reproductive Health/Fetal Protection Program at Homestead Air Reserve Base
(HARB), outlining policies and procedures, responsibilities and documentation requirements for
the management of pregnant Air Force Reserve (AFR) personnel and outlines suggested
procedures for pregnant Department of Defense (DOD) civilian personnel assigned to the 482d
Fighter Wing(482 FW) at HARB. It applies to all unit assigned reservists and Air Reserve
Technicians (ART) while in reserve military status. This instruction does not apply to pregnant
DOD civilian personnel who elect not to voluntarily participate in the program. Refer
recommended changes to and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form 847 (AF Form 847), Recommendation of Change of
Publication. Route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Records
Management, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https:www.my.af.mil/gcsaf61a/afirms/rims/cfm.

1. General:
   1.1. Pregnant employees cannot be required to work in an environment that is hazardous to
   their unborn fetus. AFI 44-102 gives guidance concerning basic duty restrictions for
   pregnant workers.
 2                                                   HOMESTEADARBI48-101 6 JULY 2011



     1.2. The goal of the Fetal Protection Program (FPP) is to prevent the pregnant member and
     her unborn fetus from being exposed to any physical or environmental hazards that may
     adversely affect the health of the mother and/or her unborn fetus.
     1.3. Providing accurate duty restrictions requires the cooperation of the member, the
     member’s obstetrical health care provider, Public Health (PH), Bioenvironmental
     Engineering (BE), and the member’s supervisor.
     1.4. Workplace environment and activities must not exceed the duty limitations or physical
     restrictions set by the Flight Surgeon and the reservist’s private physician or the civilian
     employee’s private physicians. Pregnant reservist members must be cleared by a military
     physician before participating in any military duties.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Commanders and supervisors are responsible for ensuring each female member within
     their organization is knowledgeable of their responsibilities during pregnancy.
     2.2. 482d Fighter Wing (482 FW) reserve female personnel must notify their supervisors as
     soon as possible once they have received conformation of pregnancy to minimize potential
     hazards to the fetus and to allow her unit to accurately report operational and readiness
     capability.
     2.3. The 482d Medical Squadron/Commander (482 MDS/CC) will ensure all medical
     personnel having responsibilities in managing this program comply with this instruction.
     2.4. The Flight Surgeon (FS) validates the AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report,
     with signature for all military personnel and reviews addendums to ensure adequate work
     restrictions are incorporated.
     2.5. PH is the office of primary responsibility (OPR). BE, Physical Examinations and
     Standardizations (PES), and the FS work cooperatively with PH to ensure pregnant military
     personnel are properly profiled.
        2.5.1. PH and BE personnel are responsible for evaluating the work environments of
        pregnant reservist for potential maternal/fetal health risk and provides recommendations
        for appropriate duty restrictions to the member, her supervisor, and the FS. On a
        voluntary basis, Department of Defense (DoD) civilian and ARTs can request PH/BE to
        evaluate their respective work environment for potential maternal/fetal health risk. If
        risks are identified, the civilian/ART can request assistance from the 482d Force Support
        Squadron/Human Resource Office (482 FSS/FSMC), PH, and their supervisor for
        temporary relocation to a safer work environment.
     2.6. Physical Examinations and Standardization Section (PES):
        2.6.1. Refers pregnant reservist to PH for a fetal protection program interview.
        2.6.2. Initiates an AF Form 469, when a reservist is confirmed pregnant by their personal
        health care provider.
        2.6.3. Ensures the AF Form 469 (with addendums as applicable) is issued to the reservist
        member and a copy is forwarded to PH.
HOMESTEADARBI48-101 6 JULY 2011                                                                3


  2.7. Supervisors, when notified of a confirmed pregnancy, are responsible for ensuring:
     2.7.1. 482 Medical Squadron is notified of member’s pregnancy.
     2.7.2. The pregnant member is seen at the medical squadron and is given medical
     clearance prior to participating in any military or civilian duties.
     2.7.3. Workplace environment and activities do not exceed the duty limitations or
     physical restrictions set by medical personnel.
3. Procedures for Managing Pregnant Air Force (AF) Reserves and Air Reserve
Technicians (ARTs):
  3.1. All pregnant AF Reserve personnel and ARTs must report to the 482 MDS PES with
  confirmation of pregnancy from their private Health Care Provider (HCP). PES will set up
  an appointment with a unit Medical Provider for an initial pregnancy interview.
  3.2. The Medical Provider will conduct an interview with the patient and refer her to PH
  with Standard Form (SF) 513, Medical Record Consultation and a letter requesting medical
  information on her pregnancy status for her HCP. The patient will hand carry the forms to
  PH.
  3.3. PH completes patient’s referral on the same day.
     3.3.1. The PH technician will obtain a thorough description of the patient’s specific
     duties and potential exposures to hazardous substances (e.g. chemical, radiation) by using
     a “Briefing Statement” letter, Supervisor’s Briefing and AFRC Form 20, Pregnancy
     Workplace Evaluation, to determine the potential occupational health hazards associated
     with the pregnant employees work environment.
     3.3.2. Verify the information on the AFRC Form 20 overprint by telephone or e-mail
     with the patient's supervisor. Discuss the patient's potential for exposure to health
     hazards in the workplace, safety equipment and the use of chemicals during the
     pregnancy and annotate on AFRC Form 20. The name of the supervisor, the date of
     contact and whether the supervisor agrees or disagrees with the duty position statement
     and assessment of potential exposure to hazardous substances will be annotated on the
     form. Once completed, the patient and PH technician must sign the AFRC Form 20
     overprint on the lines provided.
     3.3.3. The patient must be given a Statement of Work Questionnaire to carry to their
     supervisor and the supervisor must complete and returned the questionnaire within three
     working days. When received, it will be filed with the patient’s other pregnancy
     documents.
     3.3.4. PH provides education on known or potential hazards and other hazards associated
     with lifestyle (e.g., alcohol or tobacco usage). The technician provides information on
     health and pregnancy risks, as applicable.
     3.3.5. If no hazards or potential exposure risks are identified after reviewing the military
     member’s interview and supervisor’s input, PH completes the SF 513, with the following
     statement: “Based on the military member’s interview, supervisor’s statement, and
     review of the member’s workplace case file, no additional duty restrictions other than the
     normal pregnancy profile are recommended at this time”.
4                                                   HOMESTEADARBI48-101 6 JULY 2011



       3.3.6. Once completed, the technician will sign both the AFRC Form 20 and Pregnancy
       Briefing Statement letter and file the original “Pregnancy Briefing Statement” letter in the
       member’s medical records. A copy of this letter will be given to the member and a letter
       sent to the supervisor/commander explaining what kind of restricted work status the
       member has been place on. *Note: Instruct the patient to return to PH within 30 days
       with information from her HCP on her pregnancy status and then after every 60 days or
       more often if she believes that additional restrictions are required during the duration of
       her pregnancy.
       3.3.7. Record the patient's name and other required information in the PH Pregnancy
       Tracking Log Book.
       3.3.8. Instruct the member to return to PES to obtain a temporary profile AF Form 469
       when she completes her interview with BE. Member will be on a 3T Profile (Duty at
       home station only) until the 34th week of gestation. After the 34th week of gestation, the
       member must return to PES to volunteer to participate during the UTA after 34 weeks or
       to be place on 4T profile (No participation for pay or point gaining) until 6 weeks after
       delivery. The reservist must have approval from her unit commander, and obstetric
       provider and live within 50 miles of the Unit Training Assembly (UTA) location and to
       commutes home during UTA in order to participate during the late stages of pregnancy.
       The member must return to PES with documentation from her private medical provider
       releasing them to “full military duty”.
       3.3.9. Complete AFRC Form 20, to include the date.
    3.4. If at the end of the interview and review of documentation, there is an indication that a
    potentially hazardous situation exists, the PH technician will place the profile package in a
    specially marked "Fetal Protection Program" folder and hand-carry it to BE. If BE is not
    available, the workplace review will be conducted by PH personnel.
       3.4.1. BEE completes the following steps in one workday:
           3.4.1.1. Review the Industrial Case File or Building File for the patient's work area.
           Document any potential health hazards associated with the daily activity of this
           employee or recommendations on AFRC Form 20. Documentation of exposure to
           chemicals or other health hazards (i.e. radiation) should be specific (e.g., "Patient
           exposed to or uses (state specific chemicals or other hazards) and detailed whether the
           exposure occurs on a daily basis, twice a week, etc. These exposures are known or
           thought to be hazardous to the mother and the fetus." Do not use statements like
           "Patient exposed to solvent". Unknown hazards in the patient's work area, will be
           documented using the statement “No, known hazards in the patient's work area."
           3.4.1.2. BE will perform a special survey when there is an indication of potential
           exposure to a health hazard by the patient, but the workplace case file does not
           contain documentation concerning the hazard(s) in question. In this situation, BE
           notifies PH to confirm the potential hazards so that recommendations will be
           considered for an immediate job modification. The recommendations will be given to
           the patient.
HOMESTEADARBI48-101 6 JULY 2011                                                             5


        3.4.1.3. Once BE completes their review of the patient’s work environment; they will
        return the profile package back to PH.
     3.4.2. The following steps are completed by the PH within one workday of receipt of
     profile package back from BE.
        3.4.2.1. Review their findings and summarize them on the SF 513. Then attach a
        physician’s “Review of Pregnancy Profile Package” cover letter to the profile
        package.
        3.4.2.2. Hand-carry the entire profile package to the physician appointed for
        evaluation and review.
     3.4.3. The physician completes the following steps on the same day as receipt of the
     profile package from PH:
        3.4.3.1. Reviews the SF 513 summary of hazards and other documents in the profile
        package to decide what type of profile status the patient needs to be placed in.
        3.4.3.2. The physician will complete; sign the physician's "Review of Pregnancy
        Profile Package" cover letter , and circle the letter for the type of profile required
        (e.g., standard profile, standard profile with the following additions, etc.).
        3.4.3.3. The completed profile package is hand-carried by the physician to the
        Physical Examinations and Standards (PES) section.
     3.4.4. PES, or a designator from the Medical Facility Commander, will complete the
     following steps. These steps will be completed in one workday of receipt of the profile
     package from the attending physician.
        3.4.4.1. AF Form 422:
            3.4.4.1.1. Complete AF Form 469 using the physician's cover letter as the source
            document for the type o f pregnancy profile required.
            3.4.4.1.2. Hand -carry AF Form 469 to the Flight Surgeon for signature.
            3.4.4.1.3. Distribute the AF Form 469 as follows:
               3.4.4.1.3.1. Ensure that the original is filed in medical records.
               3.4.4.1.3.2. Give a copy to the patient, forward a copy to the patient's
               supervisor and to Military Personnel Flight.
               3.4.4.1.3.3. Place a copy of the completed AF Form 469 in the pregnancy
               profile package and return the package to PH.
               3.4.4.1.3.4. Retain one copy for the profile book.
        3.4.4.2. PES distributes the remaining pregnancy profile package documents as
        follows:
            3.4.4.2.1. Send the original copy of AFRC Form 20, Briefing Statement,
            Supervisor’s Statement of Work Questionnaire and SF 513 to the Medical
            Records section for filing in the patient's medical record.
            3.4.4.2.2. Send copy of all AF Form 469 to BE or PH to file in the appropriate
 6                                                   HOMESTEADARBI48-101 6 JULY 2011



               industrial case file TAB F.
               3.4.4.2.3. Place copies of the completed SF 513, AF Form 469, and review of
               Pregnancy Profile Package in a suspense file. Every 60 days, pregnant workers
               must provide periodic progress reports from their private physician. The
               designated unit physician reviews the progress report, AF Form 422, Notification
               of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status, SF 513, Pregnancy Profile Package,
               and signs the appropriate forms. Failure of the member to meet the medical
               requirements will result in the member being placed on a “No Pay or Points
               Profile”.
4. Procedures for Managing Pregnant Civilian Employees:
     4.1. When a civilian employee presents confirmation of pregnancy to the supervisor, the
     supervisor directs her to PH.
     4.2. On the same workday of notification, PH completes the following steps on the patient’s
     referral.
        4.2.1. Interview the patient using AFRC Form 20, “Pregnancy Workplace Evaluation" to
        determine the potential occupational health hazards associated with the pregnant
        employees work environment. Note: Instruct the patient to return to BES if she believes
        that additional restrictions are required during the duration of her pregnancy.
        4.2.2. Verify the information on AFRC Form 20, by telephone with the patient's
        supervisor and date. Also annotate whether the supervisor agrees or disagrees with the
        duty position statement and assessment of potential exposure to hazardous substances.
        Give the patient a Statement of Work Questionnaire to be given to her supervisor. It
        must be completed within three days. When received, file it with the other pregnancy
        package documents. Both the patient and the PH interviewer should now sign AFRC
        Form 20 on the lines provided.
        4.2.3. Record the patient's name and other required formation in the PH Pregnancy
        Tracking Log Book.
        4.2.4. Complete AFRC Form 20, to include the date.
        4.2.5. If at the end of the interview and review of documentation, there is an indication
        that a potentially hazardous situation exists; BE will evaluate all civilian pregnancy
        packages.
        4.2.6. BE completes the following steps in one workday:
            4.2.6.1. Review the Industrial Case File or Building File for the patient's work area.
            Document any potential health hazards associated with the daily activity of this
            employee or recommendations on SF 513. Documentation of chemical, physical or
            biological hazards should be specific. State specific chemical, physical or biological
            hazards that the patient is potentially exposed to on a daily basis, twice a week, etc.
            These hazards are considered or thought to be potentially harmful to the mother and
            the fetus. Do not use statements like "Patient exposed to solvent”. If there is an
            unknown hazard in the patient’s work area, it must be documented using the
            statement “No, known hazards in the patient’ work area”.
HOMESTEADARBI48-101 6 JULY 2011                                                                 7


          4.2.6.2. BE performs a special survey when there is an indication of an exposure to a
          hazard, but the case file contains no documentation of the hazard(s). In this situation,
          BE will confirm potential hazards so that a recommendation will be issued for
          immediate job modification.
          4.2.6.3. Recommendations from civilian healthcare providers pertaining to the
          limitation of physical activities during pregnancy will be reviewed by a military
          medical provider, who will in turn, make a final recommendation to the employee and
          her supervisor. BE reviews findings and summarizes recommendations on the
          "Workplace Evaluation and Recommended Duty Restrictions" letter for civilian
          employees.
      4.2.7. BE hand-carries the entire package to PH and PH will hand deliver the package to
      the designated physician for evaluation and review.
   4.3. The designated physician will complete his review within one workday of receipt of
   profile package from PH. Evaluate the pregnancy package and annotate recommended
   precautions or actions to be considered for the duration of the pregnancy. After the physician
   signs the "Workplace Evaluation and Recommended Duty Restrictions" letter, the civilian
   employees will return to PH. Note: If the patient’s civilian physician later makes changes in
   his recommendations, an attempt will be made to discuss and rectify those differences.
   4.4. Within one workday, PH distributes the pregnancy package documents as follows after
   receipt from the attending physician.
      4.4.1. Call the patient and ask her to come to PH to pick up a copy of the "Workplace
      Evaluation and Recommended Duty Restrictions" letter for civilian employees.
      4.4.2. Make three copies of the letter and send the signed original to the Civilian
      Personnel Office (CPO) and a copy to the patient's supervisor.
      4.4.3. Provide a copy of the letter to the patient along with instructions to take it to her
      doctor for review and possible job modification recommendations. *Note: All review
      and evaluations by an employee's private physician will be at the employee's expense.
      The supervisor and CPO will accomplish any required temporary position relocation or
      approve an absence of the employee, according to civilian personnel instructions.
      4.4.4. File a copy of the letter in the appropriate PH Tab F.
5. Public Health provides appropriate follow-up:
   5.1. When discussion with the individual military or civilian member, her supervisor or BE
   indicates necessity.
   5.2. PH annotates the "Public Health Pregnancy Tracking Log Book" and review it weekly
   to ensure each section is meeting its suspense.
6. Return to duty:
   6.1. A reserve military member returning to duty no later than six weeks following delivery
   will provide PES with a written statement from her primary health care provider indicating
   her current health condition and any physical restrictions.
8                                                   HOMESTEADARBI48-101 6 JULY 2011



    6.2. PH will annotate on the “Fetal Protection Tracking Log” upon receiving new
    information and closeout the case.
    6.3. PH ensures a breast-feeding military member working in a hazardous area is protected
    from potential exposures to hazardous chemicals that can be absorbed into the breast milk
    and potentially harm the newborn.
    6.4. PH with assistance from the FS will determine if a breast-feeding profile is required
    when a worker indicates she is planning to breast-feed during the initial pregnancy interview.
    6.5. PH reviews the pregnancy profile status when a member fails to returned for a breast-
    feeding profile six weeks after the expected date of delivery. If necessary, PH contacts the
    member at work to inquire if she is or still plans to breast-feed.
    6.6. If a breast-feeding profile is required, PH will document the requirement on the
    member’s pregnancy profile and send her to the PES.
    6.7. PES will notify PH and the member’s commander or supervisor of any changes by e-
    mail or telephone.
    6.8. The supervisor will coordinate with PH and the 482 FSS/FSMC if there are any duty
    restrictions prior to the member restarting work.




                                             DONALD R. LINBERG, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander, 482d Fighter Wing
HOMESTEADARBI48-101 6 JULY 2011                                           9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Program and Resources, 15 April 1994
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Operations, 19 August 2005
AFI-48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 28 Sep 2009
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, 5 March 2008
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, 7 August 2006
AFRCI 41-104, Pregnancy of Air Force Reserve Personnel, 15 January 2006
AFRIMS- https:www.my.af.mil/gcsaf61a/afirms/rims/cfm
Adopted Forms
AF Form 422, Notification of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status
AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SF 513, Medical Record Consultation
AFRC Form 20, Pregnancy Workplace Evaluation

Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRCI—Air Force Reserve Command Instruction
ART—Air Technician
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CC—Commander
DOD—Department of Defense
FPP—Fetal Protection Program
 10                                            HOMESTEADARBI48-101 6 JULY 2011



FS—Flight Surgeon
FW—Fighter Wing
FSMC—Human Resource Office
HARB—Homestead Air Reserve Base
HARBI—Homestead Air Reserve Base Instruction
HCP—Health Care Provider
IAW—In accordance with
MDS—Medical Squadrons
MSG—Mission Support Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PES—Physical Examination Standard
PH—Public Health
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SGPB—Bioenvironmental Engineering Office
UTA—Unit Training Assembly

Terms
Letter of Memorandum—, Participation of Reservists During Late Stages of Pregnancy
Letter of Memorandum, Policy Change to AFI 44—102, Breastfeeding and Breast Milk
Pumping
