BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                HOMESTEAD AIR RESERVE BASE
482D FIGHTER WING                                                 INSTRUCTION 32-903

                                                                              27 AUGUST 2010

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                                              BASE PARKING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: : Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 482 MSG/CERR                                                    Certified by: 482 MSG/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Robert E. Brinley)
                                                                                       Pages: 12


This instruction aligns with Air Force Policy Directive 31-1 (AFPD 31-1), Integrated Defense,
and implements Air Force Instruction 31-204 (AFI 31-204), Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic
Supervision. It outlines the policy on management and use of parking spaces for privately owned
vehicles, establishes procedures for assignment of reserved parking spaces, and establishes
penalties for parking violations. It applies to all persons operating motor vehicles on Homestead
Air Reserve Base (HARB). Refer recommended changes to and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form 847 (AF Form 847),
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional's chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force
Records       Disposition     Schedule       (RDS)       located     at    https:www.my.af.mil/-
gcsaf61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The 482d Fighter Wing Commander (482 FW/CC) or designated representative, is the
   authority for parking on Homestead Air Reserve Base.
   1.2. The 482d Security Forces Squadron Commander (482 SFS/CC) is responsible for the
   overall enforcement of the HARB parking program.
   1.3. The 482d Mission Support Group/Base Civil Engineer (482 MSG/BCE) is responsible
   for all designation markings (painting, signs, etc) and maintaining diagrams and
   accountability of all available base parking.
 2                                               HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010


     1.4. The Traffic Safety Coordination Group (TSCG) is responsible for investigating and
     resolving parking and traffic issues and safety hazards. The 482 FW/Ground Safety (482
     FW/SEG) or designated representative chairs the TSCG and members of the group are
     appointed as required.
     1.5. The Facility Manager rank E-5 and above (or civilian equivalent) will serve as the
     assigned parking representative responsible for reserved parking requests. The Facility
     Manager listing is maintained by the Real Property Office. The Facility Manager will ensure
     requested reserved parking is within the limits set by this instruction, and that requests are
     made in accordance with this instruction. The Facility Managers are the only individuals
     authorized to request reserved parking on HARB. (See paragraph 3 for information
     regarding regulations on reserved parking and the procedure for requesting reserved parking.)
     1.6. Each Facility Manager will manage the assignment and enforcement of reserved parking
     under the control of their commander. The Facility Manager appointed by the organization
     will be authorized to enforce unmarked parking spaces and reserved parking spaces that are
     assigned to their organization.
        1.6.1. The Facility Manager will enforce all parking violations occurring within the
        spaces belonging to their organization and their local general visitor and handicap areas.
        Facility Manager‟s are authorized to alert 482 SFS for illegally parked vehicles in the
        following areas: visitor or reserved spaces, fire lanes, loading bays, grassed areas, seeded
        areas, areas not lined for parking, and any prohibited area. 482 SFS may issue Citations
        for any parking violation found within this instruction.
     1.7. The 482 SFS/Police Services (482 SFS/SFOP) section can obtain a Facility Manager‟s
     listing from the Real Property Office. The Facility Manager‟s listing provides the name of
     the appointed individual, rank, organization, office symbol, duty phone, and the facility or
     facilities where they perform these duties.
     1.8. Each Facility Manager will receive initial and annual refresher training from the 482
     SFS/SFOP during the annual Facility Manager‟s training. It is important that Facility
     Manager appointments be kept current so that an accurate Facility Manager listing can be
     updated annually and provided to 482 SFS/SFOP.
     1.9. The Facility Managers are responsible for assigning temporary reserved parking spaces
     for their organization. Temporary reserved parking spaces are to be reserved using base
     authorized parking stanchions and must be removed as soon as they are no longer necessary.
     See paragraph 3.1.8.
        1.9.1. Facility Managers are not authorized to supply parking stanchions for reserved
        parking in anticipation of a work order request for reserved parking spaces (except for
        handicap as stated in paragraph 3.1.8.3.). Reserved parking spaces are not authorized
        until the work order has been completed.
     1.10. Each Primary or Alternate Facility Manager is responsible for purchasing temporary
     parking stanchions. See Attachment 2 for purchasing information.
2. General.
     2.1. Definitions. The following definitions apply to this instruction only.
HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010                                                                3


      2.1.1. Distinguished Visitor (DV). Persons reported by the visiting organization to the
      Protocol Office. This may be a military member in the grade of O-6 and above , a
      Federal civilian employee in the grade/equivalent grade of GS-15 level and above, non-
      Federal employees who occupy a position of high authority (e.g., corporate executive,
      state/local government officials), or other personnel who may be of interest to the
      installation‟s senior leaders (e.g., inspection team).
      2.1.2. Organization. The standard level of the skip-echelon staffing structure used by the
      Air Force which is applicable a t this base from center to directorate and division or wing,
      groups, and squadrons, to include their equivalents, but not to a lower level.
      2.1.3. Parking. The act of stopping a vehicle, whether or not occupied, except in
      compliance with a traffic order, traffic signal, or other traffic control device.
   2.2. Parking and Parking Lot Rules.
      2.2.1. Park all vehicles within a designated marked parking space or housing driveway,
      unless exempted by this instruction. Parking vehicles on grass, unmarked areas of
      concrete and asphalt, or areas marked as no parking by striping or by other means is
      strictly forbidden unless granted by the 482 FW/CC or designated representative.
      Vehicles may not occupy more than one designated parking space.
      2.2.2. Park vehicles in designated parking lots and spaces on a first-come, first-served
      basis, unless exempted by this instruction or specific marking.
      2.2.3. Vehicles parked on the street must park in the same direction as the traffic flow.
      2.2.4. Vehicles will not hinder the flow of traffic to pick-up or discharge passengers.
      2.2.5. Do not perform vehicle maintenance in parking locations. Minor emergency
      repairs are authorized.
      2.2.6. Recreational activities are prohibited in parking lots.
      2.2.7. Motorcycles may park in designated parking lots and spaces on a first-come, first-
      served basis, unless exempted by this instruction or specific marking.
      2.2.8. Recreational Vehicles (RVs) such as trailers, campers, and boats shall not be
      parked on the streets or grassed and seeded areas. Recreational vehicles are to be stored
      at the RV storage area by contacting 482 Services Squadron/Outdoor Recreation (482
      MSG/SVRO) at extension 7092.
      2.2.9. Open parking near to or in support of fire and police operations may be designated
      by signs approved by the traffic engineer to restrict the parking to security, fire and
      emergency personnel supporting those operations.
      2.2.10. Use of POVs for official business does not entitle user to disregard parking
      restrictions imposed by this instruction.
3. Reserved Parking.
   3.1. There are eight types of reserved parking spaces authorized on the installation:
   individual reserved (i.e. organizational parking), commander reserved, visitor, government
   vehicle, handicap, special, permit, and temporary. To request reserved parking refer to
   paragraph 3.2.
4                                           HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010


    3.1.1. Individual Reserved Parking at organizational primary duty location. One
    individual reserved parking space is authorized for each squadron commander, group
    commander, wing commander and wing commander deputy, first sergeant, command
    CMSgt, group superintendent, all general officers and respective deputies (or civilian
    equivalent) and any office requiring an 0-6 or GS-15 and above. This includes the 482
    FW/CC and staff. Tenant level equivalents such as J-level directorates are authorized
    individual reserved parking spaces. Division chiefs, staff officers, and executive officers
    are not permitted reserved parking spaces unless permitted by provisions in this
    instruction or by special permission from the Installation Commander in accordance with
    paragraph 3.2.2.
       3.1.1.1. Each organization may be assigned individual reserved parking spaces that
       are marked by organizational symbol, (e.g. 482 FW, 482 MSG, 482 MXG). Based on
       the HARB organizational structure in 2010, the number of individual reserved
       parking spaces is estimated at fifty (50). The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) shall
       monitor the total number of individual reserve parking spaces and ensure the total
       number of reserved parking spaces (not counting handicap and temporary) does not
       exceed five percent of the total available parking base wide.
       3.1.1.2. Facility Managers will coordinate with the base traffic engineer on the
       location of all individual reserved parking spaces.3.1.2. Commander Reserved at
       location(s) other than organizational primary duty location. Reserved parking that
       falls under this category is for the 482 FW/CC, CV, Southern Operations Command,
       South Commander (SOCSOUTH/CC), and Group commanders. These spaces are in
       addition to those permitted in paragraph 3.1.1.
       3.1.2.1. Parking for official visits by these offices to other organizations throughout
       Homestead ARB will be treated as temporary reserved parking for a DV. Refer to
       paragraph 3.1.8. for details.
    3.1.3. Visitor Reserved Parking. Each organization with a customer service function may
    be assigned visitor reserved parking spaces that are marked “VISITOR” or, in special
    cases, with a time limit “__MIN VISITOR” or other approved marking by the BCE. If
    not posted, the time limit for parking in visitor parking spaces is two hours. Visitor
    parking spaces are reserved for visitors only between the hours of 0730-1730, Monday-
    Friday, unless otherwise posted. The number of spaces authorized will be considered on
    a case-by-case basis not to exceed three spaces per organization. For additional visitor
    reserved parking see 3.2.2.
    3.1.4. Government Vehicle Reserved Parking. Each organization may be assigned
    government owned vehicle GOV reserved parking marked by organizational symbol (e.g.
    482 CES GOV, MSG GOV, MXG/GOV). All GOV spaces will be marked as GOV
    regardless of the vehicle type (e.g. golf cart, electric truck, etc.). POV‟s may be
    permitted to be used as a government vehicle provided they display an identification tag
    similar to that required by paragraph 3.2.3. Each Facility Manager may provide no more
    than three GOV permits. The number of spaces authorized will be considered on a case-
    by-case basis not to exceed three spaces per organization. Spaces marked for a specific
    GOV used by a squadron level commander and above (or civilian equivalent) may be
HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010                                                             5


     marked by office symbol (e.g. 482 CES/CC GOV, MSG/CC GOV, MXG/CC GOV,
     OG/CC GOV). For additional GOV reserved parking see paragraph 3.2.2.
     3.1.5. Handicap Parking. Handicap parking will typically be unassigned. However,
     handicap parking shall be provided based on identified need to ensure that adequate
     handicap parking is available. Handicap parking shall be provided to accommodate
     employee needs as documented by a state issued handicap permit. Individuals must take
     a letter from their physician identifying the need for a handicap parking space to the local
     Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) to obtain a valid state-issued handicap placard.
     The physician‟s letter alone will not be accepted for a handicapped parking space.
        3.1.5.1. Two types of handicap parking spaces are available based on the
        accommodation required special and regular.
            3.1.5.1.1. Special. This accommodation will be provided to employees who
            require access clearance to enter or exit their vehicle. Special access clearance
            will be sized in accordance with the guidelines provided under the American‟s
            with Disabilities Act (ADA).
            3.1.5.1.2. Regular. This accommodation shall be provided to those employees
            that require no special accommodation for access to the vehicle but require a
            special location for access to their workplace. A regular style parking space with
            normal access clearance will be provided in those situations.
        3.1.5.2. Assigned handicap spaces are expected to be rare and will be determined on
        a case by case basis. Should circumstances warrant the assignment of a space to an
        individual; this will be requested in accordance with paragraph 3.2.2. Assigned
        handicap spaces shall be re-validated annually. Assigned handicap spaces shall be
        marked with the organizational symbol followed by a double letter designation, i.e.,
        482 FW “AA”.
            3.1.5.2.1. Employees needing an assigned handicap parking space shall provide a
            copy of the state issued parking permit with the person‟s name and expiration date
            on the permit. The employee requesting an assigned handicapped space will
            forward the permit along with written explanation why the designation is needed
            to their Facility Manager who will make the request in accordance with paragraph
            3.2.2.3.1.5.2.2.. Employees that are provided assigned parking at their primary
            work locations due to handicap or medical reasons are not permitted to park in
            assigned spaces at other locations. These employees may utilize open handicap
            spaces at other than their primary work locations provided that a handicap permit
            is properly displayed.
     3.1.6. Permit Parking. Permit parking includes spaces throughout the installation for the
     following:
        3.1.6.1. “General Officer, Colonels (O6), GS/GM-15s, and Chief Master Sergeants”
        spaces are only authorized at the All Ranks Club and Fitness Center.
        3.1.6.2. Parking permits are issued by 482 SFS/Pass and Registration (482
        SFS/SFOXI).
6                                           HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010


    3.1.7. Special Reserved Parking. Special reserved parking includes spaces throughout the
    installation for the following:
       3.1.7.1. One “Quarterly Award Winner” parking spaces is authorized at the All
       Ranks Club and Fitness Center for use by any base level Quarterly Award Winners-
       military and civil service-on a first-come, first-served basis for the time period
       following award (ex: 1st quarter winner can park during 2nd quarter).
       3.1.7.2. Emergency Vehicle parking spaces are reserved for emergency response
       vehicles only.
       3.1.7.3. For approval of any unique or special circumstances, see paragraph 3.2.
    3.1.8. Temporary Reserved Parking. Each Facility Manager is responsible for issuing
    and maintaining documentation for temporary reserved parking. The Facility Manager
    may only temporarily reserve a parking space with the base approved standard reserved
    parking sign (provided by the building facility manager). Temporary reserved parking
    may only be issued for a maximum of two weeks except for temporary handicap parking
    as described in paragraph3.1.8.2. The Facility Manager is responsible for authorizing
    temporary reserved parking extensions. See Attachment 2 for an example of a temporary
    reserved sign. The name of the individual the parking space is reserved for and the date
    the reserved parking sign will be removed must be included. All reserved signs will
    display the removal date in the upper right hand corner of the name placard. The Facility
    Manager may issue temporary parking for the following:
       3.1.8.1. Distinguished Visitor (DV) as defined in this instruction.
       3.1.8.2. Temporary Employee Relocation. This type of reserved parking is only
       authorized when an individual‟s reserved parking space is removed or no longer
       accessible due to construction or repair work.
       3.1.8.3. Temporary Handicap Parking may be issued by the Facility Manager should
       existing handicap parking be inadequate based upon receipt of a copy of an
       employee‟s valid state issued handicap permit indicating the temporary need.
       Temporary handicap parking may be issued for up to 30 days. All temporary
       handicap reserved spaces must be approved by the Facility Manager. If the need
       extends beyond 30 days or the need exceeds two temporary spaces at one time, the
       Facility Manager must review and approve requests for permanently marked space.
       Temporary handicap parking may be indicated with a temporary parking stanchion.
       3.1.8.4. Facility Managers may not use another organizational, government vehicle,
       handicap, or special reserved parking space.
       3.1.8.5. Cones, ropes, and marking tape can only be used to temporarily prohibit
       parking for safety, security, or construction reasons per coordination with or action by
       the center safety office 482 FW/SEG, the 482 SFS, and the 482 MSG/BCE
       respectively.
       3.1.8.6. Event Parking. Contact 482 SFS/SFOP, extension 7537/7098/7115, as far in
       advance as possible when an event is coordinated in an area with insufficient legal
       parking.
HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010                                                           7


  3.2. Authorizing Reserved Parking. Requests for reserved parking will be made from the
  appropriate unit Facility Manager to the BCE. Authorizing reserved parking falls under two
  categories: reserved parking within the established limits of this instruction and reserved
  parking outside the limits of this instruction. Facility Managers shall review parking needs
  annually and submit a letter to the BCE indicating the number of reserve parking spaces
  provided to their units and any additions or deletions in requirements on an as needed basis
  or upon request by the BCE.
     3.2.1. To request reserved parking within the limits authorized by this instruction follow
     the following request process:
         3.2.1.1. Each organization requesting reserved parking must submit a memorandum
         through their respective Facility Manager. The memorandum must list the
         organization requesting reserved parking; the name, grade and job title of the
         individual each space is being reserved for, type of reserved parking space that is
         being requested, a diagram of the parking area where the reserved space is requested,
         and the current number of reserved parking spaces each respective organization has
         by category.
         3.2.1.2. The respective Facility Manager must complete an Air Force Form 332, Base
         Civil Engineering Work Request, and submit it to 482 MSG/BCE Customer Service.
         Included with the AF Form 332, provide all of the information listed in paragraph
         3.2.1.1.
     3.2.2. To request reserved parking outside over the limits authorized by this instruction,
     comply with the following request process.
         3.2.2.1. The Group Commander (or higher) for the requesting organization shall be
         responsible for submitting an AF Firm 1768, Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) describing
         the justification for the request. The SSS shall be routed to the Installation
         Commander via the 482 MSG/BCE for approval.
         3.2.2.2. The BCE will write a recommendation to the Installation Commander or
         their designated representative based on all pertinent information regarding the
         requested parking space. This recommendation, along with all of the information
         supplied by the Facility Manager will be sent to the 482 FW/CC or designated
         representative for their approval or disapproval.
         3.2.2.3. If approved, the Facility Manager must complete an AF Form 332 and
         submit it to 482 MSG/BCE Customer Service. Included with the AF Form 332 will
         be all of the information listed in paragraph 3.2.2.1. Also included must be a copy of
         the SSS approving the request.
     3.2.3. All personnel with a designated parking space shall display a means of identifying
     their parking assignment on their vehicle. For senior military personnel, the rank
     displayed on their vehicles will suffice. Parking permits issued by 482 SFS/SFO will
     suffice. In all other cases, Facility Managers shall issue a minimum 3 inch by 5 inch card
     indicating the assigned designation with the Facility Manager‟s name, organization and
     signature on the card. The card may be hung from the rear view mirror or displayed on
     the dash board of the vehicle. Employees shall not be permitted to duplicate the card for
     use in more than one vehicle. Each organization shall be responsible for accountability
 8                                              HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010


        and issuance of all cards (i.e. numbering system for authentication, which it was issued
        to, for what reason and tracking each card issued/turned in).
     3.3. This instruction recognizes existing inter-local agreements that provide reserved parking
     to a tenant, unit and/or bargaining unit, except where new provisions have been provided.
     3.4. The 482 FW/CC or designated representative reserves the right to regulate all reserve
     parking especially where warranted by facility and area operational circumstances (e.g.,
     buildings in industrial/flight line area).
4. Unauthorized Alteration of Government Property.
     4.1. The 482 FW/Base Operations and Support Services (482 FW/BOS) contractor is the
     only organization authorized to paint the parking lot areas or create parking signage at
     Homestead ARB. Individuals caught painting the parking lot or creating/installing
     unauthorized parking signage will be subject to disciplinary action.
5. Parking Violation Penalties.
        5.1.1. Three parking violations within 12 months will result in a 30-day suspension of
        on-base driving privileges.
        5.1.2. Four parking violations within 12 months will result in a 60-day suspension of on-
        base driving privileges.
        5.1.3. Five parking violations within 12 months will result in a 6-month suspension of
        on-base driving privileges.
        5.1.4. More than five violations within 12 months will result in revocation of on-base
        driving privileges for 1 year.
        5.1.5. Violations will be considered for 12 calendar months after the first occurrence for
        the purpose of the suspension or revocation of driving privileges.
        5.1.6. Parking violations will be processed against the sponsor to whom the vehicle is
        registered through Police Services.
        5.1.7. Administrative action taken under this paragraph does not preclude disciplinary
        action.
        5.1.8. Parking violation penalties listed does not preclude driving suspensions per AFI
        31-218(I) paragraph 4.9.
6. Parking Ticket Rebuttal Procedures.
     6.1. Parking Ticket rebuttals procedures will follow established installation administrative
     procedures for processing traffic violations, per AFI 31-218(I), paragraph 4.9.
     6.2. Any grievance upon receipt of parking violations may be addressed in accordance with
     local collective bargaining agreement.
7. Towing Vehicles.
     7.1. Vehicles may be towed for parking violations such as parking next to a fire hydrant, in a
     fire lane, loading zone, or other non-designated area, where the vehicle is causing a traffic
     hazard or safety issue, and in other instances where the 482 SFS has determined it to be
     unsafe.
HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010                                                        9


      7.1.1. Vehicles towed from the installation will be towed at the owner‟s expense.
      7.1.2. The 482 SFS/SFO will be the point of contact on all parking-related towed
      vehicles from the installation.
8. Forms.

8.1. Prescribed Forms:

AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request

8.2. Adopted Forms:

Air Force Form 332, Base Civil Engineering Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Firm 1768, Staff Summary Sheet




                                           DONALD R. LINDBERG, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
 10                                          HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 7 July 2007

Acronyms
ADA—American Disabilities Act
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
BCE—Base Civil Engineers
BOS—Base Operations Support & Services
CC—Commander
CES—Civil Engineers Squadron
CMSgt—Chief Master Sergeant
CV—Vice Commander
DMV—Department of Motor Vehicles
DV—Distinguished Visitor
FW—Fighter Wing
GM—General Management
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
GS—General Schedule
HARB—Homestead Air Reserve Base
IAW—In accordance with
MSG—Mission Support Group
MXG—Maintenance Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RV—Recreation Vehicle
SEG—Ground Safety
HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010           11


SOCSOUTH—Southern Operation Command, South
SFO—Security Forces Operations
SFOP—Police Services
SFOX—Pass & Registration
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
SVRO—Services Outdoor Recreation
TSCG—Traffic Safety Coordination Group
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
 12                                            HOMESTEADARBI32-903 27 AUGUST 2010


                                         Attachment 2
                      STANDARDIZED RESERVE PARKING SIGN

The approved standard reserve parking sign for Homestead ARB shall be as shown in Figure
A1.1. below.

Figure A1.1. Approved Standard Reserve Parking Sign.




TO ORDER “RESERVED PARKING” SIGN
Contact: 482 FW BOS Contractor @ extension 7322
POC for ordering signs via e-mail at: chester.whitlow@homestead.af.mil
Required Information: Number of signs required & name for each name plate required
Cost: $000.00 each complete („reserved parking‟, name plate, base & post)
A charge of $0.00 is required for each additional name plate
Allow 2 working days to make custom name plates
Pick up completed order at Bldg 232; will receive e-mail confirmation of order & pick up date
