BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                           HOMESTEAD AIR RESERVE BASE
482D FIGHTER WING                                                                           INSTRUCTION 32-2001

                                                                                                                      6 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                                                       Civil Engineering

                                                                         FIRE PREVENTION, PROTECTION, AND
                                                                                            ENFORCEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-publishing website at http://www.e.publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 482 MSG/CEF                                                                                    Certified by: 482 MSG/CC
                                                                                               (Colonel Elwin A. Rozyskie, Jr.)
                                                                                                                      Pages: 43


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Emergency
Services, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standards (AFOSHSTD) 91-118, Training
Systems Fire Protection, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services
Program. It also establishes recognized standards, defines and establishes fire prevention
procedures, ensures detection, elimination or satisfactory minimization of the fire hazards
through hazard abatement, and outlines duties and responsibilities for fire protection and fire
prevention. This instruction is directive in nature and is applicable to all units or elements
assigned or attached to Homestead Air Reserve Base (HARB), including all personnel, military
and civilian, the Army Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES) Base Exchange Mart (BX Mart)
and all facilities and activities within and upon the physical limits of HARB. Refer
recommended changes to and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847 (AF Form 847), Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363 (AFMAN 33-
363), Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.mil/gcss-af61a/aftims/afrims/rims.cfm.


       1.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   2
       2.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       3
       3.     Fire Protection Features. ........................................................................................            5
 2                                                             HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


       4.      Fire Prevention Inspections and Evaluation Process. ............................................                            8
       5.      Building and Grounds. ...........................................................................................          10
       6.      Housekeeping. ........................................................................................................     11
       7.      Smoking Regulations. ............................................................................................          12
       8.      Dormitories/Billeting. ............................................................................................        13
       9.      Flammable and Combustible Liquids. ...................................................................                     14
       10.     Electrical Installation and Appliances. ..................................................................                 19
       11.     Appliances. ............................................................................................................   20
       12.     Vehicles and Parking. ............................................................................................         21
       13.     Aircraft/Hangars. ...................................................................................................      22
       14.     Warehouse and Storage of Materials. ....................................................................                   23
       15.     Ammunition and Explosives. .................................................................................               25
       16.     Welding, Cutting, Brazing, and Tar Kettles. ..........................................................                     26
       17.     Commercial Cooking Facilities. ............................................................................                27
       18.     Cooking Equipment. ..............................................................................................          28
       19.     Open Fire And Fireworks. .....................................................................................             29
       20.     Civilian Contractor and Concessionaries. ..............................................................                    29

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            34

Attachment 2—EXAMPLE OF FIRE REACTION PLAN MEMO                                                                                           36

Attachment 3—FIRE EXTINGUSHER LOG                                                                                                         37

Attachment 4—EMERGENCY/EXIT LIGHTING LOG                                                                                                  38

Attachment 5—EXAMPLE OF FIRE EVACUATION DRILL MEMO                                                                                        39

Attachment 6—EXAMPLE OF SPACE HEATER APPROVAL LETTER                                                                                      40

Attachment 7—EXAMPLE OF DESIGNATED TOBACCO USE AREA MEMO                                                                                  42


1. Purpose. In order to prevent or minimize loss of life or property from fire, the fire protection
branch, commanders, supervisors, facility real property managers, and all military and civilians
must take adequate measures to prevent fires and fire hazards. All military and civilian
personnel will assist and participate in recognition of their individual responsibilities for fire
prevention. They are responsible for observing and enforcing fire prevention regulations and
AFOSHSTD in the course of their duties. In addition to this regulation and other official
publications of the AF and the Department of Defense (DoD), and other nationally recognized
standards such as, Underwriters Laboratories, American Insurance Association, Factory Mutual
Laboratories and Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the National Fire
Protection Association directives will apply.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                              3


2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Installation Commander. The Installation Commander is the Authority Having
   Jurisdiction (AHJ) to approve the processes, procedures, and programs developed locally for
   compliance with this instruction.
   2.2. Base Fire Marshall. The 482d Mission Support Group/Base Civil Engineer (482
   MSG/BCE) is designated as the Base Fire Marshall and is responsible to the installation
   commander for the overall administration of fire prevention, fire protection, fire fighting, and
   aerospace rescue activities under the jurisdiction of HARB. In the absence of the Base Fire
   Marshall, the Base Fire Chief will serve as the Base Fire Marshall and is directly responsible
   to the Installation Commander for fire/rescue operations. Additionally, the Fire Marshall
   provides the Fire Chief necessary support to ensure the highest possible priority and funding
   to accomplish the mission.
   2.3. Base Fire Chief. The Base Fire Chief is directly responsible to the Base Civil Engineer
   for administrative management, and for the technical efficiency of all operations assigned to
   the fire protection branch, including fire prevention, fire suppression, and related duties.
   The Chief will frequently visit each activity and be thoroughly knowledgeable of all
   requirements and functions of the Fire Protection Organization. The Chief ensures proper
   use of manpower and equipment. The base Fire Chief or senior subordinate in charge at the
   scene of an emergency may commandeer available military vehicles, equipment, materials,
   and personnel considered necessary for prompt control and extinguishment of fire, or the
   rescue of personnel. The Fire Chief may also solicit voluntary civilian assistance.
   2.4. Deputy Fire Chief. The Deputy Fire Chief supervises all fire protection functions,
   makes sure that the Base Fire Chief is advised of all activities occurring within the
   department supports and assists the Fire Chief, and represents the Fire Chief when he/she is
   absent.
   2.5. Unit Commanders (Functional Managers). The unit commanders are responsible for
   establishing and enforcing an effective fire prevention program within each activity or
   facility under their jurisdiction.
       2.5.1. Unit Commanders shall:
           2.5.1.1. Develop an operating instruction (OI) or fire reaction plan for their unit to
           follow when fire is discovered. This publication will cover fire reporting, evacuation,
           and safeguarding of classified information. Depending upon the type of activity, the
           OI will also provide emergency removal of aircraft from hangars, protection of high
           value and critical material, fuel handling, and accidents involving fuel spills.
           Emergency number on base is extension 415-7117.
           2.5.1.2. Submit the unit OI to the Base Fire Department for technical review and
           endorsement prior to implementation. Post this OI conspicuously on a bulletin board
           in each building or facility occupied as a work center.
           2.5.1.3. A copy will be kept in facility folders for easy reference. Ensure all
           personnel performing duties in a building are familiar with the posted OI, know how
           to report a fire incident, know evacuation procedures, and how to use or activate
           installed fire suppression and alarm systems. See Attachment 2.
4                                            HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


           2.5.1.4. Ensure all personnel under their jurisdiction receive adequate fire prevention
           and fire extinguisher training. Training is provided by the Fire Prevention Flight,
           extensions 415- 7547 or 415-7548 upon request.
           2.5.1.5. Utilize commander’s calls or other unit functions to ensure personnel are
           thoroughly trained in fire prevention responsibilities. Annual refresher training may
           be accomplished via computer based training (CBT).
           2.5.1.6. Advise the Fire Prevention Flight of any fire hazards which cannot be
           corrected by unit personnel.
           2.5.1.7. Immediately inform the Fire Prevention Flight of any installed fire protection
           system or fire extinguisher which has been discharged or damaged regardless of the
           reason.
           2.5.1.8. Take immediate action to correct fire hazards noted during fire prevention
           evaluations. Direct corrective action for preventing recurrence of fire hazards caused
           by personnel habits and unit procedures along with correcting individual situations.
           2.5.1.9. Coordinate all work requests on an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
           Request, through fire prevention flight and completely process them through 482
           MSG/BCE prior to making any change or addition that will affect the floor plan or
           interior finish off any facility or structure.
           2.5.1.10. Alterations, modifications, or other changes to government structures are
           prohibited without the prior approval of the Commander, 482MSG/BCE or the Base
           Facility Utilization Board.
           2.5.1.11. Review the corrective or required actions for adequacy and sign the AF
           Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, with listed hazards or deficiencies and
           submit them to arrive in the office of the Fire Prevention Flight by suspense date in
           block 4.
           2.5.1.12. Notify the Base Fire Chief in writing of the location and building number of
           any facility where personnel are sleeping other than those designated as sleeping
           facilities.
           2.5.1.13. Designate a responsible person to make a closing inspection at the end of
           each work day or shift to ensure that the facility is left in a fire safe condition.
    2.6. Facility Managers. Each facility manager, designated in accordance AFI 32-9005, Real
    Property Accountability and Reporting, is responsible to the unit commander for the fire safe
    condition of all facilities under their jurisdiction. The facility manager, or an alternate
    designated at the time of evaluation, will accompany the fire prevention inspector during the
    evaluation and initiate immediate corrective actions of fire hazards noted. In addition, the
    facility manager will:
       2.6.1. Ensure that fire inspectors have access to all areas of their facility, to include
       storage rooms, electric vaults, secured areas, and other areas that have locked doors.
       2.6.2. Check all extinguishers, standpipes, installed fire detection and suppression
       systems, fire doors, emergency lights, exit lights, and exits monthly to ensure they are in
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                                 5


       proper operating condition and not blocked. These inspections must be annotated in the
       facility manager’s fire prevention folder. See Attachment 3 &4.
       2.6.3. Ensure the base fire reporting number 415-117 is visible affixed to each phone.
       2.6.4. Conduct fire drills as directed by this instruction. Pre-arrange any fire drills where
       they desire the use of installed alarm systems, with the Fire Prevention Flight, so that a
       representative may be present to evaluate, furnish suggestions for improvement, and reset
       the fire alarm system.
       2.6.5. Prepare facility fire evacuation plan and have it posted visibly.
       2.6.6. Keep commanders informed of all matters relative to fire prevention.
       2.6.7. Budget for the purchase, inspection, and maintenance of fire extinguishers for
       facilities, aircraft support vehicles, ground support equipment, motor vehicles, heavy
       equipment, and mobility equipment.
       2.6.8. Ensure all personnel are properly trained in the use of fire extinguishers,
       evacuation /in-place sheltering procedures, and fire reporting procedures.
   2.7. Supervisors. Supervisors at all levels must ensure sound fire prevention practices and
   protection of all facilities and areas within the scope of the activities under their jurisdiction.
   2.8. 482d Civil Engineering Squadron (482 CES). The Engineering Flight is responsible for
   ensuring all protection engineering requirements are met. Additionally, the Engineering
   Flight will conduct a pre-design meeting for all construction projects to assure understanding
   of fire prevention features between the user, the Fire Protection Flight, Safety, and the design
   engineer. Designs will comply with all current requirements of UFC 3-600-1, Unified
   Facilities Criteria and the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA).
   2.9. The Appropriate Civil Engineer Shop or Contractor Equivalent. Must inspect, test,
   repair, and maintain fire detection, water distribution, and fire suppression systems.
   2.10. Authority. The Base Fire Chief or the Senior Fire Official (SFO) is delegated the
   authority to effect stoppage of operations when deemed necessary to protect life or property
   because of fire or threat of fire. If the Base Fire Chief is not available, then the SFO is in
   charge of all fire fighting and rescue operations. During these operations, persons outside the
   Fire Protection Organization will not give orders or interfere with the SFO or fire fighters.
   All unauthorized personnel will be restricted from the area during such emergencies.
   2.11. Security. Upon notification of a fire and/or crash, the Fire Chief, Security Forces or
   senior subordinate/representatives will ensure that sufficient Security Forces personnel are
   dispatched to the scene of the emergency to control traffic and render assistance as the SFO
   may request. Security Forces personnel will remain on the scene until an investigation is
   initiated, if required by the Fire Protection Flight Wing Safety or Installation Commander.
3. Fire Protection Features.
   3.1. Fire Reporting and Evacuation Procedures. (See Attachment 5)
       3.1.1. It is the duty of all personnel on HARB, military and civilian to report all fires or
       fire incidents immediately upon discovery via 415-7117. This specifically includes fires
6                                             HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


       that have been extinguished. The person initiating the alarm will remain at the location to
       direct fire department crews.
       3.1.2. The person initiating the alarm will notify all building occupants. Activate the
       building fire alarm system or notify other occupants verbally by yelling a warning.
       3.1.3. All fires regardless of size even if the fire has been extinguished will be reported
       immediately to the Fire Protection Flight.
       3.1.4. All Phones will have 415-7117 stickers attached.
       3.1.5. When reporting a fire, give your name and building number. State location of the
       fire in the building and type of fire, if known. Remain on the phone; DO NOT HANG
       UP until the operator instructs you to.
       3.1.6. All occupants will be notified to evacuate immediately, by activating the fire alarm
       system and will not re-enter the premises. All occupants will evacuate to a safe distance
       at least 150 feet from the building. The ranking person will take a head count and report
       if anyone is missing to the SFO.
       3.1.7. Use available fire extinguishers to attempt to put out small fires.
       3.1.8. If time permits, secure or remove all classified material and close all doors and
       windows. (Do not lock).
    3.2. Fire Extinguishers.
       3.2.1. Fire extinguishers installed under conditions where they are subject to physical
       damage from impact, vibration, environment, or tampering will be adequately protected
       by fire extinguisher cabinets.
       3.2.2. Fire extinguishers will not be used for any purpose other than fire control or
       extinguishment.
       3.2.3. Facility managers and/or using organizations are responsible for visual monthly
       inspections and are required to track those inspections. This inspection includes:
           3.2.3.1. Extinguisher located in designated place.
           3.2.3.2. No obstruction to access or visibility.
           3.2.3.3. Operating instructions on name plate legible and facing outward.
           3.2.3.4. Determine fullness by lifting or hefting.
           3.2.3.5. Safety seals and tampers indicators not broken or missing.
           3.2.3.6. No obvious physical damage, corrosion, leakage, or clogged nozzle.
           3.2.3.7. Pressure gauge reading or indicator in the operable range.
       3.2.4. Using organizations are responsible for the re-servicing, 6 year maintenance, and
       12 year hydrostatic testing of fire extinguishers.
       3.2.5. Using organizations are responsible for the purchase, placement, and proper
       mounting of extinguishers in their use.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                                7


     3.2.6. For wheeled units, the condition of the tires, wheels, carriage, hose, and nozzle are
     checked.
  3.3. Fire Drills.
     3.3.1. Fire evacuation drills are required to be conducted at least annually in all facilities.
     3.3.2. Facilities housing special activities may require more frequent drills. To be
     determined by the Fire Prevention section.
     3.3.3. Drill shall be held at expected and unexpected times and under varying conditions
     to simulate the unusual conditions that can occur in an actual emergency.
     3.3.4. Drills shall include suitable procedures to ensure that all persons subject to the
     drill participate.
     3.3.5. Drill participants shall relocate to a pre-determined location and shall remain at
     that location until a recall or dismissal signal is given.
  3.4. Fire Protection Systems.
     3.4.1. Extinguishers, fire hoses, fire hydrants and similar fire equipment will not be used
     for any purpose other than combating fire unless approved by the Base Fire Chief.
     3.4.2. The locking or chaining of any item to fire extinguishers or installed fire
     protection systems is strictly prohibited.
     3.4.3. Blocking or obstructing fire extinguishers, installed fire sprinkler system risers, or
     any other fire protection feature is prohibited.
     3.4.4. Painting of sprinkler heads, heat/smoke detectors, is prohibited.
  3.5. Fire Hydrants.
     3.5.1. Only fire department personnel shall operate or make any connection to fire
     hydrants unless approved by the Base Fire Chief.
     3.5.2. Fire hydrants, sprinkler connections, standpipe connections, and post indicator
     valves shall be kept clear and accessible at all times by cutting and removing grass,
     weeds, trees, shrubbery, and loose debris.
     3.5.3. Barriers will be installed where hydrants are subject to vehicle damage.
     3.5.4. No parking within 15 feet of fire hydrants.
  3.6. Sprinkler Systems.
     3.6.1. No material of any kind shall be hung from or obstruct sprinkler heads from
     proper operation.
     3.6.2. A minimum of 18 inches shall be maintained between sprinkler heads and storage
     of non hazardous materials piled over 15 feet high.
     3.6.3. A minimum clearance of 36 inches shall be maintained between sprinkler heads
     and storage piles in excess of 15 feet.
     3.6.4. A minimum of 36 inches shall be maintained between sprinkler heads and storage
     of hazardous materials regardless of height.
 8                                             HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


4. Fire Prevention Inspections and Evaluation Process. Only qualified fire protection
personnel will conduct fire prevention inspections. The frequency of inspections will be
determined, using such factors as type of occupancy, fire loading, hazards related to special
processes, the facilities usual function, adequate life safety features and fire protection systems.
Scheduled fire prevention inspections frequencies will be quarterly, semi-annual and annual.
The Base Fire Chief will establish the frequency for each facility.
     4.1. Fire Prevention Reports. AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Record, will be issued
     when a fire hazard or any fire deficiency is noted but not corrected during the inspection.
     Copy one of AF Form 1487 is for Functional Managers to review the corrective or required
     actions for adequacy and sign the form and submit them to arrive in the office of the Fire
     Prevention Flight by suspense date in block 4. Copy two of AF Form 1487 is for Facility
     Managers. This person is responsible for initiating corrective actions. Copy three of AF
     Form 1487 is maintained by the fire prevention flight in a suspense file. This document is
     maintained on file until copy one is received back from the Functional Manager.
     4.2. Unscheduled Inspections. Will be conducted to check hazardous operations or
     situations that present an appreciable or high risk to life or property. These inspections will
     be conducted when the Fire Chief determines more frequent inspections are needed due to
     increased activity, temporary processes, seasonal activities, etc. These inspections will be
     recorded on AF Form 1487 or AF Form 218, Facility Fire Prevention/Protection Record as
     appropriate.
     4.3. Walk-Through Inspections. Are conducted to spot check extra hazardous occupancies.
     They will be recorded on AF Form 1487 or AF Form 218 as appropriate.
     4.4. Fire Safety Deficiencies (FSD). Is a condition, which reduces fire safety below the
     acceptable level, includes non-compliance with standards, but by itself cannot cause a fire to
     occur. It could also increase the severity should a fire occur or cause a delay in the detection
     or reporting of a fire. Evaluation of a FSD caused by operations requires correction without
     further evaluation of risk or probability of fire. All others require a subjective analysis to
     determine the priority required for the corrective action. All FSD’s cannot be corrected at
     once. Some may have to wait and others may never be corrected. For this reason FSD’s must
     be prioritized according to their seriousness. Each identified FSD will have the appropriate
     code assigned. These codes (one through five) will be used to prioritize the FSD and
     highlight the more serious ones for correction as soon as possible.
     4.5. Risk Assessment Codes (RAC). Is a condition, which reduces fire safety below the
     acceptable level, includes non-compliance with standards and may cause a fire to occur. A
     RAC describes the relative risk of injury, illness, or premature death that could result from
     exposure to a hazard. RAC’s vary between a RAC 1 for a relatively high risk and a RAC 5
     for an insignificant risk.
     4.6. Hazard Abatement Plan. Unit commanders and Facility Managers will establish and
     maintain a hazard abatement program. AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan, will be initiated
     and annotated for all RAC’s 1-3, which have not been corrected within 30 calendar days. A
     copy of the AF Form 3 will be sent to the Base Fire Chief for those hazards involving fire-
     related discrepancies. Copies will also be sent to Wing Safety for inclusion into the Base
     Hazard Abatement Plan. Use of the AF form 3 for recording lesser hazards is optional;
     however, the Functional Manager must maintain a record of these lesser hazards and once a
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                            9


  year send a summary to the Installation Commander listing those RAC 4 and 5 hazards that
  have not been corrected. AF Form 1118, Notice of Hazard, will be posted until a RAC 1, 2,
  and 3 hazard is corrected.
  4.7. Serious Hazards. When a serious hazard or dangerous practice is observed, the
  inspector will recommend the operation be terminated and notify the Fire Chief by the most
  expeditious manner.
  4.8. Fire Education and Training. The Fire Prevention Flight will be available to conduct
  lectures on fire/life safety and fire extinguisher demonstrations upon request for any function
  or social group. Two weeks advance notice is required and the availability will depend on
  other scheduled lectures and demonstrations.
  4.9. Training Certification. Facility managers of public assembly facilities must establish
  and maintain a certification system to ensure employees are trained and understand their fire
  prevention and protection responsibilities within the work environment. This certification
  system includes evacuation drills of employees and the immediate indoctrination of newly
  hired employees.
  4.10. Facility Closing Inspections. Closing inspections are required for places of public
  assembly and special hazardous processes. Responsible operating personnel will conduct a
  complete physical inspection prior to closing the facility. The inspection will consist of the
  following:
     4.10.1. Inspect all upholstered furniture and rugs to ensure there are no smoldering
     cigarettes or burns.
     4.10.2. Loose fitting chair cushions will be removed from the furniture during the
     inspection.
     4.10.3. Smoking materials will be emptied in metal containers, soaked with water and
     discarded into dumpsters when safe.
     4.10.4. Give special emphasis to restrooms where hazards and conditions are undetected.
     Managers and supervisors will report accomplishment of the closing inspection to the
     Fire Alarm Communication Center, (FACC) extension 415-7274. The Communications
     Operator will log a record of time, closing manager’s initials, and closing code. If a
     manager fails to accomplish this on two successive occasions, the Fire Chief will notify
     the Functional Manager in writing. Managers will document closing inspections, to
     include record of time, FACC initials, and closing code
  4.11. Major Social Events. Managers of public assembly facilities will notify the fire
  prevention flight, in writing, a minimum of seven days prior to all major social events and
  when temporary decorations or unusual arrangements are planned. Only fire retardant
  decorations will be permitted. Fire prevention inspectors will inspect places of public
  assembly before all major social events.
  4.12. Hangar “Dock Boxes”. Any of these units used for personnel as offices, shops, etc
  must meet the criteria outlined in ETL 02-15. In addition exits from these areas must be
  directly to the outside of the building without travel through the hangar floor which is
  classified as a hazardous area. This is outlined in NFPA 101, therefore, if the user wants to
  install an office for their personnel, it must have masonry walls, be rated at least 1 hour
 10                                          HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


   (including roof), be sprinkled, and have an exit directly outside the hangar. This means it has
   to be built on an exterior wall.
5. Building and Grounds. Commanders will ensure that all buildings for facilities moved into
or vacated are reported to the Fire Prevention Flight for inspection prior to transaction.
   5.1. Buildings.
       5.1.1. Real Property Management section will notify the Fire Prevention Flight of
       buildings scheduled to be torn down, or moved to new locations to assure all installed fire
       systems and fixed alarm systems are removed.
       5.1.2. When a building changes occupancies, then the new occupancy shall meet the
       criteria for new construction.
       5.1.3. No changes, alterations, or self help projects will be started on any new or existing
       building without the approval of the Fire Department.
   5.2. Interior Finishes.
       5.2.1. All wood paneling used in public assemble, industrial, aircraft maintenance,
       sleeping quarters, exit access, and exits will be class A. Interior finish for all other
       facilities will be class B.
       5.2.2. All draperies and curtains in base buildings will be of flame resistant or fire
       retardant material.
       5.2.3. Carpet systems will comply with the Critical Radiant Flux test is accordance with
       National Fire Protection Association Standard 253.
       5.2.4. Combustible wood lattice will not be used inside buildings as decorations or room
       dividers.
       5.2.5. All items used as room dividers will be fire retardant.
       5.2.6. All damage breaks, or holes in the walls and ceilings will be repaired promptly to
       prevent fire spread.
   5.3. Doors and Exits.
       5.3.1. Authorization will be obtained from the Base Fire Chief before blocking existing
       doors. When approval is granted, signs will be posted inside and outside the building,
       indicating the door is blocked.
       5.3.2. Panic hardware will be kept in proper repair and working at all times. Damages
       will be immediately reported for repair. Other locking devices will not be used in
       conjunction with panic hardware while the facility is occupied.
       5.3.3. The fastening of any established exit door will be in such a manner that egress of
       occupants is not prevented or impeded.
       5.3.4. Stairwell doors will not be propped open.
       5.3.5. Doors equipped with automatic door closing devices will not be altered to prohibit
       the device from functioning as designed.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                              11


       5.3.6. Exit and emergency lights will be checked monthly by facility managers and will
       be kept operational at all times.
   5.4. Interior/Exterior Storage.
       5.4.1. Boiler rooms, riser rooms, mechanical rooms, HVAC rooms, electrical rooms, and
       machinery rooms will not be used for storage. They will be cleaned after maintenance is
       performed. Only authorized personnel will be permitted access.
       5.4.2. Materials will not be stored within 15 feet of the exterior of a building as not to
       impede emergency exit or fire fighting efforts.
       5.4.3. Dumpsters will not be placed closer than 20 feet from the nearest building.
       5.4.4. Trash and litter will not be allowed to accumulate under or piled against the
       building or in front of doors and exits. Areas under loading docks will be kept free of all
       waste material and scrap debris blown by winds.
       5.4.5. Weeds and other vegetation will not be permitted to grow excessively or
       accumulate in the immediate area of buildings, fuel tanks, munitions storage, aircraft
       parking ramps, and/or similar locations. Grass and shrubs adjacent to buildings will be
       neatly trimmed at all times.
       5.4.6. In building where supplies are stored, fire isles will be established in accordance
       with prescribed standards and will not be blocked at any time.
       5.4.7. Aisles, corridors, stairways, and passageways in all buildings will be unobstructed
       at all times and never be used for storage.
6. Housekeeping. Performance of good housekeeping standards relative to fire safety is the
responsibility of all personnel, regardless of whether or not contract custodian services are
authorized or provided. Commanders and supervisors will ensure all buildings and grounds
under their jurisdiction are well maintained in a fire safe condition at all times.
   6.1. General Housekeeping:
       6.1.1. At no time will material in the containers be sufficient to prevent the lid from
       closing tightly. Material in excess of one day’s supply will be stored in bulk in detached
       building or in rooms with a two hour minimum fire wall rating equipped with automatic
       sprinkler protection.
       6.1.2. Self closing metal or fire retardant trash receptacles will be provided in all leisure
       areas and latrines throughout operational building/areas.
       6.1.3. Metal containers, such as GI cans, may be used where normal quantities of
       ordinary wastes are small. Lids will be kept closed.
       6.1.4. Storage closets will not be used as trash collection points. Closets will be kept
       clean and used for janitorial supplies only.
       6.1.5. Bulk storage of steel wool will be held to a minimum (not over two rolls) and
       loose portions will be stored in closed metal containers and labeled as such.
       6.1.6. In order to prevent fires due to spontaneous ignition, oily rags, paint, or thinner
       cloths, rubber buffing, rubber cement containers, magnesium grindings, and similar extra-
 12                                          HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


      hazardous wastes will be placed in separate “Underwriter” approved metal containers
      appropriately labeled.
      6.1.7. Containers will be removed from the building at the end of each shift or at the end
      of the day before closing the building for the night.
      6.1.8. Mops and brooms will be stored in well ventilated places with heads off the floor.
      6.1.9. Wall, ceilings, floors, and structural members of adjacent equipment will be kept
      clean and free of grease accumulation.
      6.1.10. Ceiling tiles will be kept in place and replaced immediately if moved, lost, or
      damaged.
      6.1.11. Clothes dryers will be vented to the outside and hoses properly connected at all
      times.
      6.1.12. Filters will be cleaned after each use. The area immediately around the dryers
      will be kept clean to prevent the accumulation of lint.
      6.1.13. Areas behind freezer or refrigerator units will be non-combustible materials.
      6.1.14. Care will be exercised when storing materials to assure that clear aisles are
      maintained as approach ways for fire fighting.            Standpipe hose stations, fire
      extinguishers, electrical panels, and power switches will not be obstructed in any manner
      nor have any articles attached to them.
      6.1.15. Exhaust fans will be checked and cleaned to eliminate the accumulation of dust,
      lint, and grease.
      6.1.16. Clearance around circuit breaker panels will be 36 inches minimum.
7. Smoking Regulations.
   7.1. Control of Smoking.
      7.1.1. IAW AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, unsafe smoking practices and
      improper disposal of smoking materials constitute the greatest of all causes of fire
      particularly in dormitories, and expose personnel to injury or death. In order that fires due
      to this cause maybe eliminated, fire control measures will be enforced and observed by
      all personnel.
      7.1.2. No smoking, striking of matches, operating of mechanical lighters, or other open
      flame devices will be permitted in any building, structure, or room used for storage,
      repair industrial processes, servicing, testing, fabricating, supply buildings, commissary,
      carpenter shops, AGE repair shops, or parachute shops.
      7.1.3. No smoking or open flame will be permitted inside any facility or within 50 feet of
      hangars, aircraft, repair docks, paint shops, gasoline storage, dispensing areas, flammable
      liquids, fuel dispensing vehicles, fueling or de-fueling operations, vehicle maintenance or
      similar facilities, liquid oxygen plant activities of extra hazardous nature and parked
      aircraft. Smoking in vehicles on the flight line and aircraft parking areas is prohibited.
      Smoking in government vehicles (including golf carts) on HARB is prohibited.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                            13


       7.1.4. No smoking will be permitted within 20 feet of facility entrances or near air
       handling systems.
       7.1.5. Supervisors will ensure that contents of disposal containers are extinguished and
       wet down with water before being combined with other waste in dumpsters and trash
       collection points. Signs prohibiting the placing of smoking materials in waste baskets or
       trash receptacles will be posted conspicuously in all smoking areas.
       7.1.6. The use of “strike anywhere” matches is prohibited on base.
       7.1.7. IAW AFOSH 91-501 6.2.9.1, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety
       Standard, Smoking will only be allowed in Designated Smoking Areas approved by the
       fire department.
       7.1.8. An approved smoking area letter shall be on file with the base fire department.
       See Attachment 7.
       7.1.9. “Designated Smoking Area” signs will be posted in all designated smoking areas.
       7.1.10. Suitable non-combustible receptacles for discarding smoking materials shall be
       provided in adequate numbers in all areas where smoking is permitted. Only cigarette,
       butts, cigar butts, other tobacco remnants, and used matches will be discarded in such
       receptacles.
8. Dormitories/Billeting.
   8.1. Interior Finish.
       8.1.1. Materials used for decoration or modernization purposes in sleeping rooms must
       have a flame spread and smoke development rating not exceeding that required for class
       A.
       8.1.2. Furniture will be arranged so as not to obstruct or impede egress or opening doors
       leading from rooms to exit access or exit doors.
       8.1.3. Material that is used as a room divider must be flame retardant and mounted no
       closer than 12 inches to the ceiling and in a manner so as not to obstruct or impede egress
       from a room.
       8.1.4. Combustible material will be kept at least 18 inches from light fixtures,
       heat/smoke detectors, and heating appliances.
   8.2. Fire Protection Features. Articles will not be mounted on, or attached to any fire
   protection device. Tampering with fire detection or suppressions systems is strictly
   prohibited.
   8.3. Electrical. Extension cords will not be used as fixed wiring. They will not be attached
   to structure surfaces, run through doorways, windows, holes in walls, and ceilings. Cords
   shall not be arranged to run under rugs, carpets, or other items which will conceal damage
   and insulate conductors causing wires to overheat. Extension cords will be in good condition
   and UL approved. Frayed, deteriorated, spliced, or otherwise degraded cords will not be
   used. Multi outlet assembly must have a built in surge protector.
 14                                         HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


   8.4. Cooking. Cooking appliances in individual rooms are limited to microwave ovens and
   coffee makers without automatic timers. Where approved kitchen facilities are located in
   dormitories, the cooking will not be left unattended.
   8.5. Smoking. Smoking is prohibited in dormitories and in billeting. Smoking materials
   will not be discarded in waste containers. Ashtrays will not be homemade and will be made
   of non-combustible materials and will be discarded prior to vacating the room.
   8.6. Open Flame Devices. Open flame devices are prohibited in dormitories and billeting
   rooms. This includes burning incense, or other flame producing materials. Candles can be
   used for decorative purposes only as long as they are not lighted.
   8.7. Trash. Waste containers will be of non-combustible materials. These containers will be
   emptied prior to vacating the building and whenever necessary to prevent unsafe conditions.
   Waste and trash containers will not be left in stairwells.
   8.8. Flammable Liquids. Flammable or combustible liquids, car or motorcycle lead acid
   batteries, and flares will not be stored or kept in rooms.
   8.9. Stairwell Doors. Exit or stairwell doors will be kept closed at all times. The use of
   devices that will cause these doors to be propped open is prohibited. Doors that are equipped
   with automatic door closures will be connected and operational at all times. Panic hardware
   will be in operational condition at all times.
   8.10. Barbecuing. Will be a minimum of 10 feet from structures or buildings. Barbecuing
   will not be conducted on balconies or underneath overhangs. A portable fire extinguisher
   must be available and be accessible while barbecuing.
   8.11. Seasonal. Live decorations (trees) are prohibited on HARB. Only electrical lights that
   bear the UL label are authorized. All decorations will be flame resistant or flame retardant.
9. Flammable and Combustible Liquids.
   9.1. Flammable Liquids. A liquid with a flash point below 100 degrees Fahrenheit (F) and
   having a vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch at 100 degrees F.
   Flammable liquids are categorized as Class I liquids and are subdivided as follows: Class IA
   are those that have a flashpoint below 73 degrees F and have a boiling point below 100
   degrees F. Class IB is those liquids that have a flashpoint below 73 degrees F and have a
   boiling point at or above 100 degrees F. Class IC is those that have a flashpoint above 73
   degrees F and below 100 Degrees F.
   9.2. Combustible Liquids. A liquid having a flashpoint at or above 100 degrees F.
   Combustible liquids are categorized as Class II and III liquids are subdivided as follows:
   Class II liquids are those having a flashpoint at or above 100 degrees F and below 140
   degrees F. Class IIIA liquids are those having a flashpoint at or above 140 degrees F and
   below 200 degrees F, except any mixture having components with flashpoints of 200.5
   degrees F. Class IIIB liquids are those having flashpoints at or above 200 degrees F.
   9.3. Storage and Handling of Flammable/Combustible Liquids and Gases.
      9.3.1. No flame or spark-producing equipment will be used where flammable vapors
      may be encountered.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                           15


     9.3.2. Fueling servicing units will not be brought into aircraft hangars or buildings
     except those constructed for such purposes nor will they be parked within 100 ft of
     buildings.
     9.3.3. Truck, tug, engines, etc., will not be refueled inside of buildings or within 50 feet
     of any building except where stationary engines have been authorized and installed.
     9.3.4. Handling, storing or exposing flammable liquids to open flames, lights, stoves,
     furnaces, electrical motor or other devices that may cause ignition of vapors is prohibited.
     Portable fuel containers shall not be refueled while the container remains in any part of a
     vehicle, especially the bed of a truck. The container will be placed on the ground during
     the entire fueling operation.
     9.3.5. Wash tanks and dip tanks will have covers installed with a fusible link attached to
     enclose the contents in case of fire. When not in use, the cover will be kept in a closed
     position. Spray painting aircraft, other than touch-up or decal work, will not be permitted
     in any hangar without prior approval of the Base Fire Marshal unless the structure is
     designated for that purpose.
     9.3.6. Paint spray booths will be cleaned frequently to prevent excessive accumulation of
     flammable residue. Flammable/Combustible liquids will be sprayed only in a ventilated
     and protected spray booth designated for that specific purpose.
     9.3.7. Flammable/Combustible liquids will not be permitted to enter sewage or drainage
     system.
     9.3.8. Flammable liquids destined for disposal will be removed from the building at the
     close of each shift. These liquids will not be thrown on the ground; they will be disposed
     of in metal barrels or tanks designated for this purpose.
     9.3.9. Personal gasoline containers utilized or sold on the base will be constructed of
     either approved metal or plastic with tight closing or spring lid and fitted with a suitable
     spout for pouring without spilling. No more than five gallons of gasoline will be stored
     in approved safety containers.
     9.3.10. Safety container means that pouring outlets have caps or valves which have to be
     held open in use. Contents do not spill if container is tipped over and they expose
     minimum amounts of liquid.
     9.3.11. All flammable/Combustible liquid containers must be clearly labeled with 1 inch
     lettering to identify contents.
     9.3.12. Nozzles used to dispense flammable/Combustible liquids will be spring loaded or
     otherwise self closing when hand pressure is released. Under no circumstances will they
     be wired or bolted in the open position.
     9.3.13. All containers for flammable/Combustible liquids will be clearly stenciled to
     identify the contents. A one day supply may be kept in the work area in a metal container
     with a lid clearly marked. Containers shall be removed from the building at the end of
     each day.
16                                         HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


     9.3.14. Cleaning solvent tanks will be of metal construction, equipped with a hinged
     cover and counter balanced by chain with a fusible link to ensure closing in the event of
     fire. Tanks will be grounded.
     9.3.15. Oxygen, acetylene, nitrogen, and similar compressed gas cylinders will be
     segregated and stored outside of buildings in an upright position and be secured to
     prevent movement or falling.
     9.3.16. All used waste, oil, paint, chemical soaked rags, and other combustible materials
     will be deposited in plainly marked self closing metal containers. The metal covers will
     be kept closed and will not be blocked open. Containers will be emptied and contents
     removed from the building prior to securing of building after working hours.
     9.3.17. All combustibles, such as metal shavings, sawdust, and woodchips will be
     removed from all facilities daily or more often, if accumulation deems necessary.
  9.4. Flammable Storage Lockers.
     9.4.1. Not more than 120 gallons of Class I, II, or IIIA liquids may be stored in a storage
     cabinet.
     9.4.2. The combined total of Class I and Class II liquids may not exceed 60 gallons per
     storage cabinet.
     9.4.3. Not more than three such cabinets may be located in a single fire area except in
     industrial areas. Additional cabinets may be located in the same fire area of an industrial
     area if the additional cabinet, or group of more than three cabinets, is separated from
     other cabinets or group of cabinets by at least 100 feet.
     9.4.4. Cabinets will be labeled with conspicuous lettering, “Flammable-Keep Fire
     Away,” and will have self closing doors. Cabinets will not interfere with the evacuation
     of personnel in the event of ignition.
     9.4.5. Storage of flammable and combustible liquids for domestic and industrial use will
     be IAW National Fire Protection Standard 30, and AFOSH 91-501.
  9.5. Flammable Storage Buildings.
     9.5.1. Will be located at least 50 feet away from other buildings or hazardous operations
     and identified with conspicuous lettering readable from 50 feet, “Flammable—Keep Fire
     Away.”
     9.5.2. Flammable gases will be stored only in buildings designated for that purpose and
     adequate ventilation will be provided both at floor level and ceiling level. All electrical
     service will be explosion proof. No “SMOKING” signs will be prominently posted.
     9.5.3. Flammable liquids inside of a building not designated for bulk flammable storage,
     will not exceed a one-day supply. Flammable liquids will be removed to the outside
     storage locker at the end of each workday.
  9.6. Small Gas Powered Equipment.
     9.6.1. This section applies to: lawnmowers, snow blowers, generators, outboard marine
     motors, portable water pumps, small watercraft, powered gardening tools, and other
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                             17


     implements powered by gasoline engines normally, but not limited to, 6.5 horsepower or
     less.
     9.6.2. Power equipment, vehicles, and lawn mowers will not be fueled while engines are
     running or still hot, inside of buildings, or within 25 feet of a building.
     9.6.3. Fueling operations will be conducted in outside areas free from ignition sources.
     Fuel tanks will not be filled or drained inside buildings or other facilities where fuel
     vapors or other explosive gases can accumulate.
     9.6.4. Fueling and/or refueling operations will be accomplished using a safety can with
     pouring spout or an appropriate sized funnel. Care will be taken not to spill fuel onto hot
     surfaces. Spilled fuel will be cleaned up before attempts are made to start equipment.
     9.6.5. Equipment will be serviced after use and prior to off season storage.
     9.6.6. Operator will ensure it is thoroughly cleaned, functioning properly, and the fuel is
     drained prior to storage.
     9.6.7. Storage facilities will be protected against tampering or unauthorized entry, and
     area around the facility will be kept free of weeds, debris, and other combustibles.
     9.6.8. Storage facilities will be inspected monthly by supervisor or building custodian.
     9.6.9. Facility managers of dormitories, multiple living quarters, assemble, institutional,
     military exchange, commissary and warehouse facilities will store small gasoline
     powered equipment in an enclosed 1 hour fire rated room. When stored, the equipment
     will be isolated from potential ignition source. Boiler rooms and other utility rooms will
     not be utilized as storage.
  9.7. Tanks and Storage. Above and below ground fuel tanks will be installed IAW National
  Fire Protection Association Standard 30 and 30A. Gasoline in cans, drums, or other metal
  containers will not be left on trucks, stored in garages, or repair shops. Animal or vegetable
  oil, grease, lacquer, linseed oil, rags, cotton waste, or combustible sweeping compounds, are
  common causes of spontaneous ignition. Good housekeeping is mandatory to eliminate this
  common source of spontaneous ignition.
  9.8. Fueling. Vehicles being serviced at the service station dispensing island will have their
  ignition and radio turned off. At no time will vehicles waiting for service, be allowed to
  congregate to the extent that evacuation of all vehicles is hindered in case of fire. Cell
  phones will not be used during fueling operations at the base gas station, they will either be
  turned off or if left on, they must remain inside the vehicle during the fueling operation.
  Static grounds will be provided and used whenever flammable liquids are dispensed with the
  exception of service stations which have approved nozzles and bonded hose. Adequate
  grounding/or bonding will be used during transfer and transportation of flammable liquids,
  Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static
  Grounding/Bonding (ATOS).
  9.9. Aircraft Fuel Bowsers on the Flight Line.
     9.9.1. Anyone observing improper disposal of contaminated fuel (storm drains, grassed
     areas, ramp) will stop the malpractice and immediately contact the base Fire Protection
18                                         HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


     Flight, BCE and Environmental Flight, Security Forces, and Bioenvironmental
     Engineers.
     9.9.2. The using organization will develop a publication covering proper inspection,
     maintenance, and disposal procedures.
     9.9.3. The using organization’s commander is responsible for and must ensure fuel
     bowsers are emptied when full. Fuel bowsers will be removed from hangars or docks
     when not in use.
     9.9.4. Buckets will not be used for transferring or emptying fuel bowsers. Fuel bowsers
     will be grounded when in use.
  9.10. Refueling and Fuel Spills. A fuel spill is defined as any discharge of a flammable
  liquid or combustible liquid from its normal controlled environment into the open
  atmosphere or upon an exposed ground or floor surface. This definition includes fuel spills
  that are planned, controlled or accidental. Provisions of this paragraph do not apply to
  liquids with a flash point over 200 degrees F (hydraulic fluids, motor and aircraft oils, and
  similar fluids are not considered a fire hazard and should be neutralized and/or removed by
  the organization causing the spill). For the purpose of this regulation the following
  classification of fuel spills will be used to determine reporting and response requirements,
  fuel spill cleanup is the responsibility of the using organization. The Fire Department will
  standby incase of ignition.
     9.10.1. CLASS I - Primary spills usually involve an area less than 2 feet in any plane
     dimension. Fireguards determine if these spills create a fire exposure to the aircraft or
     equipment. If so, absorbent pads will be used to clean up the area.
     9.10.2. CLASS II - Small spills involve an area not over 10 feet in any plane dimension,
     or not over 50 square feet in area, and not of a continuing nature. The spills require a
     posted fireguard and immediate notification of the fire protection organization.
     Immediately dispatch sufficient equipment to neutralize the spill and take necessary
     actions to eliminate the hazardous conditions.
     9.10.3. CLASS III - Large spills involve an area over 10 feet in any plane dimension and
     over 50 sq. ft. in area of a continuing nature. Post fire guards and notify the fire
     protection organization. These conditions are declared as a ramp accident/incident. Fire
     suppression and rescue equipment must respond and take action to control the hazardous
     condition.
     9.10.4. Planned and/or controlled spills: If an emergency operational or maintenance
     procedure requires discharge of a flammable liquid upon the ground, procedures will be
     coordinated with the Base Fire Chief to ensure that the work is accomplished safely. At
     no time will flammable liquids be discharged into storm or service drains.
     9.10.5. Accidental and/or uncontrolled spills: Immediately upon discovery of a fuel spill
     or uncontrolled discharge of fuel, the fire department will be notified by calling extension
     415-7117. At no time will flammable liquids be discharged into storm or service drains.
     9.10.6. If a spill occurs inside of a building or enclosed facility, responsible personnel
     will take immediate action to evacuate the occupants from the building/facility.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                           19


       9.10.7. All sources of ignition (open flames, gas appliances, non-vapor proof motor, etc.)
       will be shut down immediately.
       9.10.8. After notifying the fire department, primary spills may be neutralized with
       absorbent pads or compound and removed to the outside. Upon arrival, the fire
       department personnel will be advised of the conditions and take appropriate actions.
       9.10.9. If the spill occurs on the aircraft ramp or in an open area, the Fire Protection
       Flight will immediately be notified by calling extension 415-7117. Possible sources of
       ignition (AGE units, POL vehicles, operating aircraft engines etc.) will be shut down.
       9.10.10. Aircraft equipment, vehicles and other property will be removed from the path
       of fuel or the immediate vicinity if this can be accomplished safely and with no danger of
       ignition of the fuel.
       9.10.11. Maintenance personnel will withdraw from the immediate area until hazardous
       response personnel along with fire department can neutralize the spill.
       9.10.12. During and after a fuel spill, all maintenance and other operations will be
       discontinued until the Assistant Fire Chief declares the area/building safe for further
       operations.
10. Electrical Installation and Appliances.
   10.1. Installation.
       10.1.1. National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 70, National Electrical
       Code, will be in compliance for new installation, or existing electrical modification.
       10.1.2. Switch boxes, fuse boxes, circuit breakers, and junction boxes will be provided
       and maintained with lids or cover plates. They must be marked to identify what they
       control.
       10.1.3. Fuse or circuit breakers will not be bridged or secured in the on position in any
       manner.
       10.1.4. Explosive - proof electrical equipment will be used in hazardous location is
       defined by Article 500, National Electrical Code and/UFC 3-600-1.
       10.1.5. Taping into or altering an existing electrical installation, except by a qualified
       electrician or licensed contractor, is strictly prohibited.
   10.2. Electrical Cords and Appliances.
       10.2.1. All portable extension cords will be equipped with non-conducting plugs.
       Extension cords will not be used in lieu of, or substituted for, fixed wiring. Cords will
       not be spliced or draped over nails, metal objects or rafters. Cords will not be tacked or
       tied to or twisted around any fixture or portion of the building. Cords will not extend
       under carpets or be placed on the floor where they will be subject to mechanical damage.
       The use of excessive extension cords is prohibited. Extension cords will be replaced
       when worn or deteriorated. Cords will not be extended through holes in walls, floors or
       ceilings nor passed through doorways or windows.
 20                                          HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


      10.2.2. Extension cords and surge protectors will not be connected in series. Electrical
      equipment and appliance not necessary for after hour operation will be disconnected from
      all outlets when not in use.
      10.2.3. Clothing or other combustible fabrics or materials will not be stored or hung near
      electrical equipment or electrical lamps.
      10.2.4. Christmas tree lights and electrical decorations will bear the label of the
      Underwriter Laboratories Incorporated or equal agency. Such lights/decorations will be
      disconnected before leaving a building unoccupied. Christmas tree lights designed for in-
      door use will not be used for exterior decorations or displays.
      10.2.5. No extension or relocation of electrical outlets or fixtures will be made without
      prior approval of the Base Civil Engineer or designated representative.
      10.2.6. Clearance between electrical fixtures and combustible materials will be 18
      inches.
      10.2.7. Caution will be exercised in the use of wall plugs. Deteriorated or worn wiring,
      cords and cracked or broken electrical plugs will not be used. Bare ends of wire will not
      be inserted in electrical sockets.
      10.2.8. Multiple electrical plugs will not be used.
      10.2.9. Heat producing electrical appliances, such as coffee makers, will not exceed 1650
      watts for use on regular 20 ampere circuits.
      10.2.10. Plugs to refrigerators and microwave ovens must be plugged directly into a wall
      outlet and never into an extension cord.
      10.2.11. Coffee makers with timers are prohibited on HARB. Coffee makers will be
      placed on noncombustible surfaces.
      10.2.12. Appliances exceeding 1650 watts must be installed by a qualified electrician
      and connected to dedicated circuits.
      10.2.13. Circuit breaker panels will maintain a 36 in clearance from any stored material.
      Structures used as generator buildings will not be used for storage.
      10.2.14. The use of combustible paper or cloth shades on or over electric bulbs and the
      hanging of any article on electric wiring are prohibited.
11. Appliances.
   11.1. All installed equipment will be kept in good repair and operating condition at all times.
      11.1.1. Unauthorized personnel will not tamper with heating equipment.
      11.1.2. . Facilities on base with controlled heating units are not authorized additional
      heating appliances without the approval of the Base Fire Chief.
      11.1.3. Stoves, hoods, grease ducts and heating equipment will have sufficient clearance
      to prevent ignition of surrounding combustible materials. Combustible materials will not
      be stored, stacked, or piled within 36 inches of heating equipment.
      11.1.4. Gasoline operated or open flame heaters will not be used for heating any type of
      structure or shelter without written approval of the Base Fire Chief. When such heaters
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                            21


      are approved, a maximum of 25 feet will be maintained for all structures. The using
      organization or contractor will provide a fireguard with 10 pound ABC fire extinguisher.
      11.1.5. Boiler mechanical, electrical, and HVAC rooms will be kept locked and will be
      entered only by authorized personnel.
      11.1.6. Storage in boiler, mechanical, electrical, and HVAC rooms is prohibited.
   11.2. Portable Space heaters.
      11.2.1. The Fire Prevention Flight does not approve of portable heaters due to hazards
      involved, especially facilities with controlled heating. However, a letter to the fire chief
      explaining all circumstances and safety guidelines maybe approved on a case-by-case
      basis. The letter will address the following safety concerns as well as documentation
      from the Base HVAC shop stating that adequate heat is not available and a solution is
      being considered. (See Attachment 6)
      11.2.2. Space heaters must be electric, have sufficient power available to not overload
      circuit, and be checked by an electrician.
      11.2.3. Must have tip over switch, shut off switch thermostat, and be equipped with a
      screen that covers the heating elements.
      11.2.4. Heaters will be approved by Underwriters Laboratories.
      11.2.5. Heaters will be kept 3 feet from combustible materials.
      11.2.6. Heaters will not be left unattended, and will be unplugged when immediate area
      is unoccupied.
      11.2.7. Heaters will not be used in dormitories or lodging facilities.
      11.2.8. They will be plugged directly into wall receptacle. No extension cords are
      permitted with use.
      11.2.9. If approved, the letter will be maintained in facility folder in fire prevention and
      must be updated annually.
12. Vehicles and Parking.
   12.1. Vehicles or trailers will not be parked in any manner that would preclude access by
   firefighting equipment to all sides of the buildings, in fire lanes or within 15 feet of a fire
   hydrant. Motor vehicles, including motorcycles and riding lawnmowers, will not be parked
   inside buildings not previously designated for such purposes. Gasoline or oil trucks, whether
   loaded or empty, will neither enter or be parked in hangars or other buildings unless the
   structure is designated for that purpose. Tank trucks may enter maintenance shops for repairs
   provided the tanks have been completely purged of flammable vapors.
   12.2. Vehicles should not be parked: On the flight line in such a manner as to endanger
   neither adjacent aircraft nor will they be parked within 100 feet from any building, structure
   or stored material.
   12.3. Vehicles will not be parked where the ground slopes toward a building, structure,
   stored material or aircraft.
 22                                           HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


   12.4. Vehicles will not be parked near an aircraft in any manner that may provide a source of
   ignition to fuel vapors in the event of a fuel spill, or interfere with fire department operations
   except when on/off loading.
13. Aircraft/Hangars.
   13.1. Aircraft.
      13.1.1. Fire extinguishers in the maintenance areas are a necessary item and will be
      available for immediate use. Extinguishers are installed in accordance with NFPA and
      AFOSH Standards or as specified by the Base Fire Prevention Flight. Fire extinguishers
      must be within easy reach of the operator when maintenance is being accomplished or
      servicing aircraft.
      13.1.2. AGE equipment will be positioned upwind from aircraft being serviced, and
      utilize the full length of the power cable.
      13.1.3. Flame and electrical spark producing equipment will not be used during repair or
      maintenance of aircraft (except as authorized by Base Fire Chief).
      13.1.4. Aircraft undergoing fuel cell or external tank repair will be in an isolated area or
      authorized hangars and position not less than 100 feet from the nearest smoking area
      and/or other sources of ignition.
      13.1.5. Fuel cells or external fuel tanks to be repaired will be thoroughly purged and fuel
      concentration tests conducted with an approved type explosimeter or flammable vapor-
      testing instrument.
      13.1.6. All equipment used in aircraft fuel cell repairs will be of the approved type in
      accordance with current Air Force directives.
      13.1.7. After fuel residues have been removed from tank cells through de-fueling,
      maintenance personnel will air purge the cells. The cells atmosphere during purging will
      be checked periodically with an approved and properly calibrated explosimeter or
      flammable vapor testing instrument.
      13.1.8. Under no circumstances will power units, with combustion-type heater blowers,
      be used to purge fuel cells or other flammable material containers.
      13.1.9. Servicing aircraft with liquid or gaseous oxygen.
      13.1.10. All sources of power will be turned off (except as specified T. O. 00-25-172).
      13.1.11. Before oxygen-servicing operations are started, all sources of flame or sparks
      will be removed from the immediate area. No flame or spark-producing device will be
      permitted within 50 feet of oxygen servicing operations.
      13.1.12. Aircraft oxygen systems will not be serviced or the system drained within 50
      feet of hangars, structures or fuel spills. The aircraft will be adequately grounded and the
      oxygen servicing unit or trailer electrostatically bonded to the aircraft before oxygen is
      transferred.
      13.1.13. Oxygen servicing trailers will not be left unattended while connected to the
      aircraft. Grease and oil reacts violently with liquid oxygen. To reduce the fire hazard, all
      tools, equipment, clothing, and hands of personnel will be free of grease or oil before
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                             23


      handling liquid oxygen.      LOX servicing carts will be parked on non-hydrocarbon
      surfaces when not in use.
      13.1.14. Aircraft will be properly grounded at all times on parking ramps, hangars and/or
      other maintenance facilities or areas.
      13.1.15. Aircraft components parts (aft section, engines, fuel tanks, drop tanks, or
      reservoirs) containing flammable liquids, when separated from the aircraft will be purged
      and certified to be vapor free.
   13.2. Hangars.
      13.2.1. The aircraft maintenance officer will ensure that adequate written operating
      procedures covering fire safety precautions for aircraft in hangars, emergency removal
      there from, potential fire and explosive hazards are prepared and coordinated with the
      Base Fire Chief, and Ground Safety Officer.
      13.2.2. Fire lanes will be provided for the use of mobile fire fighting equipment into
      hangars/facilities and flight line parking aprons. Vehicles will not be parked within 50
      feet of any hangar facility.
      13.2.3. Vehicles operating in hangars and nose docks will be equipped with flame and
      spark arrestors. Vehicles so equipped will be allowed to operate in hangars only long
      enough to move aircraft, equipment or material. They will not be allowed to leave the
      vehicle unattended in front of or near, hangar or nose dock doors. Vehicles or equipment
      that is so equipped or designed as to produce sparks when the wheels of such equipment
      contact hangar or dock floors will not be operated or towed within the hazardous areas.
      13.2.4. Open flames or element space heaters will not be used in any part of a hangar
      shop or where fire hazards would be created. Under no circumstances will space heaters
      be permitted in locations suspected of having concentrations of flammable and /or
      explosive substances.
      13.2.5. Parking AGE equipment, aircraft component parts, and/or tow vehicles is
      prohibited in the area bordered on either side of the door encasements of all main hangar
      doors, where the track extends to each side.
      13.2.6. Vehicles without flame spark arrestors on the engine exhaust system will not be
      operated or parked inside hangars, (high hazard facilities/structures) without prior
      approval from the Base Fire Chief.
      13.2.7. Electrically operated appliances and vending machines will be properly grounded
      and will not be located in hazardous areas of a hangar.
14. Warehouse and Storage of Materials.
   14.1. Aisles and Clearances.
      14.1.1. Adequate fire aisles will be maintained in all warehouses. Clearances will not
      have to be more than four feet in width for 2,000 square foot block or six feet for 8,000
      square foot blocks; however, material handling equipment aisles will be wide enough to
      permit safe movement of vehicles. Aisles in storage areas will be kept clear for easy
      access to all fire protection equipment such as portable first-aid fire appliances, sprinkler
24                                         HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


     control valves, smoke detection control boxes, manual alarm pull boxes, fire evacuation
     alarm and pumper hose connections.
     14.1.2. A minimum of 18 inches clearances will be maintained beneath automatic
     sprinkler heads when stack heights do not exceed 15 feet. When hazardous commodities
     are involved, regardless of stack heights, 36-inch clearances will be maintained.
     14.1.3. Storage of material or supplies within 18 inches of an electrical fixture is
     prohibited.
  14.2. Exits. Blocked doors will be clearly marked “DOOR BLOCKED” on exterior and
  interior sides of the door using four-inch wide letters on a red background. Prior approval
  will be obtained from the Fire Department, Fire Prevention Section, extensions 415-7547 and
  415-7548, before blocking of any door. Exits doors will be operable at all times when the
  building is occupied. Doors identified as “exits” will not be blocked, locked, or restricted
  during periods of occupancy.
  14.3. Heights of Storage.
     14.3.1. Height of piles should be kept as low as practical and volume sufficiently limited
     so any fire occurring within the pile can be contained and extinguished. Where automatic
     sprinkler protection is provided, clearance of 3 feet or more will be maintained between
     the top of piles and on the underside of the lowest beams, girders, or other ceiling
     obstruction which might restrict the play of hose streams over the piled material.
     14.3.2. The main aisles will not be less than 8 feet in width. Cross aisles will not be less
     than 3 feet in width for piles ten feet in height and five feet wide (where piles exceed ten
     feet). Where cross aisles are provided, they will be located opposite window or door
     openings in exterior walls as far as practicable. Passageways between open faces of
     shelving should be large enough to permit easy movement of stock selectors using stock
     picking trucks through the retail bin area.
  14.4. Miscellaneous.
     14.4.1. Fueled equipment, including but not limited to motorcycles, mopeds, lawn care
     equipment, and portable cooking equipment, shall not be stored, operated, or repaired
     within a building unless approved by the Base Fire Chief.
     14.4.2. Internal combustion engines/equipment will not be stored in buildings prior to
     being purged or while maintenance is being performed.
     14.4.3. Follow instructions outlined in AFOSH Standard 91-66.
     14.4.4. Material will be stored as to minimize the spread of fire internally.          Neat
     blocking, piling, and good housekeeping will be maintained at all times.
     14.4.5. Do not park gasoline driven vehicles in buildings or warehouse areas.
  14.5. Fire Walls, Fire Doors, and Fire Equipment.
     14.5.1. Materials will not be stored against fire walls. A minimum distance of 36 inches
     will be maintained. Fire doors will be closed prior to nightly closing of the facility.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                            25


      14.5.2. Fire walls, fusible links, fire doors, and floors will be maintained in good repair
      at all times to restrict the spread of fire from any area where it may originate. Fire doors
      will not be obstructed.
      14.5.3. Materials or equipment will not be allowed to block fire extinguishers, fire
      department sprinkler connections, sprinkler risers, installed fire protection systems, or
      fire exits.
15. Ammunition and Explosives.
   15.1. Storage, Handling, and Maintenance.
      15.1.1. Storage, Handling, and Maintenance, etc., of explosive material will be in strict
      compliance with AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, and applicable technical
      orders. When the use of spark, flame or heat producing devices, such as cutting, welding
      torches or soldering equipment is required in areas of buildings where explosives are
      stored, handled or processed; coordination and approval by base safety and the fire
      protection section is required.
      15.1.2. Vehicle loaded with explosives will not be left unattended except in officially
      designated holding areas within an explosive storage area.
      15.1.3. Explosives loaded aircraft will not be placed inside a maintenance hangar until
      all munitions and explosives have been removed. EXCEPTION: Cartridge and
      propellant activated devices used in personnel egress systems and pyrotechnics stored in
      survival and rescue kits.
      15.1.4. Personnel in charge of munitions control will notify the fire protection alarm
      center each time explosive locations or the symbol/hazard marker changes, by calling
      extensions 415- 7274 and 415-7275.
   15.2. Vegetation Control.
      15.2.1. The 482 MSG/BCE determines vegetation control. The primary purpose of
      vegetation control is to limit the probability of combustible vegetation catching fire and
      to slow the spread of vegetation fires.
      15.2.2. A fire break, at least 50 feet wide, will be kept free of combustible materials
      through controlled mowing, or cutting around each above ground magazines operating
      building or location for outdoor storage site/ready explosives facility.
      15.2.3. The earth extending over the igloos, as well as a fire break to 5 feet around the
      igloo will be maintained.
   15.3. Smoking.
      15.3.1. Smoking may be permitted within munitions storage explosive areas, only where
      strict control can be maintained. Smoking may take place only in safe, specifically
      designed and posted “Smoking Locations” that are within explosive areas.
      15.3.2. The Base Fire Chief will approve all designated smoking locations. A
      certification of acceptability signed by the Fire Chief will be displayed in each designated
      area.
 26                                          HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


   15.4. Burning. Burning will not be permitted within 200 feet of any munitions storage site
   magazine, building, facility or holding area.
16. Welding, Cutting, Brazing, and Tar Kettles.
   16.1. General Requirements.
      16.1.1. Welding or torch cutting will be performed in a welding booth or shop
      constructed for that purpose only. Welding and/or cutting outside of shop areas must be
      approved and inspected prior to the operations, by the Fire Department.
      16.1.2. Forced ventilation will be used in welding operations when natural ventilation is
      insufficient to prevent accumulation of dangerous gases and fumes.
      16.1.3. The use of any blow torch or open-flame appliance for paint removal is
      prohibited.
      16.1.4. Any time welding or cutting is not being accomplished; regulators valves will be
      shut off at the gas cylinder.
      16.1.5. When a welding hose bursts or escaping gas is ignited, regulator valves will be
      shut off immediately.
      16.1.6. Only under extreme emergencies will any aircraft part be welded while on an
      aircraft. Parts such as tail cones, etc. will not be welded as a routine practice. Approval
      for welding on aircraft will be authorized only after approval is granted by the Aircraft
      maintenance officer in coordination with the Base Fire Chief and Base Safety prior to the
      welding operation.
      16.1.7. Welding, cutting, or brazing operations in facilities or on aircraft will be IAW
      AFOSH Standard 91-5. An AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit
      or computer generated permit, will be issued by the Base Fire Department before work
      begins.
      16.1.8. When welding in open areas, personnel will ensure that all combustible
      vegetation within 10 feet around the operation has been removed. They should also have
      available; an appropriate means to extinguish small fires.
      16.1.9. Only authorized personnel will operate welding equipment.
      16.1.10. Welding will not be permitted in the vicinity of flammable or explosive material
      until all possibility of fire or explosion has been eliminated. Where the removal of
      flammable material is impractical, a suitable fire resistant shelf or welding blanket will be
      placed between the flammable material and the welding operation.
      16.1.11. Before welding tanks, and other containers in which flammable liquids have
      been stored, they will be drained, flushed, steamed, and a sniff test will be performed. If
      practical, fill the tank with water before welding. A vent will be provided to permit the
      release of pressure which is generated in the tank by the heat of the welding.
      16.1.12. All equipment will be inspected daily for damage, loose connections, or unsafe
      conditions. Repair or replacement must be made if required and grease will be kept away
      from oxygen cylinders and fittings. This is an explosive hazard.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                             27


      16.1.13. When precautionary measures are taken and a fire hazard continues to exist, a
      fireguard with suitable fire extinguishing equipment will be stationed near the welding
      location.
      16.1.14. After welding or cutting operations have ceased, the area will be carefully
      inspected and observed until no hazard exists.
   16.2. Confined Spaces. Confined space areas require a confined space permit prior to
   issuing a welding permit. The confined space permit must be issued by the 482d Fighter
   Wing/Safety (482 FW/SE) office and coordinated with all required base agencies.
   16.3. Tar kettles. The use of tar kettles involve the hazards of fuel, heating of fuel, heating
   flammable materials, and exposure of combustible materials. Tar Kettles will:
      16.3.1. Will require a hot work permit AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting and
      Brazing Permit.
      16.3.2. They will not be located inside of or on the roof of any building.
      16.3.3. The kettle shall be operated in a controlled area. The area shall be identified by
      the use of traffic cones or other suitable means.
      16.3.4. Kettles will be equipped with a lid or cover and kept in serviceable condition.
      16.3.5. Be free of fuel leaks (if bottle gas is used, be sure the bottle is secured and fuel
      lines protected).
      16.3.6. Be located as far from building or facility as possible and not affect efficient
      working conditions.
      16.3.7. An operating kettle shall be attended by a minimum of one qualified employee
      who is knowledgeable of the operations and hazards. The employee shall be within 25
      feet of the kettle and shall have the kettle within sight.
      16.3.8. Two approved 20 BC fire extinguishers shall be provided and maintained with 25
      feet of the kettle.
      16.3.9. Kettles shall not block exits, means of egress, gates, roadways, or entrances.
      Kettles shall not be closer than 10 feet from exits or means of egress.
17. Commercial Cooking Facilities.
   17.1. Commercial Kitchens.
      17.1.1. All commercial cooking equipment installation and maintenance will be in
      accordance with National Fire Protection Association Standard 96, AFOSH Standard 91-
      501, and UFC 3-600-02.
      17.1.2. All installed grease filters and exposed surfaces of kitchen range hoods, to
      include drip trays, will be thoroughly cleaned by the operator daily, or more often as
      necessary, to prevent accumulation of grease. A spare filter set is required in kitchens
      that are operated continuously.
      17.1.3. Inaccessible areas may be maintained by a contracted agency. Facility managers
      will ensure records are kept that indicate the date the hood and ducts were last cleaned
      (minimum every six months) and the name of the agency performing the service. After
 28                                         HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


      cleaning and prior to restoring system to operating status the Facility manager or
      supervisor will contact the Fire Prevention office for inspection of hood and duct system.
      17.1.4. Exhaust systems will be operated at all times and grease filters will be in place
      when cooking equipment is in operation.
      17.1.5. If the exhaust fan is inoperative, filters removed, or fire suppression system
      inoperative; cooking will be discontinued.
      17.1.6. IAW 91-501, deep fat fryers will be equipped with a primary and secondary
      thermostat. The primary thermostat will not exceed 400 degrees Fahrenheit and
      secondary thermostat will limit the temperature of the liquid to 475 degreed Fahrenheit to
      include the additional rise that occurs after secondary thermostat de-energizes the
      equipment. Thermostats will be tested annually for compliance and permanent metallic
      tags affixed to the appliance indicating the test date.
      17.1.7. A metal clad cover for each deep fat fryer will be provided and kept available for
      ready use to extinguish flare ups.
      17.1.8. Stoves, smoke pipes, hoods, and grease ducts will have sufficient clearance to
      prevent ignition of surrounding combustible materials. Combustible materials will not be
      stored, stacked, or piled within 36 inches of heating equipment.
      17.1.9. The Facility Manager or Supervisor will perform a daily closing inspection to
      ensure the fire safe condition of the facility when unoccupied.
18. Cooking Equipment.
   18.1. Cooking Equipment.
      18.1.1. Areas, other than dwelling units, that are provided with residential type range top
      cooking surfaces must be equipped with an approved residential range top extinguishing
      system. The range top extinguishing system must be connected to the building fire alarm
      system to sound a general building alarm and must disconnect power to the cooking
      equipment.
      18.1.2. Any cooking equipment used in the cooking process that produces smoke or
      grease-laden vapors shall be prohibited in any building on HARB unless it is equipped
      with an exhaust system that complies with NFPA and AFOSH Standards. Examples of
      cooking equipment that produce grease-laden vapors include, but are not limited to, deep
      fat fryers, ranges, griddles, broilers, woks, skillets, and braising pans.
      18.1.3. Hot plates shall be prohibited from use in any building on HARB.
      18.1.4. Acceptable Cooking appliances in business areas are as follows:
         18.1.4.1. Microwave ovens.
         18.1.4.2. Coffee pots without automatic timing devices.
         18.1.4.3. Toasters (will be placed on non-combustible surfaces)
         18.1.4.4. Toaster ovens in kitchen/break rooms and placed on a non-combustible
         surface.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                              29


   18.2. Barbecuing. No hibachi, gas fired grill, charcoal grill, or other similar devices used for
   cooking, heating, or any other purpose shall not be used or kindled on any balcony or under
   any overhang/awning portion or within 10 feet of any structure.
   18.3. Concession Stands. Concession stands utilized for cooking shall have a minimum of
   10 feet of clearance of combustibles and shall not be located within 10 feet of any building.
19. Open Fire And Fireworks.
   19.1. Open Flames. Blow torches will not be used to remove paint from any surface or to
   burn wood for decorative purposes, unless specifically authorized by the Base Fire Chief.
   Charcoal stored where moisture is present, presents a spontaneous ignition hazard. Charcoal
   should be stored in a closed metal container.
   19.2. Fireworks. The exploding of any fireworks with the limits of HAFB is prohibited, to
   include sparklers. The exploding of fireworks during special holiday events must be
   approved by the Base Fire Marshall or Fire Chief.
20. Civilian Contractor and Concessionaries.
   20.1. Responsibilities. Fire Prevention and protection policies have been established IAW
   Air Force directives and National Fire Protection Standards. These policies will be complied
   with by all agencies on HARB. Contractors hired to work on base will be licensed and
   qualified to accomplish the job.
   20.2. Fire Alarms.
      20.2.1. Fire Alarm systems will be installed repaired and/or maintained by contractors
      certified on that particular system.
      20.2.2. Fire Alarm systems will be installed repaired and/or maintained by contractors
      licensed according to Florida State Statues. To include but not limited to:
          20.2.2.1. A certified unlimited electrical contractor or licensed fire alarm contractor
          must furnish each of his or her fire alarm system agents with an identification card.
          The card shall follow a board-approved format, to include a picture of the agent; shall
          specify at least the name of the holder of the card and the name and license number of
          the certified unlimited electrical contractor or licensed fire alarm contractor; and shall
          be signed by both the contractor and the holder of the card. Each identification card
          shall be valid for a period of 2 years after the date of issuance. The identification card
          must be in the possession of the fire alarm system agent while engaged in fire alarm
          system agent duties.
          20.2.2.2. Each licensed electrical or alarm system contractor must obtain an updated
          criminal background check from the Department of Law Enforcement for each fire
          alarm system agent.
          20.2.2.3. Each identification card must be renewed every 2 years and in a board-
          approved format to show compliance with the 6 hours of continuing education
          necessary to maintain certification as a fire alarm system agent.
   20.3. Fire Suppression.
30                                         HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


     20.3.1. Fire Suppression systems will be installed, repaired and/or maintained by
     contractors licensed according to Florida State Statues. To include but not limited to:
         20.3.1.1. Contractors will possess the license required for the Fire Suppression
         system.
         20.3.1.2. Prime contractors performing construction contracts will comply with all
         applicable provision of this regulation and will:
         20.3.1.3. During the pre-construction conference; brief the Base Fire Marshal or
         designated representative on the type, scope and sequence of work to be
         accomplished under the contract.
         20.3.1.4. The prime project contractor will brief his/her employees and
         subcontractors on fire prevention and protection measures. Contractors will ensure
         that each employee:
         20.3.1.5. Know how to report a fire.
         20.3.1.6. Know how to operate available fire extinguishers.
         20.3.1.7. Obtains special permits and/or approval for hazardous operations.
         20.3.1.8. Is familiar with fire prevention safety applicable to their work. Provide
         appropriate protective equipment (including fire extinguishers) prior to commencing
         work requiring such equipment. Government owned extinguishers will not be used to
         provide stand-by protection unless approved by the Base Fire Chief.
         20.3.1.9. Refrain from the use of fire hydrants, standpipes, hose or other fire
         protection equipment except for fire emergencies. The use of fire hydrants for filling
         water trucks and similar operations must be approved by the Base Fire Chief prior to
         such use.
         20.3.1.10. Remove combustible type waste material from building or structures at the
         close of each workday. Material will be kept at least 25 feet from any building or
         structure.
         20.3.1.11. Refrain from the use of torches, flares, and flare pots on the flight line,
         munitions storage area aircraft parking ramp, POL operations or other hazardous
         areas. Contractor will obtain the approval of the Base Fire Chief prior to such use
         when required.
         20.3.1.12. Project site will be inspected periodically by fire prevention personnel to
         ensure fire prevention and protection measures are in compliance.
         20.3.1.13. Necessary action will be initiated and processed through the project
         manager to correct substandard conditions.
         20.3.1.14. Willful violation of or failure to comply with fire safety procedures will be
         reported to the contracting officer for appropriate action.
  20.4. Reporting Fires.
     20.4.1. In the event of fire, immediately call the fire department at extension 415- 7117
     or 786-415-7117 from cell phones.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                            31


     20.4.2. When reporting a fire, give the following information: Name of person reporting
     the fire, location of the fire, and nature of the fire.
         20.4.2.1. Do not hang up until directed to do so by the operator.
  20.5. Housekeeping. A high standard of cleanliness is essential to fire prevention. Cleanup
  will be performed daily. Jobsite cleanliness serves two purposes, elimination of fire hazards
  and providing orderly conditions.
  20.6. Fire Extinguishers. Contractors will furnish a sufficient number of appropriate fire
  extinguishers in all areas of operation during the effective period of the contract. Workers
  will know the classes of fire and the operation of portable fire extinguishers.
  20.7. Welding, Cutting, and Brazing.
     20.7.1. A permit must be obtained from the Base Fire Department prior to any welding,
     cutting, brazing operation, or open flame.
     20.7.2. A fire guard with the appropriate type fire extinguishers will be present during all
     welding and cutting operations. The fire guard will stay on guard for at least 30 minutes
     after completion of the operation to be sure that smoldering fires do not start. (Fire guards
     will be furnished by the contractor.)
     20.7.3. Welding and cutting operations will not be performed in areas containing
     flammable liquids or vapors.
     20.7.4. All areas where combustibles are present will be clean. Wood floors will be
     covered with noncombustible materials. Wet down vegetation prior to performing
     welding and cutting.
     20.7.5. Welding and cutting equipment will be inspected frequently and maintained in
     proper operating condition.
     20.7.6. All welding and cutting equipment will be of an approved type for a task to be
     performed.
  20.8. Heaters. Ignition of combustibles from construction heaters is common when they are
  improperly installed and operated. Responsible contracting agents will ensure installation and
  operation to prevent overheating.
  20.9. Tar kettles. The use of tar kettles involve the hazards of fuel, heating of fuel, heating
  flammable materials, and exposure of combustible materials. Tar Kettles will:
     20.9.1. Will require a hot work permit AF Form 592.
     20.9.2. They will not be located inside of or on the roof of any building.
     20.9.3. The kettle shall be operated in a controlled area. The area shall be identified by
     the use of traffic cones or other suitable means.
     20.9.4. Kettles will be equipped with a lid or cover and kept in serviceable condition.
     20.9.5. Be free of fuel leaks (if bottle gas is used, be sure the bottle is secured and fuel
     lines protected).
     20.9.6. Be located as far from building or facility as possible and not affect efficient
     working conditions.
32                                         HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


     20.9.7. An operating kettle shall be attended by a minimum of one qualified employee
     who is knowledgeable of the operations and hazards. The employee shall be within 25
     feet of the kettle and shall have the kettle within sight.
     20.9.8. Two approved 20 BC fire extinguishers shall be provided and maintained with 25
     feet of the kettle.
     20.9.9. Kettles shall not block exits, means of egress, gates, roadways, or entrances.
     Kettles shall not be closer than 10 feet from exits or means of egress.
  20.10. Fuel Powered Equipment.
     20.10.1. Air compressor, pumps, and so forth will be located so that exhaust stacks are
     well away from combustible materials.
     20.10.2. Refueling will not be accomplished with engine running or hot.
     20.10.3. If equipment is located inside building where exhaust stacks are extended
     through wall or roofs, stack will have a six inch clearance from combustibles.
  20.11. Electrical Wiring.
     20.11.1. Temporary wiring will be protected with circuit breakers or fused.
     20.11.2. Temporary wiring and extension cords will be held to a minimum.
     20.11.3. When temporary wiring is connected to any fixed electrical system of a building
     or structure, the fixed system will be returned to its original status when temporary wiring
     is disconnected.
     20.11.4. Electrical drop lights and connections used in hazardous locations will be
     explosion proof.
  20.12. Fire Hydrants. Fire Hydrants adjacent to construction sites will not be blocked at any
  time. A minimum clearance of 15 feet will be maintained at all times. Hoses and/or pipes
  will not be connected to hydrants without the permission of the Fire Chief. Hydrants will be
  opened with hydrant wrenches only.
  20.13. Fire Alarm Systems. They will be left operational for as long as possible during
  construction projects. Should it become necessary to disconnect electric wiring or render an
  alarm system inoperative in any manner, the fire department will be notified. In occupied
  facilities, the facility manager must also be notified.
  20.14. Vending Machines.
     20.14.1. Only machines that are free of electrical defects will be used.
     20.14.2. Machines will not be installed where they will block electrical control panels.
     20.14.3. Machines will be placed so they do not obstruct exits or paths of egress.
  20.15. Janitorial Work.
     20.15.1. Only water emulsion cleaners and wax will be used.
     20.15.2. Scrubbing and buffing machines will be serviceable and free of electrical
     defects. Metal containers will be used for the collection of discarded smoking materials.
     Wet down materials before emptying them into trash containers at pick up points.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                          33


     20.15.3. Nonflammable cleaning materials will be used.




                                        DONALD R. LINDBERG, Colonel, USAFR
                                        Commander, 482d Fighter Wing
 34                                          HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting and Reporting, 14 Aug 2008
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 03 Jun 2002
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 Jan 2011
AFOSH Standard 91-5, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing, 01 May 1997
AFOSH Standard 91-66, General Industrial Operations, 01 Oct 1997
AFOSHSTD 91-501 6.2.9.1, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 07 Jul 2004
Article 500, National Electrical Code
ETL 02-15, Fire Protection Engineering Criteria-New Aircraft Facilities, 3 Dec 2002
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101 Life Safety Code
National Fire Protection Standard 30
National Fire Protection Standard 30A
National Fire Protection Standard Association (NFPA) Standard 70, National Electrical Code
UFC 3-600-02, Unified Facility Criteria
UFC 3-600-1, Unified Facility Criteria
Adopted Forms
AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
AF Form 218, Facility Fire Prevention/Protection Record
AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan
AF Form 1118, Notice Hazard

Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFOSHSTD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011              35


AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AHJ—Authority Having Jurisdiction
ARB—Air Reserve Base
BCE—Base Civil Engineers
CBT—Computer Based Training
CEF—Chief, Fire Department
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
DOD—Department of Defense
ETL—Engineering Technical Letter
FACC—Fire Alarm Communication Center
HARB—Homestead Air Reserve Base
HVAC—Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning
IAW—In accordance with
MSG—Mission Support Group
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POL—Petroleum Vehicle
RAC—Risk Assessment Codes
SFO—Senior Fire Official
UFC—United Facility Criteria
UL—Underwriter’s Laboratory
USAF—United States Air Force
 36                                             HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


                                             Attachment 2
                       EXAMPLE OF FIRE REACTION PLAN MEMO

                                                                                               Date:



MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Fire Reaction Plan

1. When notified by the Fire Inspector of a fire drill, or the discovery of a fire, no matter how
small, complete the following:
a. Any person discovering a fire will report it immediately to the base fire department, extension
415-7117. (If a drill, ensure you notify the fire department as such.)
b. Personnel reporting the fire will give the following information.
Exact location of the fire.
(1) Name and rank of person reporting the fire.
(2) Type of fire (building, grass, kitchen, automobile).
(3)Do not hang up until directed to do so.
c. The following actions will be taken immediately after discovering a fire or notified of a fire
drill.
(1) Notify the building occupants verbally or pull fire alarm.
(2) Ensure all occupants have evacuated the facility.
(3) Ensure a head count is completed.
(4) Secure funds.
(5) Check all area of facility.
(6) Close all building doors (do not lock).
(7) Use available fire extinguishers in a effort to control or extinguish the fire.
(8) In the event of a real fire, have someone meet the fire department out front to direct them
toward the emergency.
(9) In the event of a real fire, secure the area until Security Forces arrives.

Approved/Disapproved
                                  Commander’s Signature Element
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011          37


                           Attachment 3
                      FIRE EXTINGUSHER LOG
38              HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


             Attachment 4
     EMERGENCY/EXIT LIGHTING LOG
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                        39


                                          Attachment 5
                   EXAMPLE OF FIRE EVACUATION DRILL MEMO

                                                                                         Date:



MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Fire Evacuation Drill

1. In accordance with HARBI 91-301, a fire drill was conducted at building __________.
2. Information Regarding this drill is as follows:
a. Date:_______________       Time:_______________
b. Method of Drill:
_____Verbal (question and answer)
_____Verbal and Manual Evacuation (No Bldg Alarm Activation)
_____Alarm Activation and Evacuation
_____Fire Department Participation (with full fire dept response)
a. Number of personnel evacuated:__________
b. Amount of time to fully evacuate:__________
3. Individual who conducted the fire drill/or point of contact:
Name____________________Rank/Grade____________________Extension_______________
Signature______________________________________________________________________
 40                                            HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


                                           Attachment 6
                  EXAMPLE OF SPACE HEATER APPROVAL LETTER

                                                                                           Date



MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Space Heater Approval Letter

The Homestead Air Reserve Base Fire Department understands that individuals have
different levels of comfort associated with temperature and heat. The use of electric
space heaters as a temporary measure is permitted if the following guidelines are
followed.

The 482 Civil Engineering HVAC shop has determined our facility to be inadequate for heat and
a work order has been approved to correct the deficiency. A portable space heater is needed on a
temporary basis and will be located in building number __________ room __________. The
space heater will meet the following requirements.

Space Heater Specifications:

1. Space heaters must be electric powered, fuel powered (propane, kerosene) space heaters are
not permitted. Space heaters must not take more than 110 volts of electricity to operate.

2. Space heaters must have a Tip-Over Shutdown feature. If the space heater is knock over then
the unit must automatically shut off.
3. Any space heaters used must be UL (Underwriters Laboratory) approved.
4. Space heaters must have a thermostat, which automatically shuts of when a certain
temperature is reach.
5. Approved space heaters must be fan driven. Space heaters with heated coils are not
permitted.
6. Heater must be kept at least 3 feet away from any combustible material.
7. Heater must always be turned off and unplugged when area being heated is not
occupied.
8. Space heaters are not allowed in dormitory or lodging facilities.
9. Nothing should ever be placed on top of or touching a space heater.
10. If used, space heaters should always be plugged into a wall receptacle.
11. If used, space heaters should be located in plain sight and clearly visible.
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011                            41




Facility Managers Signature Element
Approved/Disapproved

                                      Fire Chief or Designee
                                      Signature Element
 42                                           HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011


                                          Attachment 7
              EXAMPLE OF DESIGNATED TOBACCO USE AREA MEMO

                                                                                               Date



MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Designated Tobacco Use Area

1. Control of Smoking: IAW AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, unsafe smoking
practices and improper disposal of smoking materials constitute the greatest of all causes of fire
particularly in dormitories, and exposed personnel to injury or death. In order that fires due to
this cause maybe eliminated, fire control measures will be enforced and observed by all
personnel.
2. No smoking, striking of matches, operating of mechanical lighters, or other open flame
devices will be permitted in any building, structure, or room used for storage, repair industrial
processes, servicing, testing, fabricating, supply buildings, commissary, carpenter shops, AGE
repair shops, or parachute shops.
3. No smoking or open flame will be permitted inside or within 50 feet of hangers, aircraft,
repair docks, paint shops, gasoline storage, dispensing areas, flammable liquids, fuel dispensing
vehicles, fueling or de-fueling operations, vehicle maintenance or similar facilities, liquid oxygen
plant activities of extra hazardous nature and parked aircraft. Smoking in vehicles on the flight
line and aircraft parking areas is prohibited. Smoking in government vehicles on HARB is
prohibited.
4. No smoking will be permitted within 20 feet of facility entrances or near air handling
systems.
5. Supervisors will ensure that contents of disposal containers are extinguished and wet down
with water before being combined with other waste in dumpsters and trash collection points.
Signs prohibiting the placing of smoking materials in waste baskets or trash receptacles will be
posted conspicuously in all smoking areas.
6. The use of “strike anywhere” matches is prohibited on base.
7. Suitable non-combustible receptacles for discarding smoking materials shall be provided in
adequate numbers in all areas where smoking is permitted. Only cigarette, butts, cigar butts,
other tobacco remnants, and used matches will be discarded in such receptacles.
8. The designated smoking area for building __________ will be ________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________


Facility Manager Signature Element
HOMESTEADARBI32-2001 6 OCTOBER 2011        43


Approved/Disapproved
Fire Chief or Designee Signature Element
