BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 44-154
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
(1 SOW)                                                                        25 JUNE 2010

                                                                           Medical Command

                                                     TRAUMATIC STRESS PROCEDURES




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 1 SOMDOS/SGOW                                                Certified by: 1 SOMDG/CC,
                                                                              (Col Dale Agner)
                                                                                      Pages: 6


This publication implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 44-153, Traumatic Stress Response.
This HFI assigns responsibilities for responding to potentially traumatic events and describes
how the program will be implemented. This instruction also clarifies the composition of the
Traumatic Stress Response (TSR) team, the roles and duties of its members, and procedures for
training and implementing the TSR team. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

1. PURPOSE.
   1.1. This instruction establishes standard operating procedures for the Hurlburt Field TSR
   Team. It outlines:
       1.1.1. The applicable AFI.
       1.1.2. Team requirements.
       1.1.3. Team composition.
2                                                    HURLBURTFIELDI44-154 25 JUNE 2010


       1.1.4. Team purpose.
       1.1.5. Locally trained resources.
       1.1.6. Local conditions and high-risk groups.
       1.1.7. Team activation response plan.
       1.1.8. Training.
2. REFERENCE.
    2.1. AFI 44-153 provides comprehensive guidelines, policies, procedures, and delegation of
    authority. It assigns responsibilities and explains procedures for the composition, training,
    management, and deployment of the TSR team.
3. TEAM REQUIREMENT.
    3.1. AFI 44-153 requires the establishment of one or more TSR teams at all active duty Air
    Force installations.
4. Team COMPOSITION AND ROLES.
    4.1. At a minimum, a TSR team is composed of a primary and alternate individual from each
    of the following areas:
       4.1.1. Team chief. The 1st Special Operations Wing Commander will appoint privileged
       “Life Skills” providers as the team chief and team assistant chief.
       4.1.2. “Life Skills” (Mental Health, ADAPT, or Family Advocacy). This role may be
       assigned to the team chiefs if desired.
       4.1.3. “Spiritual Support” (Chaplain and Chaplain Aid, both needing alternates).
       4.1.4. “Family Support” (Typically a community readiness consultant from the Airman
       and Family Readiness Support Center with an alternate).
       4.1.5. The TSR team chief may request additional team members to serve on a long-term
       or short-term basis.
       4.1.6. Specific composition of the team for a given situation will be determined by the
       TSR team chief at that time.
5. TEAM PURPOSE.
    5.1. TSR is the Air Force process for providing preventive services to unit and community
    members both before and after potentially traumatic events. The goal is to educate and assist
    those who may experience traumatic events in order to minimize the impact of exposure to
    such events, improve coping mechanisms, and prevent permanent disability if possible.
6. ASSESSMENT OF LOCAL OPERATIONS.
    6.1. The unique mission of Special Forces, including heightened training experiences, high
    operations tempo, and frequent deployments, has the potential to produce individual and
    community traumatic stress.
    6.2. Potentially traumatizing events fall into several categories:
       6.2.1. Natural disasters, such as hurricane, flood, tornado, fire, earthquake.
HURLBURTFIELDI44-154 25 JUNE 2010                                                              3


      6.2.2. Acts of terrorism.
      6.2.3. Acts of violence, which may or may not include death.
      6.2.4. Accidents resulting in severe injury or fatality.
      6.2.5. Acts of abuse, homicide, or suicide.
      6.2.6. Serious threat of injury to self, family member, friend, or coworker.
      6.2.7. Witnessing an individual or community traumatic event.
7. HIGH-RISK GROUPS.
   7.1. Due to the amount of potentially traumatic events to which they are exposed, the
   following groups have been identified as high risk groups:
      7.1.1. Security Forces.
      7.1.2. Casualty Affairs.
      7.1.3. Mortuary Affairs.
      7.1.4. Aircrew.
      7.1.5. Medics.
      7.1.6. First Responders.
      7.1.7. Fire Crew.
      7.1.8. Deployers.
8. LOCALLY TRAINED RESOURCES
   8.1. In the event of one of the incidents listed in paragraph 6 that involves a unit stationed
   on Hurlburt Field, the TSR team chief may call upon the local Red Cross for assistance.
9. Team Activation/Response Plan.
   9.1. The TSR team is a base-wide resource to help units and individuals prepare for and cope
   with traumatic events. The team is intended to be a preventative tool that will help reduce
   stress-related symptoms and mission impact following a traumatic event. The TSR team is
   one of several base resources providing preparation for disasters, traumatizing events, or
   wartime stress.
      9.1.1. Pre-event educational briefings called Pre-Exposure Preparation (PEP) will be
      offered to prepare the military community when potentially traumatic events, like an
      extended deployment, or ongoing career threats can be predicted. This training will
      target members who may be exposed to combat (including security forces) and/or
      mortuary services. Such briefings will be conducted in close coordination with other
      relevant base agencies. The focus of this training will be on typical stress symptoms in
      both active duty and family members, letting others know about stress reactions, knowing
      and practicing positive coping behaviors, and avoiding inappropriate coping behaviors.
      Troops may also be given “just-in-time” training prior to deployments or other
      contingency operations. Squadron commanders can request this training from the TSR
      team chiefs as needed.
4                                              HURLBURTFIELDI44-154 25 JUNE 2010


    9.1.2. Following all air or ground mishaps that involved the loss of life or major injury,
    the 1st Special Operations Wing Command Post will contact the Behavioral Health Flight
    at 1-4237 to relay the event to the TSR team chief(s). For these cases, the TSR team will
    provide the unit with services. Individuals directly involved in these potentially
    traumatic events should be provided the opportunity to access TSR services including
    psychoeducation and psychological first aid if desired.
    9.1.3. Following other potentially traumatic events, unit leaders will contact the
    Behavioral Health Flight to relay the event to the TSR team chief(s). The unit leaders
    and TSR team chiefs will determine if services are needed for these situations.
    9.1.4. Participation in TSR services by those potentially impacted by traumatic events is
    voluntary. However, in some instances, unit leaders may require certain personnel
    receive TSR education at a minimum. Overall, the level of services provided by TSR
    will be determined by the unit commander in consultation with the TSR team chief(s).
    9.1.5. Individuals directly and indirectly involved in the event can be given general
    educational briefings, alerting them of the normal reactions to trauma and appropriate
    methods to handle them.
    9.1.6. Individuals directly involved with the traumatic event may be offered
    psychological first aid or group intervention to prevent or mitigate potential physical or
    psychological symptoms.
    9.1.7. Individuals not directly involved with the traumatic event but experiencing more
    severe effects from the event, will be offered psychological first aid or group
    interventions as requested by unit commanders and/or initiated by the TSR team.
    9.1.8. Individuals identified as having extreme reactions to the traumatic event will be
    referred by the TSR team for mainstream medical and /or mental health evaluation and
    care following any mishap that requires TSR intervention.
    9.1.9. Individuals may request and be provided up to four one-on-one meetings with any
    member of the TSR team for the purpose of education and consultation but not for
    medical assessment and treatment. TSR team services are not medical services and do
    not involve medical or mental health record documentation. If this specific type of
    interaction if desired from mental health, individuals should immediately make it known
    upon presentation to the Behavioral Health front desk staff.
    9.1.10. Potentially affected individuals on PRP status will be referred to a competent
    medical authority for evaluation and follow-up as needed; they are required to report any
    decrement in functioning to their Certifying Official.
    9.1.11. TSR is largely a wing and wingman function. As such, supervisors and peers are
    responsible for encouraging potentially affected individuals to receive adequate TSR
    involvement.
HURLBURTFIELDI44-154 25 JUNE 2010                                                           5


10. TEAM TRAINING.
   10.1. The TSR team will train on a quarterly basis.
      10.1.1. If TSR members are unable to attend the trainings, they must review the
      reference materials and certify they have appropriate understanding of the covered
      material.
      10.1.2. The TSR team will coordinate with other base agencies on an annual basis to
      prepare for real world traumatic response contingencies.
      10.1.3. Training will cover the principles outlined in Attachment 2 of AFI 44-153 and
      will be sufficient for all members to be competent in education, screening, and referral
      services as dictated by the event.
11. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   11.1. Prescribed Forms: No forms prescribed
   11.2. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            GREGORY J. LENGYEL, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                            HURLBURTFIELDI44-154 25 JUNE 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 44-153, Traumatic Stress Response, 31 March 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
TSR—Traumatic Stress Response
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
MAJCOM—Major Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
