BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 33-129
16TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING (AFSOC)                                                         1 June 2001

                                                                                        Communications

                                                                   BASE NETWORK WEB SERVER
                                                                 MANAGEMENT AND PUBLISHING


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally via the Electronic Transaction System (ETS) site at:
http://afpubs.hq.af.mil. If you lack access, contact the OPR and/or publications manager.


OPR: 16 CS/SCB (Mr. Johnathan F. Van                Certified by: 16 CS/SCB (Maj Roftiel Constantine)
     Houten)                                                                                 Pages: 6
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This Hurlburt Field Instruction (HFI) defines the responsibilities and duties of the Base Network Web
Server Manager and establishes policies and procedures for initiating and maintaining public, lim-
ited-access, and Intranet web environments for all units residing on Hurlburt Field. This instruction
applies to all base organizations that rely on the services of the Base Network Web Servers or use or
access the communications infrastructure maintained by the Network Control Center (NCC) and the 16th
Communications Squadron. This instruction is established by guidelines found in AFI 33-115, Networks
Management, 1 April 1996, AFI 33-129, Transmission of information via the Internet, 1 January 1997,
Web Style Guide: Basic Design Principles for Creating Web Sites, CAIM (Center for Advanced Informa-
tion Management) Yale University, available from Yale University Press in March of 1999, Shneiderman,
B. 1992, Designing the user interface: Effective strategies for effective human-computer interaction. 2nd
ed., Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley, and implements AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communica-
tions, and Computer (C4) Systems.



1. Web Server Manager Functions. The Base Network Web Server Manager is a support function
aligned under the 16th Communications Squadron. AFI 33-129, Transmission of Information via the
Internet, establishes the requirement for the web server manager as the single focal point on base to pro-
vide access to and guidance for web-based services. The web manager will establish local procedures that
accommodate HHQ processing directives.

2. The Hurlburt Webmaster will:
   2.1. Review and assess requirements and applications for access and/or site development. No user or
   unit shall have access to a base webserver without demonstrating absolute requirement. (See Attach-
   ment 2).
2                                                                               HFI 33-129 1 June 2001

    2.2. Operate, secure, maintain and manage all non C-2 web servers under NCC control. The Webmas-
    ter will establish and update guidelines for document publishing as well as procedures for page devel-
    opers/maintainers to place information on Hurlburt web servers.
    2.3. Determine proper host for information. Documents required for use solely by on-base personnel
    need not be placed on the public Internet or the limited access Internet site. Such documents will be
    published to the Intranet server – guarded by base firewall protection.
    2.4. Establish file size and script code limitations as defined in Attachment 1 of this document. Site
    must follow ‘look and feel’ (defined as using similar modular configuration and moderate use of
    graphics to maintain a professional image), of parent site. Also, AFI 33-129 para 12 defines require-
    ments for ‘Page Layout and Design’. Site must have no external links to commercial or non-profit
    organizations. (E.g. .com, .net, or .org).
    2.5. Prior to initial placement, examine candidate html, and scripting code for vulnerabilities.
    2.6. Assess requirements for access to servers based upon update schedules and security require-
    ments.
    2.7. Provide page maintainers access to a single directory for read/write access. Multiple access
    points increase the opportunity for exploitation and decrease focal point control of document publish-
    ing. If a unit requires a backup maintainer, said individual will have access granted upon the tempo-
    rary revocation of the primary.
    2.8. Revoke access to network servers for violations of procedure and security vulnerabilities.
       2.8.1. Violations of procedure include: posting unauthorized information on the web servers,
       posting unauthorized code on the web servers, failure to follow established guidelines such as this
       document.
       2.8.2. Security vulnerabilities include certain java-based functions and the attempt to initiate
       server-side executables, (FrontPage or Cold Fusion extensions, etc.) or any other code/script as
       defined in this document. Exception: Does not apply to AF/XO or USSOCOM downward
       directed Command and Control programs that are tested and approved for operational use.
    2.9. Permit or deny access to cgi-bin, (server-side script functional directory) based upon knowledge
    and requirement, determined by the Webmaster.
    2.10. Adhere to policy and network regulatory measures as described in applicable instructions. All
    information is subject to monitoring. At no time shall a developer use his account on a server to
    attack, modify, or access external applications, servers, and/or systems.

3. Web Page Developers/Maintainers will:
    3.1. Comply with Attachment 1 of this document.
    3.2. Not abuse the use of animated graphics in such a fashion as to degrade the appearance or percep-
    tion of the unit or the Air Force.
    3.3. Request post capability on any Hurlburt web server using the following procedures:
       3.3.1. Forward a request letter to the base Webmaster signed by the unit commander. This letter
       will include request reason, name, rank, and telephone number of primary and alternate prospec-
       tive page maintainers.
HFI 33-129 1 June 2001                                                                                3

       3.3.2. (Internet server only) Submit all information and imagery to a review process conducted by
       base 16 SOW Public Affairs. 16 SOW/PA will conduct a content review and record required
       changes on the PA review form.
       3.3.3. Upon completion of 16 SOW/PA review, all technical formats must be approved for use by
       the base Webmaster. Ensure completed 16 SOW/PA checklist accompanies site information. If
       the unit uses in-house development, approved material may then be constructed into applicable
       web site.
       3.3.4. Submit applications for access and/or site development for review to the base Webmaster.

4. Information Technologies Office will:
   4.1. Review any changes to this publication to ensure that any web server or web design guidelines
   don’t conflict with AF/XO or USSOCOM downward directed Command and Control programs.
   4.2. Ensure that publication changes do not effect wing automation programs approved by 16 SOW/
   CC.



                                           DAVID J. SCOTT, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
4                                                                               HFI 33-129 1 June 2001

                                              Attachment 1

                             LIMITATIONS AND ACCESS CONTROLS

Table A1.1. Webserver Limitations and Access Controls.
 SERVER             Internet           Internet                    Intranet              SIPRnet
                    Public Access      Limited Access
 Phone Numbers/     No                 No                          Yes                   Yes
 Directories
 Average Total File 70K*               70K*                        250K*                 150K*
 Size (measured in
 KB)
 Commercial Link    Yes                Yes                         No                    No
 Restricted
 Biographical       No                 No                          Yes                   Yes
 Information Per-
 mitted
 Local-Only Use     No                 No                          Yes                   Yes***
 Information
File size limitations are approximate,+/-10K. Restriction based on average visitor connection of
33.6kilobits per second.
Access Issues: Bandwidth and Interaction
Users will not tolerate long delays. Human-factors research has shown that for most computing tasks the
threshold of frustration is around 10 seconds. Web page designs that are not well "tuned" to the network
access speed of your typical users will only frustrate them. If your users are primarily general public
browsers "surfing" the Web via 33.6 kbps phone line connections, (industry standard according to census
- Jan 1998) it is foolish to put huge bitmap graphics on your pages the average user will not be patient
enough to wait endlessly while your graphics download over the phone line. However, if you are building
a university or corporate Intranet site where most users will be accessing your Web server at Ethernet
speeds or better you can be much more ambitious in your use of graphics and multimedia.
The image data itself is sent in ’blocked’ format and reassembled on the client machine. Under normal
conditions, 5 - 30% of data is lost and must be re-sent by the host. What this equates to in large bitmapped
imagery, is an exponentially longer period of reconstruction - hence the massive delay with large graphic
files.
Additionally, when you compose script - such as JavaScript or DHTML - download time and reconstruc-
tion is further complicated as scripted code must be compiled and successfully executed on the client
machine. Modern browsers attempt various error corrections for scripted code.
Information provided by the following references:
Shneiderman, B. 1992. Designing the user interface: Effective strategies for effective human-computer
interaction. 2nd ed., Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley.
Web Style Guide: Basic Design Principles for Creating Web Sites, CAIM (Center for Advanced Informa-
tion Management – Yale University) available from Yale University Press in March of 1999. ]
Commercial links are not permitted on Internet sites per AFI 33-129.
HFI 33-129 1 June 2001                                                                               5

With the understanding that any information placed on the SIPR web server is open to the entire SIPRNet
community.
In no case shall any java or java script be published prior to approval by base Webmaster. Exception:
Does not apply to AF?XO or USSOCOM downward directed Command and Control programs that are
tested and approved for operational use.
6                                                                           HFI 33-129 1 June 2001

                                            Attachment 2

                     PAGE ACCESS AND MAINTAINER REQUIREMENTS

A2.1. Requirements for Unit Page Maintainer Authorization.
    A2.1.1. Units must display a genuine need for dedicated access – major updates must occur daily.
    A2.1.2. Unit member assigned the task of accomplishing updates must display capability to accom-
    plish said updates. When available, member must have completed web developer course.

A2.2. Methods for publishing web sites onto any of the base web servers.
    A2.2.1. Unit Developed – No Access Required, Determined by an update requirement of greater then
    once per week. Updates are sent electronically to Webmaster for update.
    A2.2.2. Unit Developed – Access Required, Site developed by unit member and access is required to
    make daily updates.
    A2.2.3. Webmaster Developed – No Access Required, Base webmaster will accomplish site creation
    and, based on information provided by the unit POC, perform all updates. (Limited option - based on
    contract and availability of Webmaster.)
    A2.2.4. Webmaster Developed – Access Required, Base Webmaster will create the initial start-up and
    the unit POC will have access granted for updates. (Limited option – based on availability of Web-
    master.)

A2.3. Web developers need to be familiar with web publishing policy found in this document as well as
AFI 33-129.
