BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          HURLBURTFIELD INSTRUCTION 34-503
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
(AFSOC)                                                                    21 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                                          Services

                                                         HURLBURT FIELD HONOR GUARD
                                                                           PROGRAMS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 1 SOW/HG                                                           Certified by: 1 SOW/CCP
                                                                        (Mrs Rhonda Gritsavage)
Supersedes:    HURLBURTFIELDI34-503,                                                     Pages: 12
               30 April 2004


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-5, Mortuary Affairs and
establishes local procedures for the effective management of the Hurlburt Field Honor
Guard in accordance with AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program. This publication
establishes policy, lists responsibilities and states the framework for planning, training and
utilizing the Hurlburt Field Honor Guard. This publication applies to all units assigned to the 1st
Special Operations Wing (1 SOW) and partner units that participate in the Base Honor Guard
Program. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or the
Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command
(MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm The use of the name or mark
of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication
does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                         HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes have
been made to the daily operations, responsibilities and manning of the Hurlburt Field
Honor Guard (HFHG).
1. General. The objective of the Hurlburt Field Honor Guard (HFHG) program is to provide on
request, well trained, highly professional personnel to conduct military honors and ceremonies
and preserve the finest traditions and history of Air Force Special Operations Command
(AFSOC) and the Air Force. In order to comply with the congressionally mandated requirement
to provide military honors for veterans, a structured Honor Guard program is essential.
2. Manning. The HFHG will be composed of active duty military personnel assigned or
attached to Hurlburt Field. All personnel assigned to the Honor Guard must meet and/or exceed
Air Force standards of personal appearance In accordance with (IAW) AFI 36-2903, Dress and
Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel. Personnel must not be on the control roster, or
have a history of administrative or disciplinary action. Personnel must have and maintain a
passing PT test score IAW AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program. Individuals with a physical profile
limiting walking, marching, lifting, extended standing or with a shaving waiver are not eligible
for Honor Guard duty. Personnel must have at least 12 months retainability to fulfill their
commitment to the program.
     2.1. The Hurlburt Field Honor Guard will consist of one cohesive team made up of a
     minimum of 70 enlisted members. The Honor Guard will have two permanently assigned
     members consisting of an NCOIC and an Assistant NCOIC (ANCOIC). Honor Guard
     manning must remain steady at 70 members to meet team objectives. If objectives cannot be
     met, then requests for honors will be based on order of precedence with funerals always
     taking priority.
     2.2. Each group will provide members based on the quota established in Attachment 2. The
     quota is based upon the number of E-6 and below in each group. Senior NCOs and officers
     may volunteer to serve in the Honor Guard but will not be counted as part of the group quota.
     Tenant unit volunteers will be accepted but will not be counted as a part of the group quota.
     An Honor Guard member will not be released from his/her commitment until a replacement
     has been named.
     2.3. The 1st Special Operations Wing Command Chief (1 SOW/CCC) will use manpower
     data to determine group quotas and will determine on a yearly basis if the group quota is to
     be decreased or increased based on total manning. Units desiring exemption towards being
     counted in the manning need to submit their exemption request to the 1 SOW/CCC. Once
     group quotas are determined, the group chiefs and first sergeants will set unit quotas.
     2.4. Members assigned to the Honor Guard will be exempt from all base and squadron
     details during the duration of their tour. They will not serve as Security Forces augmentees,
     bay orderly or on base exercises during the duration of their tour.
     2.5. Units are encouraged to provide volunteers for all positions. If quotas cannot be filled
     with volunteers, appointment will be mandatory.
     2.6. The minimum tour of duty for all members will be 12 months unless waived by
     agreement. The waiver must have sufficient justification and cause, between the appropriate
HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011                                                       3


   first sergeant and the Honor Guard NCOIC. The 12-month commitment consists of 6 months
   active and 6 months inactive. During the members inactive period the HG NCOIC
   coordinates with unit first sergeants to call back personnel when the need arises. Honor
   Guard members may serve beyond the minimum commitment with unit and Honor Guard
   approval.
   2.7. The 12-month commitment includes 6 active months of Honor Guard duty. Members
   absent for any reason, to include, but not limited to ALS, TDY, and unit manpower issues
   during their 6-month active period will continue beyond their 6-month commitment to make
   up the absence
   2.8. Members will be replaced a minimum of 30 days prior to their departure date. The
   current member will remain to fulfill Honor Guard commitments until a replacement is
   provided.
   2.9. Leave and TDY will be coordinated with the Honor Guard staff.
   2.10. Candidates must be capable of supporting the shared weight of a 500-pound casket
   with five other members.
   2.11. Candidates diagnosed with depression or prescribed mood-altering medication must
   have clearance from authorized medical personnel and commander’s approval IAW, AFI 31-
   207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, Paragraph 2.2, Attachment 1.
3. Chain of Command. The 1 SOW/CC will exercise non-judicial authority over all military
members while assigned to the HFHG.
4. Requests for Honors. The HG Scheduler or ANCOIC will field all requests for the Honor
Guard. All requests require a minimum 2-week notice with the exception of military funeral
honors. Military funeral honors require a minimum 24-hour notice. The Honor Guard will
participate in the following functions in order of precedence:
   4.1. Funerals. In accordance with the mission of the Air Force Honor Guard, funerals to
   include memorial services, for USAF members (active-duty, retired, or veteran), take
   precedence over other functions. The HFHG supports all funeral requests from the 1st to the
   15th of every month, rotating the remaining 2 weeks with Eglin AFB. However, the HFHG
   will provide the necessary manpower to support any active duty funeral for members
   assigned to Hurlburt Field regardless of the date of the service
   4.2. 1st Special Operations Wing-Level Functions. If manning permits, Change and
   Assumption of Command and other wing-wide ceremonies/activities (to include retirements)
   sponsored by the 1st SOW.
   4.3. MAJCOM- Level Functions. If manning permits, the HFHG will support Change and
   Assumption of Command or other command-wide activities. (OAY Awards, Order of the
   Sword, etc). General officer retirements from HQ will also have precedent (below general
   officer retirements included in para 3.6).
   4.4. Squadron-Level Functions. If manning permits, squadron dining-in/out, Change of
   Command, etc. (1 SOW-sponsored events included in 3.2). If unable to support, the HFHG
   will offer the pre-posting of the Colors prior to the ceremony.
 4                                          HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011


     4.5. Tenant Unit Functions. If manning permits, Dining-in/out, Change of Command, etc.
     (tenant unit retirements included in para 3.6). If unable to support, the HFHG will offer the
     pre-posting of the Colors prior to the ceremony.
     4.6. Other Air Force functions and individual requests such as military retirements,
     promotion ceremonies and military weddings will be supported as manning permits. If
     unable to support and manning permits, the HFHG will offer pre-posting of the Colors prior
     to the ceremony.
     4.7. Drill Team Events will be filled by the HFHG Drill Team.
     4.8. If there are conflicting requests, the HFHG OIC, or designated representative will
     determine priorities.
5. Honor Guard Tasking System.
     5.1. The Honor Guard will be divided into two elements with equal number of members.
     The element will be designated Red and Blue.
        5.1.1. The Honor Guard will hold training classes every 3 months falling in February,
        May, August and November. Each training class will be for 17 members. The schedule
        during a training class month will be an orientation during the first week of the month, 2-
        week training class in the middle and graduation will take place sometime in the last
        week of the month.
        5.1.2. During training class when washouts occur, the unit will provide a replacement
        during the first week of training class. After the first week the unit must consider
        leaving the departing member for another 6 month tour. Too much information is passed
        in the first week to try and catch someone up during the second.
        5.1.3. The training class schedule will be projected through the calendar year. This will
        be published and distributed to Group Chiefs by the Honor Guard NCOIC in January.
6. Responsibilities.
     6.1. Unit Honor Guard Coordinator. The First Sergeant of each wing agency, squadron,
     or unit with an Honor Guard tasking will act as the Honor Guard coordinator. He/She will be
     the primary point of contact for filling the training class with volunteers. He/She also will
     field requests from the HG NCOIC/ANCOIC or scheduler for reserve callbacks. If personnel
     can’t be located to fill requests unit first sergeants may call back members who are out of
     their 6-month window.
     6.2. Will be the primary point of contact to discuss the manpower issues and conduct all
     business with the Honor Guard staff.
     6.3. Will ensure quotas are filled with qualified members at all times.
     6.4. Will screen all candidates prior to appointment to ensure they meet the highest standards
     of conduct and appearance.
     6.5. Will ensure candidate meets or exceeds standards as outlined in paragraph 2 of this
     publication.
     6.6. Will be responsible for promoting Honor Guard within the unit and explaining the
     importance of the duty to supervisors and prospective members.
HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011                                                           5


   6.7. Will ensure candidates have sufficient retainability to fulfill a full 12-month
   requirement.
   6.8. Will resolve conflicts with Honor Guard taskings and unit mission requirements with
   the Honor Guard NCOIC in accordance with the Honor Guard tasking system.
7. Honor Guard Commander. The 1st Special Operations Wing Protocol Officer (1
SOW/CCP), will act as the Honor Guard Commander/OIC.
   7.1. Will become aware of all aspects of Honor Guard duties and responsibilities and
   become familiar with applicable manuals and instructions.
   7.2. Will lend management, supervisory, and technical support to the Honor Guard staff.
8. Honor Guard NCOIC. This position will be filled by an NCO who is knowledgeable on all
aspects of protocol, honors and ceremonies and will be assigned to the 1st Special Operations
Wing Protocol Office.
   8.1. Will ensure members of the Honor Guard are briefed regarding their duties,
   responsibilities and understand the purpose and importance of those duties.
   8.2. Will select and appoint personnel to flight management positions and ensure they are
   trained and qualified to fulfill the responsibilities of those positions.
   8.3. Will ensure accuracy of equipment and munitions account.
   8.4. Will ensure all training necessary to maintain a high standard of proficiency in drill and
   ceremonies is scheduled and conducted IAW applicable manuals and instructions.
   8.5. Will ensure manpower, equipment, and transportation are available to fulfill detail
   requirements.
   8.6. Will submit monthly manpower report to the 1 SOW/CCC.
   8.7. Will ensure an accurate list of all members authorized to withdraw weapons and
   ammunition is on file at the 1st Special Operations Security Forces Armory and updated
   upon member’s departure from Honor Guard.
   8.8. Will monitor all records and ensure proper qualification of all members in performing
   all aspects of military honors.
   8.9. Will provide supervisors with performance data, with sufficient notice and upon request,
   for performance reports, below-the-zone promotion packages, and any other award package
   submission.
   8.10. Will coordinate with member’s unit to ensure performance and behavior is otherwise
   medal-worthy.
   8.11. Will recommend removal of any member who does not maintain standards
   8.12. Will submit nomination packages for decorations when member’s tour is complete.
   8.13. Will ensure ceremonial procedures are accurate and comply with all applicable
   instructions.
   8.14. Will ensure an effective training program with current procedures is established and
   adhered to.
 6                                           HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011


     8.15. Will act as the primary equipment and munitions custodian.
     8.16. Will manage the Honor Guard Awards Program.
9. Honor Guard Assistant NCOIC. Will be selected by the Honor Guard NCOIC, with
approval from the Honor Guard Commander, and will serve a minimum of one year. This
position will be filled by a SSgt or Senior Airman who is trained and qualified to perform all
ceremonial functions. Each Group will be required to fill this position in turn, beginning 1 June
2011. (1 SOMXG, 1 SOMDG and 1 SOMSG):
     9.1. Will perform the duties of the HG NCOIC in his/her absence as well as ensure all
     administrative functions of the Honor Guard are in order.
     9.2. Will assist the NCOIC with all duties listed in paragraph 7 of this publication.
     9.3. Will manage the additional duty program.
     9.4. Will establish and maintain personnel files for each member to include: applications, in-
     processing sheets, copies of letters of appreciation, and any other pertinent data.
     9.5. Will assign members to upcoming ceremonies.
     9.6. Will ensure Department of Defense Funeral Honors Database is updated and perform
     weekly quality control edits to ensure accuracy.
     9.7. Will ensure detail data is documented on the proper forms and is complete and accurate.
10. Element NCOs. Are accountable for their flights during training, recalls, and daily
activities. They are the flight members’ primary POC for all Honor Guard concerns. They will
also work closely with the Assistant NCOIC to ensure current information on leave, TDY, and
absences of subordinate Honor Guard members.
     10.1. Will conduct daily open ranks inspections prior to the beginning of the duty day.
     10.2. Will correct, record and report to the NCOIC any substandard behavior.
11. Honor Guard Trainers. Trainers are responsible for keeping their element current on all
Honor Guard training. They ensure that members training records are signed off and properly
documented. The trainers’ mission is to produce and maintain continuity in the performance of
ceremonies.
12. Honor Guard Members. Members assigned to the Hurlburt Field Honor Guard will serve
a minimum of 12 months, 6 months active and 6 months inactive. Active service begins the first
day of their ―assigned‖ month. Release from the Honor Guard will be coordinated with the
member’s first sergeant. Moreover, Honor Guard members:
     12.1. Will keep their respective Element NCO, ANCOIC or NCOIC apprised of any
     situation that will prohibit them from performing Honor Guard duties.
     12.2. Will complete all home unit training requirements.
     12.3. Will complete all training requirements and adhere to the standards outlined in this
     instruction.
     12.4. Will report for training and functions on time and in the proper uniform as prescribed
     by their flight management.
HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011                                                           7


   12.5. Will properly wear and maintain the distinctive Base Honor Guard ceremonial uniform
   and all accouterments. Uniform will be issued upon completion of initial training and
   successful completion of the evaluation phase.
   12.6. To aid the Hurlburt Field HG members with training and to promote esprit de corps
   within the HG ranks authorization to wear taps/cheaters on ABU boots while participating in
   active status with the Hurlburt Field Honor Guard is authorized. Once the member’s 6-
   month commitment with the HG is fulfilled the taps/cheaters will be removed. Additionally,
   while in active commitment taps/cheaters will never be worn on the flight line or to industrial
   areas.
   12.7. Will display the highest degree of professionalism, bearing, and behavior on and off
   duty.
   12.8. Failure to comply with Air Force and Honor Guard standards is grounds for dismissal.
   Individuals assigned to the Honor Guard should have upgrade training complete but this is
   not a requirement. If a member is in upgrade training he/she will be given at least 6 hours
   per week of study time while detailed to the Honor Guard. If member is failing upgrade
   training, member will be immediately removed from the Honor Guard and squadron will
   coordinate the replacement of such individual. Replacement will be assigned for 12 months.
13. Equipment and Weapons. The ceremonial uniform and all issued accouterments are the
property of the Hurlburt Field Honor Guard. Members are required to replace items lost or
rendered unserviceable, by neglect, at their own expense. Issued uniforms and accouterments are
only authorized to be worn during ceremonies. All uniform items must be returned upon
completion of Honor Guard service unless otherwise specified by the NCOIC.
14. Transportation. There are two vehicles permanently assigned to the Honor Guard. The 1st
Special Operations Logistics Readiness Squadron, Vehicle Dispatch section, will provide
additional support when required. Honor Guard members will clean these vehicles after every
ceremony and will also ensure they are washed at least twice a month.
15. Other Requirements. In cases of contingencies, Honor Guard commitments and taskings
will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Funeral taskings take precedence over all other
taskings.
16. Hurlburt Field Honor Guard (AFSOC) Drill Team.
   16.1. General. The primary objective of the HFHG Drill Team will be to act as a recruiting
   tool for the Honor Guard. The Drill Team will perform at Commander’s Calls, Dinings
   In/Out, and other base functions to support this objective. The Drill Team’s secondary
   objective will be to support local Air Force recruiting efforts and promote the Air Force
   within the community.
   16.2. Organization. The HFHG Drill Team will be comprised of members that demonstrate
   ceremonial proficiency during normal Honor Guard functions and must be recommended by
   an Honor Guard trainer. All members of the Drill Team will be required to exceed Honor
   Guard standards. Honor Guard members applying for the Drill Team need to have at least 8
   months retainability and served no less than 3 months on the Honor Guard. The Drill Team
   will retain a manning of no less than ten members and a maximum of 25 members. When
 8                                           HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011


     Drill Team manning drops below ten members, certain performances may not be available.
     Each element will have at least four slots available as an additional duty on the Honor Guard.
     16.3. Application Process. Any Honor Guard member may begin training for the Drill Team
     upon graduation from the Honor Guard Training Course. This training must be done under
     direct supervision of a Drill Team member. This training will be conducted during off-duty
     hours on personal time and must not conflict with the Honor Guard in any fashion. Once the
     Honor Guard member has served 3 months on the Honor Guard they may apply for the
     additional duty position of Drill Team. If selected and evaluations are passed, the
     commitment to the Drill Team will be the remainder of the Honor Guard commitment. The
     Honor Guard NCOIC and the Drill Team NCOIC must approve the application for the
     member to be entered into official Drill Team training.
     16.4. Official Initial Training. Once the Drill Team application has been approved, the
     Honor Guard member will be placed into Drill Team training status and given a formal
     training date. The initial training will consist of 40 hours of instruction covering all aspects
     of Drill Team functions, safety, and evaluations. This training and evaluation week will
     prepare the members for performing in front of large crowds and under extreme pressure.
     16.5. Drill Team members will complete all training requirements and adhere to the
     standards outlined in this instruction. All members are subject to perform in any detail
     requests fielded by Drill Team. Members that are on leave or TDY will be exempt from
     training and details. However, members MUST notify the Drill Team NCOIC of all leave
     and TDY schedules.
     16.6. Properly wear the distinctive Drill Team accouterments with the Base Honor Guard
     ceremonial uniform. Drill Team accouterments will be issued upon completion of initial
     training and successful completion of the evaluation phase.
17. The Drill Team NCOIC (DT NCOIC).
     17.1. The DT NCOIC is responsible for the overall running of the Drill Team and will
     coordinate with Drill Team Trainers (DTT) to ensure safety and proficiency. The DT
     NCOIC will also ensure that manning stays in accordance with this instruction.
     17.2. The DTT will be responsible for ensuring there is an accurate training schedule and
     that each member is fully qualified to perform. The DTT will also be responsible for an
     initial schedule for training.
18. Equipment and Weapons.
     18.1. All issued accouterments are the property of the HFHG Drill Team. Members are
     required to replace items lost or rendered unserviceable by neglect, at their own expense. All
     uniform items must be returned upon completion of Drill Team service. Drill Team
     members are also authorized to wear the white ascot with Drill Team emblem during
     performances in the ceremonial uniform. Exceptions to this policy will be identified in
     writing by the DT NCOIC. The Drill Team weapons and bayonets will be kept in the Honor
     Guard Armory. To ensure the performance ability of all the weapons, each new trainee will
     be given a stock to refinish. If a member breaks a weapon in training, he/she is responsible
     for its repair/replacement. If a bayonet is broken, the member will take the bayonet to the
     sheet metal shop in the Eason Hangar for repair.
HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011                                                         9


19. Awards Program.
   19.1. Honor Guard members will be selected for monthly, quarterly, and annual awards.
   Nominees for wing-level awards will be forwarded to the office of the Command Chief, 1st
   Special Operations Wing.
   19.2. Ceremonial Guardsman of the Month: The member who most epitomizes the ideal
   guardsman based on duty performance, attitude, uniform inspections, professionalism,
   selflessness, and ability to function as part of a cohesive team. The flight staff and the HG
   NCOIC will select the award recipient.
   19.3. Ceremonial Guardsman of the Quarter: Selected from the three monthly winners;
   nominees’ packages will be forwarded to the 1 SOW/CCA NLT the 17th of the month
   following the end of the quarter (i.e. 17 April, 17 July, 17 October, and 17 January.) The
   Guardsman of the Quarter will be selected via live board. The winner will be recognized at
   the wing’s quarterly award breakfast.
   19.4. Ceremonial Guardsman of the Year: Selected from the four quarterly award winners
   by HG NCOIC and 3 enlisted members of the NCOIC’s choice. Criteria for the Guardsman
   of the Month apply, with the addition of any activities beyond the outlined duties that
   positively affected Honor Guard personnel or programs. Competition period for this award is
   1 January - 31 December. Winner’s name will be forwarded to 1 SOW/CCA to be included
   in and recognized at the Hurlburt Field Annual Awards Banquet.




                                           JAMES C. SLIFE, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 10                                    HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011


                                      Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 1 July 2010
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 29 January 2009
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABU—–Airman Battle Uniform
AFSOC—–Air Force Special Operations Command
ANCOIC—–Assistant Noncommissioned Officer-In-Charge
ALS—–Airman Leadership School
DT—–Drill Team
DTT—–Drill Team Trainers
HFHG—–Hurlburt Field Honor Guard
HG—–Honor Guard
HGNCOIC—–Honor Guard Noncommissioned Officer-In-Charge
IAW—–In Accordance With
MAJCOM—–Major Command
NCOIC—–Noncommissioned Officer-In-Charge
NLT—–No Later Than
OAY—–Outstanding Airman of the Year
OIC—–Officer in Charge
PT—–Physical Training
SSGT—–Staff Sergeant
SOMDG—–Special Operations Medical Group
SOMSG—–Special Operations Mission Support Group
HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011         11


SOMXG—–Special Operations Maintenance Group
TDY—–Temporary Duty
USAF—–United States Air Force
12                            HURLBURTFIELDI34-503 21 NOVEMBER 2011


                             Attachment 2
     HURLBURT FIELD HONOR GUARD MANNING QUOTAS AS OF 1 JAN 2011

1 SOG             8
1 SOMXG           36
1 SOMSG          20
1SOMDG            2
WSA               2
