BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         HURLBURTFIELD INSTRUCTION 33-102
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING (1
SOW)                                                                              27 MAY 2010

                                                                               Communications

                                                     HURLBURT FIELD PUBLIC ADDRESS
                                                                   SYSTEM SUPPORT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 1 SOCS/SCOT                                                       Certified by: 1 SOCS/CC
Supersedes: HURLBURTFIELDI33-102,                                 (Lt Col Michael A. Anderson)
            15 September 2006                                                           Pages: 5


This publication implements Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 34-236, Air Force Entertainment
Program Operations; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of
Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) and Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentalities
(NAFIS), and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or the Air National
Guard (ANG).        (If applicable) check AFSOC supplement to AFI33-360_AFSOCSUP,
Publication and Forms Management, at http://e-publishing.af.mil). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through Hurlburt Field publications/forms manager. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS), Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised in its entirety and must be completely reviewed. This
publication has been updated to reflect the new guidance within a reorganization of the 1st
Special Operations Wing (1 SOW) and partner units assigned to Hurlburt Field.
1. Introduction.
 2                                                   HURLBURTFIELDI33-102 27 MAY 2010


     1.1. This instruction establishes policy and responsibilities and then outlines procedures for
     obtaining temporary public address (PA) support from the 1st Special Operations
     Communications Squadron (1 SOCS).
     1.2. PA support is divided into two categories, supported and fully supported. The
     supported category includes equipment and training that 1 SOCS will provide to the
     requestor. For fully supported functions, 1 SOCS will provide equipment and technicians to
     set up and operate the system.
     1.3. The NCOIC, Radio Maintenance is the approving authority for PA support request for
     official functions. Approval will be based on workload and equipment availability, and
     generally on a first-come, first-served basis. In the event a schedule conflict arises, the 1
     SOCS/CC will prioritize and select which event(s) will be supported. Preempted events will
     be given an opportunity to reschedule or will be loaned equipment to support the event based
     on equipment availability. 1 SOCS/CC is the approving authority for any request to support
     functions hosted by private organizations or for events funded primarily by nonappropriated
     funds (NAF).
     1.4. To ensure personnel resources are available to support primary mission requirements, 1
     SOCS can provide full support to a maximum of two PA setups per day and no more than six
     per week. Sign out PA systems will be issued, when available, for individual units to set up
     and operate themselves.
     1.5. The 1 SOFSS/FSV is responsible for fixed PA equipment in facilities such as The
     Warehouse Bistro and Pub, base theater, the fitness center, and any other facility in which
     they have operational responsibility. Permission to use their system must be coordinated
     through them.
2. Definitions.
     2.1. Fixed PA system: A system permanently installed in a base facility.
     2.2. Portable PA System: A system set up on a temporary, non-repetitive basis for a
     function of a short duration, and signed out with a hand receipt.
     2.3. Official Function: A formal military function such as a change-of-command, retreat,
     retirement ceremony or commanders call.
     2.4. Unofficial Function: A function with the primary intent of entertaining, fund raising, or
     supporting non-military organizations, such as parties, picnics or athletic events.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. 1 SOCS will provide portable PA equipment to support official functions only, unless
     otherwise approved and directed by 1 SOCS Commander. 1 SOCS will provide fully
     supported PA equipment for retirement ceremonies for all military and civilian equivalent E-
     9s/0-5s and above. Retirement ceremonies for E-8/O-4s and below will be signed out a
     portable system.
     3.2. Practices for official functions will not be fully supported by 1 SOCS PA. Units
     needing PA support for practices must use a signed out portable system
     3.3. Due to manning constraints, 1 SOCS PA will arrive only 1 hour prior to events for setup
     and testing of the fully supported PA system.
HURLBURTFIELDI33-102 27 MAY 2010                                                             3


   3.4. Any special requests will be cleared through 1 SOCS/CC.
4. Procedures.
   4.1. For PA support, e-mail request to pa@hurlburt.af.mil NLT 7 duty days prior to the
   event. This will provide adequate time for processing, scheduling, and provide the
   requesting unit time to locate an alternate source in the event a request is denied.
   Confirmation will be sent to the customer within 1 duty day of their request. The requestor
   should provide the following information on the original e-mail:
      4.1.1. Name, rank, telephone number, and organization of event POC.
      4.1.2. Type of event, e.g., retirement, change of command.
      4.1.3. If retirement, rank of retiree.
      4.1.4. Location, alternate location, date and time of event. Note: Upon receipt of PA
      request, the NCOIC of Radio Maintenance will determine if the request is supported or
      fully supported.
   4.2. Fully Supported. If approved, the POC will be contacted for confirmation and for any
   additional information that may be required, and contacted the duty day before the event to
   coordinate any final changes.
      4.2.1. Radio Maintenance personnel will stay with the equipment to ensure continuous,
      reliable operation.
      4.2.2. Organizations must provide any required special music on CD e.g., National
      Anthem, Ruffles and Flourishes, Air Force song. The requesting organization is
      responsible for obtaining any licenses or permissions that may be required to broadcast
      copyrighted music over the public address system.
      4.2.3. 1 SOCS PA will provide official ceremonial music. Organizations must provide
      any required special music on CD. The requesting organization is responsible for
      obtaining any licenses or permissions that may be required to broadcast copyrighted
      music over the public address system.
      4.2.4. Any agencies requesting interface with 1 SOCS PA system will connect and test
      their equipment no less than 60 minutes prior to the start of an event. Should equipment
      interference occur, radio maintenance personnel are authorized to immediately disconnect
      the interfering equipment to prevent possible equipment damage. All fully supported PA
      functions will be fully tested and operational 60 minutes prior to event start time.
   4.3. Supported. If approved, the PA system users will be required to sign an AF Form 1297,
   Temporary Issue Receipt, for the equipment.
      4.3.1. PA equipment can be picked up at building 91307 the duty day prior to the event,
      and must be returned no later than the duty day after the event. All equipment must be
      picked up prior to and returned no later than 1600. 1 SOCS will provide training at the
      time of receipt to ensure the OPR can operate the equipment.
      4.3.2. Upon return, all equipment must be clean, and cables coiled and secured to prevent
      damage. Broken or missing parts, equipment problems, or discrepancies must be
      identified to 1 SOCS personnel when the equipment is returned.
 4                                                 HURLBURTFIELDI33-102 27 MAY 2010


5. Inclement Weather.
     5.1. All outdoor events should have a designated alternate location in case of inclement
     weather. The radio maintenance workcenter requires that the decision to change locations be
     made a minimum of 4 hours prior to start time for small ceremonies, and a minimum of 6
     hours prior to start time for large ceremonies (i.e., group-level or higher change of
     commands).
     5.2. Lightning Warnings.      In accordance with Hurlburt Field Instruction 91-203,
     Thunderstorms and Lightning Response, all outdoor ceremonies will cease upon notification
     of a lightning warning. The decision to continue outdoor events during a lightning warning
     rest with a group level commander or higher. If there is no group-level commander or higher
     available, the NCOIC of Radio Maintenance will order the equipment to be disconnected and
     maintenance personnel to seek shelter inside a substantial building or vehicle.
6. Cancellations. Cancellations must be made by e-mail to pa@hurlburt.af.mil at the earliest
possible time. Failure to do so may result in failure to meet other requests.
7. Fixed PA Systems. Fixed PA systems installation and maintenance can be obtained with the
assistance of the 1st Special Operations Contracting Squadron. 1 SOCS is not responsible for the
installation/maintenance of fixed systems, with the exception of the base public address system,
hangar PA systems; combat arms range complex PA systems and the air park system.
8. Off-Base PA Support. Off-base PA support will not be provided to avoid possible conflicts
with local businesses as well as local and state regulations. Exception: The 1 SOW Commander
is the final approving authority for all off-base military affiliated PA ceremonies. A letter from
the 1 SOW Commander authorizing such an event is required before setup.
9. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     9.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms prescribed.
     9.2. Adopted Forms.
     AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
     AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt




                                             GREGORY J. LENGYEL, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
HURLBURTFIELDI33-102 27 MAY 2010                                                            5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, 6 May 2009
AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guide and Procedures, 3 March 2005
AFMAN 34-236, Air Force Entertainment Program Operations, 1 September 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008
AFI33-360_AFSOCSUP, Publication and Forms Management, 4 August 2008
Hurlburt Field Instruction 91-203, Thunderstorms and Lightning Response, 21 November 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
MAJCOM—Major Command
MWR—Welfare and Recreation
NAF—Non-Appropriated Funds
NAFIS—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Address
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
