BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                              HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 32-7004
16TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                                          31 AUGUST 2006
(AFSOC)
                                                                                      Civil Engineering

                                                               GREEN PROCUREMENT PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 16 CES/CEV                                                               Certified by: 16 CES/CC
                                                                          (Lt Col Douglas D. Hardman)
                                                                                             Pages: 16

This instruction implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 4715.4, Pollution Prevention, and
AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program, IAW the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA) Section 6002 and Executive Order (EO) 13101. The regulations listed above require all United
States Air Force (USAF) installations to implement a Green Procurement Program (GPP), formerly know
as Affirmative Procurement Program, which promotes the buying of recycled content items listed in the
United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines
(CPGs). The level of recycled content in each of the designated items is set forth in the U.S. EPA Recov-
ered Material Advisory Notices (RMANs). This instruction applies to all 16th Special Operations Wing
(SOW) and Hurlburt Field associate units, tenant units, and contractor and subcontractor operated organi-
zations according to applicable memorandums of understanding, and contract specifications regarding
environmental management at Hurlburt Field.
2                                                      HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006


                                                Chapter 1

                                HOW TO USE THIS INSTRUCTION

1.1. Background.
    1.1.1. GPP is defined as the purchase of environmentally preferable products and services in accor-
    dance with Federally-Mandated “Green” Procurement Preference Programs. The intent of the pro-
    gram is to stimulate recycling by providing a market for new products manufactured with recycled
    materials. The Federal Government, as the country's largest purchaser of goods and services, has the
    ability to help create and stabilize markets for recycled-content products.
    1.1.2. The discovery of additional benefits is imminent as USAF organizations purchase and use a
    broader range of environmentally preferable products. Durability, reduced toxicity, and the elimina-
    tion of waste streams are likely to be among the common advantages. GPPs are required of all USAF
    installations.
    1.1.3. The purpose of the Hurlburt Field GPP Plan is to provide guidance to base personnel on Envi-
    ronmentally Preferable Purchasing (EPP). The GPP Plan explains the legal and policy drivers, the
    four required sections, and finally provides a list of resources to aid in implementation. Overall, the
    goal of the plan is to use the purchasing power of the United States government to increase the market
    for products with recycled content and help prevent pollution.
    1.1.4. Green Procurement Program Team (GPP Team). To assist in program implementation, a
    GPP Team has been established to coordinate the program among all functional areas. The team will
    report their progress to the Hurlburt Field Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
    (ESOHC).
    1.1.5. Applicability. The requirements of the GPP are applicable to all Hurlburt Field agencies that:
       1.1.5.1. Prepare specifications for products.
       1.1.5.2. Procure or request procurement of products (consumers).
       1.1.5.3. Provide support to base organizations (e.g., Air Commando Store and Contracting).
       1.1.5.4. These procedures also apply to Hurlburt Field contractors as long as appropriate provi-
       sions are contained in their contracts. It is the responsibility of the Hurlburt Field contracting
       office (16 CONS) and the Hurlburt Field requiring activities to ensure appropriate new contracts
       contain GPP compliance provisions.
    1.1.6. This document contains guidelines for implementing the RCRA, EO, DoD and AF
    requirements. It describes actions that Hurlburt Field agencies should use to ensure that the specifi-
    cations they are responsible for, and the procurement actions that they take, will bring about the
    increased use of recycled material. When Hurlburt Field agencies procure products using specifica-
    tions that are formulated by the Federal Government, they must procure those products using the pro-
    cedures contained in these guidelines to ensure that GPP requirements are met at all levels of
    procurement.

1.2. Definition of Terms.
    1.2.1. As used in this document, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated below.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006                                                                     3


  1.2.2. SWDA means the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and
  Recovery Act (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.
  1.2.3. Biobased product means any commercial or industrial product (other than food or feed) that
  utilizes biological products or renewable domestic agriculture (plant, animal, or marine) or forestry
  materials.
  1.2.4. Commercial Item Descriptions (CID) are a series of simplified item descriptions under the
  Federal specification and standards program used in the acquisition of commercial off-the-shelf and
  commercial type products.
  1.2.5. Environmentally Preferable means products or services that have a lesser or reduced effect
  on human health and the environment when compared with competing products or services that serve
  the same purpose.
  1.2.6. Federal agency means any department, agency, or other instrumentality of the Federal Gov-
  ernment, any independent agency or establishment of the Federal Government including a govern-
  ment corporation, and the Government Printing Office (GPO).
  1.2.7. Material specification means a specification that stipulates the use of certain materials to
  meet the necessary performance requirements.
  1.2.8. Performance specification means a specification that states the desired operation or function
  of a product but does not specify the materials from which the product must be constructed.
  1.2.9. Personal property means any property that is not real property and that is movable or not
  attached to the land. Personal property can be a single, multi-component, or multi-material product.
  1.2.10. Post-consumer materials means a material or finished product that has served its intended
  end use and has been diverted or recovered from waste destined for disposal, having completed its life
  as a consumer item. Post-consumer material is part of the broader category of recovered materials.
  1.2.11. Post-consumer waste means a material or product that has served its intended use and has
  been discarded for disposal after passing through the hands of a final user. "Post-consumer waste" is
  a part of the broader category of recycled material.
  1.2.12. Practicable means capable of being used consistent with: performance in accordance with
  applicable specifications, availability at a reasonable price, availability within a reasonable period of
  time, and maintenance of a satisfactory level of competition.
  1.2.13. Procurement item means any device, good, substance, material, product, or other item,
  whether real or personal property, which is the subject of any purchase, barter, or other exchange
  made to procure such item.
  1.2.14. Procuring agency means any federal agency using nonappropriated federal funds for such
  procurement, or any person contracting with any such agency with respect to work performed under
  such contract.
  1.2.15. Purchasing means the act of and the function of responsibility for the acquisition of equip-
  ment, materials, supplies, and services, including: buying, determining the need, selecting the sup-
  plier, arriving at a fair and reasonable price and terms and conditions, preparing the contract or
  purchase order, and follow up.
  1.2.16. Purchasing activities means all activities included in the purchasing function.
4                                                      HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006


    1.2.17. Real property means any property that is immovable and attached to the land.
    1.2.18. Recovered materials means waste material and byproducts which have been recovered or
    diverted from solid waste, but does not include those materials and byproducts generated from, and
    commonly reused within, an original manufacturing process.
    1.2.19. Recycled material means a material that can be utilized in place of a raw or virgin material in
    manufacturing a product and consists of materials derived from post-consumer waste, industrial scrap,
    and material derived from agricultural wastes and other items, all of which can be used in the manu-
    facture of new products.
    1.2.20. Request for Proposal is a request for an offer by one party to another of terms and conditions
    with references to some work or undertaking; the initial overture or preliminary statement for consid-
    eration by the other party to a proposed agreement.
    1.2.21. Requiring activity means the functional unit having the requirement to procure U.S.
    EPA-designated items.
    1.2.22. Responsible agency means a department, agency, establishment or instrumentality of the
    executive branch of the Federal Government or the organizational element within such responsible
    agency that has the primary responsibility for procurement of materials or products or the preparation
    of specifications for the procurement of materials or products.
    1.2.23. Solid waste means solid, liquid or containerized gas, garbage, refuse, sludge, and other dis-
    carded materials, including materials resulting from industrial, commercial, and agricultural opera-
    tions, and from community activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
    sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt, dissolved or suspended solids in
    industrial waste water effluents, dissolved materials in irrigation return flow, or other common water
    pollutants.
    1.2.24. Solid-waste-derived fuel means a fuel produced from solid waste that can be used as a pri-
    mary or supplementary fuel in conjunction with or in place of fossil fuels. The solid-waste-derived
    fuel can be in the form of raw (unprocessed) solid waste, shredded (or pulped) and classified solid
    waste, gas or oil derived from pyrolyzed solid waste, or gas derived from the biodegradation of solid
    waste.
    1.2.25. Specification means a detailed description of the technical requirements for materials, prod-
    ucts, or services that specifies the minimum requirement for quality and construction of materials and
    equipment necessary for an acceptable product. Specifications are generally in the form of a written
    description, drawings, prints, commercial designations, industry standards, and other descriptive ref-
    erences.
    1.2.26. Virgin material means a raw material used in manufacturing that has been mined or har-
    vested and has not yet become a product.

1.3. Responsibilities.
    1.3.1. Execution of the GPP is the responsibility of many organizations. This section summarizes the
    responsibilities of the key organizations in the Hurlburt Field GPP, including the GPP Team and the
    consumers.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006                                                                    5


1.4. 16 SOW/CC.
   1.4.1. The installation commander has overall responsibility for implementing GPP compliance with
   public law, EOs, DoD, and USAF policies and regulations, as well as applicable state or local require-
   ments. At Hurlburt Field, the Environmental Flight is responsible for the management oversight of
   the GPP.

1.5. The Hurlburt Field GPP Team.
   1.5.1. They must address many issues to ensure the success of the Hurlburt Field GPP, including:
       1.5.1.1. Determining the applicable use of recycled-content products across all Hurlburt Field
       activities; Coordinating GPP efforts with tenant units; Complying with purchasing requirements;
       Developing a basewide education program to support recycling and GPP efforts.
       1.5.1.2. Managing public awareness campaigns for the Hurlburt Field recycling and reuse pro-
       grams; supporting the installation’s landscaping program by turning green waste into mulch and
       compost. Coordinating recycling efforts with Federal, state, and local regulatory agencies; estab-
       lishing a basewide GPP tracking program; establishing metrics for the effectiveness of the pro-
       gram; and providing input and suggestions to the ESOHC on recycling and GPP efforts (and any
       other environmentally preferable acquisition activities described in EO 13101, beyond U.S.
       EPA’s GPP requirements, that the Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) or Hurlburt
       Field desires to initiate).

1.6. 16th Civil Engineer Squadron.
   1.6.1. Environmental Flight (16 CES/CEV). The Environmental Flight, assisted by the GPP Team,
   identifies specific opportunities for purchasing compliant products for all U.S. EPA-designated items.
   Recurring purchases of significant quantities are included as action items for consumer organizations
   in the Hurlburt Field Pollution Prevention Management Action Plan (P2 MAP). The GPP manager
   and the Environmental Flight lead the GPP Team effort to educate base personnel and provide pro-
   gram publicity.
   1.6.2. Engineering Flight (16 CES/CEC). The Engineering Flight works with the GPP Team to create
   awareness on all contractors as to the availability of products manufactured from or that contain recy-
   cled materials, hence increasing the use of these products in the construction of the project.
   1.6.3. Operations Flight (16 CES/CEO). The Operations Flights performs civil engineer facility
   maintenance, repair, construction, and utility operations. The Operations Flight is responsible for
   specifying green products to be included in service contracts and construction projects.

1.7. Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP). QAP for service and construction contracts review contrac-
tor compliance with GPP requirements, as outlined in the contract specifications. Additionally, the Engi-
neering Flight will update and maintain the Hurlburt Field Master Specification Section 01540, “Green
Procurement.”

1.8. 16th Logistics Readiness Squadron (16 LRS).
   1.8.1. Supply personnel advocate the use of recycled-content products by stocking these types of
   products in the warehouse and at the Air Commando Store, and by requesting these types of products
   through the General Services Administration (GSA) and the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA). The
6                                                     HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006


    Supply office maintains catalogs that identify recycled-content products, such as the GSA Environ-
    mental Products Guide.
    1.8.2. Supply personnel also participate in educating base personnel on the GPP requirements. Sup-
    ply personnel will encourage the use of green products by letting the consumers know which products
    are considered environmentally friendly.

1.9. 16th Contracting Squadron (16 CONS). 16 CONS supports base pollution prevention goals by
acquiring compliant products for their customers (requiring activities) when U.S. EPA-designated items
are specified in purchase requests. The contracting office also assists requiring activities in developing
the written determinations required when non-compliant items are purchased (See Section 3.4., Exemp-
tions). 16 CONS also provides GPP training to government purchase card (GPC) cardholders, and
reviews cardholder activities annually to ensure the correct procedures are being followed.

1.10. Bioenvironmental Engineering. Bioenvironmental Engineering determines and evaluates the pos-
sible health risks associated with using or handling recycled-content products.

1.11. All AF Consumers.
    1.11.1. Consumers at every base organization (including those mentioned above) have the responsi-
    bility to be aware of the GPP requirements and to purchase U.S. EPA-designated items. All consum-
    ers will identify, request and sometimes purchase via GPC, environmentally friendly products as
    outlined in these guidelines, unless a determination to purchase a non-compliant item is approved (See
    Section 3.4., Exemptions).
    1.11.2. Purchases of U.S. EPA designated items that are unrelated or incidental to federal funding
    (i.e., not the direct result of a federal contract, grant, loan, funds disbursement or agreement with a
    Hurlburt Field procuring agency) are not covered by this guideline.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006                                                                     7


                                                Chapter 2

                                REGULATIONS GOVERNING GPP

2.1. Section 6002 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). RCRA Section 6002
requires federal agencies to give preference in the acquisition process to products and practices that con-
serve and protect natural resources and the environment. This applies to all products for which the
agency’s purchases exceed $10,000 annually. “Agency” for RCRA’s purposes is the Department of
Defense (DoD). It is assumed that DoD’s purchase of each designated item exceeds $10,000 annually, so
U.S. EPA requirements will apply to all purchases of designated items at every DoD installation. RCRA
Section 6002 also requires all procuring agencies to eliminate any exclusions of recovered materials, or
any requirement that items be manufactured from virgin materials, when reviewing or drafting specifica-
tions for items to be procured by the agency.
   2.1.1. When making local purchases of designated items, any decision not to acquire items meeting
   U.S. EPA content standards must be based on one of the exemptions and a written determination must
   be approved. According to EO 13101, there is no need for a written determination for purchases
   under $2,500.

2.2. EO 12873, Federal Acquisition, Recycling and Waste Prevention. EO 12873 requires federal
agencies to expand waste prevention and recycling programs, implement GPP for the U.S. EPA-desig-
nated items, and procure other environmentally preferable products and services. The stated purpose of
the GPP is to stimulate the market for recovered materials. EO 13101 has superseded EO 12873.

2.3. EO 13101, Greening the Government through Waste Prevention, Recycling and Federal
Acquisition. EO 13101 reiterates and expands upon the original requirements of EO 12873 and, among
other things, creates a parallel program for purchasing “biobased products” (discussed in more detail
below). Both the DoD and the AF are committed to “closing the loop” by buying products made with
recycled materials. They have developed policy and guidance documents to assist personnel with imple-
menting the requirements of EO 13101 and other federal GPP regulations.

2.4. As a result of EO 12873 and EO 13101, the U.S. EPA has issued four C o m p re h e n s i v e P ro -
curement Guidelines (CPG, CPG II, CPG III and CPG IV) that have established the mandatory pro-
curement by federal agencies of 61 items produced with recovered materials (See Attachment 1 for a
complete listing of the designated items). The U.S. EPA has also issued Recovered Material Advisor
Notices (RMANs) to accompany the CPGs and provide detailed information on the designated items.

2.5. AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program (P2 Program). AFI 32-7080, dated 12 May 1994,
calls for each installation to implement procurement programs for all U.S. EPA-designated items, and for
each installation to review and revise its specifications for these designated items. The AFI provides the
flexibility to design the program as long as it meets the RCRA and DoD requirements. Finally, the AFI
states that the AF will acquire recycled materials based on U.S. EPA procurement guidelines. This means
the U.S. EPA “recommended” minimum content standards given in the RMANs are no longer recommen-
dations, but are requirements for the AF, unless one of the exemptions listed further on applies. AFI
32-7080 is currently being revised; it will now be called Compliance Assurance and Pollution Prevention
and is schedule to be released in 2006.
8                                                  HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006


2.6. USAF Installation P2 Program Guide. GPP is a component of the AF P2 Program. The USAF
Installation Pollution Prevention Program Guide includes this goal for GPP: “100% of all products pur-
chased each year in each of U.S. EPA’s ‘Guideline Item’ categories shall contain recycled materials
meeting U.S. EPA’s Guideline Criteria”.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006                                                                     9


                                               Chapter 3

                           GREEN PROCUREMENT PROGRAM PLAN

3.1. In order to comply with EO 13101, Hurlburt Field has developed a GPP Plan. This section outlines
the materials that are covered by the GPP Plan and the process for complying with this plan.

3.2. U.S. EPA-Designated Items. The original CPG and RMAN were issued in May 1995. RMANs
provide purchasing recommendations and guidance for the products designated in the CPG and are
updated periodically to reflect market conditions. The original CPG consolidated information on five
products designated by U.S. EPA between 1983 and 1989 and established the mandatory procurement of
19 additional items produced with recovered materials. The 1 May 1995 RMA and an RMAN for paper
and paper products, published in the 29 May 1996 Federal Register (61 FR 26985), established U.S. EPA
recommended minimum recovered material content levels for 24 U.S. EPA designated items. The second
CPG (CPG II) and second RMAN (RMAN II) were published in the 13 November 1997 Federal Register
(62 FR 60975). These documents added 12 new U.S. EPA-designated items. The third CPG (CPG III)
and third RMAN (RMAN Ill) were published in the 19 January 2000 Federal Register (65 FR 3070).
These documents added 18 new U.S. EPA-designated items. The most recent update was made April
2004 where U.S. EPA issued CPG IV and RMAN IV, adding seven more items to the list, bringing to 61
the number of recycled-content products designated under the CPG. U.S. EPA’s list of designated items
has been grouped into the following eight product categories: construction products, landscaping prod-
ucts, nonpaper office products, paper and paper products, park and recreation products, vehicular prod-
ucts, and miscellaneous products.

3.3. The 61 U.S. EPA-designated items (Items 1 through 61) are listed in Attachment 1.

3.4. Exemptions. The RMANs provide U.S. EPA recommended minimum content levels for the desig-
nated items; however, these levels are mandatory for federal (e.g., AF) procurements unless an exemption
applies. RCRA provides the following exemptions from the requirement to purchase U.S. EPA-desig-
nated items:
   3.4.1. The product is not available from a sufficient number of sources to maintain a satisfactory level
   of competition (i.e., available from two or more sources); the product is not available within a reason-
   able period of time; the product does not meet the performance standards in applicable specifications
   or fails to meet reasonable performance standards of the procuring agency; or the product is not avail-
   able at a reasonable price. According to the USAF Guide to Green Purchasing dated January 2005,
   for AF purposes, "unreasonable price" is defined as follows: If the price of the recycled-content prod-
   uct exceeds the cost of a non-recycled item then the price is considered unreasonable.
   3.4.2. Any decision to not acquire items meeting the minimum content levels must be based on one of
   the above exemptions (Hurlburt Field procuring agencies shall make determinations regarding com-
   petition and availability in accordance with the FAR 23.404(b)).

3.5. Specifications. All Hurlburt Field agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing
specifications for products procured by the Federal Government are required to review those specifica-
tions and ascertain whether recycled materials are excluded from the specifications. All specifications
with exclusions will be rewritten without the exclusion and any statement in a specification that requires
10                                                      HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006


the product to be manufactured from virgin materials will be eliminated, unless performance standards
would not be satisfied. Specifications that are unnecessarily stringent for a particular end use and that
bear no relation to function such as brightness and whiteness for copy paper will be revised to allow for a
higher use of post-consumer recovered materials. Agencies should also consider revising CID’s and
industry standards to be certain that the use of recovered materials is allowed.

3.6. Specifications will require the recycled material contained in the products to be post-consumer
waste whenever practicable or that the recycled material specified contain the highest percentage of
post-consumer waste that is practicable, in accordance with the U.S. EPA’s list of designated products.
If the inclusion of recycled material to the maximum extent practicable cannot be determined by the spec-
ification writer, then the specification will encourage manufacturers to include recycled material to the
maximum extent that will still allow the product to meet the performance standards required.

3.7. Specification updates. The review process will be completed at the next specification review or at
the time of the next major procurement action. "Boilerplate" specifications may be developed and
inserted into contracts for designated items.
     3.7.1. When a product containing post-consumer recovered materials is produced in types and grades
     not previously available, specifications will be revised to allow use of such type or grade, or new spec-
     ifications will be developed for such type or grade. U.S. EPA recommends that procuring agencies
     monitor new developments and use them to increase the use of post-consumer recovered materials as
     appropriate.

3.8. Documenting Exemptions. Hurlburt Field agencies need not revise specifications to allow or
require the use of post-consumer recovered materials if it can be determined that for technical reasons, for
a particular end use, a product containing such materials will not meet reasonable performance standards.
Any such determination will be documented by the drafting and reviewing agency and be based on tech-
nical performance information related to a specific item, not a grade of paper or type of product. Agen-
cies will reference such documentation in subsequent solicitations for the specific item in order to avoid
repetition of previously documented points.

3.9. Biobased Products.
     3.9.1. EO 13101 requires DoD installations to include biobased products in the installation’s GPP
     Plan. Future regulations may require the purchase of biobased products by DoD installations. Bio-
     based products are defined in EO 13101 as commercial or industrial products (other than food or feed)
     that utilize biological products or renewable domestic agriculture (plant, animal, or marine) or for-
     estry materials. The responsibility for listing biobased products lies not with the U.S. EPA, but rather
     with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). On 16 March 2006, USDA issued a final
     rule designating the following biobased content products:
HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006                                                                      11


Table 3.1. USDA Biobased Products.
Mobile equipment hydraulic fluid
Diesel fuel additives
Penetrating lubricants
Roof coatings
Water tank coatings
Bedding/bed linens/towels

   3.9.2. Some product types may be part of both lists (CPG and BPL). When this occurs, recycled-con-
   tent products will be purchased first; due to the fact there is a binding requirement to purchase recy-
   cled-content products, but no binding requirement to purchase biobased products. Purchasers must
   buy CPG items when they meet technical, price, and availability requirements. If the CPG item
   doesn't meet one of these criteria, purchasers should buy the biobased product if it is cost effective and
   meets technical requirements.
   3.9.3. The Hurlburt Field GPP Team is responsible for determining standards for the procurement of
   items listed on the biobased products list (BPL). 16 CONS, GPC cardholders, and Hurlburt Field
   requiring activities are not precluded from requesting items not listed on the BPL. However, when-
   ever possible, base personnel will give preference in requesting items from the BPL when the items
   meet applicable specifications and performance requirements.
12                                                       HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006


                                                   Chapter 4

                          GREEN PROCUREMENT PROGRAM ELEMENTS

4.1. Section 6002 of RCRA requires each federal agency to establish a GPP that explains the agency’s
strategy for maximizing its purchases of U.S. EPA-designated items. RCRA requires that GPP have, at a
minimum, the following four elements:
     4.1.1. A preference program in which the agency shows its preference for recycled products by pro-
     curing items that meet recycled material content levels and specifications.
     4.1.2. A promotion program designed to educate employees, contractor personnel, and potential
     bidders on possibilities and procedures for GPP initiatives.
     4.1.3. Procedures for obtaining and discussing estimates and certifications of recycled/recovered
     material content with product vendors, and procedures to verify recycled/recovered material content
     in the products provided by vendors.
     4.1.4. Procedures for monitoring and annually reviewing the effectiveness of the GPP by tracking
     purchases and maintaining records of products containing recycled materials.
     4.1.5. Below is a description of each of these elements.

4.2. Preference Program.
     4.2.1. 16 CONS, GPC cardholders, and all requiring activities (anyone requiring a procurement) are
     responsible for implementing the preference program element. The Hurlburt Field preference pro-
     gram includes the following:
     4.2.2. 16 CONS, GPC cardholders, and Hurlburt Field requiring activities will give preference in the
     procurement process to the selection of the U.S. EPA-designated items as specified in Table 3.1. in
     this document. Preference is given to products containing the highest percentage of recovered mate-
     rials practicable, consistent with performance, competition, and availability. The U.S. EPA recom-
     mended minimum recovered material content levels for the 61 U.S. EPA-designated items, as
     described in U.S. EPA’s list of designated items, are the required minimum recovered material con-
     tent levels for USAF procurement of these items.
     4.2.3. 16 CONS, GPC cardholders, and Hurlburt Field requiring activities will review their procure-
     ment practices and eliminate those that would inhibit or preclude the use of an item containing recov-
     ered materials.
     4.2.4. 16 CES/CEC and Hurlburt Field requiring activities will specifically include provisions in all
     construction contracts to allow for the use, as an optional or alternate material, of all listed products, if
     they are adequate replacements for specified materials.

4.3. Promotion Program.
     4.3.1. Hurlburt Field will promote the procurement of recycled-content products by educating base
     personnel and by advertising to vendors their desire to purchase such products. The GPP Team will
     establish and implement the promotion program.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006                                                                     13


   4.3.2. The Hurlburt Field GPP Team will consider all possible promotional methods including the
   following:
       4.3.2.1. Periodic notifications and articles in base publications, electronic mail or bulletin board
       systems, and on the base’s website; informational handouts, briefings, and training slides for base
       personnel to be presented at Commander’s Calls, newcomer’s briefings, Earth Day activities, and
       other appropriate forums; policy/education letters sent to GPC cardholders explaining the GPP; a
       special notation prominently displayed in any procurement solicitation or invitation to bid; a state-
       ment in each specification defining “post-consumer recovered materials,” or “recovered materi-
       als,” as applicable, as they are defined in this document; distributing catalogs, such as GSA's
       Environmental Products Guide, which can be downloaded from the GSA website.

4.4. Estimates, Certifications and Verification.
   4.4.1. This element applies only to contracts valued at more than $100,000 based on Federal Acquisi-
   tion Streamlining Act (Pub.L.103-355), which amended RCRA Section 6002 to require recovered
   material estimates only for contracts valued at more than $100,000 if the contract includes the pur-
   chase of any U.S. EPA-designated items. When applicable, this element has two steps. First, the ven-
   dor must estimate and certify the amount of recycled material that will be included in a product. After
   the delivery of the product, the Hurlburt Field requiring activity must verify that the estimates were
   accurate.
   4.4.2. The GPP Plan must contain reasonable verification procedures for estimates and certifications.
   Therefore, measurement of recovered material content should be made in accordance with standard
   industry practice.
   4.4.3. Nothing in this guideline should be construed to relieve the contractor of responsibility for pro-
   viding a satisfactory product. The certification procedures discussed above are intended to satisfy the
   certification requirements of Section 6002 of RCRA, and are entirely separate in purpose and format
   from standard industry quality control and quality assurance procedures. This guideline does not
   attempt to shift normal industry procedures for assigning responsibility and liability.
   4.4.4. Federal supply sources such as the GSA, GPO, and Defense General Supply Center (DGSC)
   have established their own estimation, certification and verification procedures for U.S. EPA-desig-
   nated items. Therefore, agencies procuring designated items through these supply sources are not
   required to conduct independent estimation, certification and verification procedures.

4.5. Annual Monitoring and Review.
   4.5.1. The Hurlburt Field GPP Team is responsible for tracking and monitoring the program. The
   team will review and evaluate the GPP success annually; using data collected through vendor certifi-
   cations and any other information the team is able to gather. The Hurlburt Field GPP manager is
   responsible for reporting on GPP activities. The 16 CES/CEV is responsible for collecting contrac-
   tor-provided data for purchases of U.S. EPA-designated items included in contracts valued at over
   $100,000. These requirements are discussed in more detail below.

4.6. Tracking and Monitoring.
   4.6.1. Tracking and reporting are usually synonymous in USAF program management, which collects
   and reports detailed data up the chain. However, an active attempt is being made in the GPP to limit
14                                                      HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006


     the amount of data collected for reporting purposes, while still tracking (monitoring) the program
     closely enough to ensure it is healthy. The Hurlburt Field GPP Team will develop tracking proce-
     dures that best suit the base’s business practices. The goals of the tracking process are to track pro-
     gram growth, identify weak areas, cross feed recycled-content product source information between
     organizations, and create success stories to share with other installations. Examples of useful infor-
     mation include the following:
        4.6.1.1. Review the Hurlburt Field GPP Plan. Is it up to date?
        4.6.1.2. Review the appropriate section of the P2 MAP. Is it up to date?
        4.6.1.3. Compile a list of products purchased with recycled content and the range of post-con-
        sumer content. It is essential to include U.S. EPA-designated items, but also take credit for other
        recycled content items used at Hurlburt Field.
        4.6.1.4. List examples of new products with recycled content purchased during the year.
        4.6.1.5. List examples of unique products with recycled content and the percentage of recycled
        content.
        4.6.1.6. List “old” products replaced with recycled content products.
        4.6.1.7. Compile examples on how the GPP Team has advertised the program.

4.7. Data Collection.
     4.7.1. 16 CES/CEV will collect contractor-provided data for purchases of U.S. EPA-designated items
     included in contracts valued at over $100,000. This data will be provided by contractors in accor-
     dance with FAR 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA Desig-
     nated Products (Aug 2000)
     4.7.2. FAR 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification, is inserted in all contracts that specify the use
     of recovered materials. The certification is used regardless of the contract value. It states that the ven-
     dor guarantees that the percentage of recovered materials to be used in the performance of the contract
     will be at least the amount required by the applicable contract specifications.
     4.7.3. In addition to the four program elements previously discussed, EO 13101 requires that federal
     agency GPPs encourage the electronic transfer of documents and the two-sided printing of govern-
     ment documents, and include provisions in contracts, grants and cooperative agreements that require
     documents to be printed two-sided on recycled paper.



                                                  NORMAN J. BROZENICK, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                                  Commander
HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006                                                   15


                                       Attachment 1

                             U.S. EPA DESIGNATED ITEMS

          Construction Products
          Item 1. Building insulation products
          Item 2. Carpet (polyester)
          Item 3. Carpet cushion
          Item 4. Cement containing: coal fly ash, ground granulated blast furnace
          slag, cenospheres or silica fume
          Item 5. Concrete containing: coal fly ash, ground granulated blast furnace
          slag, cenospheres or silica fume
          Item 6. Consolidated and reprocessed latex paint
          Item 7. Floor tiles
          Item 8. Flowable fill
          Item 9. Laminated paperboard
          Item 10. Modular threshold ramps
          Item 11. Nonpressure pipe
          Item 12. Patio blocks
          Item 13. Railroad grade crossing surfaces
          Item 14. Roofing materials
          Item 15. Shower and restroom dividers/partitions
          Item 16. Structural fiberboard
          Landscaping products
          Item 17. Food waste compost
          Item 18. Yard trimmings compost
          Item 19. Garden and soaker hoses
          Item 20. Hydraulic mulch
          Item 21. Lawn and garden edging
          Item 22. Plastic lumber landscaping timbers and posts
          Nonpaper Office Products
          Item 23. Binders (plastic covered, chipboard, and pressboard)
          Item 24. Office furniture
          Item 25. Office recycling containers
          Item 26. Office waste receptacles
          Item 27. Plastic desktop accessories
          Item 28. Plastic envelopes
          Item 29. Plastic trash bags
          Item 30. Printer ribbons
          Item 31. Toner cartridges
          Item 32. Plastic binders, clipboards, file folders, clip portfolios, and
          presentation folders
16                                       HURLBURTFIELDI32-7004 31 AUGUST 2006


                           Attachment 1 (Continued)
                       U.S. EPA DESIGNATED ITEMS


     Paper and Paper Products
     Item 33. Commercial/industrial sanitary tissue products
     Item 34. Miscellaneous papers
     Item 35. Newsprint
     Item 36. Paperboard and packaging products
     Item 37. Printing and writing papers
     Park and Recreation Products
     Item 38. Park benches and picnic tables
     Item 39. Plastic fencing
     Item 40. Playground equipment
     Item 41. Playground surfaces
     Item 42. Running tracks
     Transportation Products
     Item 43. Channelizers
     Item 44. Delineators
     Item 45. Flexible delineators
     Item 46. Parking stops
     Item 47. Traffic barricades
     Item 48. Traffic cones
     Vehicular Products
     Item 49. Engine coolants
     Item 50. Rebuilt vehicular parts
     Item 51. Re-refined lubricating oils
     Item 52. Retreated tires
     Miscellaneous Products
     Item 53. Awards and plaques
     Item 54. Bike racks
     Item 55. Blasting grit
     Item 56. Industrial drums
     Item 57. Manual-grade strapping
     Item 58. Mats
     Item 59. Pallets
     Item 60. Signage
     Item 61. Sorbents
