BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 36-3108
16TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                                                 1 JUNE 2006
(AFSOC)
                                                                                                 Personnel

                                                            HURLBURT FIELD MEMORIALIZATION
                                                                  PROGRAM AND CEREMONIES




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 16 SOW/HO                                                                  Certified by: 16 SOW/CV
                                                                                (Colonel Paul R. Harmon)
Supersedes HURLBURTFIELDI36-3108,                                                                Pages: 5
           1 April 2006

This Instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremo-
nies. It identifies and outlines the responsibilities and procedures for naming buildings, rooms, facilities
(recreational and medical) or streets, on Hurlburt Field and provides guidance for arranging and conduct-
ing ceremonies associated with memorialization actions. The purpose of the Hurlburt Field Memorializa-
tion program is to ensure a fair and organized process in the selection of buildings, rooms, facilities
(recreational and medical) or streets for memorializing.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision corrects minor grammatical errors, adds “Waiver authority: 16 SOW/CC” to the end
of paragraph 2.3., changes the timeframe for ceremonies in paragraph 5.1. from Apr-Jul to
Apr-Jun. This revision must be completely reviewed and adhered to.


1. Objective. The intent of the Hurlburt Field memorialization program is to provide lasting honor and
pay tribute to deceased as well as living Air Force military and civilian personnel with records of out-
standing and honorable service to the Air Force, Special Operations, and Air Commando missions. This
program also fosters favorable relations between the public and the Air Force. All memorialization
requests should be carefully evaluated to ensure that only the most deserving persons are selected. These
selections should bring honor and goodwill to the Air Force and the local community. All Hurlburt Field
buildings, facilities, rooms, and any other permanent facilities located on Hurlburt Field will be named
only in accordance with this instruction and AFI 36-3108. Facilities include unaccompanied personnel
housing, dining facilities, clubs, libraries, service centers, gymnasiums, and other recreational areas.
Compliance with this instruction is mandatory for all memorialization activities.
2                                                           HURLBURTFIELDI36-3108 1 JUNE 2006


    1.1. Memorialization constitutes a permanent and lasting honor. Once in effect, the renaming of any
    street, building, or facility is prohibited as long as Hurlburt Field remains active. All requests will be
    staffed to the appropriate approval authority outlined in Table 1. In cases where a building is con-
    demned, torn down, or is renovated and reused for another function, the following actions may be
    taken: the name may be discontinued when no next of kin can be located and no opposition is
    received from the public. If the next of kin can be located, it is desirable and appropriate to secure
    favorable reaction to the discontinuance from the closest relative in the following order of precedence:
    spouse, children, parents, siblings, providing there is not opposition from the public (such might be
    the case where the memorialized individual was a favorite son or daughter and prominent in the his-
    tory of the community). If the discontinuance is not compatible with the next of kin and/or the public,
    the 16th Special Operations Wing (SOW) Commander should retain the honoree’s name for the des-
    ignated building. In this case, a courtesy letter from the commander to the next of kin and/or the inter-
    ested parties, notifying them of the change, is in order. A formal dedication ceremony is at the
    discretion of the commander; however, it is not required.

2. Guide to Selecting a Name. Any organization, group, or individual may submit a memorialization
request in writing to the 16th Special Operations Wing History Office (16 SOW/HO).
    2.1. The request submission must contain a cover letter with a point of contact and stipulation why the
    individual is being considered for memorialization. The package must also contain supporting data to
    include a biography on the individual, and a copy of the submitted individual’s DD Form 214 as proof
    of honorable service in a United States Air Force Special Operations or Air Commando unit (or com-
    parable data for Department of the Air Force civilians). Waiver authority: 16 SOW/CC.
       2.1.1. Criteria for selection. Nominee packages must clearly articulate the unique and lasting
       impact an individual act or lifelong contribution had on advancing the capability, credibility, and
       faithfulness of Airmen serving in a United States Air Force Special Operations and/or Air Com-
       mando unit.
    2.2. The 16th Special Operations Wing History Office will review the submitted package to ensure all
    required information is included.
    2.3. The History Office will notify the 16 SOW commander of the submitted package and request the
    16 SOW Memorialization Committee convene during the second quarter of each fiscal year
    (Jan-Mar). Waiver authority: 16 SOW/CC.
       2.3.1. The 16 SOW Memorialization Committee will be chaired by the 16 SOW commander (16
       SOW/CC) or vice wing commander (16 SOW/CV). The 16 SOW Wing or Vice Wing com-
       mander, 16 SOW Command Chief Master Sergeant (16 SOW/CCC), and a 16 SOW Group com-
       mander are voting board members. The 16th Mission Support Group Commander (if not
       participating as a voting member), Civil Engineering Squadron commander (16 CES/CC), 16
       SOW/HO, and the 16th Mission Support Squadron’s Military Personnel Flight commander (16
       MSS/DPM) are advisory (non-voting) board members.

3. Memorialization Committee Responsibilities.
    3.1. The 16 SOW Memorialization Committee will review the submitted package and recommend
    approval or disapproval of the request.
HURLBURTFIELDI36-3108 1 JUNE 2006                                                                            3


      3.1.1. If the request is disapproved, a letter will be sent to the requesting POC stipulating why the
      committee did not recommend memorialization.
      3.1.2. If the request is approved, the 16 CES/CC will present a listing of possible building or street
      recommendations for memorialization.
          3.1.2.1. The committee will review the choices and vote on the most relevant facility given
          selectee’s unique and lasting impact on the United States Air Force, Special Operations, and
          Air Commando missions. The committee’s recommendation will be forwarded to the proper
          approval authority in accordance with Table 1.

4. Processing Procedures.
   4.1. All memorialization requests will be staffed to the appropriate approval authority as stated in
   paragraph 3.1.2.1. before obtaining the concurrence of either the next of kin or the individual being
   considered for memorialization.
   4.2. All memorialization requests forwarded to approval authority will include information from the
   original request, to include a base map indicating the real estate that is being considered for naming,
   and a letter signed by the 16 SOW/CC recommending the individual for memorialization. The letter
   will also state what sources were reviewed to verify the individual’s background and that no deroga-
   tory information was found which would preclude the individual’s selection for memorialization hon-
   ors.
   4.3. The proposed memorialization action will be staffed through the AFSOC Director of Personnel
   before sending it to the AFSOC/CC (if the approval authority lies at MAJCOM or CSAF level, as out-
   lined in AFI 36-3108, Table 1.). For those memorialization actions requiring CSAF approval, staff
   the proposal through the AFSOC commander. The AFSOC Director of Personnel staffs the request to
   HQ AFPC/DPPPRS, who staffs the request through Air Staff channels to the CSAF. Include in the
   request recommendation letters signed by the 16 SOW and AFSOC commander or vice commander
   stating the achievements or contributions and association the individual had with the real estate being
   contemplated for naming, and a biography on the individual.
   4.4. The 16 SOW Memorialization Committee will not disclose a selectee prior to receiving written
   approval from the appropriate authority. After receiving approval, but before announcement of a ded-
   ication ceremony, the 16 SOW History Office will notify the next of kin to ensure the memorialization
   action meets with their approval. In this respect, no public announcements or other publicity will
   occur prior to receiving concurrence from the memorialized individual or respective next of kin.

5. Ceremony Procedures.
   5.1. After approval, a dedication ceremony will normally be conducted during the third quarter of
   each fiscal year (Apr-Jun). The 16 SOW Protocol Office will make arrangements for the dedication
   ceremony at least 3 months before the planned date. Requests for non-local travel authorization by
   commercial or government transportation may be authorized for the honoree (if living) and one mem-
   ber of the honoree’s immediate next of kin (surviving spouse, if not remarried), eldest child, mother or
   father (in this order), eldest sibling, or other beneficiary, if no close relatives are available, to attend
   the dedication ceremony, unless otherwise prohibited by Department of Defense or Air Force policy
   or regulations. Other guests who desire to attend the ceremony will travel at their own expense.
4                                                        HURLBURTFIELDI36-3108 1 JUNE 2006


    5.2. The 16 CES will place a metal plaque identifying the person memorialized at the entrance of the
    building, facility, or room named. Refer to AFPAM 32-1097, Sign Standards Pamphlet, for standard-
    ization of sign material, color, style, and placement.
    5.3. The 16 SOW/HO will send a letter to HQ AFPC/DPPPRS, 550 C Street West, Suite 12, Ran-
    dolph AFB TX 78150-4714, within 30 days after the ceremony advising of the date the memorializa-
    tion became effective.
HURLBURTFIELDI36-3108 1 JUNE 2006                                                                      5


Table 1. Approval Authorities
     Facility, Building, Street,    The person being memorialized is            Approval Authority
     Room to be named
1    Medical facility (any size)    Living or deceased medical service          Chief of Staff, USAF
                                    member
                                    (medical facilities are named for medical
                                    service members only)
2    Building (any size)            Living Air Force member                     Chief of Staff, USAF
                                    Living Department of the Air Force
                                    civilian (DAFC)
                                    Living or deceased private sector
                                    individual
3    Building or facility - 3,000   Deceased Air Force member                   MAJCOM/CC or CV
     square feet or larger          Deceased DAFC
4    Building or facility - less    Deceased Air Force member                   Wing/CC or CV
     than 3,000 square feet         Deceased DAFC
5    Streets                        Living Air Force member
                                    Living DAFC                                 Chief of Staff, USAF
                                    Living or deceased private sector
                                    individual
                                    Deceased Air Force member                   Wing/CC or CV
                                    Deceased DAFC
6    Rooms                          Living Air Force member
                                    Living DAFC                                 MAJCOM/CC or CV
                                    Living or deceased private sector
                                    individual                                  Wing/CC or CV
                                    Deceased Air Force member
                                    Deceased DAFC



                                              NORMAN J. BROZENICK, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
