BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 40-303
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
(AFSOC)                                                                    28 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                        Medical

                                                            FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 1 SOMDOS/SGOWF                                                 Certified by: 1 SOMDG/CC
                                                                           (Col D. Troy Molnar)
                                                                                        Pages: 8
Supersedes:   HURLBURTFIELDI 40-303,
              12 May 2008


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 40-3, Family Advocacy
Program and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 40-301, Family Advocacy. This publication establishes
the Hurlburt Field Family Advocacy Program (FAP). It establishes the Family Advocacy
Committee (FAC), Central Registry Board (CRB), Clinical Case Staffing (CCS), Child Sexual
Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT), High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT),
and the Incident Status Determination Review (ISDR) process. It addresses a Memorandum of
Agreement (MOA) between the base and the Department of Children and Families (DCF) and
agencies in State Circuit One and a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Shelter House.
It specifies the purpose and procedures of the Outreach Program and secondary prevention
programs. This instruction does not apply to the Air Force Reserves (AFR) or the Air National
Guard (ANG). This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; AFI 40-301, and
E.O. 9397 (SSN). System of records notice F044 AF SG Q applies. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. . The use of
 2                                          HURLBURTFIELDI40-303 28 FEBRUARY 2013


the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision includes dates, numbering format, commander updates, and clarity to applicable
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) and Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
1. Service Eligibility. The Hurlburt Field Family Advocacy Program (FAP) offers
maltreatment care and prevention services to all active duty military members and eligible
beneficiaries. Maltreatment services are provided in all reported cases of family maltreatment.
Prevention services are provided to all eligible beneficiaries.
2. FAP Committees.
     2.1. Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) is chaired by the Wing Commander or their
     designee.
        2.1.1. FAC Chair will:
           2.1.1.1. Oversee FAC and FAP programs.
           2.1.1.2. Appoint team members to CSMRT, HRVRT, and ISDR process.
        2.1.2. FAC members are assigned IAW AFI 40-301, paragraph 1.4. The FAC may add
        other members such as civilian agencies and community service organizations. The FAC
        is the oversight body and thereby responsible for setting policy and procedures for
        establishing and operating its FAP IAW AFI 40-301 and AF FAP Standards, A-6.
        Establishes the CSMRT, HRVRT, and ISDR process reviewer and alternate.
     2.2. CRB/CCS Functions and Responsibilities.
        2.2.1. The CRB is chaired by the vice wing commander or the mission support group
        commander in his/her absence. Other members include the wing command chief master
        sergeant, Family Advocacy Officer (FAO), Staff Judge Advocate (SJA), Security Forces
        (SFS), Office of Special Investigations (OSI), and squadron representatives (normally the
        commander and/or first sergeant).
        2.2.2. The purpose of the CRB is to make incident status determinations based on the Air
        Force maltreatment definitions. This board determines whether an incident meets the
        criteria for maltreatment IAW DoD guidelines and requirements for reporting.
        2.2.3. Members of the CRB will complete the online CRB training prior to their
        attendance at a CRB meeting.
        2.2.4. The CCS will be chaired by the FAO and membership includes the Family
        Advocacy Nurse (FAN), Family Advocacy Treatment Manager (FATM), Family
        Advocacy Outreach Manager (FAOM), Family Advocacy Program Assistant (FAPA),
        and other military treatment facility (MTF) personnel who may add value to the clinical
        discussion. All personnel not affiliated with the medical group may only attend to provide
        information for a particular case.
        2.2.5. CCS membership will address all clinical and safety issues for new maltreatment
        cases.
HURLBURTFIELDI40-303 28 FEBRUARY 2013                                                         3


   2.3. CSMRT Functions and Responsibilities.
      2.3.1. The CSMRT consists of AFI-mandated base and community representatives.
      2.3.2. New members will receive training on their roles and responsibilities within 90
      days of appointment.
      2.3.3. Members will meet at least annually to clarify roles and responsibilities.
      2.3.4. Following the notification of alleged sexual maltreatment, the CSMRT will be
      activated immediately, in order to implement initial action procedures. The CSMRT
      follows published guidelines, which include the Family Advocacy Program Standards.
      The CSMRT coordinates with and facilitates base and community agencies in
      establishing a plan of action for conducting interviews, scheduling medical exams and
      arranging safety of all family members in order to decrease duplication and ensure
      continuity of care.
   2.4. HRVRT Functions and Responsibilities.
      2.4.1. The HRVRT consists of AFI-mandated base and community representatives.
      2.4.2. This multidisciplinary team provides a collaborative installation response to
      decrease the risk of violence by sharing information and coordinating an effective safety
      plan.
      2.4.3. The HRVRT coordinates with facilitates base and community agencies in
      establishing a plan of action for arranging for safety of all family members in order to
      decrease duplication and ensure continuity of care.
      2.4.4. New members will receive training on their roles and responsibilities within 90
      days of appointment.
      2.4.5. Members will meet at least annually to clarify roles and responsibilities and
      review the effectiveness of the process.
      2.4.6. HRVRT will be activated when there is a threat of immediate harm to family
      members or FAP staff.
   2.5. ISDR Process. An alleged offender or victim must submit the (ISDR) request to the
   FAO within 30 days of being notified of the CRB case status determination. The FAO
   reviews the request along with the Medical Group Commander to decide if there is new
   information that could affect the determination that was not available to the CRB at the time
   of the original determination or if there were concerns about the CRB's compliance with
   published protocols and requirements. The CRB Chairperson will make the final
   determination as to if the ISDR meets criteria for review and placement on the CRB agenda
   for appeal.
3. FAP Programs.
   3.1. Treatment:
      3.1.1. AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, mandates all active duty members and civilian
      employees of the Air Force must report all incidents of suspected child and spouse
      maltreatment to the FAP or on-call mental health provider (after hours).
4                                          HURLBURTFIELDI40-303 28 FEBRUARY 2013


       3.1.2. All referrals involving children and vulnerable adults will be reported to the DCF.
       3.1.3. All family maltreatment emergencies after duty hours are reported to the 96th
       Medical Group Emergency Room, Eglin AFB (883-8227). Consultation after hours can
       be coordinated by contacting the Hurlburt Mental Health on call provider (via Command
       Post, 884-8100).
       3.1.4. Reporting Death Due to Maltreatment. Notify the FAP immediately. FAP will
       notify law enforcement and legal if they have not already been contacted.
       3.1.5. Reporting Maltreatment in DoD Sanctioned Activities:
           3.1.5.1. Notify the FAP immediately. FAP will notify law enforcement and legal if
           they have not already been contacted.
           3.1.5.2. The CSMRT will coordinate with designated agencies (FAP, JAG, OSI,
           DCF) in cases involving child sexual abuse.
       3.1.6. FAP will:
           3.1.6.1. Notify command of their AD members.
           3.1.6.2. Notify 1 SOSFS.
           3.1.6.3. Complete assessment as indicated.
           3.1.6.4. Present to CRB and/or CCS as indicated.
       3.1.7. Victim Safety. FAP will coordinate with the Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate
       (DAVA) to ensure victims are informed of both base and community resources.
    3.2. Prevention.
       3.2.1. Goal. To enhance mission and family readiness by reducing the number and
       severity of incidences of maltreatment through advocacy for nonviolent communities.
       All prevention programs are voluntary.
       3.2.2. Outreach. Established to function as a central focal point for family violence
       education. In collaboration with the Interagency Delivery Symptom, promotes primary
       and secondary prevention programs that increase awareness of family maltreatment and
       reduce risk factors within the community, identifying strengths, and promoting
       community resiliency.
       3.2.3. New Parents Support Program (NPSP). A home based family maltreatment
       prevention program for at risk families who are expecting or have infants and toddlers.
       3.2.4. Family Advocacy Strength-based Therapy (FAST) Services.               Secondary
       prevention counseling services designed to provide therapeutic interventions to families
       at risk for maltreatment where there is no open maltreatment case and the family is not
       eligible for NPSP.
    3.3. Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate.
       3.3.1. As part of the United States Air Force (USAF) FAP, DAVAs provide non-clinical
       emergent and urgent service to USAF personnel, their family members, or intimate
       partners who are victims of domestic abuse whenever requested. With the exception of
       mandatory state, federal, and military reporting requirements, the DAVA provides a
HURLBURTFIELDI40-303 28 FEBRUARY 2013                                                         5


     private and confidential service to encourage victims with seeking assistance. Provides
     24-hour/7 days a week response to victims alleging domestic abuse by publishing and
     maintaining an emergency contact number. DAVAs report to the Installation FAO.
     3.3.2. Partners with the FATM, or mental health on-call provider, to establish current
     and effective safety plans. The victim’s safety is the DAVA’s top responsibility and
     priority. Ensures review of the safety plan during each victim contact by the DAVA.
     Victim’s safety plan will be established on a case by case basis and developed based on
     initial and ongoing risk assessments. If imminent risk of serious harm or death is
     established, notifications will be made to the FAO, law enforcement, and Command. If
     children are involved, the process also includes child physical safety and emotional well-
     being; involved children will be referred to the FATM for follow-up care.
     3.3.3. Immediately reports any changes in the victim’s circumstances that changes or
     impacts the safety plan to the FATM or mental health on-call provider if the FATM is
     unavailable. When determining whether a victim is at imminent risk of serious harm or
     death, the following risk factors will be assessed by the DAVA:
        3.3.3.1. Increased in severity or frequency of victimization patterns.
        3.3.3.2. Alleged offender threatened or attempted to kill the victim or his/her
        children.
        3.3.3.3. Alleged offender threatened or attempted suicide.
        3.3.3.4. Alleged offender strangled the victim.
        3.3.3.5. Alleged offender used or threatened to use a weapon against the victim.
        3.3.3.6. Victim sustained serious injury during the abusive incidents.
        3.3.3.7. Prior police contact with the alleged offender regarding domestic abuse.
        3.3.3.8. Victim has a restraining or protection order against the alleged offender.
        3.3.3.9. Victim is estranged, separated or attempting to separate from the alleged
        offender.
        3.3.3.10. Alleged offender stalked the victim.
        3.3.3.11. Alleged offender exhibits obsessive behavior, extreme jealousy, or extreme
        dominance.
        3.3.3.12. Alleged offender abuses alcohol or drugs.
        3.3.3.13. Alleged offender forced sex on the victim.
        3.3.3.14. Alleged offender abused victim during current pregnancy.
        3.3.3.15. Victim expresses fear of imminent serious harm or death.
        3.3.3.16. Alleged offender has active psychosis and/or mania.
        3.3.3.17. Alleged offender is using psychoactive drugs, such as amphetamines or
        cocaine.
     3.3.4. Advises each victim at the initial contact that:
 6                                         HURLBURTFIELDI40-303 28 FEBRUARY 2013


          3.3.4.1. DAVA services are voluntary.
          3.3.4.2. DAVA’s have limited confidentiality as described in AFI 40-310 and the AF
          FAP standards.
          3.3.4.3. Medical    examination/documentation       of   victim’s   injuries   is   highly
          recommended.
          3.3.4.4. Victims may choose to make either a restricted or unrestricted report of
          domestic abuse (those options are fully explained by the DAVA). Advises victims of
          the military or civil actions available to promote safety (e.g. military order of
          protection, restraining order, injunction, etc.). Offers victims information regarding
          their identified needs (e.g. emergency shelter, housing, childcare, legal services,
          clinical resources, medical services, transitional compensation, etc.).
      3.3.5. Supports the FAOM to develop System Advocacy, Education and Public
      Awareness, promoting a coordinated community response to domestic abuse.
      Continually evaluate the quality of the installation’s coordinated community response and
      collaborate with base agencies to improve the system’s response to victims. Empowers
      victims to be involved in plans or decisions about the safety of self and children.
      Collaborates with SFS and OSI to establish protocols to ensure:
          3.3.5.1. 24-hour notification to the DAVA of all incidents of suspected domestic
          abuse.
          3.3.5.2. Collaboration on safety planning.
          3.3.5.3. Training of SFS and OSI personnel on the DAVA role.
      3.3.6. Collaborates with the MTF to establish protocols to ensure: 24-hour notification of
      the DAVA in all incidents of suspected domestic abuse; training of MTF personnel on the
      DAVA role; Establishes liaisons and partner with civilian domestic abuse resources. Is a
      member of the installation FAC and reports to the FAO. Participates in the development,
      implementation and evaluation of installation domestic abuse policies and protocols (e.g.
      Installation Supplement to AFI 40-301, MOUs with local victim shelters, Inter-Service
      Support Agreements, etc.).
      3.3.7. Supports the FAP Outreach Program and New Parent Support Program (NPSP)
      prevention activities. Actively participates in all resiliency initiatives designed to prevent
      domestic abuse. Partners with the FAN when the FAN is involved in open partner
      maltreatment cases. Partners with the FAOM to promote education about and prevention
      of domestic abuse. Such activities may include outreach programs designed to increase
      awareness, educational briefings (e.g. reporting options), skill building classes, and the
      development of marketing tools and strategies.
4. MOA and MOU. The 1st Special Operations Wing has an MOA with DCF and family
agencies in State Circuit One to address reporting and investigating procedures in child
maltreatment cases on and off base. There is also an MOU with Shelter House, Inc., defining
HURLBURTFIELDI40-303 28 FEBRUARY 2013                                                       7



procedures for the coordination of emergency shelter, safe housing, victim advocacy services,
support and referral services for active duty service members and their family members who are
victims of domestic abuse.




                                           JAMES C. SLIFE, Col, USAF
                                           Commander, 1 SOW
 8                                      HURLBURTFIELDI40-303 28 FEBRUARY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 6 December 2011,
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009
E.O. 9397
F044 AF SG Q
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCS—Clinical Case Staffing
CRB—Central Registry Board
CSMRT—Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team
DAVA—Domestic Abuse Victim Advocates
DCF—Department of Children and Families
DoD—Department of Defense
FAC—Family Advocacy Committee
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAOM—Family Advocacy Outreach Manager
FAST—Family Advocacy Strength-based Therapy
FMCMT—Family Maltreatment Case Management Team
HRVRT—High Risk for Violence Response Team
ISDR—Incident Status Determination Review
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NPSP—New Parents Support Program
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SSN—Social Security Number
