BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                           HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 31-101
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING (AFSOC)                                                                             30 MAY 2008

                                                                                                                       Security

                                                                    INSTALLATION SECURITY INSTRUCTION




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:           Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                         www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 1 SOSFS/S-5P                                               Certified by: 1 SOSFS/CC (Major Marc A. Sheie)
                                                                                                    Pages: 49

This publication implements the requirements of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-101, The Air Force
Installation Security Program, and the AFSOC Supplement. This publication is issued in accordance
with the Internal Security Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 797). It establishes installation access requirements
and restricted/controlled area entry and internal circulation and control standards. It describes normal
security standards for the installation and requires the collection and/or maintenance of information pro-
tected by the Privacy Act of 1974, IAW Title 10, U.S.C. 130. Violations of this publication are subject to
prosecution under public law, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, DOD directives, and Air Force Reg-
ulations.
      1.     INSTALLATION SECURITY PROGRAM. ............................................................                     3
      2.     ENTRY TO THE INSTALLATION. ........................................................................             5
      3.     NORMAL SECURITY FORCES OPERATIONS. ...................................................                         14
      4.     SECURITY FORCES POST PRIORITY AND PATROL ZONES. ........................                                       16
      5.     CONTROL OF PRIVATELY OWNED WEAPONS (POW). .................................                                    17
      6.     NON-GOVERNMENT ARMED COURIER SERVICE. .........................................                                19
      7.     RESTRICTED AREA BADGES. .............................................................................          19
      8.     DISPLAY OF RESTRICTED AREA BADGES. .....................................................                       20
      9.     RESTRICTED AREA BADGE VERIFICATION. ...................................................                        20
     10.     LOSS OR THEFT OF RESTRICTED AREA BADGE. ...........................................                            21
     11.     RETRIEVAL OF RESTRICTED AREA BADGES. ................................................                          21
     12.     RESOURCE PROTECTION PROGRAM. ..............................................................                    22
     13.     CONTROLLED AREAS. ..........................................................................................   23
     14.     INTRUSION DETECTION AND DURESS ALARM EQUIPMENT. ....................                                           27
2                                                                    HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


    15.   PROTECTION LEVEL 4 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS. ..............................                                       28
    16.   DESIGNATION AND LOCATION OF RESTRICTED AREAS. ...........................                                        33
    17.   NORMAL SECURITY SUPPORT TASKS. ............................................................                      34
    18.   RESTRICTED AREA ENTRY CONTROL. ............................................................                      36
    19.   RESTRICTED AREA CIRCULATION CONTROL. .............................................                               41
    20.   RESTRICTED AREA WING DURESS WORDS. ...................................................                           45
    21.   SECURITY REPORTING AND ALERTING PROCEDURES. ..............................                                       45
    22.   PROJECTS AFFECTING PHYSICAL SECURITY OR
          CONTROLLED/ RESTRICTED AREAS. ...............................................................                    47
    23.   CIVIL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY COORDINATION. ..............................                                        48
    24.   PRESCRIBED FORMS. ............................................................................................   49
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                          3


1. INSTALLATION SECURITY PROGRAM. This publication establishes the installation security
program for the 1st Special Operations Wing (1 SOW) per AFI 31-101. This program is designated to
deter espionage, sabotage, and theft of Air Force operational resources. The Installation Chief, Security
Forces (ICSF), establishes security posts and the priorities for manning these posts. Planning is based on
requirements defined in aerospace system security standards applicable to protection level resources
assigned to Hurlburt Field. Post priority listings, maps, and operating instructions required to effectively
carry out this program are maintained by the 1st Special Operations Security Forces Squadron Operations
Flight (1 SOSFS/S-3). Any questions on this instruction or installation security should be referred to the
Operations Staff at 884-5209/6415.
   1.1. This instruction applies to all portions of the installation. Hurlburt Field boundaries, including
   Commando Village housing and Soundside housing/marina complex, are identified by chain link
   fencing and a brick wall along portions of Highway 98.
   1.2. The Installation Security Council (ISC) is identified as the single governing body responsible for
   installation security. The Commander, 1st Special Operations Wing will chair the ISC and review and
   approve meeting minutes. In the absence of the Commander, the Vice Commander will serve as the
   chairman. In the absence of the Commander/Vice Commander, the ISC will be chaired by the Acting
   Commander, 1st Special Operations Mission Support Group. In this instance, the meeting minutes
   will be reviewed and approved by the wing commander.
       1.2.1. The Hurlburt Field ISC is chartered to staff issues related to installation physical security
       and resource protection programs, identify and designate restricted and controlled areas, review
       and approve free zone procedures, review the installation security instruction and plan annually,
       review deviations and waivers annually, monitor installation security enhancement projects and
       provide adequate personnel, equipment, and facilities for protection level resources.
       1.2.2. The following agencies are designated as primary voting members of the ISC. Primary
       members (or their designated alternates) will attend each ISC meeting.
           1.2.2.1. Commander, 1st Special Operations Wing (1 SOW/CC).
           1.2.2.2. Vice Commander, 1st Special Operations Wing (1 SOW/CV).
           1.2.2.3. Commander, 1st Special Operations Group (1 SOG/CC).
           1.2.2.4. Commander, 1st Special Operations Maintenance Group (1 SOMXG/CC).
           1.2.2.5. Commander, 1st Special Operations Mission Support Group (1 SOMSG/CC).
           1.2.2.6. Commander, 1st Special Operations Medical Group (1 SOMDG/CC).
       1.2.3. The following agencies are designated as council advisors to the ISC. Primary members (or
       their designated alternates) will attend each ISC meeting.
           1.2.3.1. Chief of Safety (1 SOW/SE).
           1.2.3.2. Commander, 1st Special Operations Security Forces Squadron (1 SOSFS/CC).
           1.2.3.3. Commander, 1st Special Operations Civil Engineer Squadron (1 SOCES/CC).
           1.2.3.4. Commander, 1st Special Operations Communications Squadron (1 SOCS).
           1.2.3.5. Commander, Air Force Office of Special Investigations Detachment 104 (AFOSI/Det
           104).
4                                                           HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


           1.2.3.6. Chief of Intelligence (1 SOSS/IN).
           1.2.3.7. Airfield Manager (1 SOSS/OSA).
           1.2.3.8. All installation squadron/tenant unit commanders are encouraged to attend.
       1.2.4. The ICSF is designated as the recorder and will maintain all records and files pertaining to
       the ISC. The ICSF will prepare the ISC agenda and schedule all meetings.
       1.2.5. ISC agenda will be distributed to primary voting members and council advisors at least 30
       days prior to annual ISC meeting. Squadrons or staff agencies with issues requiring ISC approval
       are encouraged to coordinate with the appropriate 1 SOSFS staff office to have the item added to
       the agenda. Issues should be fully coordinated with all affected units/agencies prior to ISC meet-
       ing.
       1.2.6. The ISC will meet annually, or more frequently as required, to address open items or other
       areas pertaining to the security of the installation.
    1.3. Emergency response procedures (on or off-base), to include off-base support, for downed aircraft
    are covered by Hurlburt Field Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2.
    1.4. Arming base personnel. Personnel may be armed to perform official duties to accomplish mis-
    sion tasks to meet arming categories as outlined in AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force
    Personnel.
       1.4.1. Commanders must comply with authorization to bear firearm requirements prior to allow-
       ing personnel to be armed. Evaluate personnel and information and if necessary take immediate
       action to temporarily withdraw the affected person’s authority to bear a firearm. Have in-place
       written procedures to deny the person access to any Government-owned or privately owned fire-
       arm and associated ammunition stored in a Government firearm storage facility.
       1.4.2. All personnel who have been granted authority to bear firearms must complete a DD Form
       2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition (Lautenberg Amendment), annually.
       1.4.3. Commanders deciding to withdraw a person's authorization to bear arms for more than 72
       hours must notify the individual in writing of the withdrawal action. Provide a brief synopsis of
       circumstances that form the basis for the withdrawal. Have the individual acknowledge the with-
       drawal action by endorsement on the notification letter. Commanders may withdraw authority to
       bear arms for less than 72 hours by verbal notification.
           1.4.3.1. Provide a copy of letter to the affected person’s servicing armory. If less than 72 hours
           verbally notify the servicing armory. The servicing armory will take appropriate action to
           insure a weapon is not issued to a person whose authority has been withdrawn. Annotate with-
           drawal in Security Forces Management Information System (SFMIS) to preclude member
           attending small arms qualification training.
           1.4.3.2. If warranted, commanders must also deny the person access to any privately owned
           firearms and associated ammunition stored in a Government firearm storage facility or on base
           residence.
           1.4.3.3. Commanders must notify 1 SOSFS Armory when they withdraw a person's authoriza-
           tion to bear arms. Initial notification can be made verbally by calling 884-5870. If withdrawal
           is longer than 72 hours provide a copy of notification letter. 1 SOSFS Armory will annotate
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                            5


           applicable AF Forms 1314, tag any privately owned weapons (POWs) and ammunition and
           will not issue them until written notification is received from the commander to reinstate
           authority to bear arms.
       1.4.4. Commanders must notify 1 SOSFS Armory when unit members are being discharged for
       cause or pending courts-martial. 1 SOSFS Armory will annotate applicable AF Forms 1314, tag
       any privately owned weapons and ammunition and will not issue them until proceedings have
       been concluded and written notification is received from the commander or 1 SOW/JA. Written
       notification of approval to release POWs/ammunition should indicate if POWs should be shipped
       via household goods/hold baggage, released to member outside installation entry control point or
       released to member at armory.
   1.5. The Integrated Base Defense Security Systems (IBDSS) Working Group is chartered as the sin-
   gle governing body responsible for reviewing the status of the installation intrusion detection equip-
   ment (IDE) and recommending priorities for resource allocation and maintenance to the installations
   Protection Level 1 through 4 resources. The 1st Special Operations Security Forces (1 SOSFS) Elec-
   tronic Security Systems (ESS) NCO will chair the IBDSS Working Group.
       1.5.1. The following agencies are designated as primary members of the IBDSSWG. Primary
       members (or their designated alternates) will attend each IBDSSWG meeting.
           1.5.1.1. 1st Special Operations Wing Antiterrorism Branch.
           1.5.1.2. 1st Special Operations Communications Squadron (1 SOCS).
           1.5.1.3. 1st Special Operations Civil Engineer Squadron (1 SOCES).
           1.5.1.4. Any installation squadron/tenant units with intrusion detection equipment.
       1.5.2. The 1SOSFS/ESS NCO is designated as the recorder and will maintain all records and files
       pertaining to the IBDSSWG. The ESS NCO will prepare agendas, schedule meetings and produce
       minutes.
       1.5.3. The IBDSSWG will meet quarterly, or more frequently as required, to address open items
       or other areas pertaining to IDE. The majority of decisions made in this forum will directly affect
       owner/user purchasing parameters as the installation moves to fully integratable and compatible
       systems.

2. ENTRY TO THE INSTALLATION. Entry control procedures for Hurlburt Field are established by
this instruction. Entrance to Hurlburt Field is prohibited without the consent of the installation com-
mander. All personnel entering the installation have been deemed to have given their implied consent to
search both their person and their property. Search and seizure and apprehension authority is delegated to
Primary and Alternate Military Magistrates. Appointment letters are maintained with 1 SOW/JA and may
be viewed during normal business hours.
   2.1. Entry locations. Proprietary jurisdiction applies to all installation entry control points on Hurlburt
   Field. Entry to the installation will only be granted at designated installation access points. Approved
   installation access points, and their locations are:
       2.1.1. Main Gate, north of Hwy 98.
       2.1.2. East Gate, Freedom Way west of Martin Luther King Blvd.
6                                                            HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


       2.1.3. Soundside Gate, south of Hwy 98.
       2.1.4. Commando Village Gate, 1 mile north of East Gate off of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.
       2.1.5. All installation entry control points used for routine entry/exit are open 24-hours a day.
       2.1.6. All commercial vehicles entering Hurlburt Field main base will use the main gate commer-
       cial vehicle inspection area.
    2.2. Personnel requesting entry to Hurlburt Field will present authorized identification to the installa-
    tion entry controller (IEC). IECs are required to conduct 100% hands-on identification check for all
    personnel requesting entry, to include all vehicle occupants. In order to allow authorized personnel to
    enter and leave the base efficiently during peal traffic periods IECs may conduct the following proce-
    dures during pre-approved times.
       2.2.1. Visual check of driver's CAC or military ID; for contractors or other non-military drivers,
       check IDs (AF Form 75, Contractor Badge, or Special Pass) for all persons in the vehicle.
       2.2.2. Security Forces will initiate random vehicle inspections at internal base checkpoints to
       ensure personnel on Hurlburt Field have appropriate identification and are authorized to be on
       base.
       Note 1: Entry procedures identified are the baseline procedures for Hurlburt Field. Stricter stan-
       dards may be implemented as warranted during increased threat levels, force protection conditions
       or during random antiterrorism measures.
    2.3. Personnel with the following credential are authorized entry to Hurlburt Field.
       2.3.1. DD Form 2 Series, Active Duty, Reserve and/or Retired U.S. Uniformed Services Identifi-
       cation Card.
       2.3.2. Common Access Card (CAC).
       2.3.3. AF Form 354, Air Force Civilian ID Card/Dependant ID Card.
       2.3.4. AF Form 1173, Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card and AF Form 1173-1,
       Reserve and Guard Dependant.
       2.3.5. Hurlburt Field issued contractor badge.
       2.3.6. Hurlburt Field issued visitor badge.
       2.3.7. Hurlburt Field issued AF Form 75, Visitor Pass.
       2.3.8. Department of Transportation Coast Guard identification card.
       2.3.9. Air Force Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI), Federal Bureau of Investigations, and
       Security Forces Investigator credentials.
       2.3.10. Florida Department of Law Enforcement credentials.
       2.3.11. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) credentials.
       2.3.12. Defense Security Services (DSS) and Defense Criminal Investigative Services credentials.
       2.3.13. DD Form 2574, Armed Forces Exchange Identification and Privilege Card.
       2.3.14. Immigration and Customs Enforcement credentials.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                          7


     2.3.15. Okaloosa County identification card (Florida Department of Children and Families case
     workers, school bus drivers, etc.).
     2.3.16. Personnel who have been issued DoD identification credentials listed in paragraph 2.2.
     above may sponsor visitors onto the base. Contractors assigned sponsor privileges, identified by
     the word SPONSOR on the top of the badge, may sponsor personnel on base for official business
     only. In all cases, the sponsor is responsible for those persons for whom they authorize entry. Per-
     sonnel may sponsor visitors onto the base three ways.
         2.3.16.1. AF Portal. Log onto the Hurlburt Field page on the AF portal. Access the Safety &
         Security link and then the E-Visit link. Sponsors should fill in all required information and
         save. Visitors may go directly to the Visitor Control Center, without sponsor.
         2.3.16.2. Group Visits. Sponsors of parties, meetings, weddings or other large group activities
         of 20 or more personnel must provide 1 SOSFS Police Services office with a complete guest
         list at least three duty days prior to the event. This list must identify an individual who will be
         responsible for the guest(s) while on the installation, time, date and location of the event.
         Groups or individuals cannot be given blanket access (i.e. every person attending a garage sale
         at 30 Elm Street.) Any additions to the list must be coordinated through 1 SOSFS Police Ser-
         vices. Group visit request will not be accepted by Visitor Control Center personnel.
         2.3.16.3. Sponsors may also meet or accompany visitors to the Visitor Control Center to be
         issued a pass.
         2.3.16.4. Visitors are required to produce two forms of identification. Approved identification
         can be found on the E-Visit link.
         2.3.16.5. Personnel issued AF Form 75, Visitor Pass, are not normally authorized to sponsor
         visitors onto the base. Special arrangements will be considered on a case-by-case basis by 1
         SOSFS Police Services.
     2.3.17. ICS Department of Corrections ID badge must be used in conjunction with State of Flor-
     ida Department of Corrections ID (red) with matching inmate ID numbers. Inmates are not autho-
     rized to sponsor any person onto the installation.
     2.3.18. Mission Critical Identification Cards must be used in conjunction with a valid Air Force
     Civilian or Contractor identification card.
     2.3.19. Investigators (AFOSI Agents and Security Forces Investigators) using authorized creden-
     tials for entry may vouch for passengers in their vehicle.
  2.4. Contractor entry procedures. Contractors/contractor employees and subcontractor/subcontractor
  employees performing work under a government contract on Hurlburt Field must have a favorable
  background check prior to issuance of a contractor pass or badge. The following procedures must be
  adhered to prior to allowing entry to the installation.
     2.4.1. Hours of Operation. Normal working hours for contractors on Hurlburt Field are from 6:00
     a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Contractors requiring to work special hours or work on
     weekends or holidays must submit a request through their assigned sponsoring agency point of
     contact to 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration. Requests must be submitted at least three working days
     in advance. The Visitor Control Center is located at Hurlburt Field's main gate adjacent to High-
8                                                         HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


    way 98. The Contractor Section of the Visitor Control Center is open for Contractor Pass/Badge
    processing from 7:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
    2.4.2. Contractor Identification. All contractors or vendors accessing the installation must have a
    Common Access Card (CAC), a Hurlburt Field issued contractor badge or an AF Form 75 issued
    by either the Visitor Control Center or Pass & Registration section. Contractors/contractor
    employees and subcontractor/subcontractor employees performing work under a government con-
    tract on Hurlburt Field must have been the subject of a favorable contractor vetting check prior to
    issuance of a contractor pass or badge. The background check will consist of a favorable review of
    the contract authorization letter, Contractor Access Badge Affidavit, Homeland Security Form I-9,
    Employment Eligibility Verification, National Crime Information Center Wants/Warrants check,
    identity proofing, drivers license/vehicle registration check, Security Forces Management Infor-
    mation System (SFMIS) check and other records as appropriate.
    2.4.3. Exceptions. Unclassified contractor employees that have a favorable government personnel
    security background investigation, National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) verified by the
    Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS). Personnel working under a classified contract
    requiring a clearance must be pre-announced by a JPAS visit request. Personnel will be issued an
    AF Form 75 pending issue of a Common Access Card (CAC).
    2.4.4. Procedures required prior to issuance of contractor pass or badge:
       2.4.4.1. Hiring of employees must be conducted outside the confines of the installation. This
       includes referrals from Federal/State Employment Offices. Employees who arrive at the main
       gate and are not on the Base Entry Authority List or in contractor database will be directed off
       base and to contact the sponsoring agency. The following must be presented by each contract
       employee to the Visitor Control Center on or prior to the first day of work.
           2.4.4.1.1. Contract Authorization Letter must be signed by the contract officer and/or ver-
           ified through Hurlburt Field contractor database.
           2.4.4.1.2. Contractor Access Badge Affidavit.
           2.4.4.1.3. Homeland Security Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification.
           2.4.4.1.4. Two forms of identification; at least one must have a color photograph.
           2.4.4.1.5. If driving a vehicle, driver’s license, proof of insurance, and vehicle registration.
       2.4.4.2. Installation security forces will review paperwork for completeness. If errors or omis-
       sions are identified, security forces will return the paperwork to the employee for correction.
       2.4.4.3. If disqualifying information is identified during the initial screening or vetting pro-
       cess, security forces will contact the contracting office and advise them of the intent to issue a
       Denial of Contractor Pass letter. The contract office will notify the contractor organization.
       The denial memorandum will be issued by the NCOIC, Contractor Verification Section. All
       denials will be recorded in the security forces desk blotter and 1 SOSFS Reports & Analysis
       notified. Names of anyone denied access will be added to the base barment roster.
       2.4.4.4. If a contract is longer than three days a picture will be required for the pass or badge.
       However, if the pass is for less than three days the pass issued will not require a picture. All
       personnel will be processed individually in that each person will be issued a pass. In other
       words, no "group" passes will be issued. In order for a pass or badge to be issued, the sponsor-
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                         9


        ing agency must provide the 1 SOSFS Pass and Registration section an authenticated entry
        authority list (EAL) of names (Last, First, Middle Initial in alphabetical order) and social secu-
        rity numbers of those requiring access.
        Note 2: Security managers of sponsoring units may sign base access memos for contractors if
        the contracting office is located outside of the local area.
            2.4.4.4.1. On the first day of work or first day of entry to the installation the contractor or
            vendor shall present picture identification to the gate guard who will check it against the
            contractor database. A short term pass will be issued. Proceed immediately (within 72
            hours) to 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration office in Bldg #90210 and bring any passes issued.
            The applicant will also need to bring a driver’s license or a state or federal government
            photo ID card.
            2.4.4.4.2. If the applicant is a registered alien, they will have to show his or her Visa or
            resident alien identification card. Illegal aliens will not be allowed access to the installa-
            tion.
            2.4.4.4.3. Personnel desiring entry to the installation for the express purpose to seek
            employment with contractors will be denied entry.
            Note 3: On Site Contractor Representatives must be identified in Pre-Construction meet-
            ings and on submitted EALs. Their personal passes will also identify them as a “Contractor
            Sponsor”. They will only be allowed to sponsor deliveries from the main gate to the work
            site in the main cantonment area only. Controlled and Restricted Areas require owner user
            personnel to provide escort when no free zone is established.
     2.4.5. Contractors requiring entry between 1-3 days. Prior to entry, prime contractor must submit
     names of employees to 1st Special Operations Contracting Squadron (1 SOCONS). 1 SOCONS
     submits authorized names to 1 SOSFS Pass and Registration.
        2.4.5.1. Contractor should ensure all employees properly complete Contractor Access Badge
        Affidavit, and Homeland Security Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification, prior to
        arrival at Visitor Control Center.
        2.4.5.2. Upon arrival at Visitor Control Center, security forces personnel will review all paper-
        work for accuracy. If discrepancies are discovered all paperwork will be returned to employee.
        1 SOCONS will be notified.
        2.4.5.3. If contract employee self identifies to any of the disqualifying factors listed on the
        Contractor Access Badge Affidavit, Denial of Access letter will be issued. 1 SOCONS will be
        notified of the action.
        2.4.5.4. After reviewing paperwork, Visitor Control Center personnel will conduct a Florida
        Crime Information Center/National Crime Information Center (FCIC/NCIC) Wants/Warrant
        check and Security Forces Management Information System (SFMIS) local files check. If any
        disqualifying information is discovered contract employee will be issued Denial of Access let-
        ter. 1 SOCONS will be notified of the action.
        2.4.5.5. Contract employee’s identity must be verified against two forms of identification, one
        with a photograph. Acceptable forms of identification can be found on Homeland Security
        Form I-9.
10                                                           HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


            2.4.5.6. Contract employees may be electronically fingerprinted. Fingerprints will be trans-
            mitted to the FBI for identity verification.
            2.4.5.7. After favorable completion of the contractor vetting process, contract employees will
            be issued an Air Force Form 75, Visitor Pass. The Visitor Pass will be valid for the duration of
            the access required not to exceed 3 days.
        2.4.6. Base entry/contracts for 4 days or more not to exceed one year. Prior to entry, prime con-
        tractor must submit names of employees to 1 SOCONS. 1 SOCONS submits authorized names to
        1 SOSFS Pass & Registration.
            2.4.6.1. Contractor should ensure all employees properly complete Contractor Access Badge
            Affidavit and Homeland Security Form I-9 prior to arrival at Visitor Control Center.
            2.4.6.2. Upon arrival at Visitor Control Center, security forces personnel will review all paper-
            work for accuracy. If discrepancies are discovered all paperwork will be returned to employee.
            1 SOCONS will be notified.
            2.4.6.3. If contract employee self identifies to any of the disqualifying factors listed on the
            Contractor Access Badge Affidavit, Denial of Access letter will be issued. 1 SOCONS will be
            notified of the action.
            2.4.6.4. After review of paperwork Visitor Control Center personnel will conduct an FCIC/
            NCIC Wants/Warrant check and SFMIS local files check. Additionally, contract employee
            may be fingerprinted, and fingerprints transmitted to the FBI for identity verification. If any
            disqualifying information is discovered contract employee will be issued Denial of Access let-
            ter. 1 SOCONS will be notified of the action.
            2.4.6.5. Contract employee’s identity must be verified against two forms of identification, one
            with a photograph. Acceptable forms of identification can be found on Homeland Security I-9
            Form.
            2.4.6.6. After favorable completion of the contractor vetting process, contract employee will
            be issued an Installation Access Pass. The Installation Access Pass will be valid for the dura-
            tion of the contract not to exceed one year.
        2.4.7. Base entry/contracts requiring common access card. The decision to issue a CAC card to
        contractors is the responsibility of the Contract Officer and AF sponsoring unit, using guidance
        and criteria in Homeland Security Policy Directive 12 and contract security clauses.
     2.5. Commercial delivery vehicles. Drivers/vehicles will be allowed entry to the installation when the
     company logo is permanently displayed on the exterior of the vehicle, the vehicle is properly regis-
     tered in accordance with state laws, and the driver has a bill of lading/delivery document indicating a
     specific reason to enter the installation. Magnetic signs are not considered a permanently displayed
     logo.
        2.5.1. All commercial vehicles will be searched by installation security force personnel prior to
        being granted access.
        2.5.2. Vehicle and driver information will be annotated on the Commercial Vehicle Log prior to
        being granted access.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                          11


  2.6. Random installation entry point checks (RIEPC). The authority to direct or establish procedures
  for selecting the frequency of vehicle checks for entering or leaving the base is delegated to the 1
  SOMSG/CC. These random checks are not conducted merely on probable cause, but are based on the
  commander's authority to provide for security and protect resources.
     2.6.1. As determined by the Installation Commander, vehicles to be checked will be selected at
     random using an impersonal formula such as: "every other vehicle, every tenth vehicle, etc." Ran-
     dom checks will not be used as a subterfuge to check the vehicle of a particular person since such
     action constitutes a "search." The RIEPC listing will be randomly generated quarterly using a
     computer program, when possible, and submitted to the base legal office (SJA) for review. After
     the SJA review is complete, the listing will be submitted to 1 SOMSG/CC for approval. The
     approved listing will be provided to 1 SOSFS Police Services for implementation.
     2.6.2. Although Security Forces may not select the vehicles to be checked, this rule does not pre-
     vent giving authority to base entry controllers to discontinue checking entirely when, for example,
     a serious traffic jam, an accident, or other circumstances exist that make continued checking
     impractical. The on-duty flight chief will be the final approving authority for discontinuing
     checks. If the checks are discontinued or not initiated, a blotter entry will be accomplished indicat-
     ing the reason.
  2.7. All units receiving hazardous cargo will fax preannouncements to security forces control center
  with company name, driver name, tractor number, trailer number, estimated arrival time and expected
  cargo size and type to be delivered.
     2.7.1. Hazardous cargo vehicles are only authorized to enter through the Main Gate, to be
     searched and verified at the commercial vehicle inspection area.
     2.7.2. Hazardous cargo vehicles arriving without preannouncement will be held at the installation
     entry point until verification of delivery. If the delivery cannot be verified the driver and cargo will
     be turned away.
  2.8. Foreign visit control procedures. Foreign visitors are personnel who are citizens of any country
  other than the US, including dual citizenship. Foreign visit control procedures apply to all foreigners
  entering the installation for schools, courses, classes, conferences, meetings, liaison programs, con-
  tracted work or any official business. Sponsoring units who have questions about the status of their
  visitors should contact HQ AFSOC/A2S for clarification.
     2.8.1. Upon notification of pending official foreign visits, sponsoring units must immediately
     contact HQ AFSOC/A2S, Foreign Disclosure Office (FDO), for guidance and instructions. Unit
     point of contact will attempt to gather pertinent information of visitors; visitor’s rank, name, coun-
     try of origin, passport number and company/agency of employment. The FDO will forward a copy
     of the visit information to 1 SOSFS and AFOSI Det 104. Sponsoring unit must also notify 1 SOW/
     CCP (Wing Protocol) and 1 SOW/CCS (Commander’s Secretary) for inclusion in wing com-
     mander’s calendar.
     2.8.2. Thirty days prior to official visit, the appropriate agencies, identified in paragraph 2.7.1.,
     must be notified of who will be visiting Hurlburt Field and sponsoring units must maintain strict
     accountability of all visitors during the duration of their visit. Every effort will be made to expe-
     dite foreign visit requests and accommodate the visitors but not at the expense of national security.
     Special emphasis should be placed on the protection of our vital information during foreign visits
     due to the potential damage to national security.
12                                                         HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


     2.8.3. Prior to arrival of foreign visitors each unit sponsoring visits will review their security plan
     for action. Unit OPSEC and COMSEC plans should be reviewed and procedures to protect critical
     information incorporated into the visit security plan. The plan must also include actions to be
     taken during increased FPCONs.
     2.8.4. HQ AFSOC/A2S will notify sponsoring unit, AFOSI Det 104 and 1 SOSFS when visit is
     approved or disapproved.
     2.8.5. Installation Entry/Access:
         2.8.5.1. Upon notification of visit approval, 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration will reserve the
         appropriate number of foreign visitor badges and prepare an AF Form 335, Issuance Record
         - Accountability Identification Card. Visit sponsor will be issued the appropriate number of
         foreign visitor badges via AF Form 335.
         2.8.5.2. Actions at the Visitor Control Center. Sponsors will verify visitors against the
         approved Foreign Visit Request provided by AFSOC/A2S prior to issuing badges and entry
         into the installation. Each visitor will sign for his/her badge upon verification of the visitor's
         identity.
         2.8.5.3. Visit sponsor will escort or assign escorts to remain with the foreign visitors at all
         times. The ratio of visitors to sponsors shall not exceed 7:1. The visitors must clearly under-
         stand they are authorized access to the installation during specified times and will be detained
         if a violation of the plan occurs. Foreign military visitors are required to wear the uniform of
         their host country and the issued foreign visitor badge on their upper outermost garment.
         2.8.5.4. Sponsoring units may request a waiver to escort requirements; waiver approval
         authority is the wing commander. Waiver requests must include all foreign visitors’ informa-
         tion, dates of visit, times foreign visitor will have access to the installation, and security mea-
         sures unit will put in place.
         2.8.5.5. 1 SOW command element will forward waiver request to the threat working group
         (TWG) for review and recommendation. TWG will review requests during weekly meetings
         and reply with recommendations back to Director of Staff (1 SOW/DS). 1 SOW command ele-
         ment will notify sponsoring unit, TWG, 1 SOSFS/S-3 and AFSOC/A2S if waiver has been
         approved or disapproved.
     2.8.6. Actions prior to departure of foreign visitors. During the duty day of the last day of the visit,
     sponsors must ensure all badges are retrieved and accounted for before the visitors depart the
     installation.
         2.8.6.1. Sponsors must notify 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration, AFOSI Det 104 and AFSOC/
         A2S, when the visit has been terminated. Notify 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration when returning
         all foreign visitor badges.
     2.8.7. 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration will maintain a database of all foreign visitors visiting the
     installation. Request to extend date of foreign visitors on official business must be approved by
     AFSOC/A2S.
     2.8.8. Unaccounted for foreign visitor badges. Sponsoring agency will complete an AF Form
     1168, Statement of Suspect/Witness/Complainant, identifying who originally issued the badge,
     who the badge was issued to (include rank, name, identification number, country of origin, and
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                           13


     branch of service, is applicable), who was responsible for retrieving the badges, actions taken to
     retrieve badges, and intended actions to contact foreign visitor’s home unit to retrieve badge. “Sig-
     nature or Witness/Interviewer” must be signed by sponsoring unit commander or staff agency
     chief.
     2.8.9. Foreign visitor program points of contact numbers.
     Organization                            Phone Numbers
     AFOSI Det 104                           884-7219/7203
     HQ AFSOC/FDO                            884-4096/5306
     1 SOSFS/Pass & Registration             884-5233/5125
  2.9. Mission critical identification cards. Mission Critical Personnel are individuals identified by
  supervisor/management who are needed at work to provide services or support functions prior to, dur-
  ing, and/or after periods of extreme weather, natural disasters, or other contingencies having the
  potential to disrupt normal base level activities/operation.
     2.9.1. Squadron Commanders and supervisors identify and designate civilian and/or contractor
     positions as mission critical and notify incumbents of such designation. Units will provide a con-
     solidated listing of mission critical positions to 1 SOMSS Civilian Personnel Office and report
     changes as they occur.
         2.9.1.1. Specifically identify those positions/personnel needed at work “during” periods of
         “extreme weather, natural disaster, or other contingencies” from those needed “prior to” and
         “after” such periods (e.g. hurricanes where personnel are needed at work “during” the event).
         Try to keep this list as short as practical.
         2.9.1.2. Civilians must be notified if their position is designated as mission critical. 1 SOMSS/
         DPC maintains a sample letter for this purpose. They should be advised they might be required
         to remain at work for extended periods; work irregular tours of duty; may be required to
         remain on base. Also, they must be advised that one of their duties is to contact their unit/
         supervisor as soon as possible after a disaster or other contingency event for work related
         instructions.
     2.9.2. 1 SOMSS/DPC maintains consolidated lists of civilians in mission critical positions and
     ensures incumbents in those positions are issued mission critical identification card for access to
     base.
     2.9.3. Unit Control Center (UCC) will maintain the capability to notify/recall mission critical per-
     sonnel when directed by 1 SOW Battle Staff or unit commander. Supervisors will notify mission
     critical personnel of the requirement for their services as early as possible, prior to, during, or after
     the occurrence of an event.
  2.10. Marked emergency vehicles. Military and civilian emergency vehicles operating under emer-
  gency conditions are granted uninterrupted entry to the installation.
     2.10.1. A notification should come be received by the Security Forces Control Center before the
     vehicle arrives at the gate. If no notification was received for civilian emergency vehicles, Secu-
     rity Force will deny access until SFCC verifies the need for entry. Installation entry controllers
     will notify the SFCC with the description, number of occupants and destination.
14                                                              HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


        2.10.2. Okaloosa County emergency services occasionally request a thoroughfare. Upon receipt
        of notification Security Forces will clear a traffic lane to expedite entry. If a patrol is available, dis-
        patch to the gate to escort them through the base.

3. NORMAL SECURITY FORCES OPERATIONS. The senior security forces person on duty is the
flight chief. This person is responsible for the effective operation of the security force. The flight chief
should be contacted whenever questions or problems arise with security operations. The flight chief can
be contacted through the Security Forces Control Center (SFCC), 884-7777.
     3.1. Security Forces provide support for restricted areas as described below.
        3.1.1. A two-person external security response team is constantly provided. This security
        response team responds to all incidents involving Protection Level-3 (PL-3), and higher, resources
        and provides routine surveillance for all flightline areas.
        3.1.2. East- West-side parking areas. Two one-person internal security patrols or single two-per-
        son patrol provide immediate response to all situations within the restricted area of responsibility.
        The one-person patrols become a two-person patrol during the hours of darkness and during main-
        tenance non-duty hours.
        3.1.3. Random restricted area badge checks. The purpose of these checks is to monitor compli-
        ance with entry rules for the restricted areas and verify AF Form 1199CD against other authenti-
        cation measures.
            3.1.3.1. All personnel working in restricted areas should be prepared to produce their AF
            Form 1199CD to security forces for verification and authentication.
            3.1.3.2. For safety purposes security forces should not conduct random restricted area badge
            checks on personnel working directly with aircraft whose propellers/rotors are turning.
            3.1.3.3. As a minimum, a total of four restricted area badge checks will be conducted during
            each security forces 8-hour shift and six restricted area badge checks during each security
            forces 12-hour shift. Times and locations for these checks will vary, so no pattern is estab-
            lished.
     3.2. Commando Watch Program. The purpose of the Commando Watch program is to assist units in
     maintaining a continuous security education program to enhance security awareness.
        3.2.1. 1 SOSFS Installation Security will perform Commando Watch NCO duties as designated
        by the Installation Chief Security Forces (ICSF). The Commando Watch NCO duties are to pro-
        mote security awareness among flightline workers.
        3.2.2. The Commando Watch NCO can assist commanders in planning and conducting security
        awareness monthly exercises and tests, offer assistance and advice on security matters, inform all
        personnel on security terms and procedures, visit work calls, commander calls, work/control/com-
        mand centers, and other flightline support branches.
        3.2.3. The Commando Watch NCO may be contacted by calling 1 SOSFS Installation Security at
        extension 884-5180/5129.
     3.3. Physical security checks. The external security response team provides physical security checks
     of all restricted area boundaries, lighting and facilities during each shift.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                         15


     3.3.1. Security deficiencies will be annotated in the Security Forces blotter and the appropriate
     agency contacted to initiate corrective actions. The work order number and compensatory security
     measures will also be annotated in the SF Blotter.
     3.3.2. Units with responsibility to correct restricted area security deficiencies will provide priority
     maintenance to fencing, restricted area and gate lighting, and other physical security aids during
     normal and emergency postures.
  3.4. Video Enhancement Security System (VESS). The flightline camera system (VESS) will be used
  in conjunction with the installation entry point camera system to enhance installation and resource
  security.
     3.4.1. The Security Forces Control Center will continually monitor flightline activity using the
     VESS. The Security Forces Control Center will maintain primary control of the VESS and utilize
     it IAW unit operating instructions.
     3.4.2. The 1 SOW Installation Control Center and Maintenance Operations Control Center may
     use their VESS monitors for official duties, but will immediately yield control to the Security
     Forces Control Center upon request.
  3.5. Miscellaneous camera and surveillance systems. Any staff agency, unit, or section intending to
  purchase a new, or expanding an existing camera/surveillance system will coordinate requirements
  with 1 SOSFS Electronic Security Systems for integration into the integrated base defense plan.
  3.6. AF Form 53, Security Forces Desk Blotter. The security forces desk sergeant prepares this form
  as the official chronological record of security forces activities. Completed AF Forms 53 should
  include sufficient information to identify persons concerned, facts and circumstances of incidents, and
  to provide a complete summary of events for the tour of each flight. The form will be initiated at the
  beginning and terminate at the closing of each tour of duty.
     3.6.1. Blotters will be distributed electronically to the following agencies;
         3.6.1.1. 1 SOW/CC/CV/CCC.
         3.6.1.2. 1 SOG/CC/CD/CCC.
         3.6.1.3. 1 SOMDG/CC/CD/CCC.
         3.6.1.4. 1 SOMXG/CC/CD/CCC.
         3.6.1.5. 1 SOMSG/CC/CD/CCC.
         3.6.1.6. 1 SOW/FP/ME/JA/IG.
         3.6.1.7. 505 CCW/CC/CV/CCC and 505 TRG/CC/CD.
         3.6.1.8. 720 STG/CC/CD/CEM.
         3.6.1.9. AFOSI Det 104.
     3.6.2. Authority to add positions to blotter distribution is delegated to the ICSF. At no time should
     the blotter be distributed below group level. Unit first sergeants and commanders receive notifica-
     tions involving personnel within their unit from the Security Forces Control Center.
  3.7. High risk situations. The 1 SOW has the authority to handle certain high-risk incidents that are
  criminal in nature (that is, barricaded suspects). The Air Force philosophy is to fully comply with the
16                                                            HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


     lead agency concept by yielding to civilian authorities. The primary 1 SOW goal in dealing with these
     high-risk situations is to prevent or minimize loss of life and property by containment, negotiation,
     and referral when necessary. Security Forces must train to isolate, contain and neutralize a terrorist or
     hostage incident, with or without off-base assistance.
        3.7.1. 1 SOSFS will maintain a cadre, minimum of two, of trained/certified hostage negotiators to
        establish initial contact and begin negotiations.
        3.7.2. Emergency services team support (hostage situation, barricaded suspect, active shooter,
        etc.) for Hurlburt Field is primarily provided by Okaloosa County Sherriff’s Office (OCSO). Due
        to the installation having proprietary jurisdiction, a memorandum of agreement is not required for
        OCSO SWAT to respond on base.
     3.8. The need for police patrols to utilize batons as an intermediate level of force is delegated to the
     Installation CSF. If batons are utilized patrolmen will receive specific training prior to being issued.
     The collapsible baton is recommended. The PR-24 Police Baton is not authorized for carry.
     3.9. Command directed building checks (CDBC). The Installation Commander, having command
     authority over the installation, authorizes detector dogs to search for drugs or explosives throughout
     the installation. The authority to direct or establish procedures for selecting buildings on the installa-
     tion has been delegated to the current military magistrate. These random checks are not conducted
     merely on probable cause, but are based on the commander's authority to provide for security and pro-
     tect resources.
        3.9.1. As determined by the Installation Commander, buildings to be checked will be selected at
        random. The CDBC listing will be produced monthly using a computer program, when possible,
        and submitted to the base legal office (1 SOW/JA) for review. After 1 SOW/JA review, the listing
        will be submitted to the Magistrate for approval. The approved listing will be provided to 1
        SOSFS Military Working Dog (MWD) section for implementation.
        3.9.2. The approved CDBC list, in conjunction with this instruction, authorizes 1 SOSFS military
        working dog handlers to accomplish building checks in all facilities on Hurlburt Field. 1 SOSFS
        MWD handlers will have a copy of the approved CDBC list immediately available while conduct-
        ing searches.

4. SECURITY FORCES POST PRIORITY AND PATROL ZONES. The Installation Chief Security
Forces (ICSF) has the authority to establish post priority lists and curtail lower priority posts when neces-
sary to man higher priority posts. Further, the ICSF will utilize the Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
detailed in AF TTP 3-10.1, and the ORM options detailed in CSAF Security Forces Posture Message,
dated 26 January 2007, to determine the best means to protect the base after meeting COCM support/
deployment taskings. The ICSF establishes the post priority list from FPCON Normal through Delta.
Additionally, the ICSF will establish a radio and vehicle priority list. Post and equipment lists will be
managed day-to-day by 1 SOSFS Operations.
     4.1. Patrol sectors are established to ensure a 5 minute response to on-base emergencies and alarm
     activations. The on-duty security forces flight chief has the authority to adjust patrol sectors as
     response requirements occur to ensure all sectors of the installation receive coverage.
     4.2. Hurlburt Field is divided into two patrol zones:
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                         17


     4.2.1. Zone 1. All areas west of the flightline’s center runway, to include all Hurlburt Field prop-
     erty south of Highway 98.
     4.2.2. Zone 2. All areas east of the flightline’s center runway, north of Highway 98, to include
     Commando Village housing area.
  4.3. Security Forces patrols responding to alarm activations from a sensitive compartmented informa-
  tion facility (SCIF) will be physically present at the facility within five minutes from receipt of alarm.
  4.4. Security Forces patrols maintain the capability to tactically respond within five minutes to alarms
  generated from interior detection systems or personnel and incidents concerning controlled/restricted
  areas.
  4.5. When manning permits, the use of additional fixed, mobile, and walking posts will be considered
  to reduce pilferage and theft. The use of military working dog teams should be considered for these
  situations.
  Note 4: Random anti-terrorist measure (RAM) teams, if posted, should not be used primarily for rou-
  tine police services dispatches (i.e. alarm activations, vehicle accidents).

5. CONTROL OF PRIVATELY OWNED WEAPONS (POW). The following preventive measures
are in effect for all-base housing, dormitory and billeting residents.
  5.1. POWs are defined as any privately owned firearm, tear gas gun, chemical weapon/device (not to
  include self-defense canister containing 1 oz. or less of irritant), bladed weapon with a blade greater
  than 3 inches in length, stun-gun, electric weapons, device which expels a projectile (i.e., BB gun, pel-
  let gun, dart gun, archery equipment), or weapons which would be reasonably considered unusually
  dangerous. It also includes any instrument having the capacity to inflict death and from the manner in
  which it is used, is likely to produce or may easily and readily produce death; spring-loaded knives
  (switchblades), swords, blackjacks, metal knuckles, "Nunchacku" fighting sticks, kung-fu stars, boo-
  merangs, chains (wrapped), and billie clubs.
  5.2. Each military sponsor responsible for a government housing unit will ensure all POWs stored in
  their housing unit are secured in an appropriately constructed locked container, or equipped with a
  tamper-resistant mechanical lock (i.e., trigger locks) or other safety device.
     5.2.1. Mechanical locks or other safety devices will be properly engaged to ensure the weapon is
     rendered inoperable by any unauthorized person.
     5.2.2. Sponsors will ensure POWs stored in locked cabinets constructed with glass windows will
     have an additional level of security in place (i.e., trigger locks, wire mesh) to prevent the removal
     or use of POWs if the glass is broken. Keys and combinations to locks and/or other devices will be
     closely controlled to prevent access by children and other unauthorized person.
     5.2.3. Ammunition may be stored in a locked drawer of a gun cabinet or stored in a gun safe.
     Ammunition not stored in a gun safe will be placed in another location (separate from POWs) that
     a reasonably prudent person would believe to be secure from a child or other unauthorized person.
     5.2.4. POWs will not be stored in privately owned vehicles. Additionally, children will not be left
     unattended in vehicles containing POWs.
  5.3. Transporting POWs in a vehicle is forbidden on Hurlburt Field, unless traveling to and from a fir-
  ing range or (for base residents) traveling to and from off-base.
18                                                          HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


        5.3.1. Personnel transporting POWs to/from a base firing range will take the most direct route to/
        from the range and the gate.
            5.3.1.1. Base residents transporting POWs to/from base gates will take the most direct route
            to/from their residence.
            5.3.1.2. Secondary stops (i.e., Shoppette, work) are prohibited while transporting POWs.
        5.3.2. The weapon will not be accessible by any vehicle occupant and transported outside the pas-
        senger compartment, when possible.
        5.3.3. When transporting POWs, the weapon will be unloaded in a case or appropriate carrier and
        ammunition will be stored separately from the weapon.
     5.4. Each organization on Hurlburt Field will obtain POW registration from its members residing
     on-base and possessing firearms, using the AF Form 1314, Firearms Registration. Registration
     information and safe storage certification will be forwarded to 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration to update
     the Security Forces Management Information System.
        5.4.1. Organizations will ensure POWs are registered by newly assigned members living in gov-
        ernment housing, and by members that move on-base after residing off-base.
        5.4.2. Organizations will ensure members are informed of storage and registration requirements
        for POWs acquired during the period of their assignment to government housing.
        5.4.3. During the registration process, each member storing a POW in a government facility will
        sign a written statement acknowledging their responsibilities IAW installation requirements for
        preventing a child or other unauthorized person access to POWs.
        5.4.4. POW storage other than guns. Each unit has the responsibility to locate a storage area
        where their unit members can store such weapons.
            5.4.4.1. Out-processing checklists will include 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration as a required
            out-processing point to ensure all departing members POW registration paperwork is
            destroyed and removed from the database.
        5.4.5. Base agencies and civilian law enforcement entities requiring access to POW registration
        information not under their control should coordinate all requests through 1 SOSFS Reports &
        Analysis (1 SOSFS/S-5CR) at 884-5134.
     5.5. Personnel residing in dormitories and billeting are not authorized to store POWs in their rooms
     or vehicles. All dorm and billeting residents will store their firearms in the 1 SOSFS armory and make
     arrangements through their unit for all other weapons.
        5.5.1. For more information on storing weapons in the armory contact the 1 SOSFS Armory
        NCOIC at 884-6261.
     5.6. The sale/purchase of POWs on the installation will be in accordance with state and federal laws
     and guidelines.
        5.6.1. The private (individual to individual) sale/purchase of firearms on the installation is
        restricted to individuals who reside on the installation. Individual who reside off base should not
        bring POWs on the installation for the purpose of advertising, displaying or selling.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                          19


       5.6.2. The commercial sale of firearms on the installation is restricted to 1 SOSVS Rifle and Pis-
       tol Club.
   5.7. The use of POWs on the installation is restricted to the base firing ranges (when under the direct
   supervision of the 1 SOSFS or JSOU cadre) and/or the 1 SOSVS Rifle and Pistol Club.
       5.7.1. Any exception must be reviewed and approved by the Hurlburt Field Range Working
       Group.
   5.8. Concealed weapon/firearm license holder. Any person licensed to carry a concealed weapon/fire-
   arm will comply with the provisions of this instruction.

6. NON-GOVERNMENT ARMED COURIER SERVICE. Non-government funds activities (banks,
credit unions, ATM maintenance) must obtain authorization from the installation commander prior to uti-
lizing an armed courier service.
   6.1. 1st Special Operations Contracting Squadron and/or sponsoring agency will submit all contracts
   containing requests for armed courier service to the Installation Chief Security Forces for review,
   prior to approval by the installation commander.
   6.2. Armed couriers will identify themselves to installation entry controllers prior to attempting entry
   to the installation and advise them of the courier’s destination and the estimated duration of the escort/
   visit.
       6.2.1. The installation entry controller will, in-turn, relay the information to the Security Forces
       Control Center.
   6.3. Armed courier services will coordinate their activities on the installation in advance with 1
   SOSFS Police Services at 884-6185.
   6.4. 1 SOSFS Police Services will incorporate the approved armed courier services into 1 SOSFS
   integrated base defense measures, as identified in the appropriate unit operating instructions.

7. RESTRICTED AREA BADGES. Any unit assigned to Hurlburt Field whose members require rou-
tine and frequent access to restricted/controlled areas may initiate an AF Form 2586, Unescorted Entry
Authorization Certificate.
   7.1. Approving officials complete all applicable portions of Sections II and IV.
   Note 5: Squadron commanders designate approving officials for each area by naming their positions
   in unit operating instructions and notifying 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration via memorandum.
       7.1.1. Security Forces. Installation, Chief Security Forces (ICSF), or designated representatives
       are authorized to approve entry to aircraft parking ramps (Area 4) and munitions storage area
       (Area 20) for all security forces personnel.
       7.1.2. Personnel who are identified as augmenters and require access to restricted areas in the per-
       formance of augmenter duties are required to obtain an AF Form 2586 from 1 SOSFS, if not
       already authorized access for their daily duties. If the augmenter does not otherwise have an AF
       Form 1199CD, Restricted Area Badge, 1 SOSFS will maintain control of the augmenter’s AF
       Form 2586 and AF Form 1199CD when the individual is not performing augmenter duties. If the
       augmenter has a valid AF Form 1199CD and requires an additional area for augmenter duties, the
       augmenter’s unit requests authorization for the additional area in writing to 1 SOSFS.
20                                                           HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


        7.1.3. ICSF and 1 SOSFS Operation Officer are authorized to coordinate Area 4/20 for augmenter
        personnel. 1 SOSFS coordinates the additional area in Section IV of the original AF Form 2586.
        7.1.4. Installation commander's designated coordinating officials must serve in positions with
        direct responsibility for the applicable restricted area. Strictly limit those designated. Designees
        may not delegate this authority further. HQ AFSOC Directors may approve issuance of restricted
        area badges (RAB) within their directorate and delegate approval authority only to their director-
        ate security manager.
     7.2. Approving officials and designees may not grant themselves unescorted entry. Approving offi-
     cials may not delegate approving authority to squadron section commanders.
     7.3. In restricted areas containing PL-3 resources, any person holding a valid RAB may perform as an
     escort official for that area. No designation of this authority is required on the AF Form 2586 or AF
     Form 1199CD.
        7.3.1. 1 SOW Installation Control Center and HQ AFSOC Command Center require escort offi-
        cials to be designated on AF Form 2586 and identified on AF Form 1199CD.

8. DISPLAY OF RESTRICTED AREA BADGES. AF Form 1199CD, Restricted Area Badge, will
be displayed on the uppermost outer garment at all times while performing duties in a restricted area.
     8.1. AF Form 1199CD must be displayed on the front and top of the garment being worn, except
     when doing so causes a reasonable safety/FOD concern (i.e., ground crew for an engine run-up). The
     intent of this requirement is to permit rapid identification of personnel within a restricted area.
     8.2. The display of the AF Form 1199CD is prohibited outside of the restricted areas except when the
     badge is also used for circulation control in an adjacent controlled area. When leaving a restricted or
     controlled area, individuals should place the badge in a concealed location out of view.

9. RESTRICTED AREA BADGE VERIFICATION. Approving officials must complete all portions
of Section IV of the AF Form 2586. The individual’s unit commander or designee completes Section I, II,
III, and columns 1, 2, 3 of Section IV. Signature of the unit commander or designee in Section II certifies
that all available records were reviewed and contain no disqualifying information. When completing Col-
umn 2 (escort official) of Section IV, indicates whether the individual has escort authority by indicating
“Yes” or “No” in this block.
     9.1. Area 1 (AFSOC Command Center/Restricted Area). AFSOC, Director, Command and Control or
     designated representative.
     9.2. Area 2 (1 SOW Installation Control Center/Restricted Area). Chief, Command and Control or
     designated representative.
     9.3. Area 4 (Aircraft Parking Ramps/Restricted Areas). AFSOC/CC, AFSOC/CV, AFSOC/DS, HQ
     AFSOC Directors, 1 SOW/CC, 1 SOW/CV, 1 SOG/CC, 1 SOMXG/CC, 1 SOMSG/CC, 1 SOMDG/
     CC, squadron commanders or their designated representative.
     9.4. Area 10 (HQ 720 STG Building 90310/Controlled Area). 720 STG/CC, 720 STG/ CD, 720 OSS/
     CC, 720 OSS/DO or their designated representative.
     9.5. Area 13 (Building 1). AFSOC/CC, AFSOC/CV, AFSOC/DS, DSA, CCQ, DCSs, and HQ
     AFSOC Directors or their designated representatives.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                         21


   9.6. Area 20 (1 SOEMS/Munitions Storage Area/Controlled Area). 1 SOEMS/CC or designated rep-
   resentative.
   9.7. Letters authorizing persons to sign the AF Form 2586 will be updated annually or when changes
   are made. The unit security manager will forward the memo with changes to 1 SOSFS Pass & Regis-
   tration.
   9.8. Approving officials and designees may not grant themselves unescorted entry. Approving offi-
   cials may not delegate approving authority to squadron section commanders.
   9.9. 1 SOW Installation Control Center and AFSOC Command Center are Protection Level-3 and
   require an “E” to escort personnel within its confines. Ensure the AF Form 2586 is documented as
   outlined in AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation Security Program, and this instruction.
   9.10. If an individual’s AF Form 1199CD is in question, a system is available to verify the authentic-
   ity of those badges issued by 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration. Report suspected instances of counterfeit
   badges immediately to the security forces. If the individual in possession of the badge is already in a
   restricted area, initiate HELPING HAND alert procedures.
   9.11. Local authentication procedures will not be published in this instruction due to the sensitive
   nature of the information. Authorized personnel requiring information on local authentication proce-
   dures should contact their unit security manager or 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration.

10. LOSS OR THEFT OF RESTRICTED AREA BADGE. Individuals will report the loss or theft of
their AF Form 1199CD to their unit commander or security manager.
   10.1. The commander or security manager must conduct an investigation to determine the circum-
   stances surrounding the loss or theft. The investigation will include obtaining a written statement from
   the individual concerned. A written report must be prepared.
   10.2. The report will include; who was issued the badge, badge number, detailed circumstances sur-
   rounding the loss or theft, efforts made to recover/find the badge. The unit commander will endorse
   the report, indicate concurrence/non-concurrence, indicate actions taken to preclude recurrence, and
   whether a replacement badge is required.
   10.3. All statements obtained during the investigation will be attached to the report. The report will be
   hand carried to 1 SOSFS Pass & Registration along with old AF Form 2586, and new AF Form 2586
   if required.
   10.4. 1 SOSFS Plans and Programs maintains an instructional guide for commanders and security
   managers requiring further assistance.
   10.5. Annotate the old badge number, date of investigation, and the statement – “Badge Replaced due
   to Loss” – in the remarks block in Section V of the AF Form 2586.
   10.6. Bearers report damaged or indistinct badges to their unit commander/designee or unit security
   manager.

11. RETRIEVAL OF RESTRICTED AREA BADGES. When badge bearers leave the installation for
another assignment, are reassigned (PCA), separate, or retire, unit commanders or designees ensure indi-
viduals hand carry their badge to the badge-issuing office at least one workday before leaving.
22                                                          HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


     11.1. To record destruction use a letter or Air Force general purpose form. Ensure the badge number
     is recorded.
     11.2. Destroy badges not later than the close of business on the duty day received.

12. RESOURCE PROTECTION PROGRAM.
     12.1. Overview. The resource protection program is designed to develop habits and attitudes in per-
     sonnel that, when combined with protective measures and equipment, will enhance the security of the
     installation. All 1 SOW and associate units will participate in the Hurlburt Field Resource Protection
     Program, unless oversight responsibility of a specific program is from a higher authority/agency. In
     this instance, a non-participation request must be forwarded to the Installation Chief Security Forces
     for review and approval.
     12.2. Government property. Government property will not be removed from the installation without
     the written approval of the owning unit commander or designee. Personnel removing government
     property from the installation for an official purpose must have in their possession either a govern-
     ment bill of laden or an AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, signed by the unit commander or
     designee. Government property "loaned" to another unit should be accompanied by an AF Form 1297
     and be signed by the loaning unit's equipment custodian.
        12.2.1. Facilities must be secured when personnel are not present, or not in use, to prevent the
        loss, theft, or destruction of government property. All 1 SOW and associate units will provide cur-
        rent building managers information for assigned facilities. Forward this information in letter for-
        mat, signed by the unit commander, to 1 SOCES for inclusion to the master building managers’
        roster.
            12.2.1.1. Secure all entrances to facilities routinely vacated during non-duty hours with lock-
            ing devices capable of providing reasonable assurance against forced entry.
            12.2.1.2. Secure storage facilities with locking devices capable of providing reasonable assur-
            ance against forced entry unless under continuous surveillance. Install a low security lock and
            hasp on aluminum storage structures.
            12.2.1.3. Secure windows to all unoccupied buildings, offices, and work areas.
        12.2.2. If a facility is found unsecured, security forces will use the building managers’ roster to
        identify a building manager, and instruct them to report immediately to the facility. The building
        manager and security forces will conduct a joint cursory inspection of the building, property, and
        equipment. A Security Forces blotter entry will be made. In the event equipment or property is
        damaged/missing, the building manager must immediately inform their commander.
        12.2.3. Ensure all high value or pilferable (i.e. tools, lawn equipment, computers, etc.) items are
        engraved or otherwise marked to discourage theft. Units will maintain an inventory of all marked
        and engraved items using AF Form 1670, Valuable Property Record. Annual inventories are
        highly recommended.
        12.2.4. The Installation Chief Security Forces has delegated authority to 1 SOSFS Resource Pro-
        tection office to coordinate on all projects affecting the Resource Protection Program (RPP).
     12.3. Program surveys. The RPP makes use of a combined effort to evaluate a unit’s needs and pro-
     grams in support of resource protection through periodic reviews.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                        23


       12.3.1. Initial surveys are conducted by 1 SOSFS Resource Protection, 1 SOCS Information Sys-
       tems Flight, and 1 SOCES Engineering Flight to assess protection requirements and capabilities.
       Surveys are maintained in the 1 SOSFS/S5C office and the unit’s controlled area monitor book.
       12.3.2. Periodic Surveys are conducted by 1 SOSFS Resource Protection annually for arms,
       ammunition & explosive facilities storing category I, II, III arms or munitions and for funds facil-
       ities storing $100,000 or more. Refer to AFI 31-101, Chapter 19, for specific information regard-
       ing periodic surveys to other controlled areas.
       12.3.3. All findings/observations not awarded a deviation or waiver must respond within 30 days
       of report with corrective action taken.
       12.3.4. Controlled Area Monitors will conduct internal annual program self inspections during
       their off year and forward the findings to 1 SOSFS Resource Protection.
       12.3.5. Funds facilities storing less than $100,000 will not be surveyed unless directed by the
       Installation Chief Security Forces or if there is a written request to survey the facility.

13. CONTROLLED AREAS. Controlled areas are established pursuant to DoD Directive (DoDD)
5200.8, Security of DoD Installations and Resources, and Section 21, Internal Security Act of 1950 (50
U.S.C. 797). The authority to establish controlled areas at Hurlburt Field is delegated to the Installation
Chief Security Forces.
   13.1. To request a controlled area designation, the owner/user must submit a controlled area designa-
   tion request letter to 1 SOSFS Resource Protection. 1 SOSFS and 1 SOCES will conduct a joint initial
   survey of facilities or areas being considered for controlled area designation.
       13.1.1. Once the initial survey is conducted and the facility or area meets requirements requests
       will be routed through 1 SOSFS Resource Protection for coordination to the Installation Chief
       Security Forces for approval. This initial report will be maintained by the owner of the controlled
       area and 1 SOSFS Resource Protection for the duration of the controlled area designation.
       13.1.2. The wing commander will be kept abreast on all additions and deletions through briefings
       at the annual Installation Security Council meeting.
   13.2. Establishing a controlled area. Procedures outlined in AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation
   Security Program, Chapter 22, will be followed when establishing a controlled area.
       13.2.1. Additionally, unit commanders requesting the controlled area will appoint a primary and
       alternate controlled area monitor (CAM). The CAM is required to attend training provided by 1
       SOSFS Resource Protection as part of the final approval process. Units should provide updates to
       their CAM designation letter to 1 SOSFS Resource Protection semiannually, or as requirements
       dictate.
   13.3. Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIF) are established, accredited, and man-
   aged by Headquarters, Air Force Special Operations Command Special Security Office (AFSOC/
   SSO). SCIF managers will advise 1 SOSFS Resource Protection by memorandum what type of stor-
   age (open/closed) the SCIF is accredited for. All SCIFs will be certified as controlled areas.
   13.4. Entry control procedures. These procedures provide a standard within the wing. Commanders
   for the owning agency with controlled areas will be responsible for implementation of all security
   measures.
24                                                            HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


     13.5. Unescorted entry authority. Specific written permission, granted by the installation commander
     or designated representative, is required for unescorted entry into a controlled area. Commanders and
     chiefs of staff agencies are delegated the authority to grant unescorted entry into these areas. They will
     ensure that entry into their respective controlled areas is limited to individuals that have an official
     need for routine presence within the controlled areas. This authority may be delegated in writing to
     responsible unit personnel, to include CAM.
        13.5.1. An entry authority listing (EAL) will be posted on the inside of a controlled area by the
        main entrance door, with the exception of the munitions storage area (MSA) and the flightline.
        While in the controlled area, visitors will be signed in and escorted by personnel listed on the
        EAL.
        EXCEPTION: Areas with automated entry control systems (controlled area badge systems) are
        not required to have an EAL posted, as entry is granted and facilitated by an automated system.
            13.5.1.1. Entry points must be kept to the minimum necessary for efficient operation.
            13.5.1.2. Security Forces on official duty will be granted un-escorted entry to all controlled
            areas.
            13.5.1.3. Owners/users responsible for all resources and for entry and circulation control
            within controlled areas or facilities will:
        13.5.2. Ensure all work orders having to do with construction or modification of facilities, areas
        or physical barriers, are coordinated with 1 SOSFS Installation Security and 1 SOSFS Resource
        Protection before starting any work.
        13.5.3. Ensure boundaries of controlled areas are clearly defined by fencing, posting of signs, etc.,
        IAW AFI 31-101 and maintain physical safeguards with 1 SOCES after approval by the Installa-
        tion Chief Security Forces. Old and unserviceable signs may be replaced without prior coordina-
        tion. AFVA 31-211 may be used to post controlled area boundaries, personnel entry points, vehicle
        entry control points, and outdoor personnel entry points.
        13.5.4. Develop written operating procedures for entry and circulation control of the controlled
        area during normal and emergency security operations. All operating procedures must be submit-
        ted to 1 SOSFS Resource Protection for review.
        13.5.5. Ensure unescorted entry into controlled areas and access to the resources are limited to
        those personnel requiring frequent access to the controlled area. Personnel possessing unescorted
        entry authority may escort all other personnel requiring entry.
            13.5.5.1. Use the standard AF or DoD identification credentials (DD Form 2AF, Armed
            Forces Identification Card, Common Access Card, Geneva Convention Identification Card
            (Active, Reserved, Retired), or AF IMT 354, Civilian Identification Card, compared to an
            EAL.
            13.5.5.2. Brief all assigned personnel on entry and circulation control procedures and escort
            requirements to include:
                13.5.5.2.1. Procedures to prevent unauthorized entry into a controlled area.
                13.5.5.2.2. Procedures to take when persons inside the controlled area cannot be identified
                to include detaining and notifying security forces.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                       25


            13.5.5.2.3. Immediately report all damage, theft, irregularities (i.e., unexplained disap-
            pearance of property, attempted breaking and entering), or loss of USAF resources to secu-
            rity forces.
            13.5.5.2.4. Ensure accuracy and reliability of accounting procedures and encourage strict
            compliance with prescribed directives and policies.
            Note 6: The purchase of security enhancement equipment (i.e., close circuit television,
            internal alarms) are encouraged but must be routed through 1 SOSFS Resource Protection
            and 1 SOCES Alarm Maintenance prior to installation.
         13.5.5.3. Ensure a proper receipt is used to record the temporary transfer of government prop-
         erty to another unit, section, or individual.
  13.6. Controlled area monitor (CAM) responsibilities. CAMs will:
     13.6.1. Monitor, program, and coordinate all security requirements in support of the controlled
     area. The CAM is the unit commanders’ focal point for the controlled area.
     13.6.2. Ensure entry control procedures are in place and are sufficient to prevent unauthorized
     personnel from entering, verifying entrances to controlled areas are in good condition and can be
     properly secured, developing written procedures/operating instructions for security of the con-
     trolled area.
     13.6.3. Consider enrolling in ECI Course 8100, USAF Crime Prevention Program. The program
     provides basic information about resource protection and crime prevention techniques.
     13.6.4. Conduct initial controlled area, anti-robbery, and bomb threat procedures training for all
     assigned personnel immediately upon assignment to a controlled area and conduct follow-on
     training at least annually. Document this as ancillary training or by written memo that indicates the
     date of the training and list those who attended.
     13.6.5. Maintain a current copy of AFI 31-101, AFSOC supplement 1, Hurlburt Field Installation
     Security Plan, 1 SOW PL4 Resource Handbook, and this instruction.
     13.6.6. Controlled area procedures. Written controlled area entry control and internal circulation
     instructions must be established and coordinated through 1 SOSFS Resource Protection to ensure
     instructions are sufficient. Instructions must outline entry procedures during normal and emer-
     gency operations. The following procedures apply to all controlled areas:
     13.6.7. Persons authorized unescorted access to a controlled area must be designated in writing by
     name. A person not designated as having unescorted entry authority is considered a visitor and
     must be escorted while inside the area by someone having unescorted entry authority.
     13.6.8. A person’s identity and status must be established before they are granted access to a con-
     trolled area.
         13.6.8.1. Identity verification simply means ensuring the person requesting entry is whom he
         or she says. Normally, identity is established by checking requester’s RAB against their CAC
         or other form of identification, preferably one issued by the Air Force, Department of Defense,
         or another official agency.
         13.6.8.2. Status refers to the requester’s legitimate need to enter an area. To establish a per-
         son’s status, three basic criteria must be met:
26                                                   HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


     13.6.8.3. The person requesting entry is doing so for the purpose stated.
     13.6.8.4. The purpose for which entry is being requested constitutes official business.
     13.6.8.5. The person requesting entry is authorized to perform the function for which entry is
     being requested.
     13.6.8.6. If either the identity or status of a person requesting entry cannot be determined, or
     is otherwise in question, the person must be denied entry and security forces must be alerted at
     the Security Forces Control Center, 884-7777.
     13.6.8.7. Once the identity and status have been determined; the requester may be granted
     access to a controlled area by one of two methods:
     13.6.8.8. If the person has been designated in writing as having unescorted entry, he or she is
     allowed to enter.
     13.6.8.9. If the person does not have unescorted entry authorization; he or she is considered a
     visitor and must be escorted by someone who has unescorted entry authorization.
     13.6.8.10. Use the AF IMT 1109, Visitor Register Log, to keep track of all visitors that are
     escorted in and out of the controlled area. This document will be maintained on file 90 days.
     13.6.8.11. Controlled area book. All controlled areas must maintain a controlled area book or
     notebook containing, at a minimum:
        13.6.8.11.1. Controlled area designation memorandum.
        13.6.8.11.2. Password letter.
        13.6.8.11.3. Appointment letter.
        13.6.8.11.4. An 8 x 11 map of the controlled area with alarm points plotted.
        13.6.8.11.5. Operating instructions to include:
            13.6.8.11.5.1. Bomb threat procedures.
            13.6.8.11.5.2. Emergency entry and access procedures.
            13.6.8.11.5.3. Egress procedures.
            13.6.8.11.5.4. Key and lock control procedures.
            13.6.8.11.5.5. Anti-robbery training.
            13.6.8.11.5.6. Emergency building evacuation procedures.
            13.6.8.11.5.7. Owner/user personnel training requirements and location of training
            documentation.
            13.6.8.11.5.8. Internal circulation control procedures.
        13.6.8.11.6. Initial and latest controlled area survey report.
        13.6.8.11.7. Copy of any AF IMT 116, Request for Deviation from Security Criteria (if
        applicable).
        13.6.8.11.8. Copy of initial and annual controlled area/anti-robbery training.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                         27


              13.6.8.11.9. Last anti-robbery or controlled area penetration exercise.
              13.6.8.11.10. Copy of pending work requests (if applicable).
              13.6.8.11.11. Controlled area monitor designation memorandum.
   13.7. Physical security. To ensure a reasonably secure environment is afforded controlled areas, some
   physical security measures must be employed. The following minimum standards of physical security
   will be applied for controlled areas on Hurlburt Field.
       13.7.1. Outside shrubbery will be trimmed so it cannot conceal an intruder.
       13.7.2. Outside doors and windows to mechanical rooms must be secured.
       13.7.3. Adequate outside lighting must be provided to ensure rapid identification of attempts to
       break in and to discourage attempts.
       13.7.4. Key control measures must be effective. All keys to buildings, storage areas, and equip-
       ment must be accounted for. When keys are lost, locks should be replaced.
       13.7.5. No window or door can be made completely resistant to break-in however, all doors and
       windows must be in good repair and have working locking devices to ensure adequate physical
       security is afforded controlled areas. Refer to AFI 31-101, Chapter 20 for specific guidance.
       13.7.6. Specific personnel will be assigned responsibility for locking all internal storage areas and
       exterior doors and windows at the end of each duty day. SF 700/701 should be used to record daily
       physical security checks of facilities and areas for classified storage.
       13.7.7. Controlled area signs must be posted to identify the area. Refer to AFI 31-101, Chapter 20
       for specific guidance.
   13.8. Designated controlled areas. Controlled areas are not listed for force protection reasons. For a
   complete listing contact 1 SOSFS Resource Protection.
   13.9. All previously designated controlled areas must remove all controlled area warning signs posted
   at the facility within 30 days after deactivation.

14. INTRUSION DETECTION AND DURESS ALARM EQUIPMENT. Some controlled areas are
required to be equipped with an alarm system. Intrusion detection systems are installed and maintained in
accordance with the requirements of AFI 31-101, The Air Force Physical Security Program, and its sup-
plements. For specific requirements contact 1 SOSFS Resource Protection.
   14.1. Facilities protected by intrusion detection systems must be prominently marked using AFVA
   31-232, which reads “Warning! This Facility is Protected by an Intrusion Detection Alarm System,
   Warning.”
   14.2. Alarm facility entry door. All alarmed facilities have a specific door that must be used when
   entering or exiting the facility when the alarm system is armed. Custodians will only use this door to
   enter or exit a facility.
   14.3. Alarm work requests. Owner/user agency requesting to install, remove, or modify existing
   alarm systems will notify 1 SOCES Alarm Maintenance and 1 SOSFS Resource Protection. Owner/
   User submit any waiver/deviation to the existing alarm to 1 SOSFS Resource Protection.
28                                                          HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


     14.4. Alarm testing. Owner/user personnel are responsible for ensuring the proper functioning of
     installed alarm systems. Personnel authorized access to the alarm keypad must be trained to under-
     stand the systems they are using, including opening and closing procedures, system operation, and
     basic fault isolation.
        14.4.1. The owner/user who is authorized to activate or deactivate alarm will conduct testing of
        components (all sensors) at least quarterly. The results of the test are recorded on an AF IMT
        2530, Alarm System Test Record. This record is kept on file in the controlled area monitor book
        for 1 year.
        14.4.2. Alarm system testing will be accomplished in accordance with Controlled Area Monitor
        handbook and training provided by 1 SOSFS Resource Protection.
        14.4.3. Testing is complete when the Security Forces Control Center receives all alarms and
        results are annotated on AF IMT 2530.
        14.4.4. If any components are not functioning, owner/user will initiate a work request for repair
        by calling 1 SOCES Alarm Maintenance at 884-1167.
     14.5. Custodian response to alarm activations. Upon notification by the Security Forces Control Cen-
     ter, alarm custodians must respond within 30 minutes. Conduct a walk through of the affected facility/
     room with 1 SOSFS personnel and provide facility surveillance until the alarm is reset. If the alarm
     cannot be reset, owner/user will provide a 24-hour surveillance until the alarm is operational. All
     alarmed facilities will have established written procedures requiring prompt response by custodians to
     unannounced alarm activations.
     14.6. Alarm malfunctions.
        14.6.1. Monday through Friday 0730 to 1630 the user agency will initiate and follow-up on all
        work orders.
        14.6.2. During non-duty hours the Security Forces Control Center will notify alarm custodian.
        The custodian will notify the 1 SOCES Help Desk at 884-6683 and request an emergency work
        order.
        14.6.3. Once a work order is received, the user agency will immediately relay the work order
        number to the Security Forces Control Center, who will record the information in Security Forces
        blotter.
        14.6.4. If an alarmed facility has two or more alarms caused by a malfunction within a 24-hour
        period, the facility will deactivate the alarm system and provide security until the malfunction is
        repaired.
        14.6.5. In the event of alarm failure, owner or user personnel will respond and provide surveil-
        lance for their resources or protected facility until the alarm system is repaired or until the
        resources are transferred to an alarmed location.

15. PROTECTION LEVEL 4 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
     15.1. Funds Facilities. All Air Force Accounting and Finance offices and funds facility handling or
     storing $100,000 or more will be designated a controlled area. Other funds activities may be desig-
     nated a controlled area after coordination with 1 SOSFS Resource Protection and approval by the
     Installation Chief Security Forces.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                        29


     15.1.1. The fund activity custodians will use the following guidance when transferring funds.
        15.1.1.1. Funds less than $7,500 - No escort required.
        15.1.1.2. Funds between $7,500 and less than $25,000 - One escort, in addition to the funds
        handler, from the fund activity are required.
        15.1.1.3. Funds over $25,000 - One armed Security Forces escort required on or off base.
        15.1.1.4. When transferring funds (under $25,000) the fund activity must notify the SFCC of
        the time and place of departure, vehicle information, route of travel, destination, and estimated
        time of arrival at destination. The funds carrier must notify the SFCC when transfer is com-
        plete. If notification of completion is not received within 10 minutes after the estimated arrival
        time, anti-robbery procedures will be implemented.
     15.1.2. Non-robbery emergencies. AFOSI provides criminal alert notices whenever a suspect is
     operating on Air Force installations. In addition, Security Forces provides lists of personnel who
     may be involved in criminal activity. The following procedures will be followed if one of these
     persons is observed in a funds activity.
        15.1.2.1. Do not endanger yourself or others in an attempt to stop or delay the person.
        15.1.2.2. Remain calm. Do not arouse the suspicions of the person.
        15.1.2.3. DO NOT activate the robbery duress alarm.
        15.1.2.4. Call SFCC or have another person do so.
        15.1.2.5. If possible, delay the person until Security Forces arrive. If you cannot safely delay
        the person, try to observe direction and means of travel.
     15.1.3. Anti-robbery procedures.
        15.1.3.1. Prevention is the key to stopping holdups and robberies. The following prevention
        rules should be observed.
        15.1.3.2. Call the SFCC at once if you notice suspicious persons loitering near or in the facil-
        ity.
        15.1.3.3. Secure all teller and cashier operations. Install barriers to keep unauthorized persons
        out of these areas. Keep cashier room doors locked at all times. Keep safes and vaults locked
        when not in use.
        15.1.3.4. Keep cash register amounts to a minimum. Make frequent pickups.
        15.1.3.5. Make a thorough check of the facility at closing time to ensure personnel are not
        concealed within the premises.
     15.1.4. During a robbery or holdup the following procedures should be followed.
        15.1.4.1. DO NOT RESIST! The safety of employees and customers is the primary concern.
        Money can be replaced--lives cannot.
        15.1.4.2. If a duress alarm is installed, activate it. Do not jeopardize lives. If the alarm cannot
        be tripped safely during the robbery, wait until the suspect has left.
30                                                          HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


            15.1.4.3. Be identification conscious. Observe the suspect carefully for future identification.
            Use the suspect description checklist, AF Form 439, as a guide.
            15.1.4.4. Call the SFCC via Emergency 911 as soon as possible without attracting the atten-
            tion of the robber. This call can be made by another employee.
            15.1.4.5. As soon as the robber has left, attempt to observe direction and means of travel. Do
            not endanger yourself if this action cannot be done safely.
            15.1.4.6. Protect the crime scene. Don't let anyone enter or disturb it and observe the follow-
            ing rules.
            15.1.4.7. Identify witnesses to the robbery and ask them to stay for questioning by Security
            Forces.
            15.1.4.8. Exclude unauthorized persons from the scene.
            15.1.4.9. Avoid touching or stepping on anything that may represent evidence.
            15.1.4.10. Protect surfaces such as tables or countertops, windows, doorknobs, safe doors, and
            dropped objects. These may contain fingerprints that can be found, developed, and photo-
            graphed.
            15.1.4.11. Remain inside the facility, lock exterior doors and wait for arrival of Security
            Forces.
     15.2. Arms, Ammunition and Explosives (AA&E). AA&E of all types are susceptible to theft and pil-
     ferage. Standards and procedures for protecting firearms and munitions vary according to their cate-
     gory. Every weapon and ammunition item in the DoD inventory has been assigned a risk code or
     categorized. The administrative and compliance requirements for firearms are found in AFI 31-101,
     its supplements, and DoD 5100.76 M.
        15.2.1. The unit commander or staff agency chief having responsibility for firearms and muni-
        tions storage or handling is responsible for the following items.
            15.2.1.1. Compliance with AFI 31-101, Chapter 23, AFI 31-207, and DoD 5100.76 M for pro-
            tection of firearms.
            15.2.1.2. Establishing written procedures for storing, handling, and issuing firearms and
            munitions items.
            15.2.1.3. Ensuring all personnel who work with firearms or handle munitions are trained in
            the correct procedures.
            15.2.1.4. Obtaining designation for government firearms or munitions storage from ICSF. The
            designation must be in writing and a copy maintained at the facility and in the resources pro-
            tection activity folder.
        15.2.2. Surveillance requirements are a joint responsibility of Security Forces and owner-user
        personnel. Security Forces checks of firearms and munitions storage facilities will be recorded on
        1 SOSFS/S3 Form 1, Security Forces Facilities Checklist. User personnel must make sure that all
        storage areas are secured when they complete their operations in each facility and again before the
        end of the duty day
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                      31


     15.2.3. In all cases, once firearms/munitions are removed from a secure storage facility, the fire-
     arms/munitions must never be left unattended.
     15.2.4. In the event the alarm system becomes inoperative, owner/user personnel are responsible
     for surveillance and protection of the area. Firearms and munitions will be protected by an armed
     guard until they can be transferred to another alarmed secure area, or the alarm system is repaired.
     15.2.5. At least once each duty day, the using agency will check unattended facilities used to store
     firearms by physically checking locks, hinges, doors, exterior walls, and so on. Standard Form
     701, Activity Security Checklist, will be used to log these checks and be maintained on file for 30
     days at the activity. During non-duty hours, Security Forces will check all firearms and munitions
     storage areas as required by AFI 31-101 and DoD 5100.76 M.
  15.3. Firearms Movement. Firearms movements off Hurlburt Field will comply with AFI 31-101,
  chapter 23 requirements. Firearm movements on Hurlburt Field will comply with this instruction.
  Questions concerning on or off base movements can be directed to 1 SOSFS/Resource Protection.
     15.3.1. The unit shipping or owning the firearms must notify the SFCC before moving the weap-
     ons from approved storage facilities.
     15.3.2. The receiving agency, when notified of a firearms shipment, must immediately notify the
     SFCC where the firearms are located, when they will arrive, and who (by name) will be responsi-
     ble for the weapons until they are in authorized storage area. The SFCC will record the weapons
     movements on the Security Forces Blotter.
     15.3.3. All firearms movements must be provided the security required by DoD 5100.76 M,
     Chapter 7, and this instruction.
     15.3.4. During mobility operations under the Installation Deployment Plan, firearms/munitions
     movement escort protection will be the responsibility of the unit moving the firearms. Security
     Forces will not provide escort or surveillance over firearms in mobility situations.
     15.3.5. Aircraft carrying firearms shipments transiting Hurlburt Field will be parked in a
     restricted area, if space is available. Aircrews are responsible for notifying Security Forces when
     leaving weapons on aircraft. Very high risk munitions will be provided owner/user armed guard
     surveillance to and from the aircraft, and during off-loading. Aircraft making a transient stop with
     very-high risk munitions cargo aboard will also be provided owner/user armed guard surveillance,
     while awaiting loading.
     15.3.6. Over-the-road commercial vehicles carrying firearms shipments transiting Hurlburt Field
     will be protected IAW AFI 24-203, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Cargo, and this
     instruction. When transferred by unit or organizational vehicles, criteria outlined in this instruc-
     tion also apply. Security Forces will not provide armed surveillance for these shipments. Military
     personnel transporting firearms will be in military uniform and possess a valid DD Form 2 or
     CAC. Military personnel transporting firearms in civilian attire will also possess a valid AF Form
     523.
         15.3.6.1. Very high risk (Category I) items are moved under the protection of two drivers, one
         of whom is armed to maintain constant surveillance of the shipment. Armed is defined as hav-
         ing, at a minimum, a 9mm pistol with two 15 round magazines, one of which is in the weapon
         with a round chambered. Drivers will have portable communications equipment capable of
         contacting security forces personnel or other emergency agencies for assistance. An additional
32                                                            HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


           trail vehicle with one driver will accompany the shipment at a discreet distance and be capable
           of providing emergency assistance by contacting emergency response forces when required.
           Drivers will have portable communications to communicate between the shipment vehicle and
           the trail vehicle. During such movements, the items will be placed in the custody of an E-4 or
           higher. (Civilians of equivalent grade may be utilized). If a situation exists where the move-
           ment of category I weapons is necessary, the OPR will establish prior coordination with 1
           SOSFS/Resource Protection.
           15.3.6.2. High risk items (16 or more Category II) are moved in the same manner as very high
           risk items, except that a trail vehicle is not required. For 15 or fewer weapons, unarmed con-
           stant surveillance is the minimum requirement.
           15.3.6.3. Medium and low risk items (16 or more Category II, III or IV) are moved under the
           protection of two drivers that provide continuous responsibility, attendance, and surveillance
           (within 10 feet and in unobstructed view) of a shipment. At least one of the drivers will be
           armed with an M9 pistol and 30 rounds of ammunition with a round chambered. Drivers will
           have portable communications equipment capable of contacting emergency response forces
           for assistance. For 15 or fewer weapons, unarmed constant surveillance is required.
           15.3.6.4. Transportation of category II, III and IV (15 or fewer) weapons in privately owned
           vehicles is authorized for on or off-base movements at the discretion of the unit commander or
           higher. Unarmed constant surveillance is required.
     15.4. Safeguarding Non-Nuclear Munitions Movements on Base.
        15.4.1. The shipping or receiving sections (i.e., TMO, Base Supply) are responsible for maintain-
        ing surveillance requirements on ammunition shipments. Once owner/user personnel are identi-
        fied they will assume protection requirements.
        15.4.2. Commercial munitions shipments transiting Hurlburt Field will be escorted by Security
        Forces via pre-designated routes to munitions storage facilities and secured IAW HFI 91-201. For
        DOE Safe Haven shipments refer to Hurlburt Field Installation Security Plan.
        15.4.3. When protection level aircraft carrying munitions shipments transit Hurlburt Field they
        will, if possible, be parked in a restricted area. If this is not possible, a temporary restricted area
        will be established.
        15.4.4. Security Forces will not routinely provide escort for inter-base munitions movements.
        Security Forces will provide escort for bulk munitions deliveries and shipments. During increased
        force protection conditions munitions will be protected in accordance with local threat.
        15.4.5. Military personnel transporting munitions on or off base will be in military uniform and
        possess a valid DD Form 2 or CAC.
        15.4.6. Very high risk category items will be moved under armed guard surveillance and an escort
        vehicle with communication capability.
        15.4.7. High risk category munitions.
           15.4.7.1. During normal force protection conditions, movements of high risk munitions will
           be conducted by unarmed dual driver protection.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                          33


           15.4.7.2. Movements of high risk munitions during increased force protection conditions
           require armed guard surveillance.
       15.4.8. During mobility operations under the wing mobility plan, munitions movement escort and
       protection will be the responsibility of the unit moving the munitions. 1 SOSFS will not be tasked
       provide escort or surveillance over munitions. Security Forces assigned to deployment operations
       may be tasked as weapons/munitions escorts.
       15.4.9. When military personnel are acting as armed guard surveillance during munitions move-
       ments, they will be armed with a M9 pistol and 30 rounds of ammunition with a round chambered,
       as a minimum.
   15.5. Safeguarding non-nuclear munitions movement off base.
       15.5.1. Munitions will be transported as outlined in AFI 31-101 and DOD 5100.76-M.
       15.5.2. Any deviation from published guidance requires ICSF and AFSOC/A7S approval. Con-
       tact 1 SOSFS Resource Protection for assistance.
   15.6. Non-nuclear munitions storage area arming/security requirements.
       15.6.1. During FPCON Normal/Alpha the entry controller is not required to be armed. However,
       the controller must have the capability to indicate duress. If duress procedures fail and can not be
       fixed, entry controller must be armed until the duress is fixed.
       15.6.2. During increased force protection conditions (FPCON Bravo or greater), the entry con-
       troller will be armed.
       15.6.3. Vehicles left in the non-nuclear munitions storage area during non-duty hours must be
       locked and keys removed or the vehicle must be otherwise disabled.

16. DESIGNATION AND LOCATION OF RESTRICTED AREAS. Perma nent and t empor ary
restricted areas on Hurlburt Field are established by the Commander, 1st Special Operations Wing pursu-
ant to DoD Directive (DoDD) 5200.8, Security of DoD Installations and Resources, and Section 21, Inter-
nal Security Act of 1950 (Title 50 U.S.C. 797). Restricted areas are listed in order of priority for security
and maintenance response.
   16.1. West-side aircraft parking area. This is a Protection Level 3 (PL) permanent restricted area that
   encompasses the entire length of the aircraft parking apron west of the runway. The area boundary is
   marked by restricted area signs and a red line painted on the ramp. Entry control points are delineated
   by black and white striped boxes painted on the ramp. This area is used to park permanently assigned
   PL3 fixed wing aircraft, PL3 aircraft on temporary duty (TDY), and PL/non-PL transient aircraft.
   16.2. East-side aircraft parking area. This is a PL3 permanent restricted area that encompasses the
   entire length of the aircraft parking apron east of the runway. The boundary is marked by restricted
   area signs and a red line painted on the ramp. Entry control points are delineated by black and white
   striped boxes painted on the ramp. This area is used to park permanently assigned PL3 rotor wing air-
   craft, TDY rotor wing aircraft, and aircraft assigned to 319 SOS. This restricted area may be used for
   transient strategic lift aircraft.
   16.3. 1 SOW Installation Control Center. This is a PL3 permanent restricted area located in building
   90208. The area is marked by a restricted area signs on entry/exit doors. The entry control point is a
   secure door.
34                                                            HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


        16.3.1. 1 SOW Installation Control Center PL may increase if operationally supporting PL1 or
        PL2 resources on the installation. Chief, Command Post will request PL re-designation from the
        wing commander. If approved notify 1 SOSFS Operation and Air Force Special Operations Com-
        mand (AFSOC) Command Center.
     16.4. AFSOC Command Center. This is a PL3 permanent restricted area located in building #1. The
     area is marked by a restricted area sign on the entry door.
     16.5. Temporary restricted areas.
        16.5.1. The flare ramp, compass rose ramp, Alpha taxiway (hazardous cargo), and hangars are
        designated PL3 restricted areas when aircraft are present. The boundary is marked by restricted
        area signs and a red line painted on the ramp/hangar floor. Entry control points are delineated by
        black and white striped boxes painted on the ramp/hangar floor. The flare ramp is located adjacent
        to building 90032 and taxiways D/E. Compass rose ramp is located at the south end of taxiway G.
        Alpha parking rows are located at the north end of taxiway G.
        16.5.2. The alternate 1 SOW Installation Control Center and AFSOC Command Center are desig-
        nated PL3 when activated.

17. NORMAL SECURITY SUPPORT TASKS. All personnel working or residing on base (active
duty, reserve, guard, civil service, contractors and dependants) play a vital role providing security for the
installation. Individual roles vary in relation to their place of duty or location. All personnel should remain
alert and report suspicious activity near their areas. Those who work within restricted or controlled areas
support security forces by applying internal controls within the area, and in some cases providing entry
control and armed support to security forces.
     17.1. 1 SOW Installation Control Center will establish procedures to:
        17.1.1. Ensure internal security and entry control procedures are established and followed.
        17.1.2. Ensure all Helping Hand and Covered Wagon reports are received, properly logged and
        up-channeled as required by AFI 31-101.
        17.1.3. Preannounce aircraft arrivals and departures to the Security Forces Control Center when
        other control centers are closed.
        17.1.4. Develop, update and maintain a current entry authority list (EAL) for Installation Control
        Center (restricted area) and the support generator (controlled area).
        17.1.5. Incorporate flightline camera system operations into Installation Control Center operating
        instructions.
            17.1.5.1. 1 SOW Installation Control Center maintains secondary control of the Video
            Enhancement Security System (VESS), with SFCC maintaining primary control for
            day-to-day security operations.
     17.2. AFSOC Command Center, AFSOC/DOC, will establish procedures to ensure:
        17.2.1. Internal security and entry control procedures are established and followed at the Com-
        mand Center.
        17.2.2. The Command Center establishes procedures for receiving, logging, and up channeling
        Helping Hand and Covered Wagon reports, as required by AFI 31-101.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                      35


     17.2.3. Develop, update and maintain a current EAL for Command Center (restricted area) and
     the support generator (controlled area).
  17.3. 1 SOMXG/CC will establish procedures to ensure:
     17.3.1. Security Forces Control Center is provided the names of personnel authorized to open and
     close the fixed wing/rotary wing restricted areas.
     17.3.2. Circulation controls are established and followed in restricted areas.
     17.3.3. Aircraft in other than depot level maintenance are not left unattended while outside
     restricted areas or maintenance hangars. Ensure every effort is made to re-position protection level
     aircraft inside established restricted areas at the end of the duty day.
     17.3.4. Aircraft entering/departing restricted areas or aircraft movements within restricted areas
     are preannounced to Security Forces Control Center when the control tower is closed.
     17.3.5. Qualified maintenance personnel are provided to search and tow aircraft as required.
     17.3.6. Engine starts are preannounced to Security Forces Control Center when the control tower
     is closed.
     17.3.7. Security Forces Control Center is notified and formally relinquishes or accepts security
     responsibility for the fixed wing/rotary wing restricted areas at the beginning and end of mainte-
     nance duty hours.
  17.4. 1 SOMSG/CC will ensure civil engineer work orders dealing with security for restricted areas
  (i.e., lights, alarms, signs, power outages, and construction projects) receive the highest priority.
  17.5. The 1st Special Operations Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (1 SOCES/CC) will:
     17.5.1. Ensure qualified explosive ordnance disposal personnel are available to identify and
     remove suspicious objects.
     17.5.2. Ensure all status changes (i.e., open, closed, delayed) to work orders dealing with security
     for restricted areas are coordinated with 1 SOSFS Installation Security at 884-5180.
  17.6. The 1st Special Operations Communications Squadron Commander (1 SOCS/CC) will estab-
  lish procedures to ensure:
     17.6.1. Priority maintenance and repair is provided for security forces radios in accordance with
     the existing contract.
     17.6.2. Telephones at Security Forces Control Center and alternate are given top priority for
     repair.
  17.7. The 1st Special Operations Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (1 SOLRS/CC) will
  establish procedures to ensure priority maintenance is provided for vehicles assigned to the security
  forces squadron. This requirement will be determined upon mission-essential qualification, based on
  the both the Minimum Essential Listing (MEL) and operational status of all vehicles assigned to 1
  SOSFS.
  17.8. 1 SOG/CC will ensure:
     17.8.1. Air traffic controllers provide rapid access to runways and taxiways for security forces
     responding to emergencies consistent with airfield safety procedures.
36                                                            HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


        17.8.2. Notification of Security Forces Control Center in the event of unusual incidents such as
        unidentified aircraft landings, unidentified personnel on the flightline or in-flight/ground emer-
        gencies.
        17.8.3. Security Forces Control Center is notified of any infractions on the flightline.
     17.9. The Airfield Management Office (1 SOSS/OSAB) will:
        17.9.1. Promptly notify security forces of all changes to previously scheduled mission support
        and other transient aircraft arrivals and departures.
        17.9.2. Ensure arrival/departure information is coordinated as far in advance as possible to ensure
        the security forces are prepared to provide adequate security.
        17.9.3. Park all transient protection level aircraft, within mission parameters, in existing restricted
        areas to enhance the protection provided.
        17.9.4. Provide training for flightline driving and active runway crossing procedures for all Secu-
        rity Forces personnel.

18. RESTRICTED AREA ENTRY CONTROL. Specific written permission granted by the authority
of the Commander, 1st Special Operations Wing is required for entry into all restricted areas. Entry into
restricted areas must be under positive control at all times. Positive control is maintained by administra-
tive controls and the use of entry control points. AF Form 1199CD, Restricted Area Badge, or AF Form
1199CD, Temporary Restricted Area Badge (pink), are used at Hurlburt Field.
     18.1. Unescorted entry. Unescorted entry procedures begin when a commander determines a person
     needs entry into a restricted area on a frequent basis to perform official duties.
        18.1.1. The entry control system used on Hurlburt Field begins with administrative process of
        granting authority for person(s) to enter restricted areas. AF Form 2586, Unescorted Entry
        Authorization Certificate, and AF Form 1199CD are used for this purpose. The investigative
        prerequisites discussed in AFI 31-501, USAF Personnel Security Program, must be satisfied
        before an AF Form 2586 can be authenticated by the entry-granting official and before an AF
        Form 1199CD is issued.
        18.1.2. The AF Form 2586 is used to request unescorted entry and document authorization and
        approval to all Hurlburt Field restricted areas controlled area that use the AF Form 1199CD for
        entry and internal circulation control. Procedures for request, authentication and coordination of
        AF Form 2586 and AF Form 1199CD are outlined in paragraph 7., Restricted Area Badges.
     18.2. Following permanent restricted areas have been established on Hurlburt Field.
        18.2.1. Area 1, AFSOC Command Center. Entry is granted by the AFSOC, Director, Command
        and Control (AFSOC/DOC) or designated representative. Unescorted entry is granted via AF
        Form 1199CD with Area 1 open. Anyone requiring entry without Area 1 open on their badge must
        be escorted. An “E” typed adjacent to name of holder and Area 1 shaded on the badge designates
        escort authority. During periods of increased security, when a security post is established at the
        entrance to the AFSOC Command Center, entry will be authorized by the entry controller using a
        properly authenticated entry authority list (EAL), maintained by AFSOC/DOC.
        18.2.2. Area 2, 1 SOW Installation Control Center. Entry is granted by the Chief, Command and
        Control (1 SOW/CP) or designated representative. Unescorted entry is granted via AF Form
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                     37


     1199CD with Area 2 open. Anyone requiring entry without Area 2 open on their badge must be
     escorted. An “E” typed adjacent to name of holder and Area 2 shaded on the badge designates
     escort authority. When wing Battlestaff is activated, entry will be granted via the AF Form
     1199CD and a properly authenticated EAL. The EAL is prepared and maintained by 1 SOW/CP.
     Once the Battlestaff is activated, anyone not on the EAL must be escorted. Visitors will sign in on
     AF Form 1109, Visitor Register Log, during Battlestaff activation.
     18.2.3. Area 4, Protection Level 3 Aircraft Parking Ramps. Entry to the PL3 aircraft parking
     ramps is granted by AFSOC/CC, AFSOC/CV, AFSOC/DS; Special Staff Agency Chiefs (SSA), 1
     SOW/CC, 1 SOW/CV, 1 SOG/CC, 1 SOMXG/CC, squadron commanders, or the designated rep-
     resentative of the personnel occupying these positions. Unescorted entry is granted via AF Form
     1199CD with Area 4 open. Anyone requiring entry without Area 4 open on their Hurlburt Field
     issued badge must be escorted. TDY personnel will use their home station restricted area badge in
     conjunction with an authenticated EAL, as outlined in paragraph
  18.3. Entry authority list. An authenticated EAL may be used by TDY personnel in conjunction with
  a home station AF Form 1199 to gain entry into restricted areas.
     18.3.1. An EAL may be a computer product, message, or memorandum. Once verified, a security
     forces representative (E-5 or above) will authenticate EALs.
     18.3.2. EALs, as a minimum, must have the following information:
         18.3.2.1. Name, rank and last six numbers of the SSN.
         18.3.2.2. Organization.
         18.3.2.3. Badge number.
         18.3.2.4. Clearance status.
         18.3.2.5. Dates of visit.
         18.3.2.6. Expiration date.
         18.3.2.7. Signature of the commander of the owner/user unit requesting entry.
         18.3.2.8. Authentication by a security forces representative (E-5 or above).
     18.3.3. The “commander of the owner/user unit requesting entry” refers to the unit commander or
     designated representative (e.g., aircraft/mission commander or team leader).
     18.3.4. If additions are required to an EAL, the list must be re-accomplished or a letter sent to 1
     SOSFS Installation Security stating the changes/additions. The unit commander or designated rep-
     resentative must sign the list or letter.
     18.3.5. If deletions are required to an EAL the security forces representative (E-5 or above) will
     completely strikethrough the individuals information. The security forces representative will place
     his/her initials and date at the beginning and end of each strikethrough.
     18.3.6. Aircrew orders. Crew orders containing at a minimum; name, rank, last six numbers of the
     SSN, organization, clearance status, and inclusive dates of travel, may be used as EALs for tran-
     sient aircraft in lieu of the procedures stated above. The crew orders must be authenticated by a
     security forces representative (E-5 or above). Compare their home base AF Form 1199 to their DD
38                                                           HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


        Form 2/CAC, or other ID (credential) with information contained on the crew order for positive
        identification prior to allowing entry.
     18.4. SF authentication of EAL/crew orders. SF representative will meet all incoming aircraft to
     receive/authenticate crew orders. Copies of authenticated crew orders will be provided to aircraft/mis-
     sion commander, SFCC, and all flightline security patrols. The EAL will be authenticated by a secu-
     rity forces representative (E-5 or above) on the first page of the document with the number of total
     pages indicated below the signature.


        EXAMPLE John E. Doe
        JOHN E. DOE, SSgt, USAF
        1/5


        18.4.1. All following pages will be numbered and initialed.


        EXAMPLE:
        JED 2 / 5
        JED 3 / 5


     18.5. Temporary badge. Temporary badges will only be used for transient aircraft from installations
     or services without AF Restricted Area Badges (i.e. Army, Navy, Marines, and transit USAF training
     aircraft).
        18.5.1. TDY personnel without a home station AF Form 1199 may be issued an AF Form
        1199CD, Temporary Restricted Area Badge (TRAB). The TRAB allows TDY personnel
        unescorted access to aircraft parking ramp restricted areas and their aircraft.
        18.5.2. Individuals/units requesting TRABs must contact the Security Forces Control Center or 1
        SOSFS Installation Security. The individual being issued a TRAB will have personal information
        annotated on an AF Form 335 using their DD Form 2 or CAC. TRABs will only be issued to per-
        sonnel with a SECRET clearance or higher. Security clearance information must be verified by an
        EAL or crew orders.
        18.5.3. TRABs will be augmented by an EAL or crew orders authenticated by a security forces
        member (E-5 or higher). The issued TRAB number will be annotated on the EAL/crew orders.
        18.5.4. TRAB accountability will be maintained using the AF Form 335 and returned to Security
        Forces Control Center by the individual it was issued to, when no longer required to accomplish
        the mission.
        18.5.5. If a TRAB is lost, the individual whom the badge was issued must provide a statement via
        AF Form 1168, Statement of Suspect/Witness/Complainant. The individual’s commander/team
        leader must also write a Memorandum for Record to verify the loss and identify the efforts accom-
        plished to find the TRAB.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                       39


  18.6. Inspector General (IG) entry. AFSOC IG team members require entry to restricted and con-
  trolled areas. Restricted area badges are issued to permanently assigned AFSOC IG team personnel
  with all numbers open. AFSOC IG team members will present restricted area badges issued by 1
  SOSFS Pass and Registration. Validation of team EALs will be made by the wing commander or des-
  ignated representative with the team chief upon arrival and submitted to Installation Chief Security
  Forces or designee for authentication and distribution. Team members are authorized unescorted entry
  to restricted areas based on presentation of their home station restricted area badge supported by the
  authenticated EAL. Team augmenters will be granted the same authorization for entry into restricted
  areas as permanently assigned team members for the duration of the inspection by using an authenti-
  cated EAL and their home station badge.
  18.7. Emergency entry. Emergency response forces (i.e., fire department, ambulance) personnel will
  be permitted immediate entry to aircraft parking ramp restricted areas at any point along the restricted
  area boundary once coordinated with Security Forces Control Center. Agencies controlling emer-
  gency responses must ensure Security Forces is notified (i.e., via 911 system, Crash net or SF radio
  frequency) of the type and location of the emergency prior to the arrival of response vehicles. Security
  Forces, maintenance, and operations personnel will monitor emergency personnel while they are in
  the restricted area.
     18.7.1. Emergency entry will not be granted solely on the use of emergency lights and sirens.
     18.7.2. Upon termination of the emergency, exit must be made through an established entry con-
     trol point. All personnel remaining in the restricted area will conduct a purge immediately after
     departure of emergency personnel and vehicles. Search for remaining equipment, vehicles, per-
     sonnel or personal effects.
     18.7.3. The fire department is authorized to use these emergency entry procedures for training
     exercises after coordination with Security Forces Control Center.
  18.8. Aircraft parking ramp restricted area boundaries may be crossed for other than emergency oper-
  ations at locations other than the entry control points upon coordination with 1 SOSFS Installation
  Security or after pre-announcement to and approval by Security Forces Control Center at 884-7777.
  18.9. Escorted entry. Escorted entry applies to personnel who may be needed to perform tasks in a
  restricted area, but do not qualify for frequent unescorted entry. This includes military and civilian
  personnel requiring entry into a restricted area on a one-time basis or to perform duties on an infre-
  quent basis. An individual requiring escort into a restricted area must be sponsored by an individual or
  agency. The need for a person requiring escort to have entry to a restricted area must be validated by
  the host unit responsible for the area to be entered.
     18.9.1. Pre-entry procedures:
         18.9.1.1. The person requiring escort will be met outside the restricted area by the escort. The
         escort will verify the need for the person to enter the area and the identity of the person. The
         escort will brief the person being escorted on security and safety requirements for the area.
         18.9.1.2. The escort briefing will contain the following:
             18.9.1.2.1. I am (state rank and name). I will be your escort official while you are working
             in the _____________________ restricted area.
40                                                  HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


     18.9.1.2.2. You must remain with me at all times while you are in the restricted area. I
     must check any hand-carried briefcases, tool boxes, etc., prior to your entry into the
     restricted area.
     18.9.1.2.3. If you observe any suspicious activities/persons or people not displaying a
     restricted area badge in the restricted area notify me immediately.
     18.9.1.2.4. If we should be separated for any reason, notify the first individual you come
     in contact with and have them escort you to the nearest entry control point.
     18.9.1.2.5. Notify Pro Super or Expediter before beginning work on or entering any air-
     craft.
     18.9.1.2.6. Be alert for hazards from protruding controls, surfaces, antennas, static wicks,
     pitot tubes, open access hatches, and other projections and tripping hazards from auxiliary
     power cables, grounding cables, tie-down ropes or chains, fuel hoses, etc.
     18.9.1.2.7. The potential for serious burns exists while working around aircraft, be alert
     for hot exhaust areas, pitot tubes, hot brakes, and exhaust from aerospace ground equip-
     ment (AGE).
     18.9.1.2.8. Remove all jewelry and loose clothing before entering the flight line. Hair fas-
     teners constructed of metal, plastic, or leather materials and wigs cannot be worn while
     engaged in aircraft maintenance. A rubber band or hair net that holds the hair wrapped in a
     bun at the back of the head may be worn, providing the hair net has no metal parts.
     18.9.1.2.9. Reflective belts are required during the hours of darkness and inclement
     weather. Blue reflective belts are not authorized.
     18.9.1.2.10. If lightning is within 10 nautical miles a lightning WATCH will be issued. Be
     prepared to cease all activity and leave the flight line. If lightning is within 5 nautical miles
     a Lightning WARNING will be issued. We will cease all work and activities and take shel-
     ter inside a building.
     18.9.1.2.11. Walking under or between the propellers on C-130 aircraft at anytime is pro-
     hibited.
     18.9.1.2.12. Ear defenders must be worn around the following hazardous noise areas:
         18.9.1.2.12.1. Within 25 feet of operating aircraft engines, auxiliary power units or gas
         turbine compressors.
         18.9.1.2.12.2. While operating an AM32A-95 air compressor with the cover off.
         18.9.1.2.12.3. Within 200 feet of C-130 aircraft with engines running at other than idle
         power.
         18.9.1.2.12.4. Inside the arc of the main rotor blades and inside the cabin and or flight
         deck of MH-53 and UH-1 helicopters with the APU, auxiliary power plant, or engines
         running.
     18.9.1.2.13. Ear defenders or ear plugs must be worn around the following hazardous
     noise areas:
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                        41


                18.9.1.2.13.1. Working within 50 feet of all powered ground support equipment and
                when draining all air compressor receivers.
                18.9.1.2.13.2. From 25 to 50 feet of aircraft engines operating at idle power settings.
                18.9.1.2.13.3. When operating hazardous noise producing equipment or machinery.
            18.9.1.2.14. When operating a vehicle on the flightline:
                18.9.1.2.14.1. Park vehicles at least 25 ft from aircraft with driver side door toward the
                aircraft, keys left in the ignition, and the parking brake set.
                18.9.1.2.14.2. Flashers must be used during hours of darkness or inclement weather.
                18.9.1.2.14.3. Use of a spotter and chalks if vehicle is within 25 ft of aircraft.
                18.9.1.2.14.4. Obey all posted warnings, cautions, and speed limit signs. If you are
                unsure of any markings while on the flight line ask your escort, Expeditor, Pro Super or
                security forces before proceeding.
        18.9.1.3. The escort must search any toolbox, briefcase, vehicle, or other items required by the
        escorted individual during his or her visit. Personnel requiring escort are allowed to hand-carry
        only those items essential to their visit, as certified by the sponsor. Safeguarding items pre-
        cluded from entry is the responsibility of the visiting individual.
        18.9.1.4. Designated escort officials are not required to approve entry to flightline restricted
        areas containing PL 3 resources. Escorts can be any person who has an AF Form 1199CD with
        Area 4 open.
        18.9.1.5. Authorized escort officials are required for escorted entry into the AFSOC Com-
        mand Center. Persons authorized escort will have an “E” typed adjacent to name of holder and
        Area 1 shaded on the badge.
        18.9.1.6. Authorized escort officials are required for escorted entry into the 1 SOW Installa-
        tion Control Center. Persons authorized escort will have an “E” typed adjacent to name of
        holder and Area 2 shaded on the badge.
     18.9.2. Escort procedures and responsibilities:
        18.9.2.1. Personnel requiring escort must be under continuous escort/constant surveillance
        and be controlled by the escort official.
        18.9.2.2. Escorts in aircraft parking areas may delegate the function of escort, surveillance,
        and control to another individual. Escorts in command centers should contact an authorized
        escort official prior to delegating escort duties. The escort always retains responsibility for the
        escorted person’s safe and secure conduct during their visit and proper exit processing.
        18.9.2.3. A single individual may not escort more than five personnel. Exceptions can be
        made for DV visits and special events however; prior coordination must be made with 1
        SOSFS Installation Security.
     18.9.3. The escort official is not required to conduct departure inspections of visitor’s hand-car-
     ried items before leaving the restricted area. This requirement may change depending on threat
     level and/or force protection condition.
42                                                             HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


     18.10. Entry of vehicles. Driving on the flightline and in the restricted area is limited to government
     vehicles, Air Force contracted rental vehicles, and privately owned vehicles with flightline passes.
     Authority to operate a privately owned vehicle in restricted areas will be considered on a case by case
     basis and limited to mission essential requirements IAW HFI 13-202, Flightline Driving.

19. RESTRICTED AREA CIRCULATION CONTROL.
     19.1. Aircraft parking areas. Internal circulation control is provided by owner/user personnel within
     permanent restricted areas, assisted by security forces. Operational control is exercised by mainte-
     nance control sections for each unit occupying a restricted area.
     19.2. When maintenance personnel are on duty, they have responsibility for security of protection
     level aircraft parked outside permanent restricted areas.
     19.3. PL 3 (or higher) aircraft parked and unattended outside permanent restricted areas require secu-
     rity forces coverage.
     19.4. PL 3 (or higher) aircraft parked outside permanent restricted areas that cannot be upgraded to
     mission capable within 72 hours will not retain PL 3 status, and will be protected in accordance with
     PL 4 standards.
     19.5. Security patrols will make hourly checks of all protection level aircraft left unattended outside
     permanent restricted areas.
     19.6. 1 SOW Maintenance Operations Control Center will establish procedures to ensure every effort
     is made to park aircraft within the permanent restricted areas. Notify SFCC whenever an aircraft can-
     not be parked within a permanent restricted area. Include reason aircraft cannot be moved and esti-
     mated completion time.
     19.7. Aircraft in maintenance. Maintenance Operations Control Center will ensure Security Forces
     Control Center is aware of the location of all aircraft in maintenance. Owner-user personnel will pro-
     vide internal security control of maintenance hangers and notify the Security Forces when aircraft in
     hangers are left unattended. Security Forces will make hourly checks of the maintenance hangers and
     will provide response to any security incident therein. While in maintenance, the aircraft will retain
     their protection level, unless the Security Forces Control Center is notified the aircraft has transferred
     to depot level maintenance.
     19.8. Transferring responsibility for restricted areas:
        19.8.1. Prior to relinquishing control of a restricted area over to Security Forces, MOCC will
        notify SFCC that the area is closing. Maintenance and SF supervisors will conduct a joint inspec-
        tion of the area. MOCC and SFCC will annotate the time security responsibility was transferred.
        19.8.2. Prior to accepting responsibility of a restricted area, MOCC will notify SFCC that mainte-
        nance personnel are on duty.
     19.9. Air Traffic Control Tower and Base Operations will notify Security Forces Control Center when
     flying operations have ceased and their control centers are closed. When the air traffic control tower is
     closed, MOCC will notify SFCC of all aircraft movements or engine starts via direct-line telephone.
     19.10. Engine starts. While the air traffic control tower is manned, tower personnel will monitor the
     status of all aircraft movements and engine starts. The tower controller will notify Security Forces
     Control Center of any unauthorized or suspicious activity.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                       43


  19.11. Any unannounced aircraft movements, engine starts or aircraft taxiing with flaps down will be
  considered being under duress. Any person witnessing any of these actions will initiate “Stop Alert”
  procedures.
  19.12. Flightline/restricted area photography:
     19.12.1. General flightline unit commanders and controlled/restricted area unit commanders will
     refer requests for photography on the flight line to 1 SOW Public Affairs.
     19.12.2. To prevent disclosure of classified, sensitive, or mission jeopardizing information, garri-
     son and deployed flightline photography is restricted to official mission related photography only.
     19.12.3. 1 SOW/CC/CV or 1 SOW/PA may authorize public flightline photography for special
     events, such as change of command ceremonies, SOF Family Day, etc.
     19.12.4. Flightline photography authorization is restricted to personnel assigned to or under the
     escort of 1 SOW/PA or AFSOC/PA; investigative photography conducted by safety officials,
     Security Forces, AFOSI Special Agents, authorized contractors and visiting Department of
     Defense PA officials.
         19.12.4.1. Visiting tour groups and news media representatives with photographic equipment
         must be escorted and under the guidance of 1 SOW/PA or AFSOC/PA representatives at all
         times.
         19.12.4.2. Hurlburt Field units/agencies with flightline photography requirements must utilize
         Air Force photographers assigned to 1 SOW/PA. 1 SOW/PA personnel are trained on accept-
         ability standards and restrictions that would classify imagery. Recordings produce a valuable
         and irreplaceable account of Air Force activities; personnel must properly archive and pre-
         serve these records.
     19.12.5. In special circumstances unit security managers may request access by submitting flight-
     line photography authorization letters for their respective organization, to include verifying appro-
     priate background checks for all designated unit flight line authorized photographers.
         19.12.5.1. Submit requests for flightline photography to 1 SOW/PA for approval. 1 SOW/PA
         will forward approve authorization letters to the originating agency. The originating agency
         will in-turn submit approved letters to 1 SOSFS Installation Security for authentication.
         19.12.5.2. Authorized official flightline photographers, news media escorts or tour groups
         will notify Security Forces Control Center, 884-7777, of the following information prior to
         entering the flight line restricted/controlled areas:
             19.12.5.2.1. Escorting official’s name and/or photographers.
             19.12.5.2.2. Number of personnel in the party.
             19.12.5.2.3. Photo shoot location.
             19.12.5.2.4. Start time and estimated duration of photo shoot.
         19.12.5.3. While on the flightline, authorized official photographers will be identified by their
         approved/authenticated flightline photography authorization letter.
         19.12.5.4. After notifying Security Forces Control Center, authorized official flightline pho-
         tographers, news media escorts or tour groups will notify 1 SOW Installation Control Center,
44                                                           HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


            base operations and Maintenance Operations Control Center. All agencies will ensure flight-
            line is operationally cleared for photography.
        19.12.6. All military and civilian personnel will maintain security awareness and report any sus-
        pected unauthorized photography to 1 SOSFS.
        19.12.7. 1 SOW Public Affairs will:
            19.12.7.1. Review and approve photography of 1 SOW unit and base activities and programs
            for public release.
            19.12.7.2. Respond to any request from news media, commercial photographers, or the gen-
            eral public for photography about unit activities and programs cleared for public release.
            19.12.7.3. Obtain prior approval from the specific controlled/restricted area unit commanders
            before escorting news media or visiting groups into their area to ensure classified programs
            and resources are not compromised.
            19.12.7.4. Brief all news media and tour groups on flightline photography policies and restric-
            tions.
            19.12.7.5. Release all confiscated film, digital images and equipment cleared by AFOSI Det
            104 to their respective owners.
        19.12.8. 1 SOW Protocol will:
            19.12.8.1. Brief all distinguished visitors on flightline photography policies and restrictions.
            19.12.8.2. Prior to entering flightline notify Security Forces Control Center, 1 SOW Installa-
            tion Control Center, base operations and Maintenance Operations Control Center. All agencies
            will ensure flightline is operationally cleared for photography.
        19.12.9. 1st Special Operations Contracting Squadron will:
            19.12.9.1. Ensure all contractors under the responsibility of Contract Administration are
            briefed about their responsibilities under this instruction.
            19.12.9.2. Ensure contractors understand any photography associated with their contract must
            first be approved by the unit security manager and commander.
            19.12.9.3. Advise contractors of penalties they will incur if they do not comply with this pol-
            icy and if classified/sensitive unclassified information and/or resources are compromised.
        19.12.10. The Foreign Disclosure Office will:
            19.12.10.1. Review all photography material for suitability to be released to foreign nationals.
        19.12.11. 1 SOSFS will:
            19.12.11.1. Maintain a copy of all active approved/authenticated flightline photography
            authorization letters.
            19.12.11.2. Notify flightline patrols prior to start of flightline photography.
     19.13. Confiscation, review and disposition of confiscated material.
        19.13.1. Reviewing organizations will initiate security violation procedures, as appropriate, when
        classified information is disclosed.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                         45


       19.13.2. If unauthorized flightline imagery has been taken, 1 SOSFS will confiscate unauthorized
       photographic material and notify 1 SOW/PA.
       19.13.3. Unit OPSEC Program Manager of the resources imaged and 1 SOW Information Opera-
       tions will review confiscated photographic material to determine whether sight-sensitive and/or
       classified information has been compromised.
       19.13.4. If classified information appears to be compromised, and active-duty members, depen-
       dents, guard/reserve members or base civilian employees are involved the case will be referred to
       the appropriate unit security manager to accomplish the security violation report.
       19.13.5. All agencies will obtain the Foreign Disclosure Officer's approval prior to release of any
       confiscated material to foreign nationals.

20. RESTRICTED AREA WING DURESS WORDS. Wing duress words are For Official Use Only
and will not be transmitted over nonsecure DSN or commercial landlines, NIPRNET, or government/per-
sonal cell phones.
   20.1. 1 SOSFS Installation Security will provide unit security managers who work in restricted areas
   wing duress words. Duress words will be distributed in person, via SIPRNET or encrypted NIPRNET.
   Unit security managers are responsible for disseminating them throughout their organizations.
   20.2. Duress words are changed semiannually or when compromised, and should be used by assigned
   personnel in normal conversations to relay when they are in a duress situation. Upon recognizing the
   passing of the duress word, personnel should not acknowledge recognition or allow access to sensitive
   information or areas. Contact Security Forces Control Center or any available security forces patrol
   and relay pertinent information using the SALUTE format.
       20.2.1. Size: Number of people involved in duress situation.
       20.2.2. Activity: What is the person doing who passed the duress word, what direction did they
       go.
       20.2.3. Location: What was the location when the duress word was passed, what is your current
       location.
       20.2.4. Uniform: Uniform/clothing of any one involved with the incident.
       20.2.5. Time: What time was the duress word passed.
       20.2.6. Equipment: Was any one carrying/using any type of equipment, was any one armed.
   20.3. If the primary duress word is compromised, the alternate duress word will be used. New duress
   words will be generated and disseminated following any use or compromise.

21. SECURITY REPORTING AND ALERTING PROCEDURES. The security reporting and alert-
ing system is used to send reports of unusual incidents involving PL 1, 2 and 3 resources up and down the
chain of command. The security reporting and alerting system defends against widespread, coordinated
threats to protection level resources. All supervisors must ensure personnel are aware of their responsibil-
ities concerning security awareness while performing duties in or around restricted areas. All air and
ground crews must be aware of the possibility they may be taken hostage by hostile personnel in an
attempt to gain access to aircraft. Constant security awareness will minimize this risk by ensuring hostile
46                                                            HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


personnel are identified and apprehended before gaining access to aircraft. There are two types of security
alerts.
     21.1. HELPING HAND. A Helping Hand is an unclassified message SFCC relays to the installation
     control center and identifies an unusual incident, possibly hostile, affecting Protection Level
     resources. Helping Hands can be reported to SFCC by any means available, by anyone who witnesses
     or discovers an incident. Do not delay initiation of a Helping Hand report for incident investigation as
     this delay defeats the purpose of the security reporting and alerting system. When a Helping Hand is
     detected take the following actions:
        21.1.1. Alert others in the area using the phrase “HELPING HAND”.
        21.1.2. Quickly establish contact with radio-equipped vehicle, security forces patrol, or line
        supervisor. When contact has been made ensure all information is passed to Security Forces Con-
        trol Center at 884-6666 in SALUTE format; Size, Activity, Location, Uniforms (clothing), Time,
        Equipment.
        21.1.3. Detain suspects and move them outside the restricted area by the most direct route. Cross-
        ing a red line or restricted area boundary is authorized for this purpose.
        21.1.4. Use the minimum force necessary to maintain control over the suspect and await arrival of
        security forces personnel. If the suspect cannot be stopped and placed under control, watch the
        movement of the suspect and tell responding security forces personnel where they went, what was
        done, and provide an accurate description.
        21.1.5. Initiate an area search to include inside of aircraft to ensure all personnel within the
        restricted area are authorized.
        21.1.6. Provide information to the security forces patrol as to what happened and who was
        involved.
        21.1.7. The dedicated Helping Hand reporting line to Security Forces is 884-6666.
        21.1.8. If a Helping Hand is initiated at 1 SOW Installation Control Center, Security Forces Con-
        trol Center up channels the report directly to AFSOC Command Center. Security Forces notifies 1
        SOW Installation Control Center of all other Helping Hand situations.
            21.1.8.1. The 1 SOW Installation Control Center notifies the wing commander of the situa-
            tion.
        21.1.9. The Security Forces flight chief will have 30 minutes to evaluate the situation and to either
        upgrade, extend, or terminate the Helping Hand report. If the flight chief determines a hostile
        event occurred involving a PL 1, 2 or 3 resources, the Installation Control Center immediately
        up-channels a COVERED WAGON report. Delays defeat the purpose of the security reporting
        and alerting system.
        21.1.10. Authority to terminate Helping Hand situation(s) is delegated to the on-duty SF flight
        chief.
     21.2. COVERED WAGON. A COVERED WAGON is an unclassified up-channel telephone report to
     inform higher headquarters that an unusual incident effecting protection level resources, probably or
     actually hostile, occurred at Hurlburt Field or dispersed site where Protection Level 1, 2 or 3 resources
     are located. Covered Wagon reports can be implemented without being preceded by a Helping Hand
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                        47


   report. Rapid reporting is imperative. When a Covered Wagon has been detected take the following
   actions:
       21.2.1. Alert others in the area using the phrase “COVERED WAGON,” and transmit reports by
       the fastest means available consistent with security constraints.
       21.2.2. Quickly establish contact with a radio-equipped vehicle, security forces patrol, or line
       supervisor. When contact has been made ensure all information is passed to Security Forces Con-
       trol Center at 884-6666 in SALUTE format; Size, Activity, Location, Uniforms (clothing), Time,
       Equipment. The dedicated Covered Wagon reporting line to Security Forces is 884-6666.
       21.2.3. Detain suspects and move them outside the restricted area by the most direct route. Cross-
       ing the red line or restricted area boundary is authorized for this purpose.
       21.2.4. Use the minimum force necessary to maintain control over the suspect and await the
       arrival of security forces personnel. If the suspect cannot be stopped and placed under control,
       watch the movements of the suspect and tell the responding security forces personnel where they
       went, what was done, and provide an accurate description.
       21.2.5. Initiate an area search to include inside of aircraft to ensure all personnel within the
       restricted area are authorized.
       21.2.6. Provide the security forces patrol information as to what happened and who was involved.
       21.2.7. The installation commander or designee may cancel the COVERED WAGON. The
       authority to cancel COVERED WAGON reports is delegated to the Installation Chief Security
       Forces. Termination authority may not be delegated lower than the Installation Chief Security
       Forces.
       21.2.8. A COVERED WAGON situation will likely drive a local, Hurlburt Field FPCON change
       implemented by the 1 SOW/CC.
   21.3. Standard manual signals:
       21.3.1. When relaying a Helping Hand/Covered Wagon, stand and move hand in the air with a cir-
       cular motion (with hat or cap if available) and shout “HELPING HAND” or “COVERED
       WAGON”.
       21.3.2. Security awareness is the responsibility of everyone assigned to Hurlburt Field. Being
       aware of proper security procedures and how to report incidents must become second nature to all
       those working in or around restricted areas.
           21.3.2.1. The NCOIC, Installation Security can assist unit security managers in establishing
           and upgrading their unit flightline security program.

22. PROJECTS AFFECTING PHYSICAL SECURITY OR CONTROLLED/ RESTRICTED
AREAS. All projects or events affecting controlled areas must be coordinated with 1 SOSFS Resource
Protection. All projects or events affecting aircraft physical security or restricted areas must be coordi-
nated with 1 SOSFS Installation Security.
   22.1. Preconstruction reviews. The Base Civil Engineer will notify the Installation Chief Security
   Forces of all preconstruction reviews affecting installation security or controlled/restricted areas.
48                                                             HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008


     Security Forces will provide a representative at all reviews and preconstruction meetings to ensure an
     integrated base defense approach.
     22.2. Establishing a free zone. The wing commander is the approving authority for establishing free
     zones. A free zone is a corridor set up from a designated point on the restricted/controlled area bound-
     ary to a work project. Requests to establish free zones will be initiated by the unit having responsibil-
     ity for the restricted/controlled area utilizing an AF IMT 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, and
     coordinated with 1 SOW Force Protection and Installation Chief Security Forces. Remove all protec-
     tion level resources from the free zone. Some construction projects and similar activities of a more
     than one-time nature within restricted areas may make it impractical to use escort procedures estab-
     lished by this instruction. In these cases a free zone should be established.
     22.3. Establishing contractor free zones. Some construction projects within a controlled area may
     make it impractical to use escort procedures. In such cases, set up a free zone and allow entry to the
     project work area at the same point on the controlled area boundary, with a free zone corridor. Free
     Zones cannot contain Protection Level Resources.
     22.4. Additional protective measures. When a free zone is used, other protective measures will be
     needed to maintain the capability to detect unauthorized entry to the controlled area and the free zone.
     These measures include owner/user controls and physical barriers. Protection afforded the free zone
     boundary will be equal to that given the restricted/controlled area boundary. The organization or
     agency associated most directly with the project will maintain surveillance over the boundary of the
     free zone. After normal work hours, project personnel will coordinate a joint security inspection with
     the security area supervisor to close the free zone and re-secure the restricted/controlled area.
     22.5. Entry to free zone. When a free zone is established, create corridors to and from entry points in
     the restricted/controlled area boundary to aid with the movement of equipment and personnel. Control
     entry into the free zone ensuring only authorized persons, with a right and need, are allowed to enter.
     The owner/user directs the type of controls. Remove all sensitive resources from the free zone. Clearly
     define the free zone boundaries by a temporary rope, wire barrier, or fence.
     22.6. Entry control. If free zones open to the exterior of the restricted/controlled areas, the contractor,
     owner, or user provides entry control to ensure entry is limited to contractor or base approved person-
     nel. Identification may be by personal recognition, entry authority list, a base entry identification card,
     or military ID card. Establish procedures for escorting visitors and performing boundary surveillance.
     22.7. Escorting. When a corridor cannot be set up between the free zone and the restricted/controlled
     area boundary, establish procedures for escorting contractor personnel to and from the designated free
     zone. Initiate circulation control measures for the free zone to ensure contractor personnel and autho-
     rized visitors remain within the designated free zone and depart under proper escort.
     22.8. Contractor responsibility. Prior to construction, contractors will attend preconstruction brief-
     ings, usually held at 1 SOCES or 1 SOCONS. Specific responsibilities will be detailed while the con-
     tractor is on the installation.

23. CIVIL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY COORDINATION. C o o p e r a t i o n , i n f o r m a t i o n
exchange, and coordination with Fort Walton Beach Police Department, Okaloosa County Sheriff's
Department, Florida Highway Patrol, and other local, state and federal law enforcement agencies are
essential to the 1 SOW physical security program.
HURLBURTFIELDI31-101 30 MAY 2008                                                                        49


   23.1. AFOSI Special Agents and Security Forces investigators are authorized direct contact with
   local, state and federal civil law enforcement agencies. All questions concerning release of informa-
   tion and cooperative investigative efforts will be coordinated with 1 SOW Staff Judge Advocate.
   23.2. Direct contact is authorized between 1 SOSFS Operations flight personnel and on-duty civil law
   enforcement personnel for the purpose of:
      23.2.1. Obtaining information relative to military personnel arrested or held off base.
      23.2.2. Requesting assistance with perpetrators of a crime who flee the confines of the base.
      23.2.3. Assisting civil law enforcement agencies detaining perpetrators of a crime who enter or
      attempt to enter the base.
      23.2.4. Releasing civilians detained for certain offenses on the base.
      23.2.5. Providing emergency life-saving support during natural disasters or major accidents.
   23.3. Civil law enforcement agency notifications of incidents or crimes will be in accordance with
   established Security Forces checklists.
   23.4. Off-base site support. 1 SOW does not routinely support off-base sites. Squadrons, units or
   agencies residing outside the legal confines of Hurlburt Field will have a special site survey conducted
   by 1 SOW Force Protection. Before entering into an agreement, facilities must meet current Unified
   Facility Criteria for off-installation use.

24. PRESCRIBED FORMS. 1 SOSFS Form 23, Crime Hazard Report; 1 SOSFS Form 100, Quarters
Check Report; and 1 SOSFS Form 162, SFS Random Installation Point Checks.
   24.1. 1 SOSFS Form 23, Crime Hazard Report, is used by on-duty SF personnel to identify crime
   hazards (i.e. unsecured facility, unsecured equipment) to the appropriate unit commander.
   24.2. 1 SOSFS Form 100, Quarters Check Report, is used by personnel to request a daily SF check
   of their base residence during an extended absence (i.e. TDY, leave).
   24.3. 1 SOSFS Form 162, SFS Random Installation Entry Point Checks, is used to log vehicles
   checked by SF personnel during Base Entry Point Checks IAW AFI 31-101.



                                               MARSHALL B. WEBB, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
