BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                  HURLBURTFIELD INSTRUCTION 48-101
16TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING (AFSOC)                                                        31 JULY 2004

                                                                                      Aerospace Medicine

                                                                                CONTROL OF ANIMALS




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 96 SVS/SVBV                                                Certified by:   CPT Ashley C. Geoghegan
       (CPT Ashley C. Geoghegan)
Supersedes HFI 48-101, 15 January 1997                                                             Pages: 9
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program. It establishes procedures for the
control and prevention of disease of animals, which may be transmitted to humans. It also establishes pol-
icies and procedures for the control, registration, identification, immunization and disposition of all ani-
mal pets on Hurlburt Field. Forms required by this instruction are subject to the Privacy Act of 1974.
These forms contain the Privacy Act Statement either in the body of the form or on a separate statement
accompanying each form. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned, attached, use the facilities or
community at Hurlburt Field and Eglin AFB.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


1. EXPLANATION OF TERMS.
   1.1. Animal Pets. Any dog, cat, or other warm blooded animal or approved reptile kept as a compan-
   ion animal. (Herbivorous animals such as horses, sheep, cattle, and goats are excluded).
   1.2. Wild Animals. Any warm blooded animal or unapproved reptile not of a domestic species and
   not being kept as a companion animal by a resident of Hurlburt Field.
   1.3. Stray Animals. Any animal of domestic species found roaming on the base without a current
   Hurlburt Field/Eglin AFB rabies vaccination tag.
   1.4. Rabies Suspect. Any warm blooded animal that is susceptible to rabies which has bitten or
   scratched a person or has shown signs suggestive of rabies.
   1.5. Vicious. Any animal which has shown by past actions to be dangerously aggressive. This
   includes bites or attacks, whether the animal is controlled, such as fenced or tied up, or uncontrolled.
2                                                          HURLBURTFIELDI 48-101 31 JULY 2004


    1.6. 96th SVS/SVBV. This acronym will designate the Eglin AFB Base Veterinarian or appointed
    representative from that office.
    1.7. 16th SFS. This acronym will designate the local Security Forces Squadron.

2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. The Base Veterinarian (96th SVS/SVBV) is responsible for the examination and immunization of
    animal pets in accordance with other directives. The Veterinarian will give advice in connection with
    contract kennels for stray control. They will investigate all details of animal bite cases and make rec-
    ommendations for the quarantine of involved animals.
    2.2. Pet owners are responsible for the control, registration, immunization and care of their pets. Pet
    owners must comply with the following rules:
       2.2.1. Pets shall not become a nuisance to other persons or other pets. (A pet shall be considered
       a nuisance when it is established that such a pet has unduly interfered with the right of other per-
       sons to the quiet enjoyment of their housing or property).
       2.2.2. Pets will not become dangerous to the safety and well-being of other persons, especially in
       regard to repeated animal bites, or continual acts of aggressiveness.
       2.2.3. Female pets shall be confined during the estrus cycle (heat period).
       2.2.4. Animals are not allowed in Airman’s Dormitories, Bachelor Officer’s Quarters (BOQs),
       Visiting Officer’s Quarters (VOQs), Base Exchange facilities, Commissary, Base Chapels, Hospi-
       tal, theater, bowling lanes, library or any food service facility. Seeing eye animals and Military
       Working Dogs (MWDs) are exempt. Furthermore, animals and pets will not be housed or other-
       wise kept on the grounds of the VOQs, BOQs, or dormitories. Tropical fish (e.g. gold fish) may be
       permissible to keep in the VOQs, BOQs and dormitory rooms with advance permission from first
       sergeant or commander. At no time will reptiles be kept in the VOQs, BOQs or dormitory rooms.
       2.2.5. Pets will either be housed indoors or secured outside on the owner’s premises either teth-
       ered or chained (not to exceed 15 feet in length), or within a fenced area. If pets are tethered or
       chained, they will be limited to a boundary not less than 4 feet from sidewalks or streets and will
       not be secured to trees or shrubbery. Pets must have water and overhead cover available at all
       times. NOTE: Long term or continuous use of a tether or chain for periods greater than 2 hours,
       twice daily, is unacceptable.
       2.2.6. Dogs and cats must be on a leash (not to exceed 6 feet in length) when being exercised. Ani-
       mals may be exercised off leash in a fenced yard at the owner’s quarters as long as the animal is
       under control and cannot escape.
       2.2.7. Ownership or maintenance of more than 2 pets (caged birds, small mammals) will be autho-
       rized only upon written approval of the 16th Mission Group Commander. Litters are not required
       to be registered at birth, but will be dispersed before 90 days of age. NOTE: Breeding or raising
       animals for commercial purpose is prohibited.
       2.2.8. Pet owners who submit animals to neglect, abuse, or inhumane treatment (as determined by
       the Base Veterinarian (96th SVS/SVBV) or Mission Support Group Commander) shall be subject
       to command action and the privilege of such individuals to maintain animals on base will be for-
HURLBURTFIELDI 48-101 31 JULY 2004                                                                        3


       feited. Any owner who is instructed to remove their pet from the installation will be responsible
       for making arrangements for care of the pet at a civilian facility at his/her expense.
       2.2.9. Pet owners will clean up any wastes deposited by the animal to prevent creation of unsani-
       tary conditions on public areas and on the premises of neighboring quarters or shrubs and flowers.
       2.2.10. Pet owners will have the immunizations listed in the attached Table A1.1. and Table A1.2.
       administered to their pets by the Base Veterinarian (96th SVS/SVBV) or by a licensed civilian vet-
       erinarian.
       2.2.11. Horses shall not be ridden or allowed in housing areas and must be housed exclusively at
       the Eglin AFB stables. Owners/leasees of any equines stabled at Eglin AFB must fully comply
       with operating instruction of Sand and Spur Stables:
           2.2.11.1. They will have the immunizations listed in Table A1.3. administered by the Base
           Veterinarian or a licensed civilian veterinarian. Written certification of vaccinations must be
           presented by the fifth day following such vaccinations. Owners must provide proof of vaccina-
           tions for horses that are initially arriving, before bringing the horse on to the installation.
           2.2.11.2. Have the Equine Infectious Anemia test administered annually.
           2.2.11.3. Submit to testing, treatment and quarantine for other infectious disease conditions as
           deemed necessary by 96th SVS/SVBV.
           2.2.11.4. Establish a close working relationship with a local civilian veterinarian to ensure
           prompt emergency attention.
           2.2.11.5. Inform the Eglin AFB Veterinary Treatment Facility (96th SVS/SVBV) of all infec-
           tious diseases diagnosed and treated by a civilian veterinarian.
           2.2.11.6. Affix a sign indicating the name of the horse(s), the owner’s name, address and tele-
           phone number (duty and home phone) on each stall.
NOTE: No other live virus may be given to equine animals maintained on this reservation including
those removed from the installation temporarily for any purpose without first obtaining permission from
SVBV. This restriction is necessary to prevent possible spread of the infectious agent to unvaccinated ani-
mals.

3. ANIMALS NOT AUTHORIZED. Livestock (domestic farm animals such as pigs, cows, goats,
chickens, etc.) will not be maintained on Hurlburt Field as privately owned animals. Sylvatic non-urban
pets (skunks, raccoons, ferrets, etc.) and exotic animals such as monkeys and other wild animals normally
restricted to zoo-type environments will not be permitted on this installation. Any wild canid (wolf, wolf
hybrid, coyote, etc.) or any domestic canid cross-breed with a wild canid will not be permitted on this
installation. Poisonous snakes, constrictor type snakes, and poisonous spiders will not be permitted on this
installation.

4. CONTROL OF ANIMALS. The owner of an animal that becomes vicious or that is categorized as a
nuisance may be ordered by the 16th Special Operations Wing Commander (16 SOW/CC) to permanently
remove his/her pet from Hurlburt Field. The Base Veterinarian will send all information on animal bites,
and if possible, a determination of the degree of viciousness of the animal to the 16th Special Operations
Wing Commander (16th SOW/CC). Animals involved in two or more bite incidents or animals involved
4                                                           HURLBURTFIELDI 48-101 31 JULY 2004


in unusually vicious attacks will be recommended for removal from Hurlburt Field by the Base Veterinar-
ian.

5. ZOONOSIS CONTROL CLINIC. An outpatient clinic will be operated on a limited basis by the
Eglin Base Veterinarian (96th SVS/SVBV) for the purpose of diagnosis, treatment and immunization of
pets against rabies and certain other zoonotic diseases.

6. IMMUNIZATION AND REGISTRATION. Owners will.
    6.1. Register dogs, cats, and other animal pets (except caged birds, small mammals and fish) with
    96th SVBV within 5 duty days after arrival or acquisition. In addition, the owner must present written
    certification of immunizations required for registration. See Table A1.1. and Table A1.2. for a com-
    plete listing of immunizations required and recommended for animals. If immunization is required,
    make an appointment with 96th SVS/SVBV for administration of required vaccines before registra-
    tion.
    6.2. Receive computer generated rabies vaccination certificate or original DD Form 2208, Rabies
    Vaccination Certificate completed in triplicate by 96th SVS/SVBV. 96th SVS/SVBV will keep a copy
    on file. Ensure rabies tag is attached to the animal’s collar. The tag will be worn at all times when the
    animal is outside the owner’s quarters. Failure to display the rabies tag may cause the animal to be
    identified as a stray animal, if not under the control of the owner, and subsequently picked up by Ani-
    mal Control or by 96th SFS. Pet owners will out-process through the Base Veterinary Treatment Facil-
    ity when departing for a permanent change of station (PCS) or notify the 96th SVS/SVBV when the
    pet dies, is sold, or changes ownership.
    6.3. Register equine animals with 96th SVBV. Present all health records, including immunization and
    health certification upon request. Pre-registration requirements include written proof of immuniza-
    tions required in Table A1.3., proof of a negative test for Equine Infectious Anemia (EIA) within 10
    days of entry onto the installation. NOTE: Must have an issue date of thirty-days (30) or less and a
    current health certificate issued less than 10 days prior to entry onto the installation, stating that the
    animal is free of any sign of communicable or infectious diseases. If a negative EIA cannot be pro-
    duced, 96th SVS/SVBV is not responsible to run the test; it will have to be performed by a civilian
    Veterinarian at owner’s expense. Quarantine release will be pending for test results. Proof of a nega-
    tive test for EIA will be on US Department of Agriculture EIA laboratory test report. Pre-registration
    requirements must be met prior to admission into Eglin AFB Stables.
    6.4. Quarantine all new horses arriving on Eglin AFB for ten-days (10) at the pre-determined site of
    quarantine. During the quarantine period, there will be no contact with other horses and all equipment
    will be kept separate. Horses arriving together may be quarantined as a group.
    6.5. Inform the 96th SVS/SVBV of the arrival date of any new horse and the 96th SVS/SVBV will
    examine the animal on the first duty day after arrival.
NOTE: Eglin AFB Stables reserves the right to contact the Base Veterinarian (96th SVS/SVBV) to treat
a horse at owner’s expense. The Base Veterinarian reserves the right to contact a civilian veterinarian at
owner’s expense.

7. OFFICIAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING UNITS: All units using animals of any sort will com-
ply with PL 89-554, the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, DOD Directive 3216.1, AFJI 40-401. All animal
HURLBURTFIELDI 48-101 31 JULY 2004                                                                           5


colonies housed or confined on this installation will be subject to periodic inspection by 96th SVBV or an
authorized representative. All such colonies will be registered with 96th SVS/SVBV within 30 days prior
to entry.

8. TRANSIENT ANIMALS: Authorized sponsors of pet shows, field trials, horse shows and other
activities involving the transportation or delivery of transient animals onto the installation will notify 96th
SVS/SVBV for permission, in writing, not later than 15 days prior to each event, of the estimated number
of animals to be brought onto the reservation. 96th SVS/SVBV may require that these transient animals
have written certification on all immunizations and tests received as well as a certificate of health signed
by a licensed veterinarian, issued not more than 10 days before entry, indicating the animals are free from
signs of communicable disease. When there is a question as to the health of a transient animal, SVBV will
be notified. 96th SVS/SVBV has the authority to deny entry or cause removal, from the installation, any
animal determined to be a threat to the health or safety of persons or other animals on the installation.

9. STRAY ANIMALS AND UNCONTROLLED PETS.
   9.1. Stray animals and uncontrolled pets will be picked up by the 16th Security Forces Squadron
   (SFS) and will be impounded at an off-base non-military facility.
       9.1.1. Anyone who has knowledge of stray animals on base can contact the 16th SFS at 884-7114.
   9.2. Animals controlled at the designated off-base impound facility will be returned to owners when
   all costs incurred are paid by the owner.
   9.3. Animals in the control of the designated off-base impound facility which are not claimed will be
   disposed of in accordance with the current off-base shelter practices and procedures.
   9.4. A pet owner cited for an uncontrolled pet, which attacks a person unprovoked, will be required to
   remove their pet from the installation.

10. ANIMAL BITES AND QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS.
   10.1. The owner of an animal identified as the animal who has bitten or scratched a person will fully
   comply with the quarantine procedures established by 96th SVS/SVBV, off-base impound facility,
   and this regulation.
   10.2. If an animal bite occurs on the reservation, the procedures to be followed are:
       10.2.1. Victim of the animal bite will report to the 96th Medical Group Emergency Room (96th
       MDG) or 16th Medical Group Emergency Room (16th MDG) for treatment, if eligible.
       10.2.2. The Emergency Room will initiate DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite-Potential
       Rabies Exposure. The Emergency Room, Family Practice Clinic or any clinic handling bite cases
       should notify Military Public Health Flight and 16th SFS.
       10.2.3. The Security Forces will initiate AF Form 3545, Incident/Complaint Report, except
       when the owner’s pet bites a family member. A AF Form 3545 will be completed in all bite cases
       when it is determined that the owner of the biting animal has not complied with the base immuni-
       zation requirements in Attachment 1. The current immunization status of the animal involved in
       the bite incident will be provided by 96th SVS/SVBV or off-base impound facility for completion
       of the report.
6                                                         HURLBURTFIELDI 48-101 31 JULY 2004


       10.2.4. The clinic handling the bite case will forward DD Form 2341 to Military Public Health.
       10.2.5. Public Health will notify 96th SVS/SVBV of animal bite case.
       10.2.6. The 96th SVS/SVBV will receive DD Form 2341 from Military Public Health and notify
       the off-base impound facility, investigate the circumstances on bite cases and report their findings
       to Military Public Health.
       10.2.7. 96th SVS/SVBV or the off-base impound facility will examine the biting animal and
       determine when and where the animal will be quarantined. If the animal does not have a current
       rabies vaccination, the animal will be confined for the ten-day quarantine period at the civilian
       contractor’s facility at the expense of the owner. Animals with a current rabies vaccination may be
       quarantined at home. This is at the discretion of 96 SVS/SVBV.
       10.2.8. Stray animals involved in biting incidents will be quarantined in the civilian contractor’s
       facility after they are apprehended.
       10.2.9. Captured wild animals involved in bite incidents will be handled by civilian contractor
       (Panhandle Animal Welfare Society “PAWS”). The wild animal will be euthanized and the head
       will be submitted to the Regional Veterinary Laboratory in Pensacola. The State Laboratory in Tal-
       lahassee may be used in the event that testing at the Regional Veterinary Laboratory in Pensacola
       is not feasible.
    10.3. If a bite occurs off-base and is treated at the 96th Medical Group or Hurlburt Field Clinic, the
    procedures are:
       10.3.1. The Emergency Room will initiate DD Form 2341 and forward to Military Public Health.
       10.3.2. Public Health will notify 96th SVS/SVBV.
       10.3.3. 96th SVS/SVBV will contact the appropriate county public health department for quaran-
       tine.
       10.3.4. Animal(s) involved will be placed in quarantine following such incidents at the discretion
       of the appropriate county public health department.
       10.3.5. 96th SVS/SVBV will follow up with the appropriate county public health department at
       the end of the ten day quarantine period and report results to Military Public Health.
    10.4. Incidents caused by antagonizing or provoking an animal are presumed to be the fault of the
    provoking individual. Owners of pets under control are not considered responsible for the action the
    pet may take if the animal is antagonized or provoked or is approached without the consent of the
    sponsor or dependent. Sponsors must be especially careful of the behavior of preschool children to
    prevent incidents involving pets. In cases where a person repeatedly provokes or antagonizes an ani-
    mal being maintained under proper control, the animal’s owner may lodge a complaint with Security
    Forces.
    10.5. No specific number of biting incidents, whether provoked or unprovoked, are required before
    the installation commander may order expulsion of an animal from the base. Health, morale, welfare,
    and safety of the military community will be guiding factors in the commander’s decision concerning
    expulsion of pets. An order of the commander to remove a pet from base constitutes a lawful order and
    violation of that order is punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
HURLBURTFIELDI 48-101 31 JULY 2004                                                                    7


   10.6. The Eglin AFB Base Veterinarian (96 SVS/SVBV) is immediately notified when an animal sus-
   pected of having rabies is injured or is showing any signs of unusual behavior or illness.
   10.7. 16th SOW/JA is notified by Security Forces to determine if the Air Force faces any exposure for
   possible monetary liability.

11. REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS (PETS, STRAYS, OR WILD).
   11.1. When the owner of a dead animal located on the installation cannot be identified or located,
   Security Forces will notify the entomology section at the 16th Civil Engineer Squadron at 884-6173
   and request the removal of the dead animal. The animal will be incinerated to prevent the spread of
   communicable diseases.
   11.2. An adequate description of the animal and location found will be documented if the animal was
   involved in a wound incident.
   11.3. Animals that have bitten or scratched a person and subsequently die before 10 days have elapsed
   will be delivered to the Veterinary Clinic for a laboratory examination for rabies.
   11.4. Whenever the owner of a dead animal found on the installation can be readily identified and
   contacted, the owner is responsible for the animal’s removal.

12. WAIVERS. Waivers to the requirements established in this instruction may be granted by the instal-
lation commander when appropriate. All requests for waivers are handled on an individual basis.



                                                   OTIS G. MANNON, Colonel, USAF
                                                   Commander
8                                                      HURLBURTFIELDI 48-101 31 JULY 2004


                                             Attachment 1

                                      IMMUNIZATION TABLES

Table A1.1. Required Immunization of Animals.
R   A                    B               C                  D                       E
U   If the animal is a   immunization    will be given at second immunization       and
                         for             age              at the age of             reimmunized
L
E
1   dog                  rabies          3 months           1 year                  annually
2   cat                  rabies          3 months           1 year                  annually

Table A1.2. Required Immunization of Animals.
R   A                    B               C                  D                       E
U   If the animal is a   the             should be       the second and/or third and
                         recommended     initially       at age                  reimmunized
L
                         immunization    administered at
E                        for             age
1   dog                  Canine          8 weeks            3-4 weeks apart until   annually
                         Distemper                          16 weeks old
                         Hepatitis
                         Parainfluenza
                         Leptospirosis
                         Coronavirus
                         Parvovirus
2   cat                  Rhinotracheitis 8 weeks            3-4 weeks apart until   annually
                         Calicivrus                         16 weeks old
                         Panleukopenia
                         Leukemia
HURLBURTFIELDI 48-101 31 JULY 2004                                                           9


Table A1.3. Other required immunizations of animals.
R   A                    B                   C                  D             E
U   If the animal is a   immunization for    should be        the second          and
                                             initially       vaccine should be reimmunized
L
                                             administered at given at an interval
E                                            age
1   Horse                rabies              4 months           1 year        annually
2   Horse                Tetanus             4 months           1 month       Annually
                         Rhinopneumonitis
                         Equine Influenza
                         Eastern, Western
                         Venezuelan
                         Encephalomyelitis
                         West Nile Virus     6-8 weeks          3-6 weeks     annually
                                             If the mares did
                                             receive the
                                             vaccine prior to
                                             foaling, it is
                                             recommended
                                             starting at 3-4
                                             months of age.
