BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 34-201
16TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                                      15 SEPTEMBER 2006
(AFSOC)
                                                                                                 Services

                                                            HURLBURT FIELD MARQUEE POLICY




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 16 SVS/SVK                                                                 Certified by: 16 SVS/CC
                                                                             (Lt Colonel Lisa K. Hansen)
Supersedes HFI 34-201, 1 March 2001                                                             Pages: 4

This publication implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds
(NAFS). This instruction implements Hurlburt Field Marquee Policy, and it establishes policies and pro-
cedures for the Hurlburt Field Electronic Marquees. It applies to all base and partner units.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision makes major changes to this publication due to (1) new marquees purchased and (2)
increased usage since the previous revision.


1. General Policy. The marquees located at the back and main gates of Hurlburt Field are designed to
communicate, on a space available basis, appropriate official and unofficial information with a primary
emphasis on protocol matters. The marquee located in front of the library is designed to communicate pri-
oritized messages with a primary emphasis on information of base-wide interest. Low priority messages
should serve as reminders after other publication methods (base newspapers, base bulletin, flyers, e-mail,
etc) have been used, and not viewed as the primary means of communication.

2. Gate Marquee Submission Procedures and Guidelines.
   2.1. The marquees are government owned equipment and are not authorized to run messages of a
   non-government related nature (downtown programs, private organization fundraisers, private com-
   panies). Exceptions may be made when it is deemed to benefit a large portion of the Hurlburt commu-
   nity. An example of an authorized exception: The Hurlburt Spouses Club holds an event to fund base
   scholarships available to any member or dependent. An example of an unauthorized exception:
   Squadron Booster Club XYZ hosts a car wash to fund a burger burn. Such items are considered low
   priority. For more details on priorities, refer to 3.1. through 3.9.
2                                                  HURLBURTFIELDI34-201 15 SEPTEMBER 2006


    2.2. Requests must be submitted electronically through the 16th Services Squadron website. A link to
    the website may be found on the Hurlburt Field home page. When computer access is not available or
    the website is down, submissions may be made by faxing the request form at (Attachment 1) to
    850-884-3822. A confirmation e-mail or telecom will be made on all received faxed submissions on
    the following duty day. Requestors should contact the 16th Services Squadron Marketing Office at
    850-884-4252 if this confirmation is not received in order to ensure timely handling of requests.
    2.3. Requests should be written as they are to appear on the board. The marquee operator may need to
    modify requests to communicate the message more effectively or to accommodate the parameters of
    the board. In the event of a major revision, the operator should contact the requestor to ensure the orig-
    inal intent of the message is communicated.
    2.4. Submissions must include a point of contact and telephone number. In addition, an e-mail
    address is preferred and highly recommended.
    2.5. Marquee messages are posted by the 16th Services Squadron Marketing Office. Requests must
    be received 4 days prior to the requested run date, but not more than 30 days prior, to aid in the prior-
    itization process. Requests received on non-business days or after normal duty hours will be processed
    on the following duty day.
    2.6. Items on marquees will be displayed for a reasonable amount of time, if not in conflict with other
    requests. An attempt to show all desired messages will be made, but conflicts can arise and some mes-
    sages may not be posted. Typical run durations are listed under section 3.
    2.7. Excluding emergencies or corrections, same-day messages will not be accepted or posted unless
    directed by 16 SOW/CC or 16 MSG/CC.
    2.8. For after hour emergency updates, contact the Commando Inn (Lodging) at 850-884-7115/6245.
    The Commando Inn will maintain current after hours contact information.

3. Prioritized Order of Messages for Gate Marquees.
    3.1. Items directed by 16 SOW/CC or 16 MSG/CC. Run duration: As directed.
    3.2. Messages of operational necessity (FPCON, HURCON, safety, etc). Run duration: As directed.
    3.3. Welcome for distinguished visitors as directed by the 16 SOW/CC, with regard to current force
    protection policy. Run duration: As permitted by current force protection policy.
    3.4. Flag at half staff honoring the deceased as directed by the command post. Run duration: As spec-
    ified by command post.
    3.5. Changes of command for AFSOC, partner unit, wing, groups, and squadrons. This message is
    permitted two screens: one screen to announce the ceremony and one screen to announce the hail and
    farewell of the new and departing commanders. Run duration: Up to 4 days for the ceremony; 1 day
    for the combined hail and farewell on the day of the ceremony only, unless otherwise directed by 16
    SOW/CC.
    3.6. Welcome for meetings and evaluation teams (Commando Rally BLUE FLAG, Tactics Confer-
    ence, Hennessey Evaluation, etc). Run duration: 1 day.
HURLBURTFIELDI34-201 15 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                  3


   3.7. Retirements of military and civilians, all ranks. Patron may opt to announce the retirement cere-
   mony, list a congratulatory message OR combine the both onto one screen as space permits. Run dura-
   tion: 1 day, on date of retirement.
   3.8. Information concerning events and programs of base wide interest. (Community programs, ser-
   vices programs, fitness, youth, airmen and family readiness center, chapel, etc.). These items may be
   prioritized by the potential number of patrons impacted when necessary to decrease marquee traffic.
   Run duration: Duration is at the discretion of the marquee operator, with consideration given to the
   needs and scope of the program and its audience, but typically does not exceed 10 appearances. Mes-
   sages may be run on a random basis.
   3.9. Other items not listed here will be run at the discretion of the marquee operator under the direc-
   tion of the services marketing director, with reasonable consideration given to protocol, force protec-
   tion and interest to the Hurlburt Field community. Requests not honored may be addressed for
   advisement by the 16 SVS/CC and will be decided on a case-by-case basis based upon the current
   request volume and space availability. Run duration: Based on space availability.

4. Middle Marquee Messages. The middle marquee has a smaller character base and does not have
scheduling capabilities and is therefore limited to running 16th Services Squadron events and programs of
base wide interest, unless otherwise directed by 16 SOW/CC or 16 MSG/CC.

5. Marquee Maintenance and Supplies. Marquee bulb replacement and maintenance issues may be
directed to the 16th Civil Engineer Squadron (16 CES/CEOC).



                                              NORMAN J. BROZENICK, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
4             HURLBURTFIELDI34-201 15 SEPTEMBER 2006


           Attachment 1

    MARQUEE REQUEST FAX FORM
