BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 34-248
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
(AFSOC)                                                                         25 APRIL 2012

                                                                                       Services

                                                HURLBURT FIELD AIRMAN AND FAMILY
                                               SERVICES FLIGHT WAITING LIST POLICY




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 1 SOFSS/FSF                                                     Certified by: 1 SOFSS/CC
                                                                        (Maj. Derrick J. Floyd)
                                                                                       Pages: 5
Supersedes:   HURLBURTFIELDI34-248,
              15 June 2005


This instruction implements Department of Defense Instructions (DoDI) 6060.2, Child
Development Programs, 6060.3, School Age Care Programs and Air Force Instructions (AFI)
34-248, Child Development Centers and 34-249, Youth Programs. It establishes priorities for
use of child care spaces in the Airman and Family Services Flight to support the primary mission
of the program and installation. It applies to all individuals that require child care spaces,
including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the 1 SOW Publication/Forms Managers. This publication
requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of
1974. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision includes
the policy from the Priority Placement for Total Force Wounded Warriors (WW) memorandum.
 2                                                 HURLBURTFIELDI34-248 25 APRIL 2012


This instruction reflects the requirement of a deposit towards the first week of care, requirement
to return paperwork for accepting a child care space within three business days, and grammatical
changes.
1. General. This instruction establishes policy and outlines eligibility, priorities, enrollment and
termination guidance for all parents requesting care in the Hurlburt Field Child Development
Center (CDC) and School Age Program (SAP).
2. Waiting List Policy. If all child care spaces are full, parents requesting service must
complete DD Form 2606, Child Development Program Request for Care Record. They will be
contacted every two months to ensure care is still needed and the waiting list remains up-to-date.
Parents are to include an e-mail address on DD Form 2606, if available, and are responsible for
providing any changes of address and phone numbers.
3. Eligibility. Eligible patrons include active duty military personnel, DoD civilian personnel
paid with either APF or NAF, reservists on active duty or during inactive duty training, and DoD
contractors. DoD Contractors may only use the program when they are full-time employees of a
contractor performing a function on the installation that might otherwise be performed by a
military member or a DoD civilian employee. Dependents of retirees are not eligible. Active duty
sponsors who are assigned to or live on another installation are eligible to request care in the
Hurlburt Field CDC or SAP for their dependent child/children who live in the Hurlburt Field
local area with another parent.
     3.1. Unborn Infants. Expectant families can complete and submit waiting list documents to
     the CDC during the sixth month of pregnancy for unborn infants. Parents must inform the
     CDC of the expected due date for the birth of the child. The waiting list form will be
     activated and placed on the waiting list when the parent notifies the CDC of the child’s birth
     date and name either by phone or through email to 1SOFSS.FSFC@hurlburt.af.mil .
     3.2. PCS inbound families can complete and submit waiting list documents to the CDC and
     SAP as soon as they have published orders. The waiting list form will be activated (using the
     date submitted) when the parent informs the CDC and SAP they have arrived on station and
     provides updated contact information.
4. Priorities. Active duty and DoD civilian employed parents have higher priority in the use of
the CDC and SAP. Individuals enrolled in school full-time are considered employed, as long as
they show proof of enrollment. Full time enrollment of 12 credit hours must be maintained year
round to prevent change in priority from working to nonworking. Summer full time enrollment is
six (6) credit hours. Individuals who are assigned to or live on the installation, regardless of
branch of service, are given equal priority. Active duty sponsors who are assigned to or live on
another installation but who request care in the Hurlburt Field CDC or SAP for their dependent
child/children who live in the Hurlburt Field local area with another parent are priority three.
     4.1. Priorities for enrollment:
        4.1.1. 1st Priority: Single parents (active duty or DoD civilian) or dual active duty
        military personnel assigned to or living on Hurlburt Field. Single parent status does not
        apply to households in which unmarried couples or pairs are living as a family or parents
        cohabitating with the other parent of the child/children for whom they are requesting care
        in the Hurlburt Field CDC or SAP.
HURLBURTFIELDI34-248 25 APRIL 2012                                                                  3


       4.1.2. 2nd Priority: Active duty military, DoD civilian personnel, or dependents of
       combat-related Fallen Warriors assigned to or living on Hurlburt Field whose spouse is
       employed on a full-time basis outside the home. Both parents, parent/guardian for
       combat-related Fallen warriors, must be employed, a full-time student or actively seeking
       employment.
       4.1.3. 3rd Priority: Hurlburt assigned Active duty military or DoD civilian with a non-
       working spouse assigned to or living on Hurlburt Field and active duty sponsors assigned
       to or living on another installation but whose dependent child/children live in the
       Hurlburt Field local area with another parent that is employed full time outside the home
       and request care in the Hurlburt Field CDC or SAP.
       4.1.4. 4th Priority: DoD Contractors
5. Enrollment Policy. When a family is contacted by the CDC or SAP and informed of an
available child care space, the parent will have 24 hours to accept the slot and pay a $30 deposit
towards the first week of care. The parent will have three (3) working days to return completed
registration forms. The parent will be expected to begin care when the space is made available or
no later than 14 calendar days from acceptance. The start date will be annotated on AF Form
1181, Program Patron Registration. If the parent has not responded within 24 hours or refuses
the space, they must re-accomplish the DD Form 2606 or be removed from the waiting list.
6. Termination Policy. In the case where an enrolled family’s employment status changes, i.e.
the spouse is no longer employed or is no longer actively seeking employment, and there is a
waiting list, parents will be given a 30 day notification and assistance in finding alternate care. If
space is available to accept priority four, notification will be provided to parents that space is
available as long as there are no priority one, two or three care requests. In the case where an
enrolled family’s marital/geographical status changes due to divorce or separation, the
child/children will have priority three status and will be able to remain in the program as long as
the household has all adults working or enrolled in school full time. Priority four parents will be
given a 30 day notification and assistance in finding alternate care if priority one, two, or three
care requests displace them from care. Special circumstances will be considered on a case-by-
case basis. Contractor eligibility will be terminated when no longer employed by the contractor
or performing on-base work for the contractor. If a military member retires and has children
enrolled in the CDC or SAP, they will be given a 30 day notification and assistance in finding
alternate care.
7. Deployed Members on the Waiting List. If an individual withdraws their child from the
CDC or SAP due to deployment, the child’s name will be placed at the top of the waiting list for
their age group and remain there until the parent returns. When the parent returns, assistance will
be provided to help make temporary child care arrangements in a licensed family child care
home until a space opens in the CDC or SA Program.
8. Wounded Warriors. Wounded Warrior families that are enrolled in a Service-sponsored
Wounded Warrior program, provide a copy of orders that reflect disability, illness, or injury are
placed at the top of the waiting list IAW Priority Placement for Total Force Wounded Warriors
(WW) memorandum dated 25 Jul 2011. Wounded Warriors who return to active duty, shall
maintain the child’s space in the programs or priority and place, on the waiting list as long as the
spouse, if applicable, is employed or a full time student.
 4                                            HURLBURTFIELDI34-248 25 APRIL 2012


9. Fallen Warriors. Dependents of combat-related Fallen Warriors are authorized use of the
Air Force Child Care programs, to include School Age Programs, until the age of 12 years as
long as the parent or guardian maintains eligibility as outlined in section 4, Priorities.




                                          JAMES C. SLIFE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
HURLBURTFIELDI34-248 25 APRIL 2012                                                         5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-248, Child Development Centers, 1 October 1999
AFI 34-249, Youth Programs, 1 June 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD Instruction 6060.2, Child Development Programs, 19 January 1993
DoD Instruction 6060.3, School Age Care Programs, 19 December 1996
HQ USAF/A1S Priority Placement for Total Force Wounded Warriors (WW, 25 July 2011)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1181, Air Force Youth Flight Program Patron Registration
DD Form 2606, Department of Defense Child Development Program Request for Care Record
Prescribed Forms
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CDC—Child Development Center
DD—Department of Defense (as used on forms); Doctrine Documents (as used in short title)
DoD—Department of Defense
IAW—In accordance with
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAP—School Age Program
WW—Wounded Warriors
