BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 90-201
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
(1 SOW)                                                                        21 JUNE 2010

                                                                                   Inspection

                                                                  SELF-INSPECTION AND
                                                                  CROSSTELL PROGRAMS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 1 SOW/IGI                                                        Certified by: 1 SOW/IG
Supersedes: HFI90-201, 31 March 2007                                (Lt Col Daniel P. Murray)
                                                                                     Pages: 11


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-
2, Inspector General - The Inspection System, AFSOCI 90-201- Inspection Program, and
AFSOCI 90-205, AFSOC Self Inspection Program. This instruction applies to all 1st Special
Operations Wing (1 SOW) units. This instruction communicates philosophy, establishes
objectives and responsibilities, gives guidance, and provides procedures for the wing’s Self-
Inspection Program. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
Units or the Air National Guard (ANG)/(If applicable) check AFSOC supplement to AFI33-360
at http://e-publishing.af.mil). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command
(MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

1. Philosophy. Self-Inspection is a commander’s program to identify and resolve problems that
degrade readiness. It is a three-part process that validates and ensures effective mission
accomplishment using all applicable directives.
   1.1. Part I - Discovery Stage. Checklists that have been developed by the unit, based on
   governing directives and commander emphasis, become the primary tools to identify
 2                                                  HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010


     discrepancies that would negatively affect mission performance. Units must also use
     applicable functional checklists developed by HQ AFSOC (Reference AFSOCI 90-205, Self-
     Inspection Program,1 June 2005).
     1.2. Part II - Solution. Hurlburt Field (HF) Form 191, Discrepancy Report, or equivalent
     approved by 1 SOW/IGI, is the primary tool to document and track the status of
     discrepancies identified during the self-inspection process, see Attachment 2.
     1.3. Part III - Communication. The combination of unit checklists and HF Form 191 (or
     equivalent) enables the unit to point out discrepancies to the commander, as well as follow up
     on the status of all discrepancies. This formal communication process ensures that
     commanders can follow problem areas in their units until resolved.
2. Objective. The goal of the wing Self-Inspection Program is to continuously improve mission
effectiveness by detecting and correcting problem areas. Also, the program ensures the wing
stays “in compliance” with all Air Force and HQ AFSOC compliance directives. This
instruction gives commanders a tool for developing an effective Self-Inspection Program,
clarifies responsibilities of the group/squadron Self-Inspection Managers, and standardizes the
Self-Inspection Program wing-wide.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Wing Self-Inspection Manager. 1 SOW Inspector General has overall management
     responsibility for the wing’s Self-Inspection Program. The Director of Inspections (IGI) is
     responsible for establishing and monitoring the status of the Self-Inspection Program as well
     as providing training when necessary. The Wing Self-Inspection Manager will:
        3.1.1. Consolidate the annual Group Self-Inspection Program Memorandum for Record
        (MFR) for all open discrepancies reported by the Group Self-Inspection Programs. The
        consolidated report will be forwarded to the wing commander NLT 31 Dec.
        3.1.2. Prepare a staff summary package for 1 SOW/CC signature addressed to HQ
        AFSOC when any open discrepancy identified during the annual Self-Inspection Program
        requires HQ AFSOC assistance for resolution.
        3.1.3. Forward all applicable Self-Inspection Program materials/information to Group
        Self-Inspection Program Managers.
        3.1.4. Keep a file of Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI) and Unit Compliance
        Inspection (UCI) reports from other bases as lessons learned and crosstell information.
        3.1.5. Maintain a master file of all applicable SIIs and replies (records may be
        electronic).
     3.2. Group Commanders:
        3.2.1. Establish an effective Self-Inspection Program for all subordinate units.
        3.2.2. Identify in writing a primary and alternate Group Self-Inspection Program
        Manager to 1 SOW/IGI, see Attachment 3, Self Inspection Appointment Memo
        Template.
        3.2.3. Review reported discrepancies for validity and monitor corrective actions taken.
HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010                                                              3


     3.2.4. Review, approve, and sign the annual Self-Inspection Program MFR and submit to
     1 SOW/IGI NLT 30 Nov. The MFR will include all open items that cannot be solved
     within the Group and require Wing/AFSOC visibility for action.
  3.3. Group Self-Inspection Manager. An individual designated by the group commander
  to act as the central point of contact for matters concerning the group Self-Inspection
  Program. Group Self-Inspection Program Managers will:
     3.3.1. Act as the central point of contact for all matters concerning the Self-Inspection
     Program for the group commander.
     3.3.2. Ensure all SIIs, crosstell information, and self-inspection materials are distributed
     to their respective subordinate units.
     3.3.3. Review Self-Inspection Program checklists and applicable open squadron-
     submitted HF Form 191, or equivalent, of subordinate units for validity, accuracy, and
     timeliness of corrective actions. Maintain copies of checklists and HF Form 191, or
     equivalent, containing critical items in their group Self-Inspection binder/File/1
     SOW/IGI-approved substitute.
     3.3.4. Prepare Annual Self-Inspection Program report for group commander approval
     and signature prior to submitting to 1 SOW/IGI NLT 30 Nov, see Attachment 4, Group
     Annual Self-Inspection Memo Template.
     3.3.5. Identify in the Annual Self-Inspection MFR all open discrepancies including any
     discrepancy that requires Wing or AFSOC assistance for resolution.
     3.3.6. Conduct quarterly internal reviews of subordinate units on the status of all open
     items identified during the Annual Self-Inspection report.
  3.4. Squadron Commanders and Wing Staff Agency Chiefs:
     3.4.1. Ensure all work centers have a Self-Inspection Program and conduct the 1 SOW
     Annual Self Inspection starting 1 October.
     3.4.2. Identify, in writing, a primary and alternate Squadron/Wing Staff Self-Inspection
     Manager. Provide a copy of the appointment letter to the Group Self-Inspection
     Manager. Wing Staff Agencies will submit a copy of the appointment letter directly to 1
     SOW/IGI, see Attachment 3, Self Inspection Appointment Memo Template.
     3.4.3. Review self-inspection results of each section.
     3.4.4. Evaluate open discrepancies identified by Section Self-Inspection Managers and
     submit an Annual Self-Inspection report for the group commander through the group Self
     Inspection Manager. Squadron reports being sent to Group Self Inspection Managers
     should only contain open discrepancies the squadron commander feels may require
     Group Commander’s or higher headquarters assistance for resolution. Send self
     inspection reports to the Group Self-Inspection Manager NLT 31 October.
     3.4.5. Evaluate corrective actions on discrepancies and either close the discrepancy or
     direct further action.
4                                                   HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010


       3.4.6. Provide quarterly status report for all open discrepancies remaining at the
       Squadron level identified in the annual Self-Inspection to the Group Self-Inspection
       Manager.
    3.5. Squadron Self-Inspection Manager. An individual designated by the squadron
    commander to manage the Squadron Self-Inspection Program and to act as the point of
    contact for section work center Self-Inspection Managers. Squadron Self-Inspection
    Managers will:
       3.5.1. Distribute crosstell, self-inspection, and SII materials to work centers.
       3.5.2. Ensure all work centers in the squadron perform effective self-inspections.
       3.5.3. Consolidate self-inspection reports for the squadron commander.
       3.5.4. Track the status of all identified discrepancies (open and closed) and forward
       updates of open discrepancies to the squadron commander.
       3.5.5. Review all squadron self-inspection checklists for effectiveness and maintain
       master copies.
       3.5.6. Prepare Annual Self-Inspection report for squadron commander approval and
       signature prior to submitting to Group Self Inspection Manager, see Attachment 4,
       Squadron Annual Self-Inspection MFR Template.
       3.5.7. Wing Staff Agency Self-Inspection reports, copies of the most recently run self-
       inspection checklists, and HF Form 191s (or equivalent) generated will be forwarded
       directly to the wing director of staff or representative, who will function as the single-
       point manager for all wing staff agencies.
    3.6. Section Work-center Self-Inspection Manager. An individual or office designated to
    conduct section work-center self-inspections and to maintain a section work-center self-
    inspection book/file.
       3.6.1. Develop and maintain the section work center self-inspection checklists to be
       incorporated into the self-inspection binder, file or 1 SOW/IGI-approved substitute.
       Provide a copy of these checklists to the squadron Self-Inspection Manager.
       3.6.2. As a minimum, conduct a self-inspection every October. Early or off cycle
       inspections will be at the Squadron Commanders discretion and will be an internal
       process only. October inspections will be the formal Installation inspection cycle.
       3.6.3. Document discrepancies on the HF Form 191 (or equivalent) in accordance with
       paragraph 5.2, and send a report of the discrepancies to the Squadron Self-Inspection
       Manager. Include the status of open discrepancies carried over from the last inspection in
       this report.
       3.6.4. Monitor corrective actions for open discrepancies and provide update on the HF
       Form 191 (or equivalent) at least every 30 days. Provide the squadron Self-Inspection
       Manager with the status of open discrepancies quarterly.
HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010                                                               5


4. Self-Inspection Program. Group and Squadron Self-Inspection Managers are required to
maintain a complete Self-Inspection binder, file, or 1 SOW/IGI-approved substitute (may be hard
copy or electronic with signatures). Work center Self-Inspection Managers are only required to
maintain current checklists and current HF Form 191s (or equivalent) that apply to that work
center and any crosstell information pertinent to their area. Binders, files, or 1 SOW/IGI
approved substitute shall have the following sections:
   4.1. References such as HFI 90-201 and any group or squadron self-inspection instructions.
   4.2. Appointment letter appointing the primary and alternate Self-Inspection Managers.
   4.3. Self-Inspection Checklists. Note 1: AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist (or
   equivalent) will be used to create unit checklists. Note 2: Must include HQ AFSOC
   functional checklist items. Note 3: Group Self-Inspection Managers are only required to
   keep copies of checklists containing critical items.
   4.4. AF, AFSOC and 1 SOW SIIs.
   4.5. HF Form 191s. Note: Group Self-Inspection Managers are only required to keep
   copies of HF Form 191s (or equivalent) for open items.
   4.6. Annual Self-Inspection MFRs from each of the last three annual inspections.
   4.7. Applicable Higher Headquarters inspection reports of the 1 SOW, i.e., ORI, UCI), SAV,
   ESOHCAMP, MSEP, ASEV, etc.
   4.8. Selected crosstell information and inspections conducted by external agencies. Note:
   Need only retain extracts which pertain to the section work center.
5. Procedures for Conducting Self-Inspections. Self-Inspection checklists are developed
internally by units to focus on processes, resource protection, and customer needs. Unit
checklists should assess squadron processes to ensure work center activity is accomplished
effectively and correctly. As a minimum, unit checklists must incorporate the following:
applicable compliance inspection items identified in AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities,
Attachment 6; all applicable special interest items; and the HQ AFSOC Functional checklists in
AFSOCI 90-205. Applicable regulations, technical orders, and inspection reports can also be
used to develop checklist requirements. Additional sources for building checklists include
crosstell information, Inspector General briefs, base-level exercise reports and other higher
headquarters inspections or staff assistance reports.
   5.1. Review the checklists prior to performing the self-inspection. The individual who
   conducts the inspection will date and sign the last page of the checklists. Dispose of
   checklists IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Record
   Disposition             Schedule               (RDS)               found             at
   https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
   5.2. The section inspector will document the discrepancies noted during the inspection on a
   HF Form 191 (or equivalent). The HF Form 191 (or equivalent) must be updated monthly
   until the discrepancy is closed. The following information must be included on the HF Form
   191 (or equivalent) and maintained in the self-inspection binder/file:
       5.2.1. Brief description of the discrepancy. Be sure to reference the checklist used.
       5.2.2. Date discovered.
 6                                                  HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010


        5.2.3. Whether the write-up is open or closed.
        5.2.4. Estimated completion date (ECD) for the corrective action.
        5.2.5. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) and Office of Collateral Responsibility
        (OCR), if applicable, for implementing the corrective action needed.
        5.2.6. Enter date and initials in respective column every month after annotating the status
        of the corrective action taken.
        5.2.7. If a discrepancy has been closed, annotate this in the Corrective Action column.
        5.2.8. Once a discrepancy is closed the squadron commander or wing staff agency chief
        should sign the HF Form 191 (or equivalent) to signify he/she is aware the item has been
        closed.
6. Other Directed Inspections. Squadrons directed by instruction or other directive publication
to receive periodic surveillance-type inspections will comply with this instruction with the
following exceptions: the surveillance inspection may fill the self-inspection requirement for the
period in which it was performed if it is as comprehensive as the specific SI checklist. Note:
Submit a letter of explanation up the normal self-inspection chain (Sq/Grp/Wg Self-Inspection
Managers) to the 1 SOW/IGI in place of the Self-Inspection report for the specified period. The
unit will track surveillance inspection results in accordance with the publication directing the
inspection.
7. Reporting and Tracking Discrepancies.
     7.1. Section work centers will report all discrepancies to the Squadron Self-Inspection
     Manager.
     7.2. Discrepancies may only be closed by the squadron commander or a designated approval
     authority appointed by the commander in writing. Retain such delegation letters in the Self-
     Inspection binder/file/1 SOW/IGI-approved substitute.
     7.3. Show open discrepancies on all subsequent self-inspection reports until they are closed.
     7.4. Include discrepancies noted during higher headquarters inspections (ORI/UCI) of the 1
     SOW, applicable crosstell items, and other items directed by appropriate command channels
     in Self-Inspection reports until they are closed.
     7.5. Sections must use HF Form 191 (or equivalent) to report, track, and close self-
     inspection items. Each discrepancy identified on the HF Form 191 (or equivalent) should
     reference the checklist used.
8. Maintenance of Records. All records generated as a result of this instruction will be
maintained and, when required, disposed of in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, AFRIMS RDS and DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, AFI 31-401,
Information Security Program Management, as applicable.
HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010                                              7


9. Forms Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   9.1. Prescribed Forms. Hurlburt Field Form 191, Discrepancy Report
   9.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
   AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist




                                         GREGORY J. LENGYEL, Col, USAF
                                         Commander
 8                                              HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General - The Inspection System, 26 April 2006
AFSOCI 90-205, AFSOC Self Inspection Program, 01 June 2005
HFI 90-201, 31 March 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program,14 January 1997
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management,19 August 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFSOC— Air Force Special Operation Command
ANG— Air National Guard
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
ASEV—
ECD— Estimated Completion Date
ESOHCAMP— Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program
HF— Hurlburt Field
MAJCOM— Major Command
MFR— Memorandum For Record
MSEP— Maintenance Standardization & Evaluation Program
OCR— Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
ORI— Operational Readiness Inspection
RDS— Record Disposition Schedule
SAV— Staff Assistance Visit
UCI— Unit Compliance Inspection
HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010                  9


                                   Attachment 2
                         DESCREPANCY REPORT FORM

Figure A2.1. Discrepancy Report Form.
 10                                        HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010


                                   Attachment 3
              GROUP ANNUAL SELF-INSPECTION MFR TEMPLATE

Figure A3.1. Group Annual Self-Inspection MFR Template.
HURLBURTFIELDI90-201 21 JUNE 2010                            11


                                   Attachment 4
           SQUADRON ANNUAL SELF-INSPTECTION MFR TEMPLATE

Figure A4.1. Squadron Annual Self-Inspection MFR Template.
