BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 32-6005
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
(1 SOW)                                                                       27 MARCH 2014

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                             UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 1 SOCES/CEAC                                                   Certified by: 1 SOCES/CC
                                                                 (Lt Col Jason J. Loschinskey)
                                                                                     Pages: 17



This publication implements guidance contained in AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing
Management. It provides guidance, policy and procedures for managing unaccompanied
housing (UH) at Hurlburt Field. Included are procedures for authorizing and processing requests
for basic allowance for housing (BAH). Further guidance concerning authorization for
unaccompanied personnel to live off-base and receive BAH is contained in AFI 32-6005,
Unaccompanied Housing Management. This instruction requires the collection and maintenance
of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program).
Authority to collect and maintain this information is in 10 U.S.C. 8013. This publication does
not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or the Air National Guard (ANG).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS), Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                             HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014


                                           Chapter 1

      UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING REQUIREMENTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. General Responsibilities: The following responsibilities complement and/or expound on
those outlined in AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, regarding oversight and
management of unaccompanied housing for Airmen assigned to Hurlburt Field.
     1.1.1. Wing Vice Commander – 1 SOW/CV will chair the Quarters Improvement Committee
     (QIC) IAW the provision established in AFI 32-6005, paragraph 1.2.3.18.
     1.1.2. Mission Support Group Commander – 1 SOMSG/CC.
        1.1.2.1. Delegated approval/disapproval authority for all BAH matters not otherwise
        restricted by law or Air Force policy. For expediency, certain aspects of approval
        authority are further delegated to the Base Civil Engineer or Housing Manager.
        1.1.2.2. Determines members required to live on-base for reasons of military necessity,
        readiness, or discipline, or give priority assignment to on-base quarters for personnel
        experiencing a hardship based on recommendation of the individual’s squadron
        commander and cannot be delegated lower.
     1.1.3. Squadron Commanders/First Sergeants.
        1.1.3.1. Implements dormitory management provisions.
        1.1.3.2. Works with supervisors of dormitory residents to ensure that dormitory rooms of
        personnel in their unit meet the standards set forth in AFI 32-6005, this publication, the
        Unaccompanied Housing Resident Brochure, and other specific guidance set forth by the
        wing command chief and other base senior leadership.
        1.1.3.3. When tasked according to the rotating unit schedule, provide dorm management
        a bay orderly for one week. If unable to fill the tasking, coordinate with another first
        sergeant to swap dates.
        1.1.3.4. Makes recommendations concerning priority assignments and hardship requests
        for their squadron personnel, through the UH section chief who will process the request
        to the housing manager with a recommendation.
        1.1.3.5. Must individually approve a member’s desire to maintain a room and reside
        elsewhere (ghosting). A copy of CC or CCF approval letter stating his/her actual
        residence and contact number will be maintained in the member’s room assignment
        jacket file.
     1.1.4. Housing Manager - 1 SOCES/CEAC.
        1.1.4.1. Implements dormitory management provisions established in AFI 32-6005 and
        serves as the base office of primary responsibility (OPR) for this instruction.
        1.1.4.2. Approves or disapproves requests for Priority 4 personnel to reside in the
        dormitory on a space-available basis based on availability, and projected base-wide
        dormitory occupancy rate for Priority 1, 2, and 3 personnel.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014                                                           3


     1.1.4.3. Reviews the quarterly UH metric and forwards it to MAJCOM according to the
     timeline established in AFI 32-6005.
  1.1.5. Unaccompanied Housing (UH) Management Section Chief/UH Superintendent.
     1.1.5.1. Implements dormitory management provisions identified in AFI 32-6005,
     paragraph 1.2.8.
     1.1.5.2. Conducts initial/refresher training for all dormitory managers and Airman
     Dormitory Leaders assigned to the UH section IAW AFI 32-6005, this instruction, and
     SDI 8H000 Job Qualification Standard (JQS).
     1.1.5.3. Maintains the Quarters Improvement Plan (QIP), coordinates Quarters
     Improvement Committee (QIC) briefing slides with the Lodging General Manager,
     schedules/conducts QIC meetings at least twice each year, and publish minutes of the
     meeting.
     1.1.5.4. Manages unit bed space allocations and associated unit moves by making
     adjustments, as necessary and approved, to ensure equitable distribution among assigned
     units.
     1.1.5.5. Maintains a current UH Resident Brochure for dormitory residents.
  1.1.6. Dormitory Managers and Airman Dormitory Leaders.
     1.1.6.1. Assigns and terminates rooms using guidance from AFI 32-6005, this
     publication, and UH Resident Brochure.
     1.1.6.2. Maintains facilities/keys, manages rooms according to unit of assignment, and
     monitors condition of common area furnishings daily.
     1.1.6.3. Ensures each occupant signs AF Form 228, Furnishings Custody Receipt and
     Condition Report, acknowledging receipt and condition of the furnishings in their room,
     and holds residents accountable for willful or careless damage or destruction of assigned
     furnishings, room, or property.
     1.1.6.4. Ensures AF Form 4422, Sex Offender Disclosure and Acknowledgement, is
     accomplished along with other assignment documents.
     1.1.6.5. Briefs new occupants on their general responsibilities, to include fire and safety
     provisions, and provides them a copy of the UH resident brochure upon assignment.
     1.1.6.6. Upon termination of occupancy, transfer the person’s assignment and
     termination information to the active (history) file, and retain IAW RDS with table 32-08
     R08.00, and destroy 1 year after termination of quarters occupancy and final inspection
     of quarters. All assignment documents, a copy of PCS orders or off-base lease agreement
     if moving locally, completed HF Form 88, Application/Authorization for Without
     Dependent Rate BAH, AF IMT 291, Unaccompanied Quarters Assignment – Termination
     Record, and AF IMT 594, Application and Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Basic
     Allowance for Housing (BAH) or Dependency Redetermination will be filed with all
     termination actions.
4                                              HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014


       1.1.6.7. Maintains a CE work order log that contains the work order number, description
       of work request, date submitted to the customer service unit, and current status. Ensures
       work orders are current and work is complete.
       1.1.6.8. Manages a bay orderly roster. Schedules units for weekly appointments based
       on number of assigned personnel per unit for multi-unit dormitories, and coordinates with
       first sergeants for appointment of members from their unit for their assigned periods.
       1.1.6.9. Displays information pertaining to the occupant, i.e., name, rank, work shift,
       organization and duty phone on room door plate. Red tape is used to indicate occupants
       who are under age 21.
    1.1.7. Dormitory Residents Responsibilities.
       1.1.7.1. Be fully knowledgeable of the provisions the UH resident brochure, and keep it
       available in their room for future reference. It contains emergency contact telephone
       numbers, AF policy/rules of the dormitory, specifics regarding standards of personal
       conduct, and BAH/termination procedures.
       1.1.7.2. Report all disturbances and incidents to law enforcement or to his/her first
       sergeant, and also advise dormitory management. If after normal duty hours notify dorm
       manager or the housing office the next duty day.
       1.1.7.3. Report routine (non-emergency) maintenance problems to dormitory
       management. Report emergency maintenance problems to CE service call desk (number
       listed in UH brochure). Advise dormitory management the next duty day of the reported
       problem and job order number that CE assigned.
       1.1.7.4. Ensure that common areas of the dormitory that are supposed to be locked
       remain secured at all times. If a laundry room door is found unlocked (propped open),
       the resident should take action to secure it. Dormitory laundry rooms are for resident’s
       use only.
       1.1.7.5. Register bicycles with dormitory management and secure them in the bicycle
       racks provided at each facility. Storage is prohibited in stairwells, on balconies, exits,
       and hallways.
       1.1.7.6. Dormitory parking lots are for automobiles/motorcycles used for daily
       commuting only. Residents will not use dormitory parking lots for storage of camper
       shells, trailers, RVs, or off-road vehicles; neither will they be used for long term parking.
           1.1.7.6.1. Residents will park recreational vehicles and trailers, such as boats, ski-
           dos, and travel trailers; truck accessories not installed, such as camper shells; and
           anything that is not considered a daily commuting vehicle, such as off-road
           motorcycles; in designated/authorized areas only, i.e., the base housing RV lot
           managed by the housing office.
           1.1.7.6.2. Direct questions regarding long term parking arrangements for
           TDY/deployments lasting longer than 30 days to the unit first sergeant.
       1.1.7.7. If desiring to maintain his/her current room assignment and reside elsewhere
       (ghosting), member must request written approval from his/her commander or first
HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014                                                             5


       sergeant. A copy of CC or CCF approval letter stating his/her actual residence and
       contact number will be maintained in the member’s room assignment jacket file.
       1.1.7.8. Inform dormitory management upon receipt of assignment or separation
       notification. Provide the dormitory manager a copy of orders, and schedule termination
       appointments when a departure date is established. Follow termination procedures listed
       in the UH Resident Brochure.
1.2. Resident’s Standards of Conduct.
   1.2.1. The public showing, posting, or distribution of printed, written, drawn, painted, or any
   copied material which the commander determines would show pornographic, lewd, or
   morally distasteful tendencies is prohibited.
   1.2.2. No pets or animals of any kind are allowed in the dormitories (HFI 48-101, Control of
   Animals). Tropical fish (e.g., gold fish) may be permissible with advance permission from
   first sergeant or commander, and only if aquariums are kept clean and are properly
   maintained.
   1.2.3. All dormitories are designated quiet areas 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week (24/7)
   because of shift workers being assigned throughout. Operating radios, televisions, stereos,
   etc., at a volume which may disturb others is not permitted. Minimum volume levels will be
   maintained at all times as a common courtesy to other residents.
1.3. Social Visits.
   1.3.1. The policy regarding social visits is that guests must be 18 years old, be escorted at
   all times, and are prohibited between 2400-0600 hours daily. Cohabitation is not authorized.
   Visiting friends and family members from out of town must secure lodging accommodations
   elsewhere.
   1.3.2. Each resident is personally responsible for the conduct of their guests.         Dress,
   language, courtesy, and general behavior must be above reproach at all times.
   1.3.3. All visitors must have identification in their immediate possession.
   1.3.4. Members will not permit their guest to use the dormitory laundry facilities, even if the
   laundry belongs to the sponsor.
   1.3.5. The first sergeant may revoke occupant’s dormitory social visit privilege if the
   member is found to be in violation of any policies or rules associated with dormitory
   residency.
1.4. Safety/Security/Fire Prevention Standards.
   1.4.1. Waterbeds are prohibited in all dormitory rooms.
   1.4.2. Weapons of any type and explosives will not be brought into the dormitories. This
   includes, but not limited to souvenir swords, switch-blades, butter-fly knives, bayonets,
   firearms, paint ball guns, air soft guns, BB guns, ammunition, fireworks, and certain
   flammable liquids. Contact Security Forces for specific guidance or information on
   prohibited weapons, or Fire Emergency Services for fire safety concerns.
   1.4.3. Cooking Restrictions. A microwave oven is provided in all rooms for the occupant’s
   cooking convenience, and it is the only cooking device authorized for food preparation,
 6                                               HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014


     except for dorms that are specifically equipped with a kitchen. In accordance with (IAW)
     HFI 32-2001, Base Fire Prevention Program, coffee makers are permissible as long as they
     are being used IAW manufacturer’s guidelines, and are unplugged when room is unoccupied.
     The use of coffee makers with a programmable/automatic timer is prohibited.
     1.4.4. Decorations. The use of live Christmas trees in dormitory rooms is prohibited. Only
     artificial trees are allowed. All Christmas decorative lighting must be UL approved, and
     unplugged when room is unoccupied.
     1.4.5. All dormitories are designated NO SMOKING. This policy includes not using any
     tobacco products inside any part of the dormitory facility, including individually assigned
     rooms and common areas. Dorm residents desiring to use tobacco products may do so in the
     designated smoking area, outside the structure.
     1.4.6. Open Flames/Warmer. The use of heat or flame devices as a heating source is
     prohibited. The use of candles, candle warmers, and incense is also prohibited.
     1.4.7. Outdoor Cooking. One 25 lb. bag of regular charcoal and up to one quart of charcoal
     starter shall be allowed in a dorm room. Match light charcoal is expressly forbidden to be
     stored in dorm rooms. Lighter fluid and dry charcoal must be stored in separate locations
     within the dormitory room.
     1.4.8. Vehicle Maintenance--Prohibited. Vehicle maintenance will not be performed on the
     premises, i.e., in individual rooms, common areas, or dormitory parking lots. Changing a flat
     tire, dead battery, or an inoperative light bulb are the only exceptions.
     1.4.9. The storage room, utility room and laundry room (including the “quad” common area
     access doors at Dorms-4-Airmen facilities) will remain locked at all times. Access to these
     areas will be controlled using the keys issued to each person authorized access to the
     dormitory.
1.5. Dormitory Inspections/Quality-of-Life Visits.
     1.5.1. Each resident will ensure his/her room and common areas routinely present a neat
     appearance, are relatively clean, and appropriately furnished. Although inspections are not
     intended to be “white glove,” or detailed to the point of being totally dust/dirt free, residents
     should make an extra effort in preparing his/her room when made aware of a scheduled
     inspection. First sergeants will, at their discretion, establish specific guidelines regarding
     room inspections for their unit personnel.
     1.5.2. Inspection Program. The number of inspections should be kept to a minimum.
     However, commanders/first sergeants/supervisors are encouraged to routinely visit their
     personnel’s dormitory to demonstrate interest in their well being. Unannounced inspections
     by the unit leadership should not occur more than once each month unless certain occupants
     have demonstrated a propensity for unhealthy living conditions. Squadron and base
     leadership visiting dormitories will sign in on a clipboard located at the dorm office, or notify
     dorm management the next duty day if the visit occurred after normal duty hours, to establish
     a record of their visit.
     1.5.3. In addition to dormitory inspections required by squadron commanders/first sergeants,
     the installation commander or designated representatives will inspect a sampling of
     unaccompanied housing each quarter.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014                                                         7


   1.5.4. Guidelines for competition inspections will be established by the installation wing
   command chief based on recommendations from the mission support group superintendent,
   first sergeants, and the wing dormitory council. Rules for competition and prizes will be
   managed separately from this instruction.
1.6. Telephone and Cable TV Connection Fee Reimbursement.
   1.6.1. Personnel directed to move (convenience of the government), either within a
   dormitory or to another dormitory, may have their reconnection fees reimbursed by the
   government. Other portions of their cable/telephone bill remain the responsibility of the
   individual. Personnel moving off-base are not entitled to this reimbursement.
   1.6.2. If a resident who is directed to move for the convenience of the government wants to
   be reimbursed, he/she will obtain a reimbursement request letter from the dormitory
   manager. Take the completed letter to the housing office with a copy of the cable/telephone
   bill, and PAID receipt. The housing office will initiate reimbursement actions.
 8                                             HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014


                                            Chapter 2

                       BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING (BAH)

2.1. Processing Requirements to Start, Stop or Change BAH. Personnel authorized to
receive without-dependent BAH are identified in this chapter. All single military members
assigned to a Hurlburt Field dormitory will initiate their BAH request in accordance with this
publication.
     2.1.1. Eligible Inbound Personnel. If BAH is not continued from a member’s last duty
     station, the finance office (1 SOCPTS) will initiate AF IMT 594, Application and
     Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) or Dependency
     Redetermination, for all unaccompanied personnel entitled to BAH upon initial assignment to
     Hurlburt Field, i.e., SrA with more than 3 years of service (E4>3YOS) through E9 and all
     officers.
        2.1.1.1. The finance office will also initiate BAH action for inbound single SrA with less
        than 3 years of service (E4<3YOS) who are within 60 days of 3YOS upon initial
        assignment to Hurlburt Field, as long as they have not been assigned to a dormitory, and
        do not desire to live in the dormitory. The individual will provide verification of his/her
        time-in-service at initial in-processing, and will affirm that he/she has not been assigned
        to a dormitory room, and no other verification is required.
        2.1.1.2. The only exception to automatic start of BAH for eligible personnel is if a SrA
        with more than 3YOS wants to live in the dormitory; they may do so if space is available.
        Each member is responsible for updating his/her locator information as changes occur.
        2.1.1.3. All others (E1-E4<3YOS) will be directed to UH management (building 90367)
        for assignment to a dormitory, or to determine whether they are eligible for without-
        dependent BAH under other provisions of this instruction.
     2.1.2. Currently Assigned Personnel. The dormitory manager will initiate, and base housing
     office (1 SOCES/CEAC) will process AF IMT 594 on ALL unaccompanied personnel upon
     assignment to a dormitory room, annotating his/her facility/room assignment and date of
     assignment. This is a fail-safe process to ensure member’s proper assignment data is
     captured.
     2.1.3. The dormitory manager or housing office will initiate a request for BAH action on
     ALL personnel terminating a dormitory room assignment who have been approved to receive
     either with- or without-dependent BAH. If a member is relocating off base, BAH is not
     authorized until a successful final inspection is completed.
        2.1.3.1. Documents verifying member’s dependent(s) will be copied and filed with
        termination record.
        2.1.3.2. If the person is terminating the dormitory due to PCS, separation, or moving out
        at their own expense (not entitled to receive BAH), AF IMT 594 is required to ensure
        financial records are updated to reflect that they no longer occupy government quarters at
        Hurlburt Field.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014                                                            9


      2.1.3.3. If moving out at their own expense, annotate the margin of AF IMT 594 with the
      following statement, “DO NOT START BAH--TERMINATING GOVERNMENT
      QUARTERS ONLY-- COMMANDER APPROVED WITHOUT BAH--NOT
      ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE BAH AT THIS TIME.”
   2.1.4. Airmen (E1-E4) currently assigned to Hurlburt Field and reporting to Finance with a
   dependency document (birth or marriage certificate/DEERS enrollment) requesting with-
   dependent BAH, will be re-directed to the housing office to complete the transaction. The
   housing office will determine if government quarters are assigned, and initiate the BAH
   action upon termination of quarters, or initiate AF IMT 594 indicating that “quarters are not
   assigned.”
2.2. BAH Waiting List Application.
   2.2.1. Individuals desiring to be placed on the BAH waiting list will initiate Part I of
   Hurlburt Field (HF) Form 88, Application/Authorization for Without Dependent Rate BAH,
   and the form will remain on file at the UH management office. It does not require initial
   coordination through his/her unit. The first sergeant’s recommendation is only requested
   once the member enters the freeze zone, or is outside the freeze but becomes eligible as next
   available when release is being considered. When the member is frozen he/she cannot be
   bumped.
   2.2.2. The dormitory manager will add the person’s name to the waiting list and retain the
   form until the member is eligible to enter the freeze zone or be released, at which time the
   HF Form 88 will be returned to the member for DOR verification/first sergeant’s
   recommendation.
2.3. BAH Waiting List Processing Actions.
   2.3.1. The BAH waiting list is maintained by unaccompanied housing management and
   published monthly. This listing will be used to authorize BAH for E1-E4 personnel with less
   than 3YOS, and/or otherwise required to live in the dormitory. There is no guarantee that
   anyone will be authorized BAH on any given month if projected occupancy does not demand
   it.
   2.3.2. Personnel within 6-months of an established PCS or separation date are not eligible
   for a local move, and must be deleted from the listing when such notification is verified by
   the member’s unit first sergeant, or the Military Personnel Section (MPS).
   2.3.3. New requests are added to the BAH waiting list effective the date of his/her request
   when received by the dormitory manager. However, they will not be added to the printed list
   until the next listing is published.
   2.3.4. Top 10-percent on the waiting list will be frozen in-place at the time it is published,
   and the addition of new requests will not affect the standing. Rank order only applies to
   personnel listed below the freeze. After processing BAH, any remaining personnel in the
   freeze zone will move to the top of the list and others will move into the 10-percent freeze
   zone.
 10                                           HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014


2.4. BAH Waiting List Selection and Notification Procedures.
   2.4.1. The unaccompanied housing superintendent will monitor the monthly base-wide
   dormitory occupancy rate, and determine the number of personnel authorized to be offered
   BAH without dropping below 95-percent occupancy of Priority 1 and 2 personnel.
      2.4.1.1. The military member will provide the dormitory manager DOR verification by
      obtaining a self-service RIP from MPS. The dormitory manager will e-mail notification
      to the eligible member’s unit first sergeant for a tentative recommendation. Non-
      recommended members who are retainable (no orders to PCS or separate within 6
      months) will remain in his or her position on the list until notified a second time.
      2.4.1.2. After receiving a second non-recommendation from the member’s first sergeant
      the member will be removed from the waiting list, and will not be eligible to re-apply for
      90 days. Record of the removal will be documented in the individual’s assignment jacket
      folder.
   2.4.2. The unit first sergeant will notify dormitory management within 2 days of receipt of
   the listing of his/her tentative recommendation. He/she will also advise UH if a selected
   member is currently TDY, on leave, or has an established date of separation or PCS within 6
   months so that another selection can be made.
   2.4.3. If the first sergeant determines the member to be eligible, the individual will be
   advised to pick up his/her HF Form 88 from the dormitory manager to obtain the first
   sergeant’s signed acknowledgement recommending approval. The member will return the
   completed HF Form 88 to dormitory management, and initiate the termination
   process/schedule out-processing appointments.
2.5. Accepting an Offer to Move Off-Base and Receive BAH.
   2.5.1. Each person accepting the BAH offer will be given 30 days from the date of
   notification to locate suitable off-base housing.
   2.5.2. If unable to locate housing within 30 days, the member must report to the dormitory
   manager for reevaluation of status. Failure to do so could result in his/her authorization
   being rescinded and offered to the next eligible member.
2.6. Declining an Offer to Move Off-Base and Receive BAH.
   2.6.1. Personnel unable to accept, for whatever reason, will be required to sign a declination
   statement.
   2.6.2. If it is the first time the person is declining BAH, he/she will remain on the waiting
   list.
   2.6.3. After declining for a second time, the member’s name will be removed from the
   waiting list, and record of removal will be documented in the individual’s assignment jacket
   folder. He/she may reapply for the BAH waiting list after 90 days have elapsed.
2.7. Procedures for Personnel Currently TDY or On-Leave.
   2.7.1. If the member is TDY or on-leave, but due to return within 20 days of first sergeant’s
   notification, he/she will be offered BAH immediately upon return.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014                                                             11


   2.7.2. If the return date exceeds 20 days, the member will retain his or her position on the
   listing until the next release date, and the next person will be processed until sufficient
   personnel are released to make room for new arrivals. Refer to AFI 32-6005, paragraph
   5.1.3.1.4., for prior to deployment coordination.
2.8. Approval to Reside Off-Base - Non-Receipt of BAH Status.
   2.8.1. Personnel not otherwise eligible to receive BAH, but still desiring to reside off-base
   even though they will not be compensated, will request to move out via letter endorsed with
   recommended approval from their unit commander.
   2.8.2. Member will deliver the commander’s recommendation to reside off-base in non-
   receipt of BAH status to the dormitory manager for processing/housing manager’s approval.
   2.8.3. If approved for member to reside off-base in non-receipt of BAH status, he/she will
   terminate his/her dormitory room, be placed on the BAH waiting list, and become eligible for
   BAH based on the criteria established in paragraph 2.4.
      2.8.3.1. The commander’s endorsed letter will be retained with member’s HF Form 88 in
      the waiting list file until he/she becomes eligible to receive BAH, either through the
      waiting list process, or by promotion/TIG/gets married or acquires a dependent.
      2.8.3.2. It is the individual’s responsibility to return to the dorm management office to
      initiate AF IMT 594 to start with- or without-dependent BAH when he/she becomes
      eligible for BAH. If the member PCS’s or separates, all documents will be retained in the
      non-active (history) file for one year.
   2.8.4. Approval to reside off-base in non-receipt of BAH status does not entitle the member
   to reimbursement of expenses incurred due to the move.
   2.8.5. Individuals approved to reside off-base who later wish to move back into the
   dormitory will be placed on a waiting list if no rooms are immediately available.
   2.8.6. If approved to reside off-base in non-receipt of BAH status, member will not be
   required to maintain a dormitory room, and is exempt from all dormitory details (bay
   orderly).
2.9. BAH due to Extensive Household Goods.
   2.9.1. Request must be processed within 30 days of assignment and furniture must have
   accompanied the member to Hurlburt Field. Furniture obtained after moving to Hurlburt
   Field does not qualify member’s use of this clause. The requester will pick up HF Form 88
   and a copy of the Drayage and Storage letter from a dormitory manager, go to the on-line
   web-site listed, and complete the itemized listing of furnishings. After annotating the listing,
   the member will take it and the letter to the UH Chief (Dorm Superintendent) for processing.
   2.9.2. The UH chief will complete an evaluation and annotate the Drayage and Storage letter
   with all pertinent information. If storage cost equals at least one half of BAH for member’s
   grade, he will return it to the individual for commander/first sergeant recommended
   approval/disapproval via HF Form 88. Annotate “Excess Furniture” as the reason in the
   “Request for BAH Due To Hardship” block.
      2.9.2.1. If the unit commander/first sergeant recommends approval, forward the request,
      along with all supporting documents, to the housing office for processing. Before final
 12                                           HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014


      approval is granted, member must produce evidence that said furniture is in the local
      area, i.e., bill of lading, or DITY move travel voucher.
      2.9.2.2. Tentative approval may be granted if Hurlburt Field is the member’s first duty
      station and the furniture remained at his/her home of record upon entry into the service.
      Member will deliver his/her request and letter of intent to move said furniture to the local
      area (endorsed by the first sergeant recommending approval) to the dorm manager for
      processing. A self-move requires verification from the first sergeant that member has
      indeed returned to the local area with said furniture at which point all documentation will
      be filed in the housing active (history) file.
      2.9.2.3. Because member’s approval of without-dependent BAH is solely based on
      him/her having excess furniture in the local area, member must show proof that furniture
      has actually been moved to the local area within 30 days of tentative approval. Failure to
      do so, and/or not maintaining open dialog with dorm management concerning status of
      the move, will result in member’s eligibility to reside off-base being revoked. Without-
      dependent BAH will be terminated, and first sergeant will be notified to have member
      report to the dorm office for reassignment to a dorm room.
   2.9.3. If approved, member will be advised to find a new residence in community housing,
   return a copy of the lease to the dorm manager, and schedule a final room inspection. Upon
   termination of his/her room assignment the dorm manager will initiate AF IMT 594 for
   without-dependent BAH.
   2.9.4. If computations do not reflect the cost equal to at least one half of BAH for member’s
   grade, or the commander/first sergeant recommends disapproval, forward the request to the
   housing office for further disposition. The housing office will initiate AF IMT 150,
   Drayage/Storage Authorization – Government Quarters, for items that cannot be
   accommodated in the dormitory, and provide a copy to dorm management to retain in the
   room jacket folder with room assignment data. Member will take the original storage order
   (AF IMT150) to TMO for processing.
   2.9.5. When cost of storage alone does not justify authorizing without-dependent rate BAH,
   it may still be considered if all three of the following conditions are met.
      2.9.5.1. The member provides documentation that he/she was required to live off-base at
      a previous duty station because government quarters were not available.
      2.9.5.2. A household of furniture was purchased as a result of paragraph 2.9.5.1.
      2.9.5.3. The household goods were shipped to the current duty station at government
      expense.
2.10. BAH due to Other Reasons (Hardship).
   2.10.1. Personnel requesting without-dependent rate BAH due to hardship will initiate HF
   Form 88. The request will include a letter detailing the reasons for the request (a sample
   letter can be obtained from a dormitory manager). Member will take the request to his/her
   unit commander/first sergeant for their endorsement (recommended approval/disapproval).
   2.10.2. If the unit commander/first sergeant recommends approval, deliver the request, along
   with all supporting documents, to the housing office for processing.
HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014                                                            13


   2.10.3. If hardship request is disapproved, the housing office will initiate storage orders (if
   necessary) for any furnishings that cannot be accommodated in the dormitory. A copy of the
   disapproved request will be filed in the room jacket folder with room assignment data.
2.11. BAH due to Marriage Within 60 Days, If Setting Up a Household in the Local Area.
   2.11.1. Member is not eligible for an early move out if the spouse is not joining the member,
   and setting up a household in the local area.
   2.11.2. Members requesting without-dependent BAH due to a pending marriage will
   complete HF Form 88. Document the intended marriage date on the form, and obtain unit
   commander or first sergeant recommended approval. The member’s BAH will not be started
   until he/she terminates his/her dormitory room assignment. BAH will be initially started at
   without-dependent rate.
      2.11.2.1. Member will return to the dormitory manager or housing office with a copy of
      the marriage certificate to change his/her status to with-dependent BAH effective on the
      date of marriage.
      2.11.2.2. If the member fails to return to the dorm manager or housing office within 30
      days of marriage with a marriage certificate, or does not appraise dormitory management
      of the reason for delay, his/her eligibility for without-dependent BAH will expire. The
      dorm manager will inform the first sergeant, and may take administrative action to
      terminate his/her without-dependent BAH. The member may also be subject to other
      administrative or judicial proceeding deemed appropriate by the unit commander.
2.12. BAH due to Pregnancy.
   2.12.1. A pregnant member may request to move to community housing at the 20th week of
   pregnancy at her option and with unit commander’s recommended approval via HF Form 88.
   The request will include a letter or written statement from her physician or PCM verifying
   the pregnancy due date.
   2.12.2. If there is a medical reason that would necessitate moving out of the dormitory
   earlier than the 20th week of pregnancy, it must be reflected in the PCM’s initial statement,
   or subsequently provided.
   2.12.3. If unit commander recommends approval, member will initially terminate the
   dormitory receiving without-dependent BAH.
   2.12.4. If a live birth does not occur, or the child does not reside with member after BAH is
   authorized, refer to AFI 32-6005, paragraph 2.19, which states that paragraph 4.2 applies;
   and that refers to basic assignment priorities. See AFI 32-6005, paragraph 4.7.4., regarding
   guidance for involuntary assignments.
   2.12.5. Member will return to the dorm manager or housing office within 30 days of birth of
   the child with a copy of the birth certificate and proof of DEERS enrollment to change her
   status to with-dependent BAH, effective on the date of birth of the child. Failure to do so, or
   not appraising the dormitory manager of reason for delay, could result in termination of
   without-dependent BAH. The first sergeant will be notified of the situation, and member
   could also be subject to other administrative or judicial proceedings deemed appropriate by
   the unit commander.
 14                                           HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014


2.13. BAH due to PCS/PCA from Eglin AFB.
   2.13.1. Members previously authorized to reside off-base and receive BAH at the without-
   dependent rate within the local commuting area may continue to do so. No further action is
   necessary.
   2.13.2. Members within 60 days of E4>3YOS who do not desire to reside in a Hurlburt
   dormitory should have had without-dependent BAH started by Eglin UH upon termination of
   their room assignment; if not, Finance can start it upon assignment to Hurlburt. All other
   dormitory personnel will be processed as a “quarters to quarters” move.
   2.13.3. An exception to the rule would be the Hurlburt commander exercising his/her option
   for the reasons of military necessity, readiness, or discipline; or for personnel experiencing a
   hardship. The unit commander may recommend this action by letter to the UH section chief.
2.14. With-Dependent BAH --Special Circumstances for Assignment/Termination.
   2.14.1. A member may be eligible to live in the dormitory and receive with-dependent BAH
   if the member is unaccompanied, and the family members are not residing in adequate
   government quarters elsewhere (JFTR U10302).
   2.14.2. Member must submit a written request to the UH section chief, endorsed by his/her
   unit commander, stating the circumstances surrounding their assignment request, and
   whether or not a hardship exists. If member’s request is based on a hardship (see paragraph
   1.1.2.2.), forward the commander’s endorsed request to the housing manager for processing
   as a Priority 1 assignment. If no hardship exists, with unit commander’s recommended
   approval, the member may be processed as a Priority 4 assignment on a space available basis.
   2.14.3. Unaccompanied members who are receiving with-dependent BAH and assigned to
   the dormitory in either Priority 1 or Priority 4 status (including E1-E4<3YOS), may move
   out of the dormitory with a recommended approval from their unit commander (even if their
   dependents are not in the local area). AF IMT 594 will be initiated to reflect the termination
   of assignment to government quarters.
2.15. Advance BAH.
   2.15.1. Personnel are entitled to receive an advance of BAH up to 30 days after moving to
   community housing in conjunction with termination of government quarters to assist in
   establishing an off-base residence.
   2.15.2. If requesting an advance prior to moving out of the dormitory, member will obtain a
   copy of the advance BAH letter from dormitory management within 5 days of the tentative
   room termination date. The dormitory manager will verify this coordination by indicating
   the tentative move out date and signing the letter. This will allow sufficient time for the
   member to process the request with his/her commander and dormitory management prior to
   terminating his/her room assignment.
   2.15.3. Member will obtain from Finance a copy of AF Form 1039, Request to Receive
   and/or Extend Repayment of an Advance Housing Allowance; take both the advance BAH
   letter and completed AF Form 1039, to his/her unit commander for approval.
   2.15.4. After the commander approves member’s advance BAH request via AF Form 1039,
   member will return to the dormitory manager and provide copies of it and supporting
HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014                                                         15


   documentation before processing the request through Finance. Be advised that Finance is
   not allowed to disburse the advance until 3 business days prior to the member’s community
   housing move in date.
   2.15.5. Member will be required to provide Finance a copy of the lease agreement with the
   advance BAH request. Therefore, the member must have already located a residence in the
   local community before submitting the request for advance BAH to Finance.
   2.15.6. Failure of member to comply with requirements may cause involuntary collection of
   any resulting indebtedness retroactive to the date the entitlement became erroneous.
2.16. BAH Delegation of Approval.
   2.16.1. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) or Housing Manager (1 SOCES/CEAC) are
   authorized to approve BAH when:
      2.16.1.1. Dormitory occupancy of Priority 1 and 2 personnel exceeds 95 percent.
      2.16.1.2. Member is requesting BAH 60 days prior to marriage to establish a household
      in local area.
      2.16.1.3. Military member divorces and retains ownership of the home.
      2.16.1.4. Due to household goods and the cost of drayage and storage exceeds 50 percent
      of the cost of BAH.
      2.16.1.5. Due to household goods and the cost of drayage and storage does not exceed 50
      percent of the cost of BAH. In this instance, the request will be approved through the
      expiration of the current lease only, unless a change of member’s status dictates
      otherwise before the end of the lease, i.e., member becomes eligible by DOR/promotion,
      or member gains dependent(s).
      2.16.1.6. Due to pregnancy (20th week).
      2.16.1.7. Member is married to a military member not in the local area, and is requesting
      BAH 60 days prior to the arrival of their spouse.
   2.16.2. The Mission Support Group Commander (1 SOMSG/CC) is approval/disapproval
   authority for other requests not specifically addressed herein.




                                           WILLIAM P. WEST, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 16                                            HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 October 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
HFI 48-101, Control of Animals, 31 July 2004
HFI 32-2001, Base Fire Prevention Program, 12 April 2012
Prescribed Forms
Hurlburt Field Form 88, Application/Authorization for Without Dependent Rate BAH
Adopted Forms
AF Form 150, Drayage/Storage Authorization – Government Quarters
AF Form 228, Furnishing Custody Receipt and Condition Report
AF Form 594, Application and Authorization to Start, Stop, or Change Basic Allowance for
Housing (BAH) or Dependency Redetermination
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1039, Request to Receive and/or Extend Repayment of an Advanced Housing
Allowance
AF Form 4422, Sex Offender Disclosure and Acknowledgement

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
BAH—Basic Allowance for Housing
DEERS—Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
DITY Move—Do-It-Yourself Move
DMP—Dormitory Master Plan
DOR—Date of Rank
JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulations (Military)
MAJCOM—Major Command
MPS—Military Personnel Section
HURLBURTFIELDI32-6005 27 MARCH 2014    17


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCM—Primary Care Manager
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
QIC—Quarters Improvement Committee
QIP—Quarters Improvement Plan
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIP—Report on Individual Personnel
TDY—Temporary Duty
TIG—Time in Grade
TMO—Traffic Management Office
UH—Unaccompanied Housing
YOS—Years of Service
