BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                 HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 34-102
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING (AFSOC)                                                  2 NOVEMBER 2007
                                                                            Certified Current 24 May 2012
                                                                                                  Services

                                                                     FITNESS CENTER OPERATIONS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 1 SOSVS/SVMP                                                              Certified by: 1 SOSVS/CC
                                                                                 (Major Paul E. Swenson)
Supersedes HFI 34-102, 10 June 1999                                                              Pages: 2

This publication implements AFI 34-262 Services Programs and Use Eligibility, AFI 34-266 Air
Force Fitness and Sports Programs, and governs eligibility, dress code, and safety procedures for use of
the Base Fitness Centers. This publication applies to all active duty and retired appropriated and nonap-
propriated fund employees of the Department of Defense and their family members.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication has been revised in its entirety and must be completely reviewed. This publication
has been updated to reflect the new guidance within a reorganization of the 1st Special Operations
Wing and partner unit at Hurlburt Field.

1. ELIGIBILITY TO USE FACILITY.
   1.1. Eligible patrons and their priority are designated AFI 34-266. Active duty personnel have priority
   whenever a conflict exists.
   1.2. Guests assume the same privileges and responsibilities as their adult sponsor (18 years or above)
   and must be signed into the facility. Sponsor is responsible for guest’s actions.
       1.2.1. Guests must be accompanied at all times by their sponsor.
       1.2.2. Sponsor is limited to only one guest.
       1.2.3. Exceptions must be approved by the Fitness Center Director and/or the Director’s desig-
       nated representative.
   1.3. Patrons must be at least 16 years old for unrestricted entry into a Fitness Center.
   1.4. Patrons must be 16 years or older to use a sauna or steam room.
2                                                     HURLBURTFIELDI34-102 2 NOVEMBER 2007


    1.5. Youths 13 through 15 years, who are under direct parent/legal guardian control at all times, may
    utilize all areas except sauna/steam room. Use is encouraged during non-peak hours, i.e., 0800 - 1000
    and 1330 - 1630, Monday through Friday and all day on weekends and holidays.
    1.6. Youths 6-12 years old, who are under direct parent/legal guardian control at all times, are
    allowed on court surfaces only. Use is encouraged during non-peak hours, i.e., 0800-1000 and
    1330-1630, Monday through Friday and all day on weekends and holidays.
    1.7. Youths under 6 years old are not allowed in facilities with the exception of the parent/child area
    for supervised play and/or those children who are supervised spectators in a sports or special event.
    1.8. Patrons must have a valid Department of Defense identification readily available at all times i.e.,
    while running, exercising outdoors, etc. Patrons are subject to identification checks anytime during
    hours of operation.

2. SPECTATORS. During indoor special events, extramural, intramural, recreational event(s), etc., all
spectators are permitted inside appropriate areas; however, patrons 15 years old or younger, must be
under direct parent/legal guardian control at all times.

3. DRESS CODE.
    3.1. Proper attire consists of athletic and/or sports wear worn at all times while using the facility. Sex-
    ually explicit or revealing attire will not be worn. Sports or workout attire must completely cover all
    private areas and no see-through clothing is permitted.
    3.2. No military uniform items, boots, jeans, sandals, etc., while using equipment and/or participating
    in indoor play will be allowed.
    3.3. Attire will not have any obscene, racial, vulgar, or any other offensive depictions.
    3.4. The senior fitness center staff member on-duty is responsible for enforcement. Enforcement will
    be based on legal, moral, safety and/or sanitary grounds.

4. GENERAL.
    4.1. Wipe down equipment after each use.
    4.2. Patrons must comply with all internal posted area specific signs and warnings.
    4.3. The Fitness Center has certified personal fitness trainers, as well as members who are knowl-
    edgeable in the proper use of equipment. If patrons are uncertain about how to operate any fitness
    equipment, or any other type of facility equipment i.e., sauna, steam room, etc., they are required to
    contact our staff for assistance.
    4.4. No vulgar/profane language or loitering permitted in the facilities at any time.
    4.5. The Fitness Center staff will have the final decision concerning any disputes.



                                                 MARSHALL B. WEBB, Colonel, USAF
                                                 Commander
