BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                HURLBURT FIELD INSTRUCTION 33-106
16TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                                              31 JULY 2006
(AFSOC)
                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                       MANAGEMENT OF LAND MOBILE RADIOS
                                                                       (LMRS) AND PAGERS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 16 CS/SCML                                       Certified by: 16 CS/CC (Lt Col Elizabeth B Kerr)
Supersedes HURLBURT FIELD                                                                    Pages: 7
           INSTRUCTION 33-106,
           31 March 2003

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communica-
tions, and Computer (C4) Systems. This instruction establishes the procedures for management of Land
Mobile Radios (LMRs), Pagers, Cellular Telephones, and wireless Personal Data Assistants (PDA’s) in
accordance with AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Land Mobile Radios, Cellular Tele-
phones, and the Military Affiliate Radio System and AFI 33-111, Telephone Systems Management. This
instruction applies to all organizations permanently assigned or TDY to Hurlburt Field using LMRs, Pag-
ers, Cellular Telephones and Wireless Personal Data Assistants (PDAs).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction has been changed in its entirety. Section 6.3. Encryption Equipment has been
changed to meet current National Security Agency guidelines.


1. Explanation of Terms. (See AFI 33-106).

2. General. Land Mobile Radio (LMR) services are designed to meet the communication needs of short
to medium distance where, due to mobile or portable operations where normal wire telephone communi-
cations are impossible or impractical. The Land Mobile Radio service is not designed nor intended to be
a replacement for the personal radio telephone service, also known as cellular telephone service, instead,
LMR services are designed as networks of multiple transceivers that simultaneously communicate
between dispatch stations and each other by use of single or multiple radio frequencies. The 16th Com-
munications Squadron has the authority to manage the LMR systems on Hurlburt Field and configure
them to meet mission needs. The Base Communications-Computers Systems Officer (CSO) (16 CS/CC)
must ensure LMR use is cost effective. One-way radio pagers should be used in place of two-way radios
2                                                         HURLBURTFIELDI33-106 31 JULY 2006


to increase economic and operational efficiency whenever possible. Cellular telephones may not be used
to replace a need that is or could be satisfied by either a pager, or LMR. Validation is necessary by the
CSO to establish nets for the base on a case-by-case basis to ensure the LMR trunking system is not over-
loaded. Decisions regarding the type of net, number of talk groups, and type of services available will be
based on missions, base population, cost, geographical location, and present loading of the base LMR
trunking system as well as the rules and regulations of the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration (NTIA) concerning LMR use by the federal government. The CSO will establish policies
to replace two-way radios with pagers when practical and cost effective. The CSO or representatives
from the 16 CS/SCML will design and engineer new requirements to meet the authorized requirements of
users. When the requirements exceed local base capabilities, the CSO will process a request for assis-
tance through channels to HQ AFSOC/SCM.

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. The wing commander (16 SOW/CC) is responsible for effective management of LMR, pager,
    and cellular telephone assets on Hurlburt Field, Florida. The base communications-computers sys-
    tems staff officer (CSO) (16CS/CC) will act as the wing commander's agent for these matters.
    3.2. The CSO will delegate the responsibilities for LMR management to the base LMR manager in
    accordance with AFI 33-106. The LMR manager is appointed, in writing, to act on his/her behalf.
    The CSO will also appoint in writing a quality assurance evaluator (QAE) to act as contract monitor
    for the base LMR maintenance contract.
    3.3. Unit commanders are responsible for coordination and efficient management of unit LMR needs
    and assets as well as preventing abuse and misuse of LMR assets within their units. Unit LMR net
    managers and equipment custodians will be appointed by unit commanders in writing according to
    AFI 33-106, to act on their behalf on LMR matters.
    3.4. The Land Mobile Radio (LMR) Manager will:
       3.4.1. Train unit LMR net managers on their responsibilities and that of their organization LMR
       users. The training will include policies and procedures for proper operation and use of LMR
       equipment.
       3.4.2. Assist customers process requests for LMR assets and services and assist with appropriate
       technical solutions.
       3.4.3. Assist customers coordinate acquisition of assets, air time service, and maintenance actions
       with all applicable agencies and civilian contractors.
       3.4.4. Obtain and implement guidance from HQ AFSOC and 16 SOW on LMR issues.
       3.4.5. Accomplish an annual inventory of all LMR, pager, cellular telephone and wireless PDA
       assets on Hurlburt Field IAW AFI 33-106.
       3.4.6. Maintain a current inventory of all LMR and pager assets on Hurlburt Field using the Air
       Force standard LMR Tracking and Reporting System (LMRTRS) database IAW AFI 33-106.
       3.4.7. Provide unit LMR net managers a copy of their LMR inventory.
       3.4.8. Maintain a listing of unit LMR net managers on Hurlburt Field in the LMRTRS and keep
       file copies of their appointment letters IAW AFI 33-106.
HURLBURTFIELDI33-106 31 JULY 2006                                                                  3


      3.4.9. Provide a means of obtaining maintenance for base support LMR radios and paging equip-
      ment through in-house repair, contract maintenance, blanket purchase agreement or GPC pro-
      gram.
      3.4.10. Consult with and provide information necessary for formulation of the budget for recur-
      ring and non-recurring LMR equipment repairs/maintenance with the 16th Communications
      Squadron budget analyst (16 CS/SCXR).
      3.4.11. Recommend to the CSO, a person to be appointed to serve as QAE for the base LMR
      maintenance contract.
      3.4.12. Complete Air Force QTP 2E1X3-210W IAW AFI 36-2233.
      3.4.13. Maintain an LMR continuity folder IAW AFI 33-106.

4. Procedures.
   4.1. Requests for LMR assets.
      4.1.1. LMR asset purchases may be accomplished using the organization’s GPC program pro-
      vided it does not exceed the purchase limits of the program. For items and amounts that exceed
      the GPC program limits, an AF form 9 may be entered in the ABSS to cover the purchase.
      4.1.2. Requests for procurement of LMR assets must be coordinated with the LMR manager, 16
      CS/SCML, and approved by the requesting unit resource advisor.
      4.1.3. New LMR assets must be registered with the LMR manager for inclusion in the LMRTRS
      within one work week of receipt.
   4.2. Requests for paging assets.
      4.2.1. Base pagers may be procured through the same method as LMR assets. (See Section
      4.1.1.).
      4.2.2. Commercial paging assets are procured using the same method as LMR assets. (See Sec-
      tion 4.1.1.) Requests for commercial paging assets must be coordinated with the LMR manager,
      16 CS/SCML and approved by the requesting unit resource advisor.
      4.2.3. New paging may be registered with the LMR manager for inclusion in the local LMRTRS
      database.
   4.3. Requests for cellular telephone assets. (See HFI 33-103, Cellular Telephone Management).
   4.4. Requests for radio frequencies. (See HFI 33-118, Radio Frequency Spectrum Management).
   4.5. Annual Inventories.
      4.5.1. The annual inventory of base LMR and paging equipment will be initiated by the base
      LMR manager no later that 1 June each year IAW AFI 33-106.
          4.5.1.1. The LMR manager will provide each equipment custodian with an inventory listing
          from the LMRTRS database.
          4.5.1.2. Each equipment custodian will inventory their LMR assets, and verify the inventory
          by signing the provided inventory listing.
4                                                         HURLBURTFIELDI33-106 31 JULY 2006


          4.5.1.3. The equipment custodian will make a copy of the signed inventory for his file and
          send the original back to the LMR manager at 16 CS/SCML for retention in the LMR office
          files.
          4.5.1.4. An inventory will also be accomplished when there is a change in equipment custodi-
          ans. The LMR manager will provide an inventory listing from the LMRTRS data base for this
          purpose.
          4.5.1.5. Equipment that is required to be inventoried and tracked IAW AFI 33-106 includes:
          Land mobile radio equipment that exceeds $500.00 in purchase price, pagers and cellular
          phones that exceed $500.00 in purchase price, all wireless personal data assistants (PDAs),
          any of the previously stated equipment with USA Type I encryption devices installed, regard-
          less of the purchase price.
    4.6. Maintenance/repair actions on LMR equipment.
       4.6.1. Maintenance/repair actions on LMR equipment listed on the base maintenance contract are
       initiated by the using organization equipment custodian/net manager reporting the outage to the
       16th Communications Squadron Maintenance Control, 16 CS/SCMJ.
          4.6.1.1. Personnel calling in LMR outages will be required to give 16 CS/SCMJ the following
          information: the type of equipment, location, model number, serial number, name and phone
          number of a point of contact, and a description of the problem.
          4.6.1.2. 16CS/SCMJ personnel will assign the outage a job control number and contact the
          maintenance contractor to begin repairs. No personnel other than the LMR managers and 16
          CS maintenance controllers are authorized to call in or initiate repairs by LMR maintenance
          contractors.
          4.6.1.3. Repairs to contracted equipment are considered completed when the customer accepts
          the equipment as repaired and ready for use. The customer will notify 16CS/SCMJ when
          repairs are satisfactory and complete so the job can be closed.
          4.6.1.4. Charges for repairs outside of the scope of the maintenance contract (equipment
          abuse, damage, operator error) are the responsibility of the unit that owns the equipment or the
          unit that called in the job and will be promptly settled with the contractor. The GPC program
          may be used to pay these bills.
       4.6.2. Maintenance/repair actions on LMR equipment and base paging equipment not covered by
       maintenance contract is initiated by the using organization equipment custodian/net manager
       reporting the outage or bringing the equipment to the LMR office (16 CS/SCML).
          4.6.2.1. LMR equipment turned in for repair will require an AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue
          Receipt, if it cannot be repaired immediately by LMR personnel.
          4.6.2.2. LMR personnel will notify users when equipment is repaired and ready to be picked
          up. Users are requested to pick up equipment as soon as possible after notification.
          4.6.2.3. Owning units will be responsible for the cost of parts for repairs made in the shop.
          4.6.2.4. Equipment repairs that exceed the capabilities of our LMR shop will be referred to a
          local contractor shop for repairs. The owning unit will be responsible for the cost of repairs
          made by the local contractor and those costs may be paid through the GPC program.
HURLBURTFIELDI33-106 31 JULY 2006                                                                       5


       4.6.3. Maintenance/repair actions on commercial pagers.
          4.6.3.1. Commercial pagers requiring repair will be coordinated by the using unit with the
          vendor who is the service provider for the equipment.
          4.6.3.2. Costs for repair of commercial paging assets is the responsibility of the using organi-
          zation. At present most commercial paging contractors will exchange inoperative pagers for
          new pagers at no charge if there is no sign of equipment abuse. If charges are to be incurred,
          the owning unit may pay the costs through the GPC program. Abused equipment repair costs
          are the responsibility of the individual that abused the equipment.
       4.6.4. Maintenance/repair of cellular telephone assets. (See HFI 33-103).
   4.7. Turn in or transfer of LMR equipment.
       4.7.1. The turn in or transfer of all LMR equipment must be coordinated with the LMR manager
       (16 CS/SCML).
       4.7.2. Turn in of LMR equipment requires completing an AF Form 2005 and the appropriate
       material condition tag, DD Form 1577 (red tag) for unserviceable equipment or DD Form 1574
       (orange tag) for serviceable equipment.
       4.7.3. LMR equipment, AF Form 2005, and material condition tag must be brought to the LMR
       office (16 CS/SCML) to insure demilitarization is accomplished prior to turn in.
       4.7.4. Serviceable assets may be kept by the LMR office for redistribution. The LMRTRS will be
       updated to show the equipment has been turned in and a new inventory listing will be given to the
       custodian.
       4.7.5. Transfer of equipment.
          4.7.5.1. The transfer of LMR equipment will be accomplished within the LMR office by
          update of the LMRTRS if the equipment is not on base inventory.
          4.7.5.2. Equipment that is on the base equipment inventory requires an AF Form 601, Equip-
          ment Action Request, coordinated with 16 SUPS equipment management section and the
          LMR office (16 CS/SCML). Gaining equipment account must have Table of Allowance (T.
          A.) authorization before transfer occurs.
          4.7.5.3. New LMR inventory listings will be given to both the gaining and the losing custodi-
          ans to reflect the change in equipment.

5. Physical Security.
   5.1. Individual users are responsible for the physical safety and security of LMR assets.
       5.1.1. Units may issue LMR assets to individual users by AF Form 1297 for TDY use regardless
       of the length of time the LMR will be in the individual users possession to help track their equip-
       ment. The original AF Form 1297 will be kept in the units files until the LMR equipment is
       returned and a copy will be given to the user.
       5.1.2. The unit equipment custodian is responsible for accomplishing a report of survey (ROS)
       within 30 days for any lost, stolen, or damaged LMR asset.
6                                                            HURLBURTFIELDI33-106 31 JULY 2006


    5.2. In accordance with Air Force instructions, a user may be held responsible for any charges
    incurred for repair of damages found to be caused by willful abuse or negligence while the LMR asset
    is receipted to their possession.

6. Communications Security (COMSEC).
    6.1. LMRs, voice pagers, and cellular telephones are an insecure means of communication unless
    transmissions are encrypted with National Security Agency (NSA) approved devices. Non-encrypted
    transmissions are extremely vulnerable to interception by unauthorized personnel, news media, for-
    eign agents, etc. Radio transmissions travel for many miles in all directions and may be picked up
    hundreds of miles away under certain atmospheric conditions. Radio transmissions are used to con-
    tact multiple radio receivers instantly and simultaneously, and cannot discriminate between autho-
    rized and non-authorized receivers on their own. Air Force radio operators are not subject to the
    jurisdiction of the Federal Communications Commission, rather, all federal government radio opera-
    tions, military and civilian, fall under the jurisdiction of the National Telecommunications and Infor-
    mation Agency (NTIA). The Air Force operator is guided by the rules and regulations of the NTIA
    and the Communications Act of 1934 (see 47 USC 151 et.seq.) through incorporation in military
    directives. The following provisions apply to all Air Force radio operators:
       6.1.1. No person shall utter any obscene, indecent, or profane language by means of radio com-
       munications. (See 18 USC 1464).
       6.1.2. All radio stations shall give absolute priority to distress calls and messages of like origin, to
       reply in the same manner as such messages, and take immediate action as may be required. (See
       47 USC 321).
       6.1.3. Unnecessary or superfluous transmissions or signals are forbidden at all stations at all
       times. (See 47 USC [m] [l] [1]).
    6.2. LMR assets that are equipped with encryption devices are classified to the level of the keying
    material loaded and will be treated as necessary for that level of classification. LMRs equipped with
    type I fascinator encryption devices but with no loaded keying material are considered Cryptographic
    Controlled Items (CCI) and will remain under double lock security when not in use. Double lock
    security is defined as “in a locked drawer or container, in a locked room or vault.”
       6.2.1. Inventories of LMR radios by unit equipment custodians that include CCIs will also list the
       type and serial number of the encryption device.
       6.2.2. The loss of a CCI LMR will be reported to the 16 CS/SCBS, as soon as the discovery of the
       loss whether the item was loaded with keying material or not. If the item was keyloaded, the key
       sequence will need to be reported as well.
       6.2.3. No person will use a non-secure LMR, pager, or cellular telephone to transmit any classi-
       fied information by radio. (MOC input) – Information discussed should not be higher that the
       level of encryption installed on the LMR, pager, or cellular telephone.
       6.2.4. Using organizations are responsible for meeting the COMSEC needs of their mission. This
       includes having the proper keying material in proper amounts, as well as keyloaders, batteries,
       cables, and interface devices required to secure their LMR equipment. These duties may be the
       responsibility of the equipment custodian or the squadron COMSEC custodian.
HURLBURTFIELDI33-106 31 JULY 2006                                                                         7


      6.2.5. The LMR manager will insure that that all LMRs are zeroized or have the encryption mod-
      ule removed before they are turned over to contractors for repair/maintenance.
   6.3. Encryption equipment.
      6.3.1. Base support trunking radios utilize Motorola Data Encryption Standard (DES) and
      Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) type encryption. To insure interoperability of equipment,
      any LMR radio purchased for use on the base trunking system will have Motorola Universal
      Encryption Hardware as well as DES and AES encryption software options included at the time of
      purchase.
      6.3.2. Deployment LMRs and special function base support LMRs that are required for classified
      information transmissions will have USA TYPE I NSA approved Fascinator or Indictor type
      encryption modules included at the time of purchase to insure interoperability of equipment. Fas-
      cinator and Indictor encryption modules are brand names of USA TYPE I encryption modules that
      are approved by the National Security Agency (NSA) for use up to the “Secret” level, provided
      that the surrounding area where the radio is in use is also cleared for that security level. Users are
      reminded that portable radios communicating information of a classified nature require a sur-
      rounding area cleared to the level of the information being passed.

7. Base Contracts, Repairs, and Maintenance of LMR Equipment. (See Section 4. Procedures, for
how to initiate equipment maintenance/repairs). IAW AFI 33-106 the LMR manager will provide for
repairs/maintenance of base LMR equipment in the most economical and expeditious way possible to
include organic or blue-suit maintenance.
   7.1. The Hurlburt Field base LMR maintenance contract applies to LMR and paging equipment that
   require periodic inspection/maintenance by vendor authorized service personnel or by the nature of
   the size or installation of the equipment requires on site servicing and for equipment that by nature of
   its importance requires immediate servicing upon failure.
   7.2. Repairs to equipment found to be due to abuse, misuse, or negligence will be the responsibility of
   the using organization. Commanders of using organizations may assess the cost of repairs due to
   these circumstances to the individual users in accordance with to Air Force regulations.
   7.3. Using organizations are responsible for maintaining spare batteries, carrying cases, antennas, or
   any other ancillary equipment for their LMR equipment as the need requires. The LMR Office has
   limited capabilities for reconditioning LMR batteries and no spares, loaners, or replacements on hand.



                                               NORMAN J. BROZENICK, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
