BY ORDER OF THE                                INCIRLIK AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 51-907
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER
(USAFE)                                                                         12 MAY 2014

                                                                                          Law

                                               FAMILY MEMBER MISCONDUCT BOARD
                                                                       (FMMB)




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 39 ABW/JA                                                       Certified by: 39 ABW/JA
                                                                   (Lt Col Ronald L. Spencer)
Supersedes:   INCIRLIKABI51-907,                                                       Pages: 9
              11 May 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 51-9, Civil Law For Individuals, and
provides guidance on establishing policies and procedures governing instances of family member
misconduct for Incirlik Air Base and all its geographically separated units. This publication
applies to all 39 Air Base Wing personnel, the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units and their dependents. This instruction is affected by the
Privacy Act of 1974. Records generated by this instruction are authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8012.
Failure to comply with the mandatory provisions of paragraphs 2.5.2 and 4.3.5 by military
personnel is a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The below changes to INCIRLIKABI51-907 are effective immediately. 1. Minor administrative
corrections.
 2                                                           INCIRLIKABI51-907 12 MAY 2014


1. Policy. Acts of misconduct committed by family members threaten the security and safety of
persons and property on Incirlik Air Base and its geographically separated units. Family
members who engage in misconduct shall appear before the Family Member Misconduct Board
(FMMB) at the direction of the 39th Air Base Wing Commander (39 ABW/CC) or his designee,
the 39th Mission Support Group Deputy Commander (39 MSG/CD). While the FMMB is not a
substitute for discipline under civilian employment regulations, the Board may, depending on the
circumstances, hear cases involving civilian employees and/or contractors. Actions undertaken
by the 39 ABW/CC and the FMMB will be directed toward ensuring good order and discipline
and, when possible, rehabilitating the offender.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. 39 ABW/CC. The 39th Air Base Wing Commander (39 ABW/CC) is ultimately
     responsible for ensuring good order and discipline at Incirlik Air Base and its geographically
     separated units. As such, the 39 ABW/CC may regulate the conduct of all active duty service
     members, retired members, Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employees, contractor
     personnel, and their family members who are assigned to, reside on or have access to Incirlik
     Air Base and its geographically separated units. 39 ABW/CC has delegated the authority to
     convene the FMMB to handle family member misconduct cases to the 39 MSG/CD.
     2.2. 39 MSG/CD. The 39th Mission Support Group Deputy Commander (39 MSG/CD) is
     designated to act as the primary base magistrate and the chairman of the FMMB by the 39
     ABW/CC. If the 39 MSG/CD is unavailable or unable to act as the chairman of the FMMB,
     the 39 ABW/CC can designate an acting chairman for a specific FMMB hearing.
     2.3. 39 ABW/JA. The 39th Air Base Wing Legal Office (39 ABW/JA) is responsible for
     providing administrative support and legal counsel to the 39 MSG/CD and the FMMB. As
     part of this responsibility, 39 ABW/JA will maintain all FMMB records for a period of three
     (3) years.
     2.4. Department of Defense Dependent Schools (DoDDS) Officials.                        The Area
     Superintendent and other school officials have primary responsibility to deal with routine
     disciplinary problems that arise at or relate to school or school activities, to include school
     bus discipline. Individual school principals are primarily responsible for sanctioning students
     who are involved in misconduct, and for making determinations regarding suspension or
     expulsion from school. The 39 ABW/CC and the FMMB, however, may also initiate
     corrective action, as consistent with this instruction, in cases of serious or repeated behaviors
     of misconduct where action is necessary to ensure the security of Incirlik Air Base and its
     geographically separated units or to preserve good order and discipline within the same.
     2.5. Sponsors. Military members, federal employees, and contractors are accountable for the
     conduct of family members or individuals they sponsor in Turkey.
        2.5.1. Sponsors must know the location and activities of minor dependents to ensure
        appropriate supervision, safety and wellbeing. They must also ensure family members
        know and understand the established standards of conduct in the Incirlik community.
        2.5.2. Sponsors shall cooperate with base authorities, DoDDS administrators and faculty,
        and host-nation officials. They will also participate in rehabilitative treatment programs
        and comply with administrative sanctions, as directed. Failure to do so may be grounds
        for administrative or disciplinary action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice
INCIRLIKABI51-907 12 MAY 2014                                                                    3


      (UCMJ) for military members.          Violations by civilian employees may result in
      administrative disciplinary action.
3. The Family Member Misconduct Board (FMMB).
   3.1. Purpose. The purpose of the FMMB is to provide a method and framework for
   resolving cases of family member misconduct arising on or involving a dependent of any
   person stationed, working, or who utilizes facilities at Incirlik Air Base or its geographically
   separated units.
   3.2. Policy. The recommendations of the FMMB for corrective action shall promote the
   protection of life and property at Incirlik Air Base and its geographically separated units, the
   rehabilitation of the offender, the preservation of good order and discipline and the
   deterrence of the offender and others from engaging in acts of misconduct.
   3.3. Administrative Hearing. The FMMB is not a judicial hearing. As such, alleged
   offenders are not entitled to have legal counsel present during the hearing. Military attorneys
   from 39 ABW/JA or the Office of the Area Defense Counsel (ADC) are not available to
   assist alleged offenders in preparing for hearings. Individuals may, however, retain civilian
   counsel at their own expense to assist in their preparation but there is no requirement for the
   39 MSG/CD to allow civilian counsel to personally attend the hearing.
   3.4. Composition. The FMMB is composed of the following persons or their designated
   representative:
      3.4.1. Voting Members:
          3.4.1.1. Mission Support Group Deputy Commander, 39 MSG/CD, Chairman.
          3.4.1.2. Staff Judge Advocate, Legal Advisor.
          3.4.1.3. Security Forces Commander. The Air Force Office of Special Investigations
          Detachment Commander (AFOSI) or his designee may take the place of the Security
          Forces Commander in cases involving an AFOSI investigation.
          3.4.1.4. Senior Enlisted Advisor, in cases involving enlisted personnel.
          3.4.1.5. Mental Health.
      3.4.2. Nonvoting Members:
          3.4.2.1. Sponsor’s Squadron Commander.
          3.4.2.2. Sponsor’s First Sergeant.
          3.4.2.3. School Principal for juveniles.
          3.4.2.4. Additional representatives as deemed appropriate by the 39 MSG/CD or
          Legal Advisor.
4. Procedures.
   4.1. Reporting Misconduct.
      4.1.1. The 39th Security Forces Squadron (39 SFS) or AFOSI normally investigate cases
      of serious misconduct. All reports of investigation disclosing misconduct committed by
      family members will be forwarded to 39 ABW/JA and 39 MSG/CD. 39 ABW/JA will
4                                                        INCIRLIKABI51-907 12 MAY 2014


       make a recommendation to 39 MSG/CD on whether or not to refer the case to the
       FMMB.
       4.1.2. Minor cases of misconduct are reported to 39 SFS through the law enforcement
       desk and are documented in the daily blotter. 39 ABW/JA shall review all daily blotter
       entries involving family member misconduct and forward them for disposition to the 39
       MSG/CD as appropriate.
       4.1.3. Unit commanders and interested staff agency chiefs may report incidents of
       misconduct to 39 ABW/JA or 39 MSG/CD for consideration of a board hearing.
    4.2. Disposition of Misconduct Cases. 39 MSG/CD may take any of the following actions
    when deciding how to dispose of a misconduct case:
       4.2.1. Refer the case to the sponsor’s immediate commander for appropriate action.
       4.2.2. Impose any corrective actions, including those contained in this instruction, that
       are within his or her discretionary authority.
       4.2.3. Refer the case to the FMMB.
       4.2.4. Recommend that 39 ABW/CC take corrective action. In no way is the scope of
       authority of 39 ABW/CC limited by a decision not to convene a FMMB.
       4.2.5. Take any other action appropriate to the circumstances of the case.
    4.3. Convening the FMMB.
       4.3.1. The FMMB will meet at the direction of 39 ABW/CC or 39 MSG/CD to hear
       misconduct cases and provide recommendations on corrective action.
       4.3.2. 39 MSG/CD may decide to convene all members of the FMMB or only selected
       members to review any case but all voting members must be present if the FMMB is
       administering punishment.
       4.3.3. No member of the FMMB will sit in judgment on a case involving their own
       family member.
       4.3.4. The FMMB will be convened in writing by the Chairman or his/her designee.
       4.3.5. 39 ABW/JA will notify the family member’s sponsor of the time and date of the
       hearing. Attendance is mandatory for active duty sponsors and the family member,
       unless the sponsor is on temporary duty (TDY) elsewhere or deployed. If the sponsor is
       unavailable, he or she may request the 39 MSG/CD to permit someone else to attend the
       FMMB in their place. A non-sponsoring parent may also attend a FMMB convened for
       his or her child. Failure of the military sponsor to attend is punishable under Article 92
       of the UCMJ. Sponsors who are civilian employees who fail to attend are subject to
       administrative disciplinary action.
       4.3.6. The FMMB will conduct the hearing even if the sponsor and/or the family member
       fail to attend. The FMMB may consider the refusal of the family member to appear as a
       matter in deciding upon its recommendation.
       4.3.7. Requests for a delay of the FMMB hearing must be timely. The request may only
       be for 10 calendar days from the scheduled date of the FMMB hearing. All delay
INCIRLIKABI51-907 12 MAY 2014                                                                5


      requests shall be delivered to 39 MSG/CD or his/her designee. 39 MSG/CD is the
      decision authority for all requests for delays of a scheduled hearing. Delays will be
      granted only in extraordinary cases, or when the sponsor is TDY or otherwise unavailable
      and will become available within 10 calendar days.
   4.4. FMMB Hearings.
      4.4.1. 39 ABW/JA will collect all relevant evidence and provide copies to FMMB
      members and the family member’s sponsor prior to the scheduled hearing.
      4.4.2. 39 MSG/CD or the acting Chairman convening the hearing shall ensure a thorough
      development of the facts. Formal rules of evidence will not apply as this is an
      administrative hearing. The Legal Advisor will determine what evidence is relevant and
      advise the FMMB on what evidence it should consider when reaching its decision.
      4.4.3. The Chairman may permit the family member or sponsor to call witnesses or to
      submit written statements so long as the request is reasonable and will not detract from
      the purpose of the hearing. The Chairman will consult with the Legal Advisor before
      making his or her decision.
      4.4.4. FMMB hearings are closed to all persons except those designated by 39 MSG/CD
      or the acting Chairman convening the hearing.
      4.4.5. The FMMB shall solicit and consider what actions the sponsor has already taken
      to punish or rehabilitate a minor family member but it is not bound by the sponsor’s
      action. The Board may also solicit and consider the sponsor’s recommendation for
      corrective action.
      4.4.6. The FMMB may consider the sponsor’s response to the misconduct when
      determining the appropriate disposition of the family member’s case.
      4.4.7. After all evidence is presented, the Board shall excuse all nonmembers from the
      hearing room. The FMMB will then determine the appropriate corrective action.
      Nonvoting members may make recommendations, but the FMMB does not have to
      adhere to them. When the voting members of the FMMB fail to reach a consensus, the
      final decision for corrective action rests with the 39 MSG/CD or acting Chairman.
      4.4.8. The Chairman will devise informal procedures to ensure that all members of the
      FMMB are heard in the deliberations and the consensus of the entire Board is reflected in
      the recommendation.
5. Corrective Action.
   5.1. The FMMB may recommend any one or more of the following corrective actions (this
   list is not exhaustive):
      5.1.1. An oral or written admonition or reprimand of the family member, the sponsor, or
      both.
      5.1.2. Referral of the family member (and, if applicable, the family member’s sponsor)
      to the Chaplain, Mental Health, or other base services as appropriate.
      5.1.3. Withdrawal of specific privileges, such as base exchange, commissary, youth
      center, pool, fitness center, and bowling alley. This list is not exhaustive.
 6                                                         INCIRLIKABI51-907 12 MAY 2014


        5.1.4. Restriction from entering certain areas of the base.
        5.1.5. A curfew.
        5.1.6. Suspension or revocation of drivers’ license and/or base driving privileges in cases
        of misconduct involving the use of a motor vehicle.
        5.1.7. Restitution for damages or injury caused by the family member, including physical
        labor to repair damage.
        5.1.8. Community service. 39 MSG/CD can adjudge up to 60 hours of community
        service without prior coordination and approval from 39 ABW/CC. Parents of minor
        children who receive community service must supervise their child in person for the
        duration of the community service, unless otherwise stated by the FMMB. Parents will
        not be allowed to drop off their child and leave. 39 MSG/CD must approve the
        community service performed.
        5.1.9. Recommend 39 ABW/CC impose a restriction from base, except for medical and
        dental care. Medical and dental care are entitlements and may not be withdrawn.
        5.1.10. Tasks such as writing essays or book reports that must be presented to a group of
        peers or the victim.
        5.1.11. Return the family member to the Continental United States (CONUS) under the
        Early Return of Dependents (ERD) program.
        5.1.12. Curtailment of sponsor’s overseas tour. This is appropriate in cases where the
        sponsor does not cooperate, where circumstances prevent the expeditious early return of
        the family member, where rehabilitative measures have failed or where unusual hardship
        to the family will result from separation of one of more of its members from the sponsor.
        Such action will be considered to be in the best interest of the government.
     5.2. Nature of Corrective Action.
        5.2.1. The nature of the corrective action imposed should be evaluated in light of such
        factors as the individual’s age and prior disciplinary record, seriousness of the
        misconduct, deliberateness of the misconduct, defiance of authority, discourteous
        conduct, influencing others involvement in misconduct, the presence or absence of
        adult/parental guidance and discipline, sanctions administered in like cases, adverse
        impact on Air Force or base community, the availability of base agencies to support any
        corrective actions or to rehabilitate the offender, the impact of the misconduct on the
        victim and the rehabilitative potential of the offender.
        5.2.2. The FMMB should also consider favorable factors such as genuine regret for the
        act(s) committed, the possibility of a misunderstanding, enticements or provocations that
        may have caused the act(s), service to community, cooperative behavior, and record of
        achievements.
6. Decision. The FMMB shall have up to three (3) duty days to decide on corrective action.
The corrective action will be imposed as soon as the decision is announced or upon the sponsor’s
receipt of the corrective action if the corrective action was not announced during the FMMB
hearing. All decisions shall be made in writing. 39 ABW/JA will deliver the Chairman’s
decision to the sponsor, who will acknowledge receipt. If the FMMB announces the corrective
INCIRLIKABI51-907 12 MAY 2014                                                                 7


action at the FMMB hearing, then the FMMB shall deliver the written decision to the sponsor no
later than three (3) duty days after the hearing.
7. Appeals. A family member who receives corrective action from the FMMB and/or the
family member’s sponsor may appeal the FMMB’s decision if the corrective action was not
imposed by 39 ABW/CC. This paragraph does not apply to corrective actions that grant an
appellate right distinct from the FMMB process.
   7.1. Appeals shall be made in writing to 39 ABW/CC no later than five (5) calendar days
   after the written decision is received by the sponsor. The sponsor must indorse the appeal.
   39 MSG/CD may grant an extension for good cause.
   7.2. 39 ABW/CC is not required to permit personal appearances by either the sponsor or the
   family member.
   7.3. 39 ABW/CC will make a final decision after considering the recommendation of the
   FMMB and the family member’s response. 39 ABW/CC’s decision is final and not subject
   to further appeal. Notice of 39 ABW/CC’s decision will be served on the sponsor, who will
   acknowledge receipt.
8. Execution of Corrective Actions.
   8.1. Copies of the FMMB’s decision will be forwarded to the relevant agencies involved. In
   the event community service, restitution, or referral to other agencies is recommended by the
   FMMB, the sponsor and family member will be required to consent. If consent is refused, 39
   ABW/CC will reconsider the matter, taking the refusal into account.
   8.2. Agencies to which the family members are referred are responsible for reporting their
   progress to the Chairman who imposed the corrective action. The Chairman may make a
   recommendation to 39 ABW/CC for additional corrective action without re-convening the
   FMMB if the agency determines the family member is not making satisfactory progress.
   8.3. Failure to complete any corrective action imposed by the FMMB within the time
   specified may result in a referral to the FMMB.
   8.4. The sponsor’s squadron must supervise/execute all corrective actions imposed by the
   FMMB and inform the Chairman or his/her designee when the corrective actions have been
   completed.




                                           CRAIG D. WILLS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 8                                                      INCIRLIKABI51-907 12 MAY 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-9. Civil Law for Individuals, 5 November 1993
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
No Forms Prescribed
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 ABW/CC—39th Air Base Wing Commander
39 ABW/JA—39th Air Base Wing Legal Office
39 MSG/CD—39th Mission Support Group Deputy Commander
39 SFS—39th Security Forces Squadron
ADC—Area Defense Counsel
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CONUS—Continental United States
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDDS—Department of Defense Dependent Schools
ERD—Early Return of Dependents
FMMB—Family Member Misconduct Board
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice

Terms
Family Member— Any person who is entitled to installation access by virtue of his or her
blood, marital or other legal affiliation with an active duty service member, reserve or guard,
retired member, DoD civilian employee, or civilian contractor.
Family Member Misconduct Board— A board established at Incirlik Air Base to evaluate
cases of family member misconduct.
INCIRLIKABI51-907 12 MAY 2014                                                                   9


Minor— A person who has not yet attained the age of 18 years at the time of the misconduct.
Misconduct— Any act or omission that violates a written rule, instruction, policy, base
directive, Air Force directive, federal statute or local law, or that otherwise disrupts the good
order of the installation or threatens the security and safety of persons assigned to Incirlik Air
Base and its geographically separated units and/or their dependents.
Retiree— Any individual retired from the U.S. Armed Forces regardless of the branch of
service.
Sponsor— Any active duty service member, retired member, DoD civilian employee, or civilian
contractor from whom a family member derives their status.
