BY ORDER OF THE                                 INCIRLIK AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 31-106
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER
(USAFE)                                                                     9 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                        Security

                                                    AMERICAN PASS AND REGISTRATION
                                                                       PROCEDURES




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 39 SFS/S5P                                                         Certified by: 39 SFS/CC
                                                                    (Lt Col Glen E. Christensen)
Supersedes:   INCIRLIKABI31-106,                                                       Pages: 18
              24 August 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense and
references Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), and establishes
policies and procedures for obtaining installation entry mediums and vehicle registration/de-
registration procedures for Incirlik Air Base (AB). This instruction applies to all United States
nationals assigned or attached to the 39th Air Base Wing (39 ABW). This publication applies to
the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units only upon
mobilization. Commanders and supervisors are responsible for ensuring personnel are familiar
and comply with the provisions of this instruction. This instruction requires collecting and
maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974 authorized by 10 USC 8013
and E.O. 9397. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement. System of Record
Notice F205 AF, Personnel Security Access Record applies. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS): https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm,
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program and Department of Defense (DoD) 5400.7-R, Freedom of
Information Act Program.
 2                                                 INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised to reflect the following: removal of the TrenTech badge
issuing system, updated residency permit/funds handling procedures, and the removal of
conflicting Restricted Area Badge (RAB) procedures IAW AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense.
1. Identification (ID) Media.
     1.1. Identification Media: The Primary and Alternate Issuing Officials who are appointed by
     the Defense Force Commander (DFC) are responsible for strict accountability of all
     controlled identification (ID) media issued to American Pass and Registration by the
     Publication Distribution Office (PDO). Immediately upon hiring or removing personnel, the
     Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) of Pass and Registration will route a new
     appointment letter for DFC signature.
        1.1.1. The Primary Issuing Official (PIO), or in the absence of the PIO, the Alternate
        Issuing Official (AIO), will ensure compliance of controlled documents IAW AFI 36-
        3026V1_IP, Identification Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Eligible
        Family Members and Other Eligible Personnel.
     1.2. Preparation and Issuance of the Department of Defense (DD) Form 1934, Geneva
     Conventions Identity Card for Medical and Religious Personnel Who Serve in or Accompany
     the Armed Forces: Service all personnel who are applying for the Geneva Conventions Card
     in accordance with AFI 36-3026V1_IP.
2. Turkish Residency Permits.
     2.1. Turkish Residency Permits: Turkish Law #5683 and the North Atlantic Treaty
     Organization (NATO) Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) require all civilian family
     members, who are not Turkish citizens, of United States (US) military personnel and
     Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employees and their family members to obtain a
     Turkish residency permit. This permit will authorize the bearer to live in Turkey. The
     American Pass and Registration Section is the designated office of primary responsibility
     (OPR) for the processing of these permits. American Pass and Registration will review all
     DoD civilian employees’ and dependents’ paperwork for accuracy and stamp their
     application.
        2.1.1. American Pass and Registration processes all permit requests submitted with the
        exception of permits required for employees of Vinnell-Brown and Root (VBR)
        contractors. The VBR site manager processes permits for VBR personnel. Procedures
        for the processing of the permits are directed by the local immigration authority. This is
        subject to change without notice.
        2.1.2. The appointed Residency Permit Program Manager (RPM) ensures all American
        Pass and Registration personnel are familiar with and comply with established guidelines
        for receiving applications for permits. The base populace must keep their permit current
        by ensuring the expiration date on page four in the Residency Permit is valid.
     2.2. Documents required from the applicant:
        2.2.1. One USAFE Base Form 100, Residency Permit Application for each initial
        application only. Ensure the application is screened for completeness. If the applicant is
INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                3


     requesting to renew the permit have them turn in the old permit with the applicant’s valid
     passport.
     2.2.2. No-Fee or Official Passport. Receive and review the applicant’s passport. All
     passports must have the red ink entry “GIRIS” from Turkish Customs stamped in it. If
     the passport expires within two months, the applicant must first get either an extension or
     a new passport. Refer them to the 39th Force Support Squadron Military Personnel
     Section (39 FSS/FSMPS). If the application is for a family member of a US military
     individual who holds a US passport, the passport is surrendered to American Pass and
     Registration must be an official “NO FEE” passport. To determine if the passport is a
     NO FEE passport, look for the following statement stamped in the rear of the passport:
     This passport is valid for use in connection with the bearer’s residence abroad as a
     family member of a member of the American military or Naval forces on active duty
     outside the Continental limits of the United States. If the passport is not a “NO FEE”
     passport it is considered a tourist passport. If the application is for a US civilian
     employee who holds a US passport, the passport surrendered to American Pass and
     Registration must be an “OFFICIAL” passport. To determine if the passport is an
     “OFFICIAL” passport, look for the following statement stamped in the rear of the
     passport: The bearer is abroad on an “OFFICIAL” assignment for the United States
     government. This passport expires on (DATE). It may be extended on presentation of
     appropriate duty orders. The wording may change but the concept will be the same.
     The key to remember is that if the stamp or words are not there then this is not the correct
     passport. Inform the applicant the residency permit cannot be processed until they
     produce an “OFFICIAL” passport with the appropriate stamps. Refer them to the MPS.
     2.2.3. If the application is for a “third country national” all they need is a valid tourist
     passport issued by their home country.
     2.2.4. Obtain one copy of AF Form 899, Request and Authorization for Permanent
     Change of Station (PCS) - Military and AF Form 973, Request and Authorization of
     Change of Administrative Orders, if applicable, for each individual application package.
     Check to make sure all the family members applying for permits are on the AF Form 899.
     If not, the applicants must have their orders amended to ensure all family members are on
     their orders. In the event the family members were born in Turkey or Germany after the
     initial assignment to Incirlik AB, the command sponsorship letter must be provided.
     2.2.5. If the applicant is a civilian they must also submit a copy of the job declaration
     letter, their DD Form 1617, Transportation Agreement Transfer of Civilian Employees
     Outside CONUS (OCONUS), and a job status letter which must show the applicant’s
     Date Expected to Return from Overseas (DEROS) (provided by employer) along with
     their orders.
     2.2.6. If the applicant was born in Turkey, an original certificate of live birth given to the
     parents by hospital personnel must be included along with the AF Form 4007, Request
     and Authorization of Reassignment Orders. It must be the original hospital letter in
     Turkish. Children born in Turkey must start the residency permit application
     immediately upon return to Incirlik AB, up to 15 days within arrival. For babies born in
     Turkey the passport is not required to start the process, but it is required to finish it.
     When the passport arrives, return to American Pass and Registration to complete the
4                                                  INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012


       process. If the baby was born in Germany a copy of the original birth certificate must be
       included. Children born in Germany can not apply for a residency permit until they
       receive the official “NO FEE” passport. If a visa is not purchased upon return, the
       application will be subject to late fees and or fines.
       2.2.7. All applicants with a Turkish parent must have a copy of the parent’s Nufus
       (Turkish Identification Card). If the child has been placed on the parent’s Nufus, they
       cannot receive a residency permit, since Turkish Customs identifies them as dual
       nationals. If the child is not listed, continue processing the application.
       2.2.8. Gather all documents presented with the application, the photographs, old
       residency permit (if applicable) and the passport (old passport if applicable) then submit
       the package to the RPM.
    2.3. Residency Permit Program Manager (RPM) Procedures.
       2.3.1. The RPM reviews each application submitted as soon as possible. Any errors
       discovered with the Residency Permit application requires immediate attention to correct.
       The RPM then logs the application in the residency permit log.
       2.3.2. The permit consists of the following documents prepared by the RPM:
          2.3.2.1. Two copies of the initial Residency Permit application or one copy of the
          renewal application. There will be five photographs attached to each copy of the
          initial application and three photographs attached to the top of the renewal
          application.
          2.3.2.2. One Turkish and English cover letter.
          2.3.2.3. If the applicant is a newborn, born in Turkey, the RPM will also complete
          one copy of the Turkish hospital letter to be attached to the hospital letter brought in
          by the parents.
          2.3.2.4. If the applicant is a third country national, the RPM will prepare a third
          country national consulate Turkish form. The applicant will take the paperwork to 39
          FSS/FSMPS who will forward it to the consulate for approval. After the letter
          returns, all items will be turned in to the RPM for residency permit processing.
       2.3.3. If the applicant requires the passport returned before the application is completed,
       the passport can be retrieved from the Central Police Station in Adana.
       2.3.4. After typing the forms, the RPM places the applications in order. The Turkish
       Pass and ID office endorses the applications and they are returned to American Pass and
       Registration. The RPM then schedules a trip to Adana to complete the process, first
       going to the Vilayet for review and signature and then to the central police station in
       Adana for processing by the Turkish Immigration Officials. The RPM will transport
       applications as needed.
       2.3.5. The RPM will pay for the permit books at the immigration office when permits are
       dropped off and only purchase books for the permits being dropped off that day. For
       example: The RPM will transport completed applications. At no time will the RPM
       possess an uncompleted permit book.
INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                            5


      2.3.6. When the RPM receives notifications the passports and residency permits are
      completed at the Adana Emniyet, the log is annotated to show which applications are
      complete. The RPM then contacts the applicant and informs them the permit is complete
      and ready for pick up. The RPM will notify the sponsor when the permits are ready to be
      picked up. The RPM is responsible for maintaining the tracking system which accounts
      for the location of all permit requests and passports in American Pass and Registration’s
      possession.
3. Gate Passes.
   3.1. To obtain entry and exit on Incirlik AB, personnel ages 12 and older must obtain a gate
   pass. There are many different types of gate passes that American Pass and Registration
   process through Turkish Pass and ID. All gate pass approvals/disapprovals are done by
   Turkish Pass and ID. American Pass and Registration has no influence on the gate pass
   process. American Pass and Registration acts as a liaison and processing point between
   personnel stationed at Incirlik Air Base and Turkish Pass and ID. Procedures and required
   items may change with little or no notice. Contact the American Pass and Registration
   section for required paperwork needed.
      3.1.1. The following paperwork must be collected to process a gate pass:
          3.1.1.1. Sponsors need to provide a completed Turkish Form Permanent Gate Pass
          Application, valid copy of AF Form 899, valid copy of AF Form 1631, North Atlantic
          Treaty Organization (NATO) Travel Orders/Orde de Mission Otan with the “GIRIS”
          entry stamp on it and a copy of both sides of their military ID card.
          3.1.1.2. Spouses with a valid residency permit need to provide a completed
          permanent gate pass application with a signature from the 39th Force Support
          Squadron Airman and Family Readiness Center Staff as well as 39th Medical Group
          (39 MDG) Staff to show proof of attendance at the Right Start and Medical Briefing.
          Children 12 and older need a valid Residency Permit in conjunction with the
          following: Sponsor’s valid copy of AF Form 899, sponsor’s valid copy of AF Form
          1631 with red entry “GIRIS” stamp on it, a copy of the front and back of the
          sponsor’s and the family members military ID cards, a copy of their passport picture
          page, a copy of the page with the red “GIRIS” stamp on it, and a copy of the picture
          page and the page with the expiration date on it in the Residency Permit.
          3.1.1.3. Personnel awaiting residency permits may obtain a temporary gate pass
          through American Pass and Registration by filling out a Turkish Temporary Gate
          Pass Application.
          3.1.1.4. Once American Pass and Registration has obtained all of the appropriate
          paperwork, the paperwork will be reviewed for accuracy. Ensure the AF Form 1631
          with red “GIRIS” stamp have the correct location and the expected departure date. If
          the applicant remains past their DEROS, they will need to provide a copy of a
          DEROS verification letter from the MPS and new AF Form 1631 with red “GIRIS”
          stamp.
          3.1.1.5. For personnel applying for permanent gate passes the clerk will photograph
          the applicant.
6                                                   INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012


           3.1.1.6. There is a five to seven business day wait for all passes sent to Turkish Pass
           and ID.
           3.1.1.7. When passes are ready to be picked up from Turkish Pass and ID, the
           American Pass and Registration Clerk will go to the Turkish Pass and ID office and
           retrieve the completed passes. American Pass and Registration will notify the gate
           pass recipient via e-mail to have them to pick up their gate pass.
    3.2. Relative Gate Passes: The Turkish Form Relative Gate Passes are used for visiting
    relatives of permanently assigned and temporary duty (TDY) personnel. Mothers, fathers,
    mothers-in-law and fathers-in-law are allowed passes in 30-day increments. Visiting
    husbands and wives are also eligible for the Relative Gate Pass with proof of marriage (ie.
    Marriage certificate, orders listing the spouse, or dependent ID card with the spouse named).
    Brothers and sisters are eligible, but proof of relationship will have to be provided and routed
    through 10th Tanker Turkish Headquarters, Bldg 820 for approval. If proof of relationship is
    not available, process request with a Turkish Form Friend Gate Pass. Any other American or
    Turkish relative (cousin, aunt, uncle, etc.) who wants to visit must be sponsored on base with
    a Turkish Form Friend Pass or Turkish Form Turkish Friend Pass. If the relative is not
    American or Turkish, a Turkish Form Third Country National (TCN) Gate Pass must be
    requested. To obtain the Relative Gate Pass the following will be submitted to Turkish Pass
    and ID:
       3.2.1. A copy of the sponsor’s AF Form 899 and, if applicable, AF Form 973
       3.2.2. A copy of the sponsor’s AF Form 1631, to Incirlik AB, with the red “GIRIS’
       stamped upon entry to the country.
       3.2.3. A copy of the sponsor’s military ID front and back.
       3.2.4. A copy of the relative’s passport picture page or the Turkish Nufus card.
       3.2.5. Proof of relationship to the sponsor (i.e. birth certificate, marriage license,
       adoption papers, divorce decrees, emergency data card, etc.).
       3.2.6. Once American Pass and Registration has obtained all of the paperwork it will be
       reviewed for errors. If the applicant is still here after the tour length and report no later
       than date, they will need to provide a copy of a DEROS verification letter from the 39
       FSS/FSMPS. Ensure the copies of the ID cards are legible. If there has been a name
       change, they have to provide documentation showing the name change, before it can be
       accepted.
       3.2.7. The Turkish Form Relative Gate Pass must be signed by the 39th Air Base Wing
       Vice Commander (39 ABW/CV), 39th Mission Support Group Commander (39
       MSG/CC),
       39th Maintenance Squadron Commander (39 MXS/CC), or the 39th Medical Group
       Commander (39 MDG/CC). The package is then hand-carried, by the sponsor, to 10th
       Tanker Turkish Headquarters, Bldg 820.
    3.3. Friend Gate Pass: American visitors who do not possess a Common Access Card or
    official travel orders to Incirlik AB may be sponsored on base using the Friend Gate Pass.
    Any visitor who is not American or Turkish must use the TCN Gate Pass. The sponsor will
    complete the request letter and include a photocopy of the visitor’s passport, sponsor’s
INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                              7


  military ID card, sponsors AF Form 899 and AF Form 1631 with red “GIRIS” stamp. The
  request letter must be reviewed and stamped by American Pass and Registration. The
  application must be signed by the 39 ABW/CV, 39 MSG/CC, 39 MXS/CC, or the 39
  MDG/CC.
     3.3.1. The letter is taken by the applicant to Turkish Headquarters at least five duty days
     prior to the visit to complete the gate pass. Turkish Headquarters is the final approving
     authority for the Friend Pass. The sponsor will pick up the pass from Turkish Pass and
     ID.
  3.4. Turkish Visitor Passes are another type of pass issued for military or civilians
  sponsoring Turkish visitors. The following must be turned in before the pass can be sent to
  Turkish Pass and ID:
     3.4.1. A Turkish Form Visitor Request stating who is visiting, where they will be going
     on base, the reason they are coming on base, the date and time of the visit.
     3.4.2. If the Turkish friend is under 18 years old they will need an “under 18 permission
     letter” signed by the visitor’s parents. This letter will be submitted with the Turkish
     visitor pass package.
     3.4.3. A copy of the sponsors AF Form 899, AF Form 1631 with a red “GIRIS” entry
     stamp on it and military ID card (front and back).
     3.4.4. Once the package is complete, American Pass and Registration will sign and
     stamp the paperwork before the sponsor submits the package. The application must be
     signed by the 39 ABW/CV, 39 MSG/CC, 39 MXS/CC, or the 39 MDG/CC. The letter is
     taken by the applicant to Turkish Headquarters at least five duty days prior to the visit to
     complete the gate pass. Turkish Headquarters is the final approving authority for the
     Turkish Friend Pass. The sponsor will pick up the pass from Turkish Pass and ID.
  3.5. Third Country National (TCN) Gate Passes: Turkish Form TCN Gate Passes are
  submitted when anyone assigned to Incirlik AB has a friend or relative who would like to
  visit and is from another country other than America or Turkey. The applicant must first
  process request through the appropriate group or vice wing commander. The following is
  then sent electronically to the Office of Defense Corporation (ODC) in Ankara for approval:
     3.5.1. A copy of the USAFE Base Form 102, Third Country National Base Entry
     Request, consisting of the signed approval letters in addition to the TCN Base Access
     Clearance Letter.
     3.5.2. A copy of the sponsor’s AF Form 899 and, if applicable, AF Form 973
     3.5.3. A copy of the sponsor’s AF Form 1631, to Incirlik AB, with the red “GIRIS’
     stamped upon entry to the country.
     3.5.4. A copy of the sponsor’s military ID front and back.
     3.5.5. A copy of the relative’s or friend’s passport picture page.
     3.5.6. Proof of relationship to the sponsor (i.e. birth certificate, marriage license,
     adoption papers, divorce decrees, emergency data card etc.) or the friend letter.
     3.5.7. A copy of the sponsor’s Blue Book picture page.
 8                                                    INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012


        3.5.8. The applicant will provide the package to American Pass and Registration to be
        emailed to the ODC. When Turkish General Staff (TGS) has approved the application,
        an approval letter is emailed back to American Pass and Registration. The member will
        attach the approval to the relative or friend gate pass along with the appropriate
        paperwork and turn it into Turkish Pass and ID. The approval will take approximately 4
        to 6 weeks to get back from the Ankara office, so if the visit was scheduled sooner,
        advise the applicant there will not be enough time to obtain approval from the TGS in
        Ankara. After approval from TGS is received, the sponsor will follow temporary gate
        pass issuance procedures.
     3.6. Lost Gate Pass: If any sponsor or family member loses a gate pass they need to turn in a
     lost gate pass letter, which can be obtained from the Pass and Registration section. This
     letter must be filled out and routed to the 39 ABW/CV for signature and approval. After
     approval, the letter and an AF Form 1168, Statement of Suspect/Witness/Complaint, obtained
     from the Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC), submitted in English and Turkish, will be
     taken to Turkish Headquarters for review. The lost letter will be maintained at Turkish Pass
     and ID.. The applicant will then go to American Pass and Registration to obtain a new gate
     pass with the requirements laid out in para 3.1.1.
     3.7. Vehicle Pass: All vehicles are required to have a vehicle pass issued by Turkish Pass
     and ID. The following is required to apply for a Vehicle Pass:
        3.7.1. Turkish Vehicle Pass Application.
        3.7.2. One photocopy of all driver’s license (USAFE Form 181, Vehicle Operator’s
        Permit for Turkey).
        3.7.3. One passport size photograph of each authorized driver.
        3.7.4. One photocopy of all traffic registration cards.
        3.7.5. One copy of Turkish insurance.
     3.8. Traffic Administration.
        3.8.1. American Pass and Registration provides guidance for conducting vehicle
        registrations, de-registration and vehicle transfer actions for privately owned vehicles
        operated on the installation.
4. Vehicle Requirements.
     4.1. Vehicle Safety Inspections: All POVs must pass a required vehicle safety inspection
     every two years. This inspection is part of the registration validation process. Inform
     personnel upon application for registration of the requirement for a safety inspection.
     Vehicles going through initial registration must pass the safety inspection prior to registration
     validation. Re-inspection of a vehicle upon expiration of the current safety inspection is
     mandatory. Re-inspection is completed at the Adana Inspection Station. Upon customer
     inquiry, provide the customer with directions on how to get to the inspection station and the
     current fee for a re-inspection.
     4.2. Privately Owned Vehicle (POV) Registration: American Pass and Registration is the
     American base focal point for registration of POVs. American Pass and Registration may act
INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                             9


  as a traffic liaison, applies for, purchases and processes all required registration documents
  on behalf of the applicant. The following steps apply when registering a vehicle:
     4.2.1. Once the beyanname is issued the customer will proceed to American Pass and
     Registration with the beyanname, original Turkish Insurance policy, applicable amount of
     TL based on the current Traffic Bureau prices, typed Turkish form Advanced Privately
     Owned Vehicle (POV) Registration and three pictures (can be obtained at American Pass
     and Registration). At this time all paperwork and TL will be sent to the Adana Traffic
     Bureau to purchase all applicable registration paperwork and the license plates.
     4.2.2. All documents associated with the registration of a vehicle must be issued in the
     same name as the auto beyanname. Personnel must complete initial registrations within
     90 days of the date on the beyanname form. Fines are charged to personnel who do not
     comply.
     4.2.3. Each vehicle owner completes an AF Form 533, Certification of Compliance-
     Private Motor Vehicle Registration. The vehicle owner must sign and date the AF Form
     533 acknowledging the statements on the back. Update Security Forces Management
     Information System (SFMIS) using the AF Form 533 and file the form numerically by
     license plate in the appropriate file box.
     4.2.4. The American Pass and Registration Liaison will ensure:
         4.2.4.1. If personnel are completing the registration of the POV on their own, ensure
         they are aware of the requirement to complete an AF Form 533 with American Pass
         and Registration. Inform personnel of the location of the inspection station and
         registration office.
     4.2.5. Upon receipt of a request for vehicle registration, the American Pass and
     Registration Liaison will:
         4.2.5.1. Review all documents for completeness and resolve any discrepancies.
         4.2.5.2. Transfer the appropriate amount of TL to the Traffic Bureau in order to
         purchase the necessary vehicle registration documents.
         4.2.5.3. Prepare all documents related to the vehicle’s registration.
  4.3. De-registration of POV: All vehicle owners who are shipping, selling, “junking”, or
  driving their POV out of the country must de-register their vehicle prior to implementing
  such procedures. The vehicle de-registration is necessary in order to clear any outstanding
  traffic tickets from the owner’s record. American Pass and Registration assists the vehicle
  owner with this process. De-registration of vehicles in Adana can only be accomplished if
  that vehicle was registered in Adana. EXAMPLE: A traffic record cannot be cleared in
  Adana for a vehicle registered in Izmir.
     4.3.1. For the first step of the vehicle de-registration process the applicant must provide
     the following:
         4.3.1.1. A USAFE Base Form 99, Vehicle De-registration form used by the traffic
         liaison to prepare the de-registration documents.
         4.3.1.2. The applicant’s auto beyanname (ensure the beyanname provided is for the
         car being de-registered).
10                                                 INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012


         4.3.1.3. The registration cards (found in the traffic book issued at the time of
         registration).
         4.3.1.4. Valid Turkish Liability insurance policy.
         4.3.1.5. Obtain the appropriate amount of TL and provide a receipt to the customer.
         4.3.1.6. Offer the customer the opportunity to purchase a “United States Forces-
         Turkey” transient license plate. This plate and registration are used in the United
         States to travel from the port to the state where the vehicle will be registered. Use
         USAFE Base Form 92, Military/Civilian Registration and Certification of Title of
         Motor Vehicle, to prepare a request for such plates and collect the appropriate fees.
         Allow no less than 10 duty days for the purchase and preparation of de-registration
         documents.
     4.3.2. De-registration is conducted the day of shipment, transfer of the vehicle to the
     Turkish government or when officially sold. Ensure the customer fully understands this
     step of the de-registration process. Note: When driving out of the country, this step must
     be done a minimum of 5 duty days prior to departing Incirlik AB in order to obtain a
     temporary road permit from the Turkish Pass and ID.
         4.3.2.1. On the day of the actual vehicle de-registration, the following will be done:
             4.3.2.1.1. Collect the traffic cards and license plates.
             4.3.2.1.2. Have the customer sign the appropriate blocks on the de-registration
             documents.
             4.3.2.1.3. Issue the U.S. Forces Turkey plates (if purchased) and validate the
             USAFE Base Form 92.
             4.3.2.1.4. Ensure the vehicle ID number matches the number typed on the form.
             4.3.2.1.5. Record issuance by retaining one copy of the USAFE Base Form 92
             recording the plate number issued in the license plate logbook.
             4.3.2.1.6. The USAFE Base Form 92 is valid for 30 days from the date the
             vehicle is picked-up.
             4.3.2.1.7. File the one copy of the USAFE Base Form 92 and maintain it one
             year. Destroy one year after being filed.
             4.3.2.1.8. Place all documents on the traffic liaison’s desk for processing. Inform
             the customer to check with the Turkish customs liaison in 5 to 7 business days to
             ensure auto beyanname clearance. De-registration is complete when the clearance
             document is stamped by the traffic authorities in Adana and the document is
             provided to the Customs Liaison Office in the Traffic Management Office.
             4.3.2.1.9. Once de-registration is complete, update SFMIS and pull the associated
             AF Form 533 from the record and shred it.
  4.4. Vehicle Transfer: A transfer occurs when one person buys a vehicle from another
  person and initiates action to transfer the vehicle to the buyer’s beyanname. The owner of
  the vehicle must fully de-register the vehicle prior to selling it to another individual. Brief
  the buyer on their responsibility to initiate registration of the vehicle (see para 4.1.1). The
INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                11


   buyer cannot register the vehicle until they obtain the auto beyanname. Coordination with
   Turkish Customs is required to transfer the beyanname.
   4.5. Driver’s Permits: All active duty personnel assigned to Incirlik AB require a USAFE
   Form 181, in order to operate any motor vehicle while in country. When operating a vehicle,
   the operator must have both the USAFE Form 181 and the valid stateside driver’s license in
   their possession. The following procedures will apply for the issuance of the USAFE Form
   181:
      4.5.1. They will present their stateside license (it must be current, as Turkey does not
      recognize state military clauses) or an international license to the clerk. Stateside licenses
      which say “Military, or “00-00-0000” in lieu of an expiration date, or have no expiration
      date will not be accepted. The expiration date on the USAFE Form 181 will be the
      individual’s license expiration date.
      4.5.2. All DoD civilians, Department of Defense Dependent Schools (DoDDs)
      employees and all family members must have a valid stateside drivers license or an
      International Driver’s license to operate a vehicle in Turkey. Their stateside license must
      be translated and notarized in Turkish in order to operate a vehicle in Turkey. This
      service is not available at American Pass and Registration.
5. Blue Book and Tax Exemption.
   5.1. Armed Forces Identification Card (Blue Book): IAW European Command (EUCOM)
   Directive 56-9, European Command Relationships and U.S. Defense Representatives, Annex
   #5 to … Supplementary Agreement #3 on Installations, 1980 DECA, NATO SOFA ratified
   by Turkish Law #6375, the “Blue Book” is issued to all Armed Forces personnel
   permanently assigned in Turkey. American Pass and Registration processes all Blue Book
   requests for Incirlik AB. The designated program administrator and the NCOIC ensure the
   books are prepared and sent to Ankara for approval.
      5.1.1. The Pass and Registration clerk will review the Turkish Blue Book application(s)
      for completeness, making every effort to resolve any discrepancies prior to the
      requester’s departure. Any Blue Book application submitted 15 days after the applicant’s
      arrival in country must have a “late” letter submitted with the application being submitted
      late.
      5.1.2. Receive one copy of the Turkish Blue Book application and one copy of the
      applicant’s AF Form 899.
      5.1.3. Two photos are taken of the applicant for the Blue Book. The applicant is not
      required to be in uniform for the Blue Book picture.
      5.1.4. The application is placed in the “Blue Book and Tax Exemption” bin for the
      program manager to process. Turkish Blue Book applications applications are forwarded
      to the 717 ABS Pass & ID in Ankara once a week.
      5.1.5. Problems which may arise when processing Blue Book applications:
          5.1.5.1. If a female marries after obtaining their TGS issued Blue Book and changes
          their last name, they must apply for a new Blue Book with their married name. To
          submit this type of application you will need:
 12                                              INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012


             5.1.5.1.1. One copy of the Turkish Blue Book application.
             5.1.5.1.2. One copy of AF Form 899 and, if applicable, AF Form 973.
             5.1.5.1.3. One copy of the marriage certificate.
             5.1.5.1.4. The original issued Blue Book.
          5.1.5.2. If an individual loses their Turkish Blue Book, the following will be
          required:
             5.1.5.2.1. One copy of the Turkish Blue Book application.
             5.1.5.2.2. One copy of AF Form 899 and, if applicable, AF Form 973.
             5.1.5.2.3. One copy of a letter from the individual stating what happened to it.
             This letter must be signed by American Pass and Registration.
          5.1.5.3. If an individual never obtained a NATO Blue Book and is ready to
          Permanent Change Station (PCS), they must have a letter signed by American Pass
          and Registration which states why they never received one.
          5.1.5.4. Issued Blue Books must be surrendered to American Pass and Registration
          when the holder PCSs. The book is turned in no more than 3 days prior to the final
          out-processing date. Upon receipt of a surrendered Blue Book, complete the
          following actions:
             5.1.5.4.1. Give the books to the program manager pending return to Ankara.
             Books will be returned to the 717 ABS Pass & ID in Ankara in a timely manner.
             5.1.5.4.2. If an individual cannot locate the Blue Book to turn in, then obtain a
             "lost letter."
   5.2. Tax Exemption.
      5.2.1. All personnel shipping a vehicle to Turkey must file the Turkish Form, Tax
      Exemption Request, for their privately owned vehicle accomplished during vehicle
      registration. Locally developed procedures do not require the return of the Turkish Form
      Tax Exemption Request prior to registering the vehicle off base.
          5.2.1.1. The Turkish Form Tax Exemption Request is completed in triplicate by the
          applicant and three copies of AF Form 899 are required. The program manager for
          the Blue Books also manages the Tax Exemption program.
          5.2.1.2. The Turkish Form Tax Exemption Request must be filled out completely to
          include the listing of the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN). If the military
          member’s Blue Book has not been returned and the applicant is attempting to file for
          tax exemption, instruct the applicant the request cannot be forwarded until the Blue
          Book returns.
   5.3. When the Turkish Form Tax Exemption Request is returned, it will remain on file until
   the owner deregisters the vehicle.
6. Restricted Area Badges (RABs).
   6.1. American Pass and Registration is the issuing office for RABs on Incirlik AB. RABs
   will be issued IAW AFI 31-101.
INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                             13


      6.1.1. The Unit Security Manager (USM) will ensure all security and training
      requirements have been met by the individual to receive a RAB. The USM will prepare
      an AF Form 2586, Unescorted Entry Authorization Certificate, and route it through the
      appropriate approval authority. Once the AF Form 2586 has been approved, the USM
      will send the applicant to American Pass and Registration. Military applicants must be in
      their military uniform and have their Common Access Card (CAC) with them. Civilian
      applicants must be in appropriate attire. The badge must be issued within 20 duty days
      from the date the USM initiated the AF Form 2586. Any AF Form 2586 which is older
      than 20 duty days must be re-accomplished. Changing of the date in either section II or
      IV for convenience is strictly prohibited.
      6.1.2. American Pass and Registration will ensure there are two personnel who are
      designated as issuers by the DFC available during the hours of issuance. One individual
      will make the badge and one will validate the information.
      6.1.3. American Pass and Registration will receive the applicant’s military ID card and
      the AF Form 2586. The information on the AF Form 2586 must match the information
      on the military ID card and MUST meet the physical features of the applicant.
          6.1.3.1. If there are any discrepancies on sections I-III of the AF Form 2586, the
          USM who initiated the form may pen and ink corrections and initial next to the
          corrections. The initials of the USM will be verified via the USMs DD Form 577,
          Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized Signature.
          6.1.3.2. Any corrections in Section IV of the AF Form 2586 may be corrected only
          by the approving authority who signed in Section IV. The initials of the commander
          will be verified via DD Form 577.
      6.1.4. If there are no discrepancies, the RAB will be issued utilizing the RAB checklist.
          6.1.4.1. Personnel identified as being Interim Certified in the Personal Reliability
          Program in section III of the AF Form 2586 will receive a badge with a yellow
          background.. American Pass and Registration will annotate in the remarks section of
          the AF Form 2586 the Interim Badge number issued.
      6.1.5. If a discrepancy is found on the badge during issuance, a new badge will need to
      be printed. This will require deletion of the badge with the discrepancy. Ensure the new
      badge number is annotated on the AF Form 2586 and on SFMIS.
      6.1.6. Pass and Registration will destroy all turned-in badges at the earliest convenience.
      Prior to destruction, the badge must be deleted from Virtual Military Personnel Flight
      (vMPF) out processing checklist, and SFMIS. In the event SFMIS is unavailable, the
      badge and the AF Form 2586 will be secured in the safe until it can be deleted from
      SFMIS.
      6.1.7. Lost, Stolen, Annual Inventories and Audits will be conducted IAW AFI 31-101,
      Mutilated badges will be replaced as deemed necessary by the Approving Official.
7. Inprocessing.
   7.1. All personnel assigned to Incirlik AB must in process through American Pass and
   Registration within 15 days of arrival.
 14                                               INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012


      7.1.1. American Pass and Registration will ensure all gate passes, Blue Books and tax
      exemptions are applied for during the in processing period. All customers will receive
      information on processing residency permits and vehicle registration procedures as
      required.
8. Outprocessing.
   8.1. All personnel assigned to Incirlik AB must out process through American Pass and
   Registration within 3 duty days prior to their final out processing appointment with Military
   Personnel Flight.
   8.1.1. Restricted Area Badges, AF Form 2586, Blue Book and all permanent gate passes
   must be turned in to American Pass and Registration. If the individual sponsors a Nanny,
   Maid or Gardener a termination letter must be completed and turned in to Turkish Pass and
   ID. All bicycles, scooters and privately owned weapons will also be deregistered. Once all
   items are accounted for, the individual will be cleared out of vMPF outprocessing.
9. Extra Duties.
   9.1. Noncombatant Evacuation Operations Processing Line Procedures: During any
   Noncombatant Evacuation Operation (NEO), contingency or exercise, American Pass and
   Registration provides assistance to those being evacuated from the installation. American
   Pass and Registration will:
      9.1.1. Make arrangements with the local immigration office and residency permit office
      to retrieve all passports which may be in their possession.
      9.1.2. Report to the NEO processing center and establish the American Pass and
      Registration processing station.
   9.2. Privately Owned Weapons (POW) Registration: Every privately owned firearm must be
   registered with Security Forces IAW AFI 31-101 and USAFEI 51-707, Regulations on
   Personal Property, Local Currency, and Motor Vehicles for US Personnel in Turkey, section
   5 within 24 hours or next duty day after arrival or purchase. American Pass and Registration
   is the point of contact for all POWs and unusually dangerous weapons. All weapons on base,
   regardless of storage location, must be registered with American Pass and Registration. The
   only authorized firearms in Turkey are shotguns or paintball guns. Prior permission of the
   Ministry of Interior is required to import shotguns and ammunition into Turkey. No rifles or
   handguns, including starter pistols are permitted. POWs are NOT authorized in dormitories
   or transient quarters. Personnel staying in those locations must use the Security Forces
   Armory to store their weapons. American Pass and Registration will do the following when
   personnel inquire about registering their privately owned firearm:
      9.2.1. Provide an AF Form 1314, Firearms Registration, and DD Form 2760,
      Qualification to Possess Firearms and Ammunition, upon request of the customer.
      9.2.2. Instruct the customer to complete the documents and have both signed by their
      unit commander or first sergeant. Ensure the signature block of whoever signed the form
      is also written in.
      9.2.3. The customer will make 3 copies of the AF Form 1314 and DD Form 2760. The
      original copies will remain on file with the individual’s unit. One copy will remain on
INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                           15


      file with American Pass and Registration. One copy will remain with the owner. One
      copy will remain with the weapon.
      9.2.4. Unusually dangerous weapons—including but not limited to switchblade knives,
      daggers, sword canes, bayonets, grooved knives, blackjacks, billies, brass knuckles, or
      chemical dispensers are not authorized in Turkey unless required in the performance of
      official duties. Anyone possessing these items must register them and receive written
      permission from their unit commander for storage.
10. Handicapped Parking.
   10.1. Personnel must have a letter requesting handicapped parking privileges from their
   medical provider. The letter must specify the effective dates handicapped parking is needed.
   American Pass and Registration will issue a handicapped parking decal.




                                           ANTHONY C. BUTTS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 39th Air Base Wing
 16                                               INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 08 October 2009
AFI 36-3026V1_IP, Identification Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Eligible
Family Members and Other Eligible Personnel, 20 December 2002
USAFEI 51-707, Regulations on Personal Property, Local Currency, and Motor Vehicles for US
Personnel in Turkey, 11 March 2004
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 07 July 2007
DoD 5400.7-R, Freedom of Information Act, 04 September 1998
NATO Status of Forces Agreement
Republic of Turkey Minister of Interior Central Security Management Law of 5683
Turkish Motor Vehicle Law
Prescribed Forms
USAFE Base Form 91, Scooter/Bike Registration, 1 September 2009
USAFE Base Form 92, Military/Civilian Registration and Certification of Title of Motor Vehicle,
1 September 2009
USAFE Base Form 99, Vehicle De-registration Form, 1 September 2009
USAFE Base Form 100, Residency Permit Application, 1 September 2009
USAFE Base Form 102, Third Country National Base Entry Request, 1 September 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 310, Document Receipt and Destruction Certificate, 1 November 1995
AF Form 335, Issuance Record—Accountability Identification Card, 1 April 1989
AF Form 533, Certificate of Compliance Vehicle Registration, 1 December 1984
DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record-Authorized Signature
AF Form 899, Request and Authorization for Permanent Change of Station-Military, 7 August
2006
AF Form 973, Request and Authorization for Change of Administrative Orders, 1 October 1983
AF Form 1168, Statement of Suspect/Witness/Complainant, 1 April 1998
AF Form 1314, Weapons Registrations Card, 19 October 2005
DD Form 1617, Transportation Agreement
INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012                                                        17


AF Form 1631, NATO Travel Orders/Orde de mission otan, 1 August 1986
AF Form 1934, Geneva Conventions Identity Card for Medical and Religious Personnel who
Serve in or Accompany the Armed Forces, 1 July 1977
AF Form 2586, Unescorted Entry Authorization Certificate, 1 October 1998
DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms and Ammunition
USAFE Form 181, Vehicle Operator’s Permit for Turkey, 16 May 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 ABW—39th Air Base Wing
39 FSS/FSMPS—39th Force Support Squadron, Military Personnel Section
39 MDG—39th Medical Group
39 MSG—39th Mission Support Group
39 MXS—39th Maintenance Squadron
AB—Air Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AIO—Alternate Issuing Official
ANG—Air National Guard
CAC—Common Access Card
DECA—Defense and Economic Cooperation Agreement
DEROS—Date Expected to Return from Overseas
DFC—Defense Force Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDDs—Department of Defense Defender schools
EUCOM—European Command
IAW—In Accordance With
ID—Identification
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer In Charge
NEO—Noncombatant Evacuation Operation
ODC—Office of Defense Corporation
 18                                        INCIRLIKABI31-106 9 FEBRUARY 2012


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PDO—Publication Distribution Office
PIO—Primary Issuing Official
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
POW—Privately Owned Weapon
PRP—Personnel Reliability Program
RAB—Restricted Area Badge
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPM—Residency Permit Program Manager
SFMIS—Security Forces Management Information System
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
TCN—Third Country National
TL—Turkish Lira
TGS—Turkish General Staff
TMO—Traffic Management Office
USM—Unit Security Manager
VIN—Vehicle Identification Number
VBR—Vinnell-Brown and Root
vMPF—Virtual Military Personnel Flight
