BY ORDER OF THE                                 INCIRLIK AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 44-101
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER
(USAFE)                                                                          25 JULY 2012

                                                                                       Medical

                                                    CONTROL OF ANIMALS ON INCIRLIK
                                                                          AIR BASE




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 39 MDG/SGV                                                       Certified by: 39 MDG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Jay S. Cloutier)
                                                                                       Pages: 17
Supersedes:   INCIRLIKABI44-101,
              30 March 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Joint Instruction (AFJI) 48-131, Veterinary Health
Services and provides guidance for the control of animals on Incirlik Air Base (AB) in order to
protect the health and safety of personnel and animals. This instruction applies to all 39th Air
Base Wing (39 ABW) personnel (including Active Duty, Guard and Reserve members and
Dependents) assigned or attached to Incirlik Air Base, Turkey. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the 39th Medical Group Veterinary Clinic using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect changes in guidance and procedures dealing with the
control of animals on Incirlik Air Base. The major changes include clarification on roles of CE,
SF, VBR and Veterinary Clinic in regard to stray animals including capture of potentially
dangerous animals. Rabies vaccine are given annually due to the higher prevalence of rabies in
 2                                                          INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012


Turkey and Permanent Change of Station requirements. It is a violation to tamper with stray
animal traps. Geographically Seperated Units will follow Publication as resources and personnel
allow.
1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. 39th Air Base Wing Commander (39 ABW/CC):
        1.1.1. Provides for control of animals on the installation.
        1.1.2. Ensures the welfare of animals on the installation.
        1.1.3. Provides an adequate number of kennels to meet local needs for quarantine and
        observation of suspected rabid animals.
     1.2. 39th Civil Engineer Squadron Commander:
        1.2.1. Coordinates with the installation veterinarian in the planning, construction or
        renovation of any installation animal facility.
        1.2.2. Provides for control of pests on the installation.
        1.2.3. The 39th Civil Engineer Squadron Service Desk (DSN: 676-6356/6357/6126/
        7008) should be called to respond to any stray or wild animal concerns.
        1.2.4. If the 39th Civil Engineer Squadron (39 CES) encounters a dangerous animal that
        has, or is assumed to have, attacked individual(s), they will call the 39th Security Forces
        Squadron (39 SFS). If the animal can be successfully captured, 39 CES will take control
        of the animal.
        1.2.5. Disposes of dead stray animals on the installation upon notification by 39
        MDG/SGV.
        1.2.6. Develops and monitors contract with Vinnell-Brown and Root for trapping of stray
        or non-restrained animals.
        1.2.7. Develops and monitors contract compliance for the stray animal facility and
        relocation of stray animals. Trapping, holding and relocation of stray animals must be
        conducted under conditions that are safe, sanitary and humane.
     1.3. 39th Security Forces Squadron Commander:
        1.3.1. If CES encounters a dangerous animal, 39 SFS will be called. All capture options
        will be exhausted in attempt to protect both animal and human life. Lethal force will be
        the last resort but used if needed to protect the base population.
        1.3.2. Investigates pet violations and issues an Incirlik AB “Notice of Pet Violation”
        letter (Attachment 2) when warranted.
        1.3.3. Coordinates actions concerning pet violations, animal abuse or dangerous
        animal(s) responses with the 39th Medical Group Veterinary Clinic.
        1.3.4. Receives 39th Medical Group Veterinary Clinic assistance during pet violations,
        pet abuse, harmful incidents (bites), or neglected animal investigations. Complete AF
        Form 3545, Incident Report, and forward supporting documents, pictures if taken and the
        complete AF Form 3545 to the commander of the individual involved or appropriate
        authority, the 39 ABW/CC and 39 MDG/SGV. Documents will be forwarded to 39
INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012                                                               3


     ABW/JA to permit legal advice to CC on potential adverse actions and liability of
     member.
  1.4. 39th Medical Group Commander (39 MDG/CC):
     1.4.1. Provides for referral of animals to 39 MDG/SGV when personnel in contact with
     those animals have been diagnosed as infected with a zoonotic disease.
     1.4.2. Provides pre-exposure rabies prophylaxis to occupationally at risk personnel.
     1.4.3. Provides for treatment of injuries caused by animals, including post-exposure
     rabies prophylaxis, as necessary. A Rabies Advisory Committee (RAC) will be
     appointed, in accordance with applicable instructions, to establish a protocol for
     treatment. The protocol will include the initiation of a DD Form 2341, Report of Animal
     Bite – Potential Rabies Exposure; notification of 39 MDG/SGV, 39 SFS and the 39th
     Medical Group Public Health Officer; and convening of a Rabies Advisory Board (RAB)
     to discuss initiation of post-exposure rabies prophylactic measures.
  1.5. 39th Medical Group Public Health Officer:
     1.5.1. Oversees administrative management of all injuries caused by animals with any
     possibility of patient exposure to the rabies virus.
     1.5.2. Coordinates with 39 MDG/SGV concerning examination and quarantine of
     animals causing injuries to personnel.
  1.6. 39th Medical Group Veterinary Clinic:
     1.6.1. Advises 39 ABW/CC and 39 MDG/CC on all veterinary matters.
     1.6.2. Registers and implants a readable microchip in all owned animals that are
     maintained on the installation.
     1.6.3. Provides veterinary health care on the installation.
        1.6.3.1. Full care will be provided to government owned animals.
        1.6.3.2. Privately owned animals will receive, at a minimum, care for zoonotic
        disease conditions, including provision of rabies vaccinations and other vaccinations
        deemed necessary by 39 MDG/SGV. Other care will be provided as the mission
        permits.
        1.6.3.3. When an animal is found to be infected with a zoonotic disease, personnel in
        contact with the animal will be referred to the 39th Medical Group.
        1.6.3.4. Animal health care will be provided at 39 MDG/SGV only, unless 39
        MDG/SGV is unavailable or deems it appropriate to provide care at another location.
        Persons responsible for the welfare of the animal are also responsible for transporting
        the animal to the clinic and restraining it during treatment.
     1.6.4. Trains personnel responsible for government animals in restraint and management
     techniques.
     1.6.5. Reviews, coordinates and approves plans for the construction or renovation of
     installation animal facilities.
4                                                         INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012


       1.6.6. Performs quarterly inspections of installation animal facilities to evaluate
       construction, maintenance, sanitation and animal husbandry practices. Inspection reports
       will be furnished to the facility commanders, to the 39 MDG/CC and the 39 ABW/CC as
       needed.
       1.6.7. Assists in the investigation of animal abuse cases. Abused animals may be
       impounded or euthanized if the veterinarian deems such action is necessary to relieve the
       animal’s suffering.
       1.6.8. Institutes and supervises animal quarantines necessary to protect the health and
       safety of personnel and animals on the installation.
       1.6.9. Undertakes those actions necessary to provide adequate laboratory specimens to
       appropriate laboratories for the determination of the presence of a zoonotic disease in an
       animal suspected of having exposed personnel on the installation. If the veterinarian
       determines it necessary, these actions will be undertaken regardless of the owner's
       desires, as in the case of rabies exposure potential.
       1.6.10. Ensures registered owners read and sign Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF)
       policy letter informing owners of IABI 44-101.
    1.7. 39th ABW Public Affairs
       1.7.1. Communicate animal control messages to Incirlik Air Base as necessary.
    1.7.2. Publicize good practices for prevention of animal bites, zoonotic diseases and other
    information to protect the human and animal population.
    1.7.3. Liase with Amercian Forces Network detachment as appropriate to ensure broad
    dissemination of information.
    1.8. Animal Owners or Their Designated Representatives.
       1.8.1. Comply with all provisions of this instruction and with all host nation
       requirements. This pertains to all animal owners living on the installation or in the local
       community.
       1.8.2. Register and deregister their animals with the veterinary clinic as required.
       1.8.3. Have all dogs and cats implanted with the AVID (US version) or HomeAgain
       microchip. Owners must ensure that the microchips are US-scanner readable. Animals
       chipped with an unreadable chip must be re-chipped.
       1.8.4. Prevent the animal from becoming abused, a nuisance or a menace. Missing
       animals should be reported immediately to 39 MDG/SGV. It is the responsibility of the
       owner to make all efforts to locate the missing pet.
       1.8.5. Ensure all animals receive the necessary veterinary care to prevent them from
       acquiring and transmitting diseases of zoonotic (transmissible from animal to human)
       concern. This includes keeping rabies vaccinations current. Rabies vaccines will be
       given annually due to the high prevalence of rabies in Turkey. Additionally, PCS
       requirements are strict from Turkey to Europe and island nations such as Hawaii, Guam
       and Japan. A current rabies vaccine is an essential step in the PCS process. This would
       also include ensuring the animals receive proper and adequate treatment for zoonotic
INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012                                                                 5


     diseases of public health concern such as sarcoptic mange, ring worm and intestinal
     parasites.
     1.8.6. Pay all costs associated with maintaining and transporting an animal. Dogs and
     cats will be vaccinated against rabies at the owner's expense. If an animal is impounded
     as a stray, menace or abused animal, the owner is responsible for impounding costs, any
     accrued fines, any necessary medical treatments, any damage caused, etc. Personnel
     contemplating acquiring an animal must be prepared to assume the financial obligations
     associated with animal ownership.
  1.9. All Personnel.
     1.9.1. Notify 39 SFS and the individual's commander of any violations of the provisions
     of this instruction.
     1.9.2. Immediately call the Medical Treatment Facility at 676-6666 to be assessed for
     any animal-caused injury. The risk of exposure to rabies will be assessed, and post-
     exposure prophylaxis started, if necessary.
  1.10. Pet Sitters.
     1.10.1. Will comply with all provisions of this instruction and with all host nation
     requirements.
     1.10.2. Verify that all animals have proof of current vaccinations (this also applies to the
     sitter’s own pets), and have a current consent for treatment, signed by the owner, on hand
     or in the animal's records.
     1.10.3. Sitters will have no more than five pets in the home at one time (to include the
     sitter’s own pets). Cat-only sitters will have no more than five cats at one time. Dog-
     only sitters will have no more than three dogs at one time. Note: Sitters cannot exceed
     the housing maximum of 3 pets for 30-day increments without a waiver from the 39
     ABW/CC.
     1.10.4. Clean up all animal waste immediately.         Clean/sanitize   per Public Health
     recommendations.
     1.10.5. Agree to unannounced sanitary inspections by Public Health and/or Veterinary
     Services.
     1.10.6. Non-compliance to these requirements will result in the pet sitter being deleted
     from the pet sitters list for six months.
     1.10.7. All sitters must register with 39 MDG/SGV and maintain current contact
     information.
  1.11. Stray Animal Facility Manager.
     1.11.1. The stray animal facility manager will scan all animals for the presence of a
     microchip. If a microchip is detected, the manager will contact the 39 MDG/SGV so that
     the owner can be identified and notified. Owned animals will be kept at the veterinary
     office. If the 39 MDG/SGV or associated personnel are unreachable, the stray animal
     will be kept at the stray animal facility.
 6                                                        INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012


        1.11.2. If no microchip is detected, the animal shall be kept at the stray facility for a
        minimum of three business days in order to allow an owner to claim the pet. At the end
        of the three-day period, the animal may be adopted or treated as a stray.
        1.11.3. If the owner of a microchipped animal cannot be identified, or it is determined by
        the command that the animal cannot be returned to the owner, the animal shall be treated
        as a stray.
        1.11.4. The facility manager will ensure that all animals are kept in a clean environment
        under humane conditions.
        1.11.5. The facility manager will comply with the guidelines and specifications of the
        Incirlik Stray Animal Control contract.
        1.11.6. The facility manager will ensure that no animals caught outside of the installation
        are housed at the stray animal facility.
     1.12. Vinnell-Brown and Root (VBR).
        1.12.1. Responsible for the actual trapping of all stray and unrestrained animals.
        1.12.2. Shall comply with the guidelines for trapping as described in section 2.2.
        1.12.3. Prior to taking captured animals to the stray facility, VBR will scan the animals
        for a microchip. Any animal with a microchip shall be taken to the base veterinary clinic
        for holding and owner notification. Any stray animal which has bitten or scratched a
        human shall also be taken to the base veterinarian for a rabies examination. All other
        animals shall be taken to the stray animal facility.
     1.13. Geographically Separated Units (GSU)
     1.13.1. GSUs, such as 425th Air Base Squadron, will follow IAB 44-101 as resources and
     personnel allow. Exceptions to the Publication are at the Commander’s discretion in
     consultation with Incirlik AB personnel.
        1.13.2. All suspected rabies exposures will be treated at Medical Aid Stations and
        receive advice from the Rabies Advisory Committee.
     1.13.3. All veterinary medical care provisions will be met by owners but completed on the
     economy due to lack of veterinary personnel stationed in Izmir.
     1.13.4. Animal control is the purview of the local city government.
2. General Provisions:
     2.1. Registration of Animals:
        2.1.1. Only three household pets may be maintained per family unless a request through
        the installation Veterinarian to the installation commander has been approved. Fish are
        exempt from this requirement, as are litters of animals under three months of age.
        2.1.2. The breeding or raising of animals for commercial purposes is prohibited on any
        part of the installation. Two intact animals of the opposite sex residing in the same
        household shall be considered a commercial purpose/breeding operation regardless if
        offspring have been produced. It is further prohibited to sell any animal(s) for profit
        without written approval through the 39 MDG/SGV to the 39 ABW/CC.
INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012                                                                 7


     2.1.3. Pets, except for fish, will not be maintained in the dormitories.
     2.1.4. Permissible pets on the 39 ABW are fish, cats, and dogs. All other domesticated
     animals must be approved at the discretion of the installation veterinarian.
        2.1.4.1. Livestock and exotic animals may not be kept as pets unless a request
        through the veterinarian to the 39 ABW/CC has been approved. Owners should
        contact 39 MDG/SGV if in doubt as to the need to request permission to keep an
        animal as a pet.
     2.1.5. Kittens and puppies will be vaccinated against rabies at three months of age. They
     will be revaccinated at one year of age and vaccinated according to an annual or three-
     year schedule thereafter. Due to the high prevalence of rabies in Turkey, the rabies
     vaccine will be boostered annually as long as the owner and pet reside in Turkey.
        2.1.5.1. All mammalian animals must be registered with the veterinary clinic within
        10 days of arrival on the installation or change of ownership. If current proof of
        rabies vaccination is not available, dogs and cats will be revaccinated. If the animal
        has been vaccinated with a product that is not recognized by the Centers for Disease
        Control’s Compendium of Rabies Prevention and Control list, then the animal will be
        deemed as not vaccinated and will be revaccinated.
        2.1.5.2. Upon registration, rabies certificates and tags will be issued for dogs and cats
        that must be worn whenever the animal(s) are outdoors.
        2.1.5.3. The microchip identification (ID) will also be implanted unless the animal
        already possesses a US-scanner readable microchip. Note: The animal’s chip must
        be readable by the Veterinary Service’s scanner.
        2.1.5.4. Fish do not need to be registered. Owners should contact the 39 MDG/SGV
        if in doubt as to the necessity of registering their animals.
     2.1.6. Transient pets require a health certificate no more than 10 days old at the time of
     arrival and a rabies vaccination that is older than 30 days and within the past 12 months.
     All pets are the legal responsibility of the host until the owner registers the animal.
     Registration must be accomplished if the animal remains more than one week. For
     Permanent Change of Station (PCS) personnel registration must be accomplished within
     10 days of arrival on the installation.
     2.1.7. Registered owners are responsible for responding to any abuse, menace or
     nuisance complaints concerning their animals, even if the animals have escaped or were
     abandoned, unless the animals have been deregistered. Deregistration will be
     accomplished during a PCS move after a health certificate is issued by presenting proof
     of sale or donation of the animal (e.g., a receipt signed by the new owner), presenting
     animal for euthanasia or presenting a written statement declaring the status of the animal
     (e.g., died, ran away, etc).
     2.1.8. In cases of change in ownership, it is the responsibility of the registered owner to
     ensure deregistration occurs. A change in registration will not occur without written
     approval by the current registered owner, or other arrangements made by the veterinarian.
8                                                         INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012


    2.2. Control of Animals.
       2.2.1. Animals will not be allowed to run at large on Incirlik Air Base.
       2.2.2. When outside a residence, an animal must be physically restrained by the owner.
       Animals will not be outside unattended for any period of time, nor will they be left
       outside of unoccupied houses. At no time will they be tied or chained outside and left
       unattended. All dogs and cats must wear current rabies tags whenever they are outdoors.
       2.2.3. Animals will not be allowed in areas where food is present, in housing where
       furnishings are government-owned, in recreational areas (such as ball fields), in offices,
       in schools, in medical facilities other than the veterinary clinic or in any other public
       facilities. One exeception is the use of loaner furniture in accompanied housing when in
       the process of moving in or PCSing. Owners may be responsible for any damage to
       loaner furniture caused by pets. They are also prohibited from being in the common use
       areas of multiple-family dwellings (hallways, stairways, balconies, etc.), unless they are
       physically restrained by a capable person. Military Working Dogs and guide dogs for the
       blind are exceptions to the requirement when they are on duty. Other exceptions, both of
       animals and prohibited areas, will be determined by the 39 ABW/CC.
       2.2.4. Animals will not be abandoned when the owner changes station. If a new owner is
       not found and euthanasia is not an acceptable alternative, the owner is responsible for
       shipping the animal at the owner’s expense to his or her new station and obtaining and
       complying with all instructions involved in the process. This decision should not be
       delayed, since proper coordination of shipping an animal requires at least 60 days to
       accomplish.
    2.3. Non-Pet Animals.
       2.3.1. The veterinarian must be notified at least 30 days in advance (unless special
       arrangements are made) of any non-pet animals being imported onto the installation.
       Transient animals will require a health certificate no more than 10 days old at the time of
       arrival but will not be quarantined. Incoming animals that will be maintained on the
       installation require a health certificate no more than 10 days old at the time of arrival and
       a quarantine of two to four weeks, as determined by the veterinarian. These animals will
       not be imported until the importing organization is prepared to receive them, i.e., can
       provide adequate food, shelter, supervision, etc. All requirements imposed by the
       veterinarian must be met before the animal is brought onto the installation.
       2.3.2. Horses maintained on the installation will be subject to a preventive medicine
       protocol of vaccinations (including rabies) and deworming, as determined by the
       veterinarian. Incoming horses must have health certificate no more than ten days old at
       the time of arrival and will be quarantined for a minimum of two weeks. Horse owners
       will comply with all applicable provisions of this instruction.
       2.3.3. Mascots must be designated by an appointment letter signed by the unit
       commanders (the commander must be an O-5, or civilian equivalent, or higher). These
       appointment letters must designate a person responsible for the animal's welfare and be
       updated annually or whenever the responsible individual changes. A copy of the letter
       must be given to the veterinary office. Designation of more than one mascot per unit or
       of an animal other than a dog or cat as a mascot requires that a written request be
INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012                                                                 9


     submitted through the veterinarian to the 39 ABW/CC. Mascots are subject to all
     requirements of this instruction. While the unit commander may designate another
     individual to be immediately responsible for the animal's welfare, the commander is
     ultimately responsible for ensuring compliance with the requirements of this instruction.
  2.4. Stray Animals.
     2.4.1. Stray animals on the installation will be captured by VBR. If the owners of strays
     can be identified, the veterinarian will notify them as soon as possible. Impoundment
     will be for a minimum of three duty days (72 hours), to allow time for the animal to be
     claimed by its owner.
     2.4.2. If an animal deemed a stray becomes ill or injured during capture, 39 CES will
     notify the veterinarian, who will provide the required medical care for the animal. If the
     animal is microchipped and the owner is identified, care will be provided by 39
     MDG/SGV and any care will be at the owner’s expense.
     2.4.3. At the end of the three-day impoundment period, unclaimed animals may be
     placed in an off-base animal shelter, relocated to another location off-base or placed for
     adoption. Once taken off-base or relocated, the animal is no longer the responsibility of
     the stray animal facility and will not be brought back.
     2.4.4. Feeding of stray animals on Incirlik Air Base is strictly prohibited and punishable
     under the UCMJ for active duty and civilians alike when it poses a threat to the people
     who live and work at Incirlik.
     2.4.5. It is a violation to tamper with traps set by CE Pest Management. This includes
     attempting to release captured animals. Violators, military or civilian, will be subject to
     punishment under the UCMJ.
  2.5. Complaints Concerning Animals:
     2.5.1. Complaints concerning stray animals should be directed to the 39 CES Service
     Call Desk at DSN 676-6356/6357/6126/7008. Complaints may concern abused animals,
     menace animals, nuisance animals (including strays) and animals that have injured
     personnel or are acting strangely. If 39 CES encounters a wild or dangerous animal, or a
     complaint regarding animal abuse, or a nuisance animal, they will notify 39 SFS to
     respond to determine what actions are necessary.
     2.5.2. Owners are responsible for providing pets adequate shelter, food, water, health
     care, sanitation, exercise, protection from injury, etc. Animals will not be left unattended
     for periods longer than twenty-four hours. They will not be left unattended in an
     unventilated enclosure (such as a vehicle, even with the windows left open) if the
     temperature in the enclosure is 90 degrees or more. They must be treated in a humane
     manner at all times. Persons knowledgeable of a violation of this provision are required
     to report such to Security Forces, who will investigate the matter, issue a “Notice of Pet
     Violation” letter (Attachment 2) and notify the veterinarian if necessary. Abused
     animals may be impounded or euthanized if the veterinarian deems such action necessary
     to relieve the animal's suffering. Owners will pay the same fees and charges as if the
     animal has been impounded as a stray.
10                                                       INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012


     2.5.3. Owners are also responsible for keeping their pets from being a nuisance. If an
     animal is labeled as a nuisance, base animal impoundment procedures will be followed.
     Complaints about animal waste disposal are considered nuisance complaints. Animal
     waste must be disposed of by flushing down the toilet or placement in a covered
     container. Wastes deposited outside must be cleaned up immediately by the person
     responsible for the animal.
     2.5.4. When an animal is involved in a single biting incident or three violations of this
     instruction (as a stray, menace, nuisance or any combination of these offenses), 39
     MDG/SGV will notify the owner’s unit commander and other personnel deemed
     necessary so that action can be initiated which might require removal of the animal from
     the installation and discipline of the owner.
     2.5.5. If an owner is directed to remove the animal from the installation, the owner may
     appeal the decision within one week of notification by addressing a letter through the
     veterinarian and     39 SFS/CC to the 39 ABW/CC, explaining the measures that will be
     taken to prevent further violations.
  2.6. Pet Violations.
     2.6.1. 39 SFS will enforce applicable pet control regulations and accomplish a pet
     violation letter in triplicate (Attachment 2). The original is given to the violator. One
     copy will be given to 39th Security Forces Squadron S5R who will in turn provide a
     photo copy to the veterinary clinic. The third copy will be forwarded to the violator's
     commander or first sergeant. The following are violations for which a pet violation letter
     will be issued:
         2.6.1.1. Pet found uncontrolled (running loose).
         2.6.1.2. Pet created a sanitary hazard (defecation in common areas, waste not picked
         up).
         2.6.1.3. Pet was excessively noisy (barking, baying or crying for more than 10
         minutes).
         2.6.1.4. Pet displayed an uncontrolled or aggressive temperament (such as an attempt
         to bite or bother people or other animals passing the residence on a sidewalk or
         through adjoining property).
         2.6.1.5. Pet damaged personal or government property.
         2.6.1.6. Pet injured an individual or another pet.
         2.6.1.7. Pet that is not vaccinated and/or registered.
         2.6.1.8. Pet was treated inhumanely as determined by 39 MDG/SGV and/or
         regulation (leaving pet unattended in the yard or leaving pet unattended in a motor
         vehicle on an excessively hot or cold day).
  2.7. Animal-Caused Injuries Involving Humans:
     2.7.1. Persons injured by an animal must report to the Medical Treatment Facility for
     treatment and assessment of the risk of exposure to rabies. If the animal cannot be found,
INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012                                                              11


     rabies prophylaxis will be required. It is the responsibility of the patients or their
     sponsors to assist 39 SFS in finding the offending animal.
     2.7.2. Medical facility personnel will initiate a DD Form 2341 and notify the
     veterinarian, 39 SFS, and the Public Health Officer of the incident.
     2.7.3. 39 CES is responsible for ensuring that captured stray animals are presented to the
     veterinarian for quarantine procedures. If necessary, the installation veterinarian will
     confine and care for animals, owned and ownerless, during the quarantine period.
     2.7.4. The 39 MDG/SGV will initiate and supervise the quarantine of the animal. The
     10-day quarantine for rabies observation applies only to healthy, vaccinated dogs, cats
     and ferrets. Animals of other species will be euthanized at the discretion of the
     veterinarian, and adequate specimens will be submitted to an appropriate laboratory for
     determination of the presence of the rabies virus.
     2.7.5. The Public Health Officer will supervise the management of all animal-caused
     injuries to humans.
  2.8. Animal-Caused Deaths of Privately Owned Animals (POA):
     2.8.1. 39 MDG/SGV will:
        2.8.1.1. Notify the 39th Force Support Squadron Commander (39 FSS/CC), 39th
        Security Forces Squadron Commander (39 SFS/CC) and 39th Mission Support Group
        Commander         (39 MSG/CC) of incidents where a POA is severely injured or dies
        from injuries caused by another POA.
        2.8.1.2. Examine the attacking POA to determine aggressiveness toward humans.
        2.8.1.3. Prepare a recommendation for the 39 MSG/CC through the 39 FSS/CC
        regarding the control and safe-keeping of the offending POA and/or removal from the
        installation.
     2.8.2. The 39 SFS/CC will ensure that an investigation into the incident is conducted and
     a report of findings is completed.
     2.8.3. The 39 MSG/CC will determine the final disposition and/or control measures for
     the offending POA.
  2.9. Quarantine of Animals:
     2.9.1. The veterinarian has the authority to quarantine any animal on the installation,
     should it be deemed necessary, and to determine the place of quarantine. Only the
     veterinarian may release an animal from such an imposed quarantine. Quarantines may
     be imposed for rabies observation, for observation of other possibly contagious
     conditions, for observation of newly arrived animals or any reason deemed necessary by
     the veterinarian. Quarantine costs will be borne by the owner. Quarantined animals must
     be given an adequate quantity of quality food and clean water daily, and the quarantine
     area must be cleaned at least once each day. The veterinarian will provide required care,
     including humane euthanasia, if such action is determined necessary to prevent undue
     suffering of the animal, or to obtain required specimens for laboratory testing to
     determine the presence of a zoonotic disease.
12                                                     INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012


     2.9.2. Quarantine for rabies observation will be for a period of 10 days for healthy,
     vaccinated dogs, cats, and ferrets, and may take place by impoundment or by home
     quarantine, as determined by the veterinarian. Home quarantine requires the following
     conditions be met:
        2.9.2.1. The animal is healthy, as determined by the veterinarian.
        2.9.2.2. The animal has been vaccinated against rabies within the last 12 months.
        2.9.2.3. The owner agrees, in writing, to confine the animal indoors, to prevent any
        contact with personnel and other animals not a part of the immediate household, to
        notify the veterinarian of any change in the animal's condition, and to return the
        animal to the veterinarian to be released from quarantine.
        2.9.2.4. The veterinarian agrees to the application of the home quarantine.
        2.9.2.5. A properly completed DD Form 2623, Animal Home Quarantine, which is
        signed by both the owner and veterinarian.
        2.9.2.6. If the owner or designated representative cannot or will not comply with all
        of the above conditions, the animal will be confined elsewhere. The owner will pay
        all costs incurred.
     2.9.3. Animals on the installation are subject to examination for zoonotic diseases at any
     time by the veterinarian. Animals diagnosed as being infected with a zoonotic disease
     are subject to mandatory treatment at the owner's expense. Animals exposed to or
     diagnosed as infected with zoonotic diseases are subject to quarantine, euthanasia or
     removal from base as deemed necessary by the veterinarian.
     2.9.4. Animals being brought onto the installation are also subject to quarantine as
     determined by the veterinarian. Normally, such a quarantine is not imposed on incoming
     pets or transient animals. Other incoming animals will be quarantined for two to four
     weeks, as determined necessary by the veterinarian.
  2.10. Dead Animals:
     2.10.1. Dead animals, owned or ownerless, will be reported to the veterinarian. If the
     veterinarian wishes to examine the body, the owner, or the 39 CES will deliver it to the
     veterinary clinic. All dead animals should be taken to the veterinarian since registered
     animals will have a microchip and can be identified.
     2.10.2. If the owner of a dead animal can be identified, the veterinarian will attempt to
     notify the owner of the animal's death. If the veterinarian does not wish to examine the
     body and the owner does not claim it, the 39 CES will contact 39 MDG/SGV for
     disposal.
     2.10.3. If the owner wishes to dispose of the body, the body may be released to the
     veterinarian. However, the owner may not dispose of the body on the installation to
     include his/her yards. Disposal outside of the installation must be in accordance with
     host nation requirements.
INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012                                                                13


  2.11. Non-Profit Animal Organizations:
     2.11.1. All non-profit organizations must be registered with 39MDG/SGV and comply
     with any existing base regulations.
     2.11.2. The installation stray animal facility (ISAF) will not be used as a half-way house.
     No animals will be brought from off-base shelters to be housed or cared for in the ISAF.
     2.11.3. All animals being considered for adoption must be examined by 39 MDG/SGV
     prior to being adopted. Veterinary Services will examine overall health, temperament
     and vaccination history. At this time treatment and/or vaccinations will be administered
     as needed. All dogs must test negative for Ehrlichia or start treatment. (Ehrlichia is
     endemic in this area and is a zoonotic disease). All cost will be paid by the organization
     or the individual bringing the animal(s) into the clinic. If 39 MDG/SGV deems the
     animal unfit for adoption that animal will not be adopted and must be either removed
     from the installation or euthanized.
     2.11.4. All animals fostered on the installation must be registered to the foster family and
     will be considered the family’s privately-owned animal. Once a family is found to adopt
     the animal it is the responsibility of the foster family to ensure registration is properly
     changed over to the new owner. Foster familys are responsible for maintaining
     compliance with all requirements of this instruction, just as a regular pet owner are.
     These responsibilities include, but are not limited to, standards for microchips,
     vaccinations and the number of pets allowed per household.
     2.11.5. All animals adopted must be registered within 10 days of adoption. It is the
     responsibility of the non-profit organization to inform the new owners of the policy.
     2.11.6. Adoption days or any functions involving animals will be subject to inspection
     by Veterinary Services and/ or Public Health. If for any reason the event is found to be
     unsafe or unsanitary for either man or animal the event will be terminated.




                                           CHRISTOPHER E. CRAIGE, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 14                                                    INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-1053, Integrated Pest Management Program, 23 June 2009
AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health
or Military Significance, 01 March 2005
AFJI 48-104, Quarantine Regulations of the Armed Forces, 24 January 1992
AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3545, Incident Report
DD Form 2341, Animal Bite – Report of Potential Rabies Exposure
DD Form 2622, Animal Release
DD Form 2623, Animal Home Quarantine

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 ABW—39th Air Base Wing
39 ABW/CC—39th Air Base Wing Commander
39 ABW/JA—39th Air Base Wing Judge Advocate
39 CES—39th Civil Engineer Squadron
39 FSS/CC—39th Force Support Squadron Commander
39 MDG/SGV—39th Medical Group Veterinary Clinic
39 MSG/CC—39th Mission Support Group Commander
39 SFS—39th Security Forces Squadron
39 SFS/CC—39th Security Forces Squadron Commander
AB—Air Base
AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ID—Identification
INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012                                                                 15


ISAF—Installation Stray Animal Facility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RAB—Rabies Advisory Board
RAC—Rabies Advisory Committee
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
VBR—Vinnel-Brown and Root
VTF—Veterinary Treatment Facility

Terms
Animal— Any living organism other than a plant. The requirement for care and physical
restraint of all animals includes dogs, cats, horses, birds, etc.
Aviary Bird— A bird commonly kept as a pet, such as a canary, parakeet, or parrot. This item
specifically excludes such birds as chickens, hawks, owls, etc., which are classified as livestock
or exotic animals.
Control— Application of restraint sufficient to prevent an animal from becoming injured or
from causing damage to property or injury to personnel or other animals.
Exotic Animal— An animal of a type not usually kept as a pet, such as monkeys, snakes, turtles,
ferrets, or hawks.
Impoundment— Confinement in a designated installation facility to ensure maintenance of
absolute control.
Livestock— Animals usually kept on a farm for profit, such as cattle, pigs, or chickens.
Mammal (mammalian animal)— Animals with hair or fur, as opposed to scales or feathers.
For the purpose of this instruction, small animals (such as hamsters, gerbils, rabbits, and guinea
pigs will be considered as pets, rather than as exotic animals).
Mascot— An animal designated by official orders as belonging to a military unit.
Menace— An animal which threatens to cause or actually causes harm to personnel or other
animals.
Microchip ID— A tiny computer chip which has a identification number programmed into it.
The chip is injected under the skin of the animal where it safely stays for life. The number is
identified by use of a microchip “scanner."
Nuisance— An animal that causes property damage or constitutes an annoyance by actions such
as digging in lawns, prolonged barking, raiding garbage cans, etc.
Pest— An insect, bird, undomesticated animal, etc., capable of spreading disease to man.
Pet— A domesticated animal maintained in the home for the enjoyment of an individual or
family.
POA— Privately Owned Animal.
 16                                                    INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012


Quarantine— Isolated detention for veterinary observation of an animal suspected of being
diseased.
Stray— Any domesticated animal, owned or ownerless, running at large on the installation.
Transient Animal— An animal brought onto the installation for a period of 1 week or less.
Veterinarian— The assigned Military Veterinarian or official designated by the Military
Veterinarian.
Zoonosis (Zoonotic Disease)— A disease condition common to man and other animals.
INCIRLIKABI44-101 25 JULY 2012                      17


                                 Attachment 2
                   NOTICE OF PET VIOLATION LETTER
