BY ORDER OF THE                                                       INCIRLIK AIR BASE
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER                                        INSTRUCTION 36-2901
(USAFE)
                                                                              16 APRIL 2013

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                       INCIRLIK AIR BASE COMMUNITY
                                                                          STANDARDS



            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               AF e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 39 FSS/FSMPS                                                    Certified by: 39 FSS/CC
                                                              (Lt Col Bernadette P. Bowman)
                                                                                      Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2903, Dress and Personal
Appearance of Air Force Personnel, Incirlik Air Base Instruction (IABI) 31-407, Base Curfew
and Supervision Guidelines and Incirlik Air Base Supplement Instruction (IABS_I) 40-301,
Family Advocacy. This instruction applies to all 39th Air Base Wing (39 ABW) personnel,
385th Aerospace Expeditionary Group (385 AEG) personnel and transient travelers. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. Wing Mission, Commander’s Intent.
   1.1. The mission of the 39 ABW is to support and protect U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty
   Organization (NATO) assets and people throughout Turkey while providing a full spectrum
   of capabilities to the warfighter.
   1.2. Commanders will ensure all newly assigned members to their units review the
   Community Standards within five days of their arrival. Failure to observe the prohibitions
   and mandatory provisions of this instruction is a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of
   Military Justice (UCMJ). IAW paragraphs 2.1 and 2.2. of this instruction, violations noted
   by commanders and supervisors may result in disciplinary action. Where appropriate, this
 2                                                     INCIRLIKABI36-2901 16 APRIL 2013


     instruction makes reference to other instructions where more detailed standards may be
     found.
     1.3. Sponsors are responsible for the safety and well-being of their guests. Sponsors will
     brief guests on force protection measures and appropriate behavior in Turkey.
2. Commander’s Interest Items.
     2.1. Customs and Courtesies. We are guests in the country of Turkey. Our conduct on and
     off-duty is extremely important to U.S.-Turkish relations. All Airmen and dependents are
     expected to behave in a manner that positively reflects on the USAF and our Nation.
     2.2. IAW AFI 1-1, Air Force Standards, during the playing of the national anthems of
     friendly nations, render the same customs and courtesies as those given during the playing of
     the United States National Anthem.
        2.2.1. Reveille and retreat are performed daily at the 39 ABW flag pole. If in uniform,
        render a salute. If not in uniform, pay proper respect by either saluting or placing your
        hand over your heart.
        2.2.2. All Airmen and sister service members must render proper respects for both U.S.
        and TURAF staff cars while in uniform.
     2.3. Prohibited Activities. All Airmen and sister service members are prohibited from the
     following:
        2.3.1. Acting in a manner that reflects poorly or unfavorably upon the U.S. Government.
        2.3.2. Using disrespectful or derogatory conduct or speech directed towards a Turkish
        National.
        2.3.3. Running, walking, or biking along the outer fenceline road. The triangle area may
        only be used during daylight hours.
     2.4. Consolidated Club. Unless there is a club sponsored event, the Enlisted lounge is off
     limits to officers and the Pipers lounge is off limits to enlisted members.
     2.5. Operational Security. All members assigned to Incirlik AB should be mindful of
     operational security when communicating via social media sites. Force Protection
     Conditions may change with little notice. Revealing security measures or personnel
     restrictions could compromise the safety of the base.
     2.6. Use of headphones. The use of portable headphones, earphones, cellular phones,
     iPods, or other listening and entertainment devices (other than hearing aids) while walking,
     jogging, running, bicycling, skating, or skateboarding on Incirlik roadways is prohibited.
     However, the wear of these devices is authorized in the Triangle running area (if running on
     the left hand side of the road facing traffic), Incirlik Unit School running track, and
     sidewalks. When running on sidewalks, portable headphones, earphones, cellular phones,
     iPods, or other listening and entertainment devices (other than hearing aids) must be removed
     when crossing roadways.
3. Wear of duty uniforms. The following guidelines will be adhered to and followed:
     3.1. Duty Uniforms.
INCIRLIKABI36-2901 16 APRIL 2013                                                                3


     3.1.1. Personnel will wear the appropriate duty uniform as prescribed by their unit
     commander. Members will have blue service uniforms available for wear when required
     for special occasions.
     3.1.2. Personnel will not wear uniforms in The Alley or to any other off-base locations.
     3.1.3. Reflective Belt. When in uniform, reflective belts will be worn around the waist
     during the hours of darkness, usually from sundown until sun up the next day. The entire
     belt will be visible from the front and back and not obstructed by clothing, backpacks,
     etc.
     3.1.4. Headgear. While in uniform on a bicycle or motorcycle, safety helmet must be
     removed and appropriate headgear donned immediately after parking.
     3.1.5. No Hat/Headgear Areas. The following areas are approved “No Hat/Headgear”
     areas on Incirlik AB: All flight line areas, 39th Operations Squadron Pavilion
     immediately adjacent to Building 526, and the outdoor eating areas adjacent to Starbucks,
     the Bowling Center, Community Center, Golf Course, and the American Eatery.
     3.1.6. Identification Tags.    All Military members assigned to IAB will wear
     Identification Tags on and off duty IAW AFI 36-3103, Identification Tags unless safety
     factors preclude wear.
     3.1.7. Physical Training Uniforms will be worn IAW with AFI 36-2903. Members will
     wear any combination of the physical training uniform during wing events or as
     otherwise directed.
  3.2. Wear of deployed uniform. Only 385 AEG personnel and transient travelers deployed
  or deploying in/out of the Allied Forces Central Europe/Central Command
  (AFCENT/CENTCOM) Area of Responsibility (AOR) are authorized to wear the Boonie hat
  and Desert Flight Duty Uniform on Incirlik AB.
  3.3. Civilian Clothing.
     3.3.1. Turkey is predominantly a Muslim country located in an area of the world that is
     prone to terrorist activity. It is important that we all consider how we dress and the
     potential effect our dress may have on our hosts and our fellow Airmen.
     3.3.2. In keeping with Host Nation sensitivities, clothing with any offensive language or
     pictures will not be worn on or off IAB. This includes but is not limited to clothing with
     nudity, lewd or obscene depictions, profanity and drug-related pictures or language. It
     also includes clothing that depicts any type of discriminatory message or is associated
     with gang activities.
     3.3.3. The wear of clothing that is overly revealing and the lack of clothing in public
     areas is not allowed. Specifically:
         3.3.3.1. Swimming attire and bathing suits will be constrained to the base pool,
         residential areas and the immediate areas around dormitories.
         3.3.3.2. Civilian attire will be worn in keeping with the standards of reasonableness.
         Personnel are required at a minimum to wear a shirt, shorts and footwear when
         outdoors (EXCEPTION: base pool, in residential areas or the immediate area around
         dormitories). This includes participation in all types of physical activities.
 4                                                     INCIRLIKABI36-2901 16 APRIL 2013


            3.3.3.3. The wear of sweat-soaked, stained or soiled civilian attire, ABUs, FDUs,
            PTUs or IPTUs into any food outlet, to include the dining facility, is not authorized.
     3.4. Leave/Travel Policy.
         3.4.1. Any personnel traveling outside the country of Turkey must be on leave. This
         includes the island of Cyprus.
         3.4.2. Any personnel traveling during non-duty days who travel more than 100 miles
         from IAB, remain off base overnight, or remain in a specific location longer than 12
         hours are NOT required to be on leave but must obtain approval from their unit
         commander. Requests will be made via the travel request form (Public Drive-39ABW
         Staff-39ABW ATFP-Trip request forms).
         3.4.3. For force protection reasons, personnel traveling in the local area will inform
         another Incirlik member of their travel plans.
         3.4.4. Members should always remain vigiliant and report suspicious activity to the
         nearest law enforcement agency or 676-EYES.
     3.5. Child Supervision Guidelines.

Table 1. IAB Child Supervision Guidelines IAW IABS_I 40-301.
Age of       Left Unattended:                                                   Baby sit:
Child
             In          In         Outside         In a vehicle   Overnight    Siblings    Others
             quarters    quarters   (including
             for 2       for more   playground)
             hours or    than 2
             less        hours
Newborn      NO          NO         NO              NO             NO           NO          NO
-8 years
9 – 11       YES,      NO           YES, with       Apr–Sept:      NO           NO          NO
years        with                   minimum of      NO
             minimum                phone access    Oct–Mar:
             of phone               to a            YES, with
             access to              responsible     key
             a                      adult,          removed
             responsib              designated      and parking
             le adult,              by parent       brake
             designate                              activated
             d by                                   (15 min.
             parent                                 max.)
12 – 13      YES       YES          YES             YES, with      NO           YES         YES
years                                               key
                                                    removed
                                                    and parking
                                                    brake
                                                    activated
INCIRLIKABI36-2901 16 APRIL 2013                                                                 5


                                                     (30 min.
                                                     max.)


14 -17       YES           YES      YES              YES            YES, with YES          YES
years                                                               minimum
                                                                    of phone
                                                                    access to
                                                                    responsibl
                                                                    e adult,
                                                                    designated
                                                                    by parent
   3.6. Gate Pass Registration Procedures and policies
         3.6.1. Access to IAB is limited. All personnel must comply with requirements and
         follow guidelines in accordance with IABI 31-106, American Pass and Registration
         Procedures.
         3.6.2. Keep the following documents with you for access to Incirlik Air Base.
            3.6.2.1. Turkish ID (kimlik, “blue book”)
            3.6.2.2. Driver’s license (including the document translating it to Turkish)
            3.6.2.3. Vehicle Registration (“black book”) and Insurance policy documentation
         3.6.3. Gate Access procedures.
            3.6.3.1. Roll down driver’s side window. Roll down the passenger’s side window if
            your windows are tinted. If dog is present, disembark vehicle, and then open all
            doors to include trunk or rear hatch. Wait until vehicle has been inspected, gate
            passes are checked and TURAF have given instructions to enter vehicle.
            3.6.3.2. Allow soldiers or police to inspect your vehicle. Make no sudden movements
            and obey all of the instructions given to you by the TURAF personnel.
   3.7. Curfew. The Wing Commander has instituted a curfew for all U.S. personnel on IAB.
   Since curfew is subject to change, members should contact their supervisors for information
   on the current restrictions.
         3.7.1. Curfew Hours for minor family members. The following table is a quick guide.
         Further details may be found in IABI 31-107.

Table 2. Curfew Hours for Minor Family Members
Age of       School Days (Monday –             Weekends/Non-School days          Summer
Child        Thursday)                         (Friday – Saturday)               Vacation
14 and       2100 - 0600                       2200 - 0600                       2200 - 0600
Under
15-17        2230 - 0530                       0001 - 0530                       0001- 0530
6                                                      INCIRLIKABI36-2901 16 APRIL 2013


       3.7.2. Exception to Curfew. Children 12 through 17 years of age, who are
       unaccompanied, are permitted to proceed directly to their homes from authorized base
       activities, such as chapel service, athletic events, theater, youth services, scout
       assemblies, etc. It is also permitted for children to travel from their point of employment
       (such as babysitting) directly to their homes. Children are allowed to camp out overnight
       in their yards, so long as they stay in the immediate area of the campsite and do not cause
       a disturbance.
       3.7.3. Violations. Children found or suspected to be in violation of this instruction will
       be detained by Security Forces and sponsor, First Sergeant and Commander will be
       notified. Multiple violations could result in action under IABI 51-907, Family Member
       Misconduct Board (FMMB).
    3.8. Home Business Policy
       3.8.1. AFI 32-6001, Housing Management, governs operating a private business out of
       government housing. Operating a home business is restricted to certain parameters and
       may be further limited or denied if the activity has the potential to jeopardize community
       tranquility, safety, host-nation relations, the installation mission, or is otherwise deemed
       to be inappropriate for Military Family Housing.
       3.8.2. The use of government resources or government facilities for personal gain,
       including a home business, is prohibited. While it is appropriate and acceptable to use
       one’s own residence in a manner that is not disruptive to the community, the use of
       government property, such as a conference room is not permitted for business use.
       3.8.3. All U.S. Armed Forces personnel, civilian employees and dependents must request
       permission in writing to run a home business through the Housing Office.
       3.8.4. The Air Force limits home businesses to the sale of products, minor repair services
       on small items, limited manufacturing of items or tutoring. Home businesses may not
       resell items (or items made from components) obtained through the Commissary or
       AAFES, nor use the APO mail system. Similarly, home businesses may not grant access
       to US facilities and the activities within them (e.g., Fitness Centers, Arts & Crafts, Auto
       Hobby, etc.) to individuals not otherwise entitled to their use.
    3.9. Incirlik Photo and Video Policy. Photographing/videotaping TURAF personnel,
    equipment and facilities from on or off the installation is strictly prohibited. Any
    photographing or videotaping North of A Street is prohibited, with the exception of the golf
    course, the paintball course and the dog park. Equipment may be confiscated if found
    violating this policy.




                                             CHRISTOPHER E. CRAIGE, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
INCIRLIKABI36-2901 16 APRIL 2013                                                  7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 1-1, Air Force Standards, 7 August 2012
AFI 36-3103, Identification Tags, 25 January 2012
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
IABI 40-301 Supplement, Family Advocacy, 21 April 2010
AFMAN 33-363. Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 ABW—39th Air Base Wing
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
ABU—Airman Battle Uniform
AFCENT—Allied Forces Central Europe
AOR—Area of Responsibility
APO—Army Post Office
ATFP—Anti-Terrorism Force Protection
CENTCOM—Central Command
IAB—Incirlik Air Base
IAW—In Accordance With
IPTU—Improved Physical Training Uniform
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
PTU—Physical Training Uniform
TURAF—Turkish Air Force
