BY ORDER OF THE                                  INCIRLIK AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 90-201
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER
(USAFE)                                                                          3 MARCH 2011

                                                                            Special Management

                                                              WING INSPECTION PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 39 ABW/XP                                                        Certified by: 39 ABW/XP
Supersedes: INCIRLIKABI90-201,                                      (Maj Frederick R. Hoeschler)
            21 August 2009                                                             Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General – The
Inspection System, extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-201, Inspector
General Activities and outlines the 39th Air Base Wing (39 ABW) Self-Inspection (SI) program
and Wing Inspection Program (WIP). It lays out the scope, objective and responsibilities for
managing internal self-inspection and higher headquarters (HHQ) inspection findings and
discrepancies. This instruction applies to all 39 ABW units and agencies, to include
Geographically Separated Units (GSUs). It is not intended to replace or supersede joint or HHQ
guidance. If there is a conflict between this instruction and guidance from a higher command,
please notify 39 ABW Plans and Readiness (39 ABW/XP) office.                       This guide is
UNCLASSIFIED. Units are authorized to reproduce or extract any portion necessary for
planning and operational purposes. To recommend changes, conflicts, suggestions or
recommendations use AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route
through 39 ABW/XP, the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for this publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 2                                                        INCIRLIKABI90-201 3 MARCH 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Frequency involving self-inspection timelines have been adjusted to allow more flexibility in
accordance with a locally demanding operations tempo. Definition of requirements and levels of
responsibilities have been refined, to include clarification regarding documentation and training.
1. General.
     1.1. The purpose of the 39 ABW SI program is to provide commanders, Wing Staff Agency
     (WSA) chiefs and supervisors at all levels with an internal management tool for identifying,
     tracking and correcting problems. When problems are identified, processes should be
     carefully examined to determine cause and find permanent solutions. The SI program
     encourages problem resolution at the lowest practical level while providing a means to
     elevate problems to higher levels when appropriate.
     1.2. Concept of Operations (CONOPS). Each unit self-inspection monitor will create locally
     developed self-inspection checklists and/or utilize Headquarters Air Force (HAF), or lead
     MAJCOM (e.g. USAFE, ACC, and AMC) provided compliance checklists. Problem areas
     will be identified, recorded and tracked until closed. Unit SI monitors will track compliance
     and monitor open items within their unit. 39 ABW/XP will administer the program at the
     wing level.
     1.3. Frequency of Self-Inspections. The goal of this program is to ensure readiness for
     compliance inspections. Self-inspections will be accomplished at least semi-annually,
     specifically during the first and third quarter of every calendar year, or as directed by the 39
     ABW/CC. Self-Inspections should also be conducted within 30 days following commander
     or WSA chief position changes and at least 30 days prior to known scheduled HHQ
     inspections. Self-inspections conducted “out-of-cycle” (e.g. not part of the regularly
     scheduled semi-annual requirement due to timing of a HHQ inspection or unit leadership
     changes) may count towards a regularly scheduled semi-annual self-inspection requirement if
     approved by the 39 ABW/CC.
     1.4. The purpose of the WIP is to ensure minor, significant and critical findings are
     answered, monitored, and corrected in a timely manner.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. 39th Air Base Wing Commander (39 ABW/CC). The 39 ABW/CC will approve closure
     of all answerable higher headquarters identified Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) and inspection
     discrepancies. 39 ABW/CC may delegate this authority as appropriate. See Para 3.3. for
     further guidance regarding closure authority for other related discrepancies.
     2.2. 39th Air Base Wing Vice Commander (39 ABW/CV). The 39 ABW/CV will provide
     direction, policy guidance and oversight of the wing inspection program, to include the SI
     program, to ensure significant problems are identified, monitored and corrected in a timely
     manner. 39 ABW/CV will utilize the SharePoint Wing Inspection Program (WIP) webpage
     (Self-Inspection Tracker & Findings Tracker) to review, endorse, forward and close, as
     appropriate, findings from exercises, crossfeeds, and higher headquarters inspections and
     evaluations.
     2.3. 39th Air Base Wing Plans and Readiness (39 ABW/XP). 39 ABW/XP serves as the
     wing inspection agency and will:
INCIRLIKABI90-201 3 MARCH 2011                                                               3


     2.3.1. Serve as the focal point and provide oversight for the wing inspection program, to
     include the SI program, and provide guidance to group, squadron and agency monitors as
     required.
     2.3.2. Prepare the wing for higher headquarters inspections.
     2.3.3. Provide WIP and SI training materials to all appointed monitors and any
     specialized orientation as required.
         2.3.3.1. Upon completion of all SI orientation training, SI Monitors are required to
         provide 39 ABW/XP a copy of their training certificate.
         2.3.3.2. 39 ABW/XP will maintain copies of all SI Monitor appointment letters and
         training certificates.
     2.3.4. Screen and monitor significant problems identified through the wing inspection
     process, and if required, bring them to the attention of the 39 ABW/CV. 39 ABW/XP
     will monitor problem areas until corrected.
     2.3.5. Serve as the wing OPR for all USAFE Compliance Inspections (CIs), Nuclear
     Surety Inspections (NSIs) and wing-wide higher headquarters SAVs. 39 ABW/CC may
     assign this responsibility to another agency as required.
         2.3.5.1. Follow-up on higher headquarters inspections by tracking and monitoring
         open discrepancies. Prepare follow-up correspondence every 30 days and continue to
         track corrective actions until closure.
         2.3.5.2. Consolidate and forward all wing corrective action responses regarding
         higher headquarters inspection findings to the 39 ABW/CC for approval and
         submission to the appropriate agency.
     2.3.6. Utilize the SharePoint WIP webpage (Self-Inspection Tracker & Findings Tracker)
     to review, endorse and forward findings for exercises, crossfeeds, and higher
     headquarters inspections and evaluations.
     2.3.7. Perform administrator duties, database management and limited troubleshooting of
     the SharePoint WIP website.
  2.4. Group Commanders. Group commanders are responsible to ensure findings are
  addressed in the wing inspection program, to include the SI program, within their group and
  assigned squadrons. Group commanders, or their designated representative, will utilize the
  SharePoint WIP webpage (Self-Inspection Tracker & Findings Tracker) to review, endorse,
  forward and close, as appropriate, findings for exercises, crossfeeds and higher headquarters
  inspections and evaluations when other tracking tools are not otherwise directed.
  2.5. Squadron Commanders, GSUs and WSA Chiefs. Squadron commanders, GSUs and
  WSA chiefs are responsible for the overall wing inspection program, to include the SI
  program, within their organizations. Squadron commanders and WSA chiefs will:
     2.5.1. Appoint a primary and alternate (may have more than one alternate) SI Monitor
     for their units using the format posted to the Self Inspection Documents folder located in
     the 39 ABW/XP area of the 39th Air Base Wing, USAFE ICE page and forward
     appointment letters to 39 ABW/XP (https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/39ABW/XP).
4                                                      INCIRLIKABI90-201 3 MARCH 2011


          2.5.1.1. SI Monitors must not be within six months of their Date Eligible Return
          from Overseas (DEROS) at the time of appointment and have at least a Secret
          security clearance.
          2.5.1.2. SI Monitors will be replaced and the appointment letter updated no later than
          30 days prior to Permanent Change of Station (PCS).
       2.5.2. Utilize the SharePoint WIP webpage (Self-Inspection Tracker & Findings Tracker)
       to review, endorse and forward findings for exercises, crossfeeds, and higher
       headquarters inspections and evaluations.
          2.5.2.1. Ensure text entered in the Corrective Actions field focus on curtailing the
          root cause of the discrepancy, and thus be specific and sustainable in order to identify
          permanent solutions. Comments must also be appropriate for submission to higher
          headquarters, as required.
       2.5.3. Ensure self-inspections are completed as directed.
          2.5.3.1. Advise their group commander and/or 39 ABW/CC of any non-compliant
          areas requiring wing level oversight or support.
          2.5.3.2. Monitor the unit’s progress towards correcting all non-compliant areas.
    2.6. SI Monitor. Squadron, GSU and WSA SI Monitors will:
       2.6.1. Review WIP and SI training materials posted to the WIP Documents folder in the
       39 ABW/XP area of the 39th Air Base Wing, USAFE ICE page
       (https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/39ABW/XP/WIP). Contact 39 ABW/XP for additional
       guidance as required.
          2.6.1.1. Upon completion of all SI orientation training, SI Monitors are required to
          provide 39 ABW/XP a copy of their training certificate.
       2.6.2. Administer the SI program at unit level as follows:
          2.6.2.1. Conduct unit self-inspections in accordance with paragraph 1.3. (Frequency
          of Self-Inspections) or as directed by the 39 ABW/CC.
          2.6.2.2. Advise commanders or WSA chiefs of any non-compliant areas requiring
          wing or unit level oversight or support.
          2.6.2.3. Monitor the unit’s progress towards correcting all non-compliant areas.
          2.6.2.4. Review applicable USAFE provided UCI checklists or locally developed
          checklists maintained in the SharePoint WIP webpage (Self-Inspection Tracker) prior
          to all self-inspections to ensure their accuracy. Update any items that need to be
          changed or removed. At the time of the self-inspection, execute all applicable
          checklists.
          2.6.2.5. Ensure findings from non-compliant self-inspection areas are input into the
          SharePoint WIP webpage (Findings Tracker). Coordinate with functional experts
          within the unit for input of corrective actions.
              2.6.2.5.1. Ensure text entered in the Corrective Actions field focus on curtailing
              the root cause of the discrepancy, and thus be specific and sustainable in order to
INCIRLIKABI90-201 3 MARCH 2011                                                               5


             identify permanent solutions. Comments must also be appropriate for submission
             to higher headquarters, as required.
             2.6.2.5.2. Forward findings through the squadron commander or WSA chief for
             endorsement or closure. See WIP Routing Diagram in Attachment 2.
3. WIP.
   3.1. The SharePoint WIP webpage is an online web-based tool that provides automated
   input, forwarding, tracking and closing functions for base exercises, crossfeeds and
   inspections.        The WIP can be accessed at the following website:
   https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/39ABW/XP/WIP/default.aspx
   3.2. Most findings from exercises, crossfeeds, and higher headquarters inspections and
   evaluations will be documented within the appropriate tracker (Self-Inspection Tracker &
   Findings Tracker) of the WIP unless otherwise directed by the 39 ABW/CC. Commanders
   and WSA chiefs are responsible for ensuring their organizations and appointed monitors
   utilize the WIP to input and track findings.
      3.2.1. The following events will be centrally documented and tracked to closure using
      the WIP:
          3.2.1.1. All inspections identified in AFI 90-201 (e.g. Operational Readiness
          Inspection (ORI), UCI, NSI, Health Services Inspection (HSI), Self Inspection (SI),
          etc).
          3.2.1.2. All local wing level exercises (e.g. Local Surety Exercise (LSE), Major
          Accident Response Exercise (MARE), Ability to Survive and Operate (ATSO),
          Natural Disaster, etc).
      3.2.2. Individual units assigned as the OPR for wing-wide functional inspections (e.g.
      Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
      Management Program (ESOHCAMP), Logistics Compliance Assessment Program
      (LCAP), Information Assurance Awareness Program (IAAP), etc.) are not required to
      document and track findings to closure using the WIP. Other locally generated methods
      are acceptable and encouraged. The WIP can be used to support tracking and closure of
      functional inspections at the request of the OPR or as directed by the 39 ABW/CC.
   3.3. Findings will remain open in the WIP until closed by the appropriate designated
   authority.
      3.3.1. All inspection findings identified in AFI 90-201, except for SI (e.g. ORI, UCI,
      NSI, HSI, etc), not required for closure by higher headquarters will be closed out by the
      39 ABW/CV. See paragraph 3.3.2. and 3.3.3. for guidance regarding closure of SI
      findings.
      3.3.2. The 39 ABW/CV will review and approve all “major/significant or higher”
      inspection findings identified during local wing level exercises (e.g. LSE, MARE, ATSO,
      Natural Disaster, etc), to include SI, for closure.
      3.3.3. The appropriate Group Commander (or 39 ABW/CV for WSAs and squadrons not
      attached to a group) will review and approve all “minor or lower” inspection findings
      identified during local wing level exercises (e.g. LSE, MARE, ATSO, Natural Disaster,
 6                                                       INCIRLIKABI90-201 3 MARCH 2011


        etc.), to include SI. Wing Staff Agencies and squadrons not attached to a group will
        work with 39 ABW/XP to manually route findings to the 39 ABW/CV for review and
        approval. Repeat minor findings identified at this level will be entered into the WIP, but
        minor findings that can be considered a onetime occurrence will not be entered into the
        WIP.
     3.4. 39 ABW/XP will track all Critical, Significant, Major and Minor (as required) findings
     to closure and report their status to the 39 ABW/CC every 30 days. The following events
     will be briefed:
        3.4.1. All inspections identified in AFI 90-201 (e.g. ORI, UCI, NSI, HSI, SI, etc).
        3.4.2. All local wing level exercises (e.g. LSE, MARE, ATSO, Natural Disaster, etc).
        3.4.3. Any inspection findings regarding the Air Traffic System Evaluation Program
        (ATSEP).
        3.4.4. All findings identified during a Nuclear Surety Staff Assistance Visit.
        3.4.5. For wing level functional inspections (e.g. ESOHCAMP, LCAP, IAAP, etc), it is
        the responsibility of the individual unit assigned as the OPR to facilitate wing level
        oversight as directed by the 39 ABW/CC. 39 ABW/CC may delegate this authority as
        appropriate.
     3.5. 39 ABW/XP is responsible for developing training materials on the use of the WIP and
     providing direction as necessary. Instructions are located on the 39 ABW/XP SharePoint
     home page located at https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/39ABW/XP
4. SI Checklists.
     4.1. Self Inspection checklists are intended to serve as a guide to ensure functions and
     responsibilities of the organization and work center are being properly executed and are in
     compliance with regulatory guidance. The Air Force Inspection Agency provides HAF Core
     checklists at (https://webapps.afrc.af.mil/afia/home.aspx) and the Secretary of the Air
     Force, Inspector General (SAF/IGI) provides a Community of Practice (CoP)
     (https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-IG-AF-06)
     that has links to checklists and other pertinent information to aid organizations in developing
     SI checklists. In addition, lead MAJCOMs and/or USAFE provide compliance checklists to
     use on E-publishing (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil); otherwise, units will develop local
     checklists drawing from requirements in governing publications (instructions, technical data,
     plans, etc.).
     4.2. Compliance checklists are for command-wide use. They reflect public law, safety,
     security, Department of Defense, Air Force, USAFE, lead MAJCOM and relevant host-
     nation requirements. The checklists identify mission critical aspects of each unit function
     and establish meaningful measures to evaluate program health, maturity and mission success.
     SI Monitors should contact their Headquarters (HQ) USAFE Functional Manager or visit the
     USAFE and/or lead MAJCOM area of the Air Force e-Publishing website (http://www.e-
     publishing.af.mil) to ensure they have the most current compliance checklists.
     4.3. Due to frequent changes in regulatory guidance, SI Monitors need to ensure periodic
     review of SI checklists in order to verify they reflect current Air Force policy. A thorough
     assessment of all SI checklists should be conducted 30 days prior to the start of any self-
INCIRLIKABI90-201 3 MARCH 2011                                                              7


   inspection period. SI Monitors may update checklists in the SharePoint WIP webpage (Self-
   Inspection Tracker) without prior approval from 39 ABW/XP.
      4.3.1. Once a SI has begun, checklist updates will cease. Changing checklists mid-
      course will remove all previous answers to any associated checklists; thus it creates
      additional work and is unfair to all affected units. If checklist changes are absolutely
      required once the SI has begun, the SI Monitor must coordinate with 39 ABW/XP to
      make the required change(s).
      4.3.2. After an inspection period is complete, 39 ABW/XP can create a new draft
      inspection database that can once again be edited without interfering with the current
      posted SI information.
      4.3.3. SI Monitors wishing to delete a checklist must contact 39 ABW/XP. Only 39
      ABW/XP can remove checklists from the WIP.
      4.3.4. Once submitted via the WIP, checklist changes are final. The program does not
      allow the SI Monitor to “undo” changes after entering them. If the SI Monitor wishes to
      revert to a previous version, contact 39 ABW/XP who can restore data from a previous SI
      period.
5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   5.1. Prescribed Forms:
      5.1.1. No Forms Prescribed
   5.2. Adopted Forms:
      5.2.1. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                          ERIC A. BEENE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                                   INCIRLIKABI90-201 3 MARCH 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General – The Inspection System, 26 April 2006
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 ABW— 39th Air Base Wing
39 ABW/XP— 39th Air Base Wing Plans and Readiness
39 CPTS— 39th Comptroller Squadron
39 OS— 39th Operations Squadron
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
ATSEP— Air Traffic System Evaluation Program
ATSO— Ability to Survive and Operate
CI— Compliance Inspection
CONOPS— Concept of Operations
DEROS— Date Eligible Return from Overseas
ESOHCAMP— Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program
GSU— Geographically Separated Unit
HHQ— Higher Headquarters
HQ— Headquarters
HSI— Health Services Inspection
IAAP— Information Assurance Awareness Program
LCAP— Logistics Compliance Assessment Program
LSE— Local Surety Exercise
MARE— Major Accident Response Exercise
NSI— Nuclear Surety Inspection
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
INCIRLIKABI90-201 3 MARCH 2011                          9


ORI— Operational Readiness Inspection
PCS— Permanent Change of Station
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SAV— Staff Assistance Visit
SI— Self Inspection
UCI— Unit Compliance Inspection
USAFE— United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFECL— United States Air Forces in Europe Checklist
WIP— Wing Inspection Program
WSA— Wing Staff Agency
 10                                            INCIRLIKABI90-201 3 MARCH 2011


                                    Attachment 2
                                    WIP ROUTING

Figure A2.1. WIP Routing Diagram.
