BY ORDER OF THE                                    INCIRLIK AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 32-2001
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER
(USAFE)                                                                              10 JULY 2012

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                    FIRE EMERGENCY SERVICES PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 39 CES/CECF                                                          Certified by: 39 CES/CC
                                                                                 (Maj John Sevier)
Supersedes:    INCIRLIKABI32-2001,                                                        Pages: 20
               8 May 2006


This publication implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6055.6, DoD Fire and
Emergency Services (F&ES) Program, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001, Fire
Emergency Services Program. It establishes fire protection and prevention guidance that
incorporates both United States Air Force and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
criteria. This publication applies to all military personnel (to include temporary duty, transient,
or tenant), their dependents, and United States civilians assigned or attached to Incirlik Air Base,
Turkey, contractors and vendors. This publication prohibits military and civilian personnel from
committing specific acts relating to fire and fire prevention. Refer recommended changes
regarding this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), 39 CES/CECF using
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information System (AFRIMS), Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been completely revised in order to comply with revised Air Force (AF) and
NFPA publications. It includes the deletion of all non-pertinent information, updates and
additions to the previous regulation.
 2                                                                                INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012


        1.      Duties Assigned. ....................................................................................................        2
        2.      Fire Prevention: ......................................................................................................      4
        3.      Emergency Reporting: ...........................................................................................             9
        4.      Prohibitions: ...........................................................................................................   10
        5.      Educational Programs: ...........................................................................................           10
        6.      Requirements for Contractors and Vendors: ..........................................................                        10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              12

Attachment 2—MONTHLY FACILITY FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST                                                                                     15

Attachment 3—FIRE EXTINGUISHER MONTHLY CHECK                                                                                                16

Attachment 4—EMERGENCY LIGHTING UNIT MONTHLY CHECK                                                                                          17

Attachment 5—EXIT LIGHT MONTHLY CHECK                                                                                                       18

Attachment 6—HOOD AND DUCT DAILY CLEANING SCHEDULE                                                                                          19

Attachment 7—FIRE EVACUATION DRILL RECORD                                                                                                   20


1. Duties Assigned.
     1.1. The Fire Inspector will conduct periodic visits to all facilities and areas to perform
     quality control checks of unit fire prevention programs, inspect compliance of fire prevention
     practices and facility construction to established criteria, and provide requested training to
     the base populace. The Fire Inspector has full authority to stop any operation considered an
     immediate threat or danger to life or property. Implementation and execution of a successful
     comprehensive fire prevention and protection program requires the involvement of all
     personnel.
     1.2. 39th Medical Group (39 MDG) Commander (or designee) will dispatch medical
     personnel, vehicles, and equipment to the scene of an emergency when requested by the Fire
     Chief or Senior Fire Official (SFO).
     1.3. 39th Maintenance Squadron (39 MXS) Commander (or designee) will notify the Fire
     Alarm Communication Center (FACC) any changes in the munitions load status of an
     aircraft and any change of fire symbol for a munitions storage facilities. Will confirm daily
     any changes to munitions storage status and weekly provide fire symbol report.
     1.4. 39th Logistics Readiness Squadron (39 LRS) Commander (or designee) will dispatch
     personnel, vehicles, and equipment to the scene of an emergency when requested by the Fire
     Chief or SFO.
     1.5. 39th Security Forces Squadron (39 SFS) Commander (or designee) will dispatch law
     enforcement/security forces personnel to the scene of an emergency for traffic and/or crowd
     control when requested by the Fire Chief or SFO.
INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012                                                                   3


  1.6. 728th Air Mobility Squadron (728 AMS) Commander (or designee) will dispatch
  specialized equipment and equipment operators to the scene of an emergency when requested
  by the Fire Chief or SFO.
  1.7. Civil Engineer Operations will, during normal duty hours, immediately dispatch a
  craftsman and equipment upon request. After normal duty hours, Civil Engineering will
  immediately dispatch the Do-It-Now (DIN) truck and technician and recall any other
  technicians and equipment operators that are necessary to handle the emergency.
  1.8. Functional Managers are responsible for administering the fire prevention program
  within their functional area and ensuring identified fire safety deficiencies (FSD) and fire
  hazards assigned a risk assessment code (RAC) are corrected. In the event unit personnel
  identify a hazard that they cannot correct, the manager will ensure the Fire Prevention
  Section is notified for assistance. The functional manager will develop a unit or detachment
  operating instruction that addresses fire reporting, fire reaction, and initial and recurring unit
  or detachment specific fire prevention training for assigned personnel. The manager will
  require that assigned personnel receive initial and recurring organizational fire prevention
  and extinguisher training.
  1.9. Facility managers are directly responsible to the functional manager for the submission
  and follow-up of all work and job orders pertaining to the fire prevention program for their
  assigned facility. Accompany the fire inspector during inspections and immediately take
  corrective action on any hazards noted, and are directly responsible for the fire safety of
  facilities under their control. They ensure initial and recurring fire prevention and
  extinguisher training are conducted and documented for all personnel who work in the
  facility. They perform and document all required extinguisher and facility safety feature
  inspections.
     1.9.1. Notify the Fire Prevention Office (FPO), at least 48 hours prior, prior to any
     situation or event which will temporarily change or alter the use of a facility from its
     authorized occupancy and designation, i.e. overnight lock-in in youth facilities; billeting
     of personnel in other than dormitories; formations, gatherings, parties in hangars, etc.
     1.9.2. Ensure all newly assigned personnel receive unit specific Fire Prevention, Fire
     Safety, and Fire Extinguisher training within 30 days of assignment. Fire extinguisher
     training is available on the web at http://qpulse.incirlik.net:8080/fire/. Wheeled flight
     line extinguisher training is available from the FPO by request.
  1.10. Unit Supervisors will, on a periodic basis, perform walk through inspections of
  facilities under their control and ensure proper documentation is maintained regarding
  inspection of extinguishers, emergency lighting, evacuation drills and personnel training.
  They serve as an internal quality control for the unit fire prevention program.
  1.11. Fire Department Physician (Vinnell Brown and Root [VBR] Physician) will provide
  medical guidance to the Fire Department in the management of the occupational safety and
  health program; direct and advise the members with regard to their health, fitness and
  suitability for various duties; and be readily available for consultation on an urgent basis.
  1.12. Housing Office will notify Fire Department upon hosting disability personnel in
  housing units.
 4                                                        INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012


2. Fire Prevention: The overall objective of the Incirlik Air Base Fire Prevention Program is to
provide a fire safe work/living environment for all personnel. This service is provided by:
ensuring personnel assigned to the base and/or residing on the base or in facilities are aware of
their fire prevention responsibilities; providing fire prevention guidance in order to maintain fire-
safe work and living environments; eliminating the causes of uncontrolled fire; despite these
efforts, should a fire occur, to limit injuries and losses due to fire. The key to a successful fire
prevention program is involvement of all personnel.
     2.1. Application of Standard Criteria. Unless specifically addressed by DoD or AF criteria,
     the Articles of the NFPA Standards that are directive in nature will be used for compliance.
     Where specific DoD or AF and NFPA criteria co-exist, the more stringent requirements will
     be applied.
     2.2. Compressed Gases. The use and storage of compressed gases will be as prescribed in
     Air Force Technical Order (TO) 42B5-1-2, Gas Cylinders--Use, Handling, and Maintenance,
     and NFPA 54, National Fuel Gas Code.
     2.3. Curtains, Drapes and Furnishings. Curtains, drapes, and furnishings used in places of
     public assembly, recreation facilities, the clinic, Unaccompanied Enlisted Personnel Housing
     (UEPH), Bachelor Officers Quarters (BOQs), Visiting Officer/Airmen Quarters
     (VOQs/VAQs) transient quarters, day rooms, lounges, schools, mercantile facilities, and
     Child Day Care (CDC) facilities will conform to the fire retardant requirements specified in
     NFPA 101, Life Safety Code.
     2.4. Suspended ceilings will have all tiles in place. Areas having cable and utility access
     requirements will have tiles cut or modified to limit open space around the accesses.
     2.5. Decorations:
        2.5.1. Decorations used in places of public assembly, recreational facilities, mercantile
        facilities, schools and CDC facilities will be treated with a commercial fire retardant
        treatment or possess documented inherent fire retardant qualities. Documentation will be
        readily available for presentation to representatives of the Fire Department attesting to
        these characteristics.
        2.5.2. Decorations, to include mirrors, will in no way obscure exits, exit lights, or
        portions of exits, nor will they be arranged in any manner that may confuse facility
        occupants regarding exit locations.
     2.6. Electrical Equipment and Installation:
        2.6.1. All electrical installations and repairs will comply with NFPA 70, National
        Electric Code.
        2.6.2. Operation of all electrical appliances and machines will be discontinued
        immediately upon recognition of an unsafe or hazardous condition. They will not be
        returned to use until repaired by an authorized agency or craftsman.
        2.6.3. The use of extension cords will be limited to rated capacity, e.g. if the cord has a
        15 amp rating, the user will not attempt to draw 16 amps through it. They will be used in
        continuous lengths only and will not be used in series (daisy chaining). When damaged,
        a cord will not be repaired; instead it must be replaced. Extension cords will not be
        placed in a path of travel or underneath carpeting or rugs. They will not be used in lieu of
INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012                                                                 5


     permanent wiring when a requirement for additional outlets exists. Extension cords will
     not be secured to walls or other areas with nails or other metallic fasteners. The use of
     surge protected extension cords is recommended.
     2.6.4. Surge protectors will be directly plugged in to permanently installed receptacle.
     2.6.5. Portable step down transformers (portable transformers that reduce 220V 50hz
     alternating current (AC) power to 110V 50hz AC power) not equipped with on-off
     switches will be disconnected from the outlet when not in use. Transformers equipped
     with on-off switches will be switched off when not in use.
     2.6.6. All appliances, to include extension cords, will be tested by a recognized safety
     testing organization and display the testing organization's symbol. Recognized testing
     agencies are UL (Underwriters Laboratory – United States), FM (Factory Mutual –
     United States), VDE (Society of German Electricians - Germany), and TSE (Turkish
     Standard Institute - Turkey).
     2.6.7. Cooking Appliances (including hot plates, George Foreman grills, electric frying
     pans, roasters, toaster ovens, and similar cooking appliances that produce grease/oil laden
     vapors) are prohibited in all base facilities except where an approved fire suppression
     system is installed. This restriction includes all work centers and dormitories, but does
     not include family housing.
  2.7. Exits:
     2.7.1. Access to building exits will not be obstructed. Furniture and stored materials will
     be so arranged as to permit a clear path of travel to exits.
     2.7.2. Exit signs will be illuminated at all times when building is occupied. The Facility
     Manager or a designated representative will ensure all exit lights are operational. The
     facility manager or a designated representative shall conduct a monthly functional test on
     all exit lights. The facility manager will record the condition of the lights, submit any
     required work requests, and maintain a written record of this in the facility manager's
     folder.
  2.8. Where required by the NFPA, approved signs shall be provided and maintained to
  identify fire department access roads or Fire lanes to prohibit the obstruction thereof or both.
     2.8.1. A marked fire apparatus access road shall also be known as a fire lane. Fire
     department access roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less than 20 ft (6.1 m).
     Vertical clearances or widths shall be increased when vertical clearances or widths are
     not adequate to accommodate fire apparatus. The obstruction of a designated fire lane by
     a parked vehicle or any other object is prohibited and shall constitute a traffic and fire
     hazard to life and property.
     2.8.2. The "No Parking Fire Lane" sign shall be 12 inches wide and 18 inches high and
     have red letters on a white reflective white background.
  2.9. The Facility Manager or a designated representative will ensure all emergency lights are
  operational. The facility manager or a designated representative shall conduct a monthly
  functional test on all emergency lights. The facility manager will record the condition of the
  lights, submit any required work requests, and maintain a written record of this in the facility
  manager's folder.
6                                                         INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012


    2.10. Explosives (to include fireworks and ammunition) are to be handled, transported, and
    stored as specified in AFMAN 24-204, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air
    Shipment, AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, and TO 11A-1-33, Handling &
    Maintenance of Explosives – Loaded Aircraft. Fireworks will only be used for displays and
    discharged under the direct supervision of a licensed pyrotechnics operator. The Fire
    Department will be notified a minimum of one week prior to any display.
    2.11. Military Family Housing. Sponsors are responsible for the actions of their dependents
    and for fire prevention in their quarters.
       2.11.1. Sponsors are responsible for educating any domestic employee on fire prevention
       practices and fire reporting. Fire prevention inspectors offer fire prevention training to
       baby-sitters, maids and gardeners employed on Incirlik Air Base (AB)
       2.11.2. Sponsors will test their installed smoke detectors monthly. Should a detector
       work improperly or fail to function, the sponsor will immediately call in an emergency
       work order.
    2.12. Fire Drills. Fire drills will be of the type and conducted at intervals specified in NFPA
    101. Fire drills produce familiarity with procedures and duties. As a result, panic is
    significantly reduced in emergency situations. Fire drills will be conducted at varying times
    and conditions, e.g. during hours of darkness to familiarize staff members with evacuation
    under varying conditions. The facility manager is responsible for maintaining documentation
    regarding conduction of drills and attendance. The frequency of fire drills and responsible
    agencies for conducting drills are addressed in the following paragraphs. The facility
    manager after coordinating with the Fire Department will conduct the drill.
       2.12.1. Places of Public Assembly (e.g. the Clubs, Snack Bars, Recreational Facilities
       and Theaters). These facilities will have employee or attendant evacuation drills and
       training at least semi-annually.
       2.12.2. Schools will have evacuation drills weekly for the first month of school and
       monthly thereafter.
       2.12.3. The CDC and Before/After School Programs will have a fire drill at least
       monthly.
       2.12.4. The Clinic will have a fire drill at least semi-annually.
       2.12.5. The Munitions Storage Areas will have fire drills at frequencies specified in
       AFMAN 91-201.
       2.12.6. All other facilities/occupancies will have fire drills at least annually.
    2.13. Fire Extinguishers. Criteria and responsibilities regarding inspection, training and
    purchasing of fire extinguishers is contained in Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
    Standard (AFOSHSTD) 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard,
    chapter 6.
       2.13.1. Fire extinguishers are placed in facilities according to distribution criteria
       established in NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers. Flight line
       extinguishers are distributed according to Air Force Technical Order (TO) 00-25-172,
       Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding.
INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012                                                                7


     2.13.2. The facility manager or an assigned representative shall conduct a monthly visual
     inspection of fire extinguishers under their control. Documentation of monthly
     inspections can be by log book, computer database, checklist, or annotating the Fire
     Extinguisher Monthly Inspection Tag. Documentation will consist of the date inspected,
     inspector’s name or initials, and identification of the specific extinguisher inspected
     (serial or I.D. Number, not location).
     2.13.3. The base fire department will perform minor maintenance/re-servicing of
     extinguishers; however, those extinguishers deemed unserviceable must be replaced by
     user organization.
     2.13.4. All personnel shall be educated upon assignment and annually thereafter, in the
     use of fire extinguisher. Fire extinguisher training is available on the web at
     http://qpulse.incirlik.net:8080/fire/. Portable fire extinguisher and wheeled flight line
     extinguisher training sessions are available from the FPO by request.
  2.14. Fire Hydrants-Water Supply:
     2.14.1. Water mains and fire hydrants will not be shut off, nor will any maintenance be
     performed that will interfere with the water supply without first notifying the Fire
     Department.
     2.14.2. With the exception of Civil Engineering, the use of fire hydrants by any other
     organization or function is prohibited without prior coordination with and approval by the
     Fire Department.
     2.14.3. Parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant is prohibited. The United States
     Government is not liable for damages that occur to the violating vehicle as a result of fire
     fighting or training activities.
  2.15. Flammable and Combustible Liquids:
     2.15.1. The use and storage of flammable and combustible liquids will be as specified in
     AFOSHSTD 91-501, chapter 22 and NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids
     Code.
     2.15.2. Flammable and combustible liquids will be disposed of as hazardous waste.
     They will not be dumped into drains or poured on the ground.
     2.15.3. Fuel spills are classified as hazardous materials releases and are reportable to
     Environmental Management as specified in Hazardous Materials Spill Prevention and
     Emergency Response Plan. Fire Department will provide standby, if it is required.
  2.16. The operation and cleaning of commercial cooking grease extraction systems shall be
  in compliance with AFOSHSTD 91-501, chapter 6.
  2.17. Supplemental heating devices will be equipped with a tip-over switch that
  automatically de-energizes. They will not be used in the proximity of combustible materials
  or located in the path of travel. All heating appliances must be recognized by an authorized
  testing agency such as; UL FM, TSE, and Consortium for Energy Efficiency (CEE). All
  heaters used in hangars, technical buildings, and industrial shops will be approved by a
  certified testing laboratory for use in that environment.
  2.18. Housekeeping:
8                                                        INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012


       2.18.1. Good housekeeping is of the utmost importance in eliminating fire hazards within
       buildings and areas.
       2.18.2. For Industrial Operations, to include waste and packing materials, guidance is
       specified in AFOSHSTD 91-66, General Industrial Operations.
       2.18.3. Clean rags, dirty rags, clean speedy dry and dirty speedy dry will be stored in
       separate metal containers with suitable lids and labeled with 1-inch lettering as to its
       contents.
       2.18.4. Store steel wool in metal containers with metal, self-closing lids. Containers will
       be labeled with 1-inch lettering as to its contents.
       2.18.5. Storage in        utility (Heating Ventilation     and Air Conditioning
       [HVAC]/boiler/electrical /machinery) rooms, air conditioning compressor/air handling
       rooms, generator rooms, telephone communications rooms, boiler rooms, under
       stairwells, and egress paths is prohibited.
       2.18.6. Combustibles stored for recycling should be stored outside and away from exits
       and windows.
       2.18.7. Care will be exercised when storing materials to insure that clear aisles are
       maintained throughout storage areas. Sprinkler risers, alarm boxes, fire department
       connections, standpipe hose stations, fire extinguishers, electric panels, and power
       switches will not be obstructed in any manner nor have any articles attached to them.
       2.18.8. A direct path of access to and an area five feet in any plane dimension from an
       electric services panel will not be used for storage.
    2.19. Installed Fire Protection Systems. An installed fire protection system is defined as any
    system, or portion thereof, that is installed in a facility for the purpose of fire detection,
    alarm, alarm transmittal, or extinguishment.
       2.19.1. All portions of an installed fire protection system will be immediately accessible
       at all times. They will not be blocked or obscured.
       2.19.2. Facility managers or occupants will not reset, silence, or shut off an installed fire
       protection system. Fire Department personnel or Civil Engineering craftsmen will only
       accomplish silencing or resetting alarm systems.
    2.20. Open Fires:
       2.20.1. Controlled Burning. Burning of vegetation is prohibited without the expressed
       written permission of the Fire Department. If written permission is granted, the requester
       is required to provide personnel to conduct the burn.
       2.20.2. Any burning of material in a container not specifically designed for that purpose
       is prohibited without the expressed written permission of the Fire Department.
       2.20.3. Campfires/bonfires are not allowed within the confines of this installation unless
       the area is inspected and approved by the Fire Department. Surveillance of the area and
       complete extinguishment of the fire is the requesting organization's responsibility.
       2.20.4. Barbecue (BBQ) Grills. BBQ grills or similar cooking appliances will not be
       used inside of or under the roofs or eaves of any base facility to include Military Family
INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012                                                                 9


       Housing (MFH). Hot coals or embers will not be disposed of in dumpsters or trashcans
       containing combustible materials. BBQs, charcoal and gas type grills will be kept 10 feet
       from any structure or overhang when operating.
   2.21. Places of Public Assembly, Recreational, and AAFES Facilities.
       2.21.1. All employees will receive fire prevention training as prescribed in AFOSHSTD
       91-501.
   2.21.2. The facility manager shall maintain a copy of occupant load calculations on file. The
   occupant load will not be exceeded without expressed written permission of the Fire
   Department.
   2.22. Self-Help Construction Projects:
       2.22.1. All Self-Help projects will be reviewed by the Fire Department and approved by
       Civil Engineering prior to work beginning. A copy of the completed approval will be
       available for review. The Fire Inspector will immediately terminate any work not fully
       approved until such approval is granted.
       2.22.2. If, in the opinion of the Fire Department, unauthorized self-help work is in
       violation of NFPA Standards or other standards and it presents a risk to building
       occupants, the Fire Department, with the concurrence of the Fire Marshall, will order it
       removed.
       2.22.3. All finish standards will be in compliance with Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC)
       3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities and NFPA 101 criteria.
       2.22.4. All self-help workmanship must meet minimum NFPA Standards.
   2.23. All welding, cutting, and brazing operations will comply with AFOSHSTD 91-5,
   Welding, Cutting and Brazing.
3. Emergency Reporting: All fires occurring in United States Air Force facilities, to include
off-base housing and facilities (such as teachers using government furniture in off base homes),
will be reported to the Incirlik AB Fire Department. This includes fires that have been
extinguished. This is required for investigation, cause determination and statistical compilation.
   3.1. Fires Occurring On-Base. Initial fire reporting may be accomplished by either calling
   911 or activation of an installed fire protection system. To report emergencies on
   commercial or cell phones call 0322 316 1911. Once the fire is reported, stand by outside the
   facility and meet with the responding senior fire official to provide any additional
   information.
       3.1.1. When reporting a fire to the FACC operator, provide the following information:
       your name, building number, name of facility, nature of the fire and location of the fire.
       An example from a base facility: "This is Airman John Doe, I'm reporting a fire in
       Building 3595, the Base Exchange. We have an electrical fire in the storeroom."
       3.1.2. Should an alarm system be used, it is imperative that the report be immediately
       followed up by telephone contact with the FACC using 911. This is necessary to ensure
       that a possible system malfunction prevented the fire department from receiving the
       coded alarm signal.
 10                                                     INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012


       3.1.3. Although unlikely, an accident may occur which prevents telephone
       communications with the fire department (e.g. severed phone cable). In the event the fire
       department cannot be notified by telephone, fire reporting must be accomplished in
       person. The Fire Department is in Building 370 and 372 (Administrative Building),
       located at the north end of Third Street (on A Street, near the Passenger Terminal).
   3.2. Fire fighting response to facilities located off-base is handled by the local Turkish Fire
   Departments. The Base Fire Department cannot respond to any report of a fire in off-base
   facilities unless specifically requested by local officials or authorities to save lives and
   mitigate great losses under our Mutual Aid Agreement in Fire Protection.
       3.2.1. The number to dial from off-base is 110. A Turkish operator will answer this
       number. Be prepared to tell them your name, address, and the fact that you have a fire in
       Turkish. (Lutfen bana yardim ediniz evim yaniyor, yangin var: (Please help me; my
       home is on fire): Adim (name): Adresim (Address): Bina No (Apartment number):
       Daire (Floor) :
4. Prohibitions:
   4.1. Interfering or delaying fire protection personnel engaged in emergency response,
   emergency operations, or emergency command and control functions are prohibited. Law
   Enforcement-Security Forces personnel will immediately remove and detain any individual
   who interferes with or delays any phase of emergency operations.
   4.2. Smoking in/on a bed is prohibited.
   4.3. Dormitories, Visiting Quarters, Temporary Lodging Facilities. These facilities present
   high life loss potential and as a result the following are prohibited:
       4.3.1. Candles, incense or any open flame devices which produce a constant flame.
       4.3.2. Objects hung from ceilings or draped within 3 feet of sprinkler heads, nor may any
       object be hung from a sprinkler head.
5. Educational Programs: The key to a successful fire prevention program is education. The
Incirlik AB Fire Department is prepared to assist in setting up organizational fire prevention
education programs to ensure success. Although most briefings are mandatory for the sponsor,
we highly encourage attendance by spouses. Point of contact for all educational programs, to
include scheduling, is the Fire Prevention Section at extension 676-3021.
   5.1. Fire prevention educational class is available to all base personnel. All are voluntarily
   attended and supported by the Fire Prevention section at extension 676-3021 by appointment.
   5.2. Specialized Briefings and Specific Training. Upon request of any functional or social
   organization, to include schools, the Fire Department will provide specialized briefings and
   specific training tailored to the organizations needs.
   5.3. Halon Flightline Fire Extinguisher Training (initial hands-on) is required for all newly
   assigned aircraft maintenance and aircraft servicing personnel and is provided by the FPO or
   work area supervisor who have been task certified to conduct the training by the FPO.
INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012                                                                 11


6. Requirements for Contractors and Vendors:
   6.1. Contractors, concessionaires and vendors, hereafter referred to as "contractor,"
   performing work or conducting business on or in facilities governed by this instruction will
   comply with the provisions of this instruction.
   6.2. The contractor or an individual appointed by the contractor will be placed in charge of
   fire prevention and shall be responsible for ensuring availability and good operating
   condition of fire protection equipment. Contractors are required to familiarize their
   employees with contents of the Contractor's Brochure and the Turkish translation of this
   instruction which is available from the Fire Prevention Section.
   6.3. All construction sites are subject to a fire safety inspection by Fire Department
   personnel to ensure contractor compliance with regulatory and permit requirements. If a
   hazard or discrepancy is noted, the Fire Department will notify Construction Management or
   the appropriate agency for action. If an imminent danger situation exists, the Fire
   Department retains the right to immediately stop the work in progress until Construction
   Management or the appropriate agency can be contacted for resolution.
   6.4. The contractor is responsible for providing all fire extinguishers necessary to protect the
   job site during the course of contract execution. Extinguishers will be provided throughout
   the work area as prescribed in NFPA 10. The extinguishers will be maintained in a
   serviceable condition. Failure to maintain required coverage will be grounds for a work
   stoppage until the situation is corrected.
   6.5. Unobstructed access lanes for firefighting vehicles will be provided to the job site at the
   start of construction and maintained until the construction is complete and accepted.
   6.6. Contractors will assure an adequate water supply for fire protection is available as soon
   as combustible materials begin to accumulate.
   6.7. All temporary connections to water mains or fire hydrants will be coordinated with and
   approved by the Fire Department prior to being accomplished.
   6.8. The contractor will contact the Fire Department prior to disconnecting, relocating,
   extending, or performing any maintenance on installed fire protection systems.
   6.9. The contractor will reimburse the United States Government for all costs associated
   with any emergency response and/or subsequent operations required as a result of the
   contractor violating this instruction.




                                             CHRISTOPHER E. CRAIGE, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 12                                                    INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFMAN 24-204, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, 1 September 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
AFOSHSTD 91-17, Interior Spray Finishing, 01 September 1997
AFOSHSTD 91-5, Welding, Cutting and Brazing, 01 May 1997
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 07 July 2004
AFOSHSTD 91-66, General Industrial Operations, 01 October 1997
DoDI 6055.6, Fire and Emergency Services (F&ES) Program, 21 December 2006
TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding 10 February 2010
TO 11A-1-33, Handling and Maintenance of Explosives Loaded Aircraft, 27 May 2009
TO 42B5-1-2, Gas Cylinders (Storage Type)--Use, Handling, and Maintenance, 15 May 2006
39 ABW SPR Plan, Hazardous Materials Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan, 5
April 2011
NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2009
NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, 2009
NFPA 54, National Fuel Gas Code, 2009
NFPA 70, National Electric Code®, 2009
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code ®, 2009
UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 14 July 2009
Prescribed Forms:
No forms prescribed.
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 CES—39th Civil Engineer Squadron
39 LRS—39th Logistics Readiness Squadron
39 MDG—39th Medical Group
39 MXS—39th Maintenance Squadron
INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012                              13


39 SFS—39th Security Forces Squadron
728 AMS—728th Air Mobility Squadron
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Services
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSHSTD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information System
AC—Alternating Current
BBQ—Barbecue
BOQ—Bachelor Officials Quarter
CDC—Child Development Center
CEE—Consortium for Energy Efficiency
DIN—Do-It-Now
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FACC—Fire Alarm Communications Center
FM—Factory Mutual
FPO—Fire Prevention Office
FSD—Fire Safety Deficiencies
HVAC—Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning
MFH—Military Family Housing
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFO—Senior Fire Official
TO—Technical Order
TSE—Turkish Standard Institute
UEPH—Unaccompanied Enlisted Personnel Housing
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
UL—Underwriters Laboratory
VAQ—Visiting Airman Quarters
 14                                          INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012


VBR—Vinnell-Brown and Root
VDE—Society of German Electricians-Germany
VOQ—Visiting Officials Quarter
INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012                                                                 15


                                                Attachment 2
                  MONTHLY FACILITY FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST

Table A2.1. Monthly Facility Fire Prevention Checklist
                              MONTHLY FACILITY
                                                                                            Y   N
                        FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST
 Occupant training accomplished per the requirements of AFI 91-202, The Air Force
 Mishap Prevention Program?
 Are fire extinguishers visually inspected monthly to detect and correct discrepancies?
 Have facility managers taken initial/annual facility manager’s training?
 Are all exits and exit accesses unobstructed?
 Are emergency lighting systems operational?
 Are mechanical rooms that you have access to cleared of any items not necessary to the
 operation of the installed equipment?
 Housekeeping…..Are storage rooms neat, clean and items stacked as required?
 Are flammable liquids stored in an approved flammable storage locker? Is the locker in
 an approved location? Is there an updated letter for materials? AFOSH 91-501

 Fire detection/suppression systems unobstructed, minimum 18 inch clearance
 maintained between detector, sprinkler head etc.? (NFPA 72)

 Pull station personnel notification systems.

 Has a written operating instruction been developed and does include emergency
 reporting evacuation procedures?

 [Places of Public Assembly]

 Are personnel who work in places of public assembly trained initially and annually
 thereafter on their responsibilities for fire protection and prevention? AFOSH 91-501

 [Commercial Cooking Facilities]
 Are all commercial cooking facilities provided with a system to remove smoke and
 grease-laden vapors? Are the filters, hoods and exposed surfaces cleaned at least daily,
 with thorough cleaning of hoods and exhaust ducts at least biannually? AFOSH 91-501
 Are deep fat fryers equipped with a primary thermostat of 400 degrees F and a
 secondary thermostat of 475 degrees F?

 Are deep fat fryer thermostats tested annually and after any repairs?
  [Health Care Facilities]
  Has a written fire plan been developed for the health care facility and does it include
appropriate staff response to fire emergencies and requirements for education and
training?
                                               Attachment 3
                                    FIRE EXTINGUISHER MONTHLY CHECK

Table A3.1. Fire Extinguisher Monthly Check

  BUILDING #                             FIRE EXTINGUISHER MONTHLY CHECK
  TYPE     LOCATION       SERIAL NO      JAN FEB   MAR   APR   MAY   JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT   NOV DEC
INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012                                           17


                                                    Attachment 4
                               EMERGENCY LIGHTING UNIT MONTHLY CHECK

Table A4.1. Emergency lighting Unit Monthly Check

BUILDING #                             EMERGENCY LIGHTING UNIT MONTHLY CHECK
TYPE     LOCATION       JAN    FEB   MAR     APR    MAY      JUN   JUL   AUG   SEP   OCT   NOV   DEC
 18                                          INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012


                                                Attachment 5
                                       EXIT LIGHT MONTHLY CHECK

Table A5.1. Exit Light Monthly Check

BUILDING #                                     EXIT LIGHT MONTHLY CHECK
TYPE     LOCATION        JAN     FEB   MAR   APR   MAY         JUN   JUL   AUG   SEP   OCT   NOV   DEC
INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012                                        19


                                                   Attachment 6
                                HOOD AND DUCT DAILY CLEANING SCHEDULE

Table A6.1. Hood and Duct Cleaning Schedule

BUILDING #                   HOOD AND DUCT DAILY CLEANING SCHEDULE
DATE         BY              DATE             BY           DATE   BY        DATE   BY
 20                                              INCIRLIKABI32-2001 10 JULY 2012


                                                    Attachment 7
                                           FIRE EVACUATION DRILL RECORD

Table A7.1. Fire Evacuation Drill Record

BUILDING #                                        FIRE EVACUATION DRILL RECORD

 DATE       TIME      NUMBER OF PERSONNEL              EVACUATION TIME             COMMENTS
