BY ORDER OF THE                                 INCIRLIK AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 36-803
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER
(USAFE)                                                                          15 JULY 2010
                                                          Certified Current on 6 December 2012
                                                                                     Personnel

                                                              FLEXIBLE WORK SCHEDULE
                                                                    WITH CREDIT HOURS




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 39 FSS/FSMC                                                       Certified by: 39 FSS/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col James Turner)
                                                                                        Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-8, Employee Benefits And
Entitlements And Work/Life Programs and provides guidance on policies and procedures for a
Flexible Work Schedule (FWS) with Credit Hours Option. This publication applies to all United
States (U.S.) civilian employees within 39th Air Base Wing (39 ABW) and Geographically
Separated Units (GSU). The purpose of this instruction is to provide guidance regarding the
manner in which the credit hours are requested and approved and explain key terms. This
instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by 5 USC 552 (a). System of records notice F065 AF A, Time and Attendance
Feeder Records (68 FR 59167) applies. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), 39 FSS/FSMC, using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. General. Alternative Work Schedule (AWS) programs enable managers and supervisors to
meet their program goals while allowing employees to be more flexible in scheduling their
personal activities. As employees gain greater control over their time, they can balance work
and family responsibilities more easily, become involved in volunteer activities, and take
advantage of educational opportunities. All U.S. civilian employees in the 39 ABW are eligible
 2                                                        INCIRLIKABI36-803 15 JULY 2010


to participate in a FWS with the credit hours option only unless there is a mission requirement
that bars their participation. FWS participation is voluntary, not mandatory, on the part of
employees.
2. Standard Tour of Duty: The Standard Tour of Duty will be determined by Managers and/or
Supervisors. Tours of Duty must remain consistent unless a change in work schedule is
submitted to Payroll Liaison.
     2.1. Work Day: Organizational core hours are typically 0800-1600. Core hours are time
     periods an employee must be at work (or in an approved leave status). In a FWS, an
     employee may request his/her own arrival/departure time within the confines of an
     organization's core hours. Meaning, an employee may start work as early as 0700, or at 15-
     minute intervals thereafter. The regular duty day may not end earlier than 1600. End time is
     computed by adding 8 hours, plus the scheduled lunch period, to the start time. With
     supervisory approval, workweek start/stop times may vary to accommodate specific
     organizational needs. Employees selecting start/stop times under FWS must continue to
     adhere to these times. Additional changes to start/stop times must be requested by the
     employee and approved by their supervisor.
     2.2. Lunch Period: Lunch period is a minimum of 30 minutes but may be extended up to
     120 minutes (using 15-minute increments) to participate in health and wellness activities, or
     attend to personal activities. The employee’s arrival or departure time is adjusted to
     accommodate the longer lunch period. Employees cannot work through a lunch period to
     shorten a workday.
3. Credit Hours: Credit hours are requested by an employee, rather than directed by
management. Credit hours can only be earned by employees participating in a FWS. These are
hours an employee elects to work in excess of his or her basic work requirement so as to vary the
length of a workweek or workday. Such hours may be earned in 30-minute increments not to
exceed 8 hours per biweekly pay period. Per the Office of Personnel Management, Handbook on
Alternative Work Schedules, the accumulation of credit hours is limited to a maximum of 24
hours between pay periods. Hours earned in excess of this amount are lost. Credit hours may be
worked on weekends or holidays (outside of the normal duty hours which qualify for holiday
premium pay), not to exceed 8 hours per session. Credit hours should not be used to establish a
recurring day off.
     3.1. Credit hours for Family/Goal Days: Employees may utilize earned credit hours to
     participate in United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) Family/Goal Day in lieu of
     annual leave.
4. Compensatory Time for Travel: Section 203 of the Federal Workforce Flexibility Act of
2004 (Public Law 108-411) authorized compensatory travel time for time spent by an employee
in a travel status. Time in a travel status includes the time an employee spends traveling between
the official duty station and a temporary duty station, or between two temporary duty stations,
and the usual waiting time that precedes or interrupts such travel. Travel time in connection with
an employee's permanent change of station is not time in a travel status.
     4.1. Credit Hours vs. Compensatory Time for Travel: An employee may not earn credit
     hours for travel because travel in connection with Government work is not voluntary in
     nature and does not meet the definition of credit hours.
INCIRLIKABI36-803 15 JULY 2010                                                                  3


5. Management/Supervisor Responsibilities: Supervisors must offer employees maximum
opportunity to take advantage of the FWS and credit hours option. In addition, Office of
Personnel Management, Handbook on Alternative Work Schedules, requires an affirmative
means of ensuring FWS employees meet their hours of work requirement. This requirement
must be met by use of the organization’s Time and Attendance tracking methodology, requiring
employees to record their arrival and departure times.
   5.1. Supervisor must be able to warrant the need for the request for credit hours.
6. Employee Responsibilities: It is the employee’s responsibility to adhere to the FWS
requirements:
   6.1. Request to earn credit hours in advance when possible. Employee requests to work such
   hours should be reviewed by the supervisor to determine if work demands warrant the
   employee working the additional hours, and if so, approved before the work has been
   performed when feasible.
   6.2. Make a reasonable effort to use credit hours earned as soon as work schedule permits.
   6.3. Accurately account for all duty hours. If an employee knowingly submits false time and
   attendance information, they may be subject to disciplinary action.
7. Time Keeper Responsibilities: The timekeeper or Finance Customer Service
Representative, who inputs the organization’s time and attendance, must submit a Work
Schedule Change memo for each employee and update the work schedule change in Defense
Civilian Pay System (DCPS) prior to the effective pay period. Additionally, the timekeeper must
use appropriate Time and Attendance codes for credit hours earned (CD) and credit hours used
(CN).
8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   8.1. Prescribed Forms.
       8.1.1. No Forms Prescribed.
   8.2. Adopted Forms.
       8.2.1. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            ERIC A. BEENE, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 4                                                   INCIRLIKABI36-803 15 JULY 2010


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN33-363. Management of Records, 1March 2008
AFPD36-8, Employee Benefits And Entitlements And Work/Life Programs, 10 February 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW— 39th Air Base Wing
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Manger System
AWS— Alternative Work Schedule
DCPS— Defense Civilian Pay System
FWS— Flexible Work Schedule
GSU— Geographically Separated Units
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
U.S.— United States
USAFE— United States Air Force in Europe
