BY ORDER OF THE                                                            INCIRLIK AIR BASE
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER                                             INSTRUCTION 36-2903
(USAFE)
                                                                             6 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                 DRESS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF
                                                              AIR FORCE PERSONNEL



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 39 FSS/FSMPS                                                         Certified by: 39 FSS/CC
                                                                   (Lt Col Bernadette P. Bowman)
                                                                                           Pages: 6


This instruction implements Title 10 U.S.C., Chapter 45, The Uniform, Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 1334.1, Wearing of the Uniform, and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-
29, Military Standards and provides guidance on the wear of duty and off duty clothing on
Incirlik AB. This instruction provides detailed guidance for the wear of the Airman Battle
Uniform, AF Blue Uniform, Physical Training Uniform, civilian clothing, and authorized
uniform for deployed and transient personnel. This instruction applies to all 39th Air Base Wing
(39 ABW) personnel, 385th Aerospace Expeditionary Group (385 AEG) personnel and transient
travelers. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this instruction is a violation of
Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). IAW paragraphs 2.1 and 2.2. of this
instruction, violations noted by commanders and supervisors may result in disciplinary action.

1. Overview. This instruction provides information about local policies related to AFI 36-2903,
Dress and Appearance. The guidance in this instruction outlines minimum standards of personal
appearance in uniform and civilian attire specific to Incirlik AB for the purpose of ensuring good
order and discipline, as well as positive and culturally sensitive interaction with our host nation.
 2                                                 INCIRLIKABI36-2903 6 NOVEMBER 2012


It applies to all personnel assigned to or attached to Incirlik AB, Turkey to include sister-service
personnel.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Commander is responsible for ensuring personnel under their command present a
     professional military and conservative appearance both in uniform and when in civilian
     clothing. Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this instruction is a
     violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
     2.2. The supervisor is responsible for ensuring personnel under their supervision present a
     professional military and conservative appearance both in uniform and when in civilian
     clothing. Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this instruction is a
     violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
3. Wear of duty uniforms. The following guidelines will be adhered to and followed:
     3.1. Duty Uniforms.
        3.1.1. Mondays. Personnel will wear any authorized combination of the AF blue
        uniform, unless authorized by the 39 ABW Commander to wear a different uniform.
        3.1.2. Tuesday thru Sunday. Personnel will wear the appropriate duty uniform as
        prescribed by their unit commander.
        3.1.3. ABU coat (shirt). At the discretion of the unit commander, personnel may remove
        the ABU coat in the workplace. Personnel may also roll their sleeves IAW AFI 36-2903,
        paragraph 5.1.1.
        3.1.4. During exercises, contingencies, FPCON CHARLIE or higher, and other non-
        standard periods, the uniform of the day will be determined by the wing commander.
        3.1.5. Personnel will not wear uniforms in The Alley or to any other off-base locations.
        3.1.6. Requests for exception to this policy must be submitted in writing to the 39 ABW
        Commander for approval.
     3.2. Civilian Clothing
        3.2.1. Turkey is predominantly a Muslim country located in an area of the world that is
        prone to terrorist activity. It is important that we all consider how we dress and the
        potential effect our dress may have on our hosts and our fellow Airmen.
        3.2.2. In keeping with Host Nation sensitivities, clothing with any offensive language or
        pictures will not be worn on or off Incirlik AB. This includes but is not limited to
        clothing with nudity, lewd or obscene depictions, profanity and drug-related pictures or
        language. It also includes clothing that depicts any type of discriminatory message or is
        associated with gang activities.
        3.2.3. When performing official duties off base, personnel will wear civilian clothing
        using the following guidelines:
            3.2.3.1. Shirts (Male). Shirts with collars and hemmed sleeves are required. Tank
            tops and t-shirts are not authorized. Either long or short-sleeves are acceptable.
            Shirts will not be unbuttoned below the collarbone. Shirts that display U.S. and/or
INCIRLIKABI36-2903 6 NOVEMBER 2012                                                              3


        military insignia, unit designators, vulgar language or depictions, or alcoholic
        beverage logos are considered inappropriate. Sheer or see through fabrics are not
        authorized. Shirts will be tucked in at all times.
        3.2.3.2. Shirts (Female). Appropriate attire includes shirts with collars and sleeves.
        Upper arms, shoulders, and collarbone will be covered. Shirts will be long enough to
        cover the midriff and not tied at the waist. Inappropriate attire includes tank tops,
        midriff shirts, t-shirts, halter-tops, and braless shirts. Shirts that display U.S. and/or
        military insignia, unit designators, vulgar language or depictions, or alcoholic
        beverage logos are considered inappropriate. Sheer or see through fabrics are not
        authorized. Depending on shirt style, they will be tucked in at all times.
        3.2.3.3. Pants (Male). Approved attire includes slacks, proper fitting jeans in good
        condition (i.e., not faded, bleached, or torn). Shorts are not authorized.
        3.2.3.4. Pants/Skirts/Dresses (Female). Approved attire includes skirts, dresses,
        slacks and jeans. All skirts, dresses, and pants must be loose fitting and skirts will be
        at knee length or longer. Jeans must be in good condition (i.e., not faded, bleached or
        torn).
     3.2.4. Body piercing rings, other than conservative earrings worn in the ears by females,
     are not allowed either on or off base.
     3.2.5. The wear of clothing that is overly revealing and the lack of clothing in public
     areas is not allowed. Specifically:
        3.2.5.1. Swimming attire and bathing suits will be constrained to the base pool,
        residential areas and the immediate areas around dormitories.
        3.2.5.2. Commercial attire will be worn in keeping with the standards of
        reasonableness. Personnel are required at a minimum to wear a shirt, shorts and
        footwear when outdoors (EXCEPTION: base pool, in residential areas or the
        immediate area around dormitories). This includes participation in all types of
        physical activities.
  3.3. Men’s and Women’s Physical Training Uniform (PTU) and Improved Physical
  Training Uniform (IPTU).
     3.3.1. The use of portable headphones, earphones, cellular phones, iPods, or other
     listening and entertainment devices (other than hearing aids) while walking, jogging,
     running, bicycling, skating, or skateboarding on Incirlik roadways is prohibited.
     However, the wear of these devices is authorized in the Triangle running area (if running
     on the left hand side of the road facing traffic), Incirlik Unit School running track, and
     sidewalks. When running on sidewalks, portable headphones, earphones, cellular
     phones, iPods, or other listening and entertainment devices (other than hearing aids) must
     be removed when crossing roadways.
     3.3.2. Wear of black, brown, navy blue or sage-green backpacks or camelbacks, while
     exercising outdoors, is authorized.
     3.3.3. The wear of sweat-soaked, stained or soiled PTUs or IPTUs into any food outlet,
     to include the dining facility, is not authorized.
4                                                INCIRLIKABI36-2903 6 NOVEMBER 2012


       3.3.4. The top of the shorts will not be “rolled over” to allow them to ride higher.
       3.3.5. The hood of the PTU jogging suit must be stored and zipped when not worn.
       3.3.6. Specialized workout gear and items used in conjunction with workouts (i.e.,
       armbands, workout gloves, weight belts, towels, etc) will only be worn while actively
       engaged in exercise.
       3.3.7. Personnel are authorized to wear sunglasses during the Wing Run, as long as they
       are worn properly (not on the top of the head) and meet the standards for sunglasses
       outlined in AFI 36-2903.
       3.3.8. The only baseball style hat approved for wear with the PTU or IPTU is the Dark
       Blue or Black hat displaying the Air Force symbol with or without “Air Force” or “U.S.
       Air Force” lettering. No other baseball caps or colors are authorized.
    3.4. Clothing/Accessory Standards.
       3.4.1. Reflective Belt.
          3.4.1.1. When in uniform, reflective belts will be worn around the waist during the
          hours of darkness, usually from sundown until sun up the next day. The entire belt
          will be visible from the front and back and not obstructed by clothing, backpacks, etc.
          Wear of reflective belts is mandatory during periods of darkness or low visibility and
          when wearing the IPTU. Reflective belts worn on the flight line will be marked IAW
          AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management. On-duty Security
          Forces Airmen will not wear reflective belts. EXCEPTION: During day light hours
          flight line personnel will only wear the reflective belt when performing duties on the
          flight line or in adjacent work areas. Flight line personnel will conceal reflective
          belts during day light hours when away from the flight line or its adjacent work areas.
          3.4.1.2. Personnel are not required to wear the reflective belt when wearing the PTU.
          When worn, the PTU provides the appropriate level of reflective protection.
       3.4.2. Headgear.
          3.4.2.1. When in uniform, PTU, or IPTU, hats will be removed when indoors
          (including in the fitness center or Dining Facility). Hats may be worn with civilian
          clothing in the fitness center and will not contain vulgar language or depictions, or
          alcoholic beverage logos. EXCEPTION: Military Force Support personnel
          performing duties in the dining facility will wear the appropriate headgear. Also, on-
          duty Security Forces personnel will remain covered when under arms and performing
          official duties. Headgear is not required while operating heavy equipment vehicles
          such as forklifts, backhoes and loaders unless personnel safety is a concern.
          3.4.2.2. While in uniform on a bicycle or motorcycle, safety helmet must be removed
          and appropriate headgear donned immediately after parking.
       3.4.3. No Hat/Headgear Areas.
          3.4.3.1. The following areas are approved “No Hat/Headgear” areas on Incirlik AB:
          All flight line areas, 39th Operations Squadron Pavilion immediately adjacent to
          Building 526, and the outdoor eating areas adjacent to Starbucks, the Bowling Center,
          Community Center, Golf Course, and the American Eatery.
INCIRLIKABI36-2903 6 NOVEMBER 2012                                                            5


     3.4.4. Cold weather accessories.
        3.4.4.1. The sage green fleece may be worn indoors.
        3.4.4.2. Fleece or knit watch cap: will be plain, solid black, dark blue, or sage green,
        without logos.
     3.4.5. Backpacks/Personal Hydration Systems/Camelbacks. Any backpack color/pattern
     authorized in AFI 36-2903, is allowed. Camelbacks may be worn/carried while wearing
     the PTU and performing authorized physical activities.
     3.4.6. Coveralls. Coveralls, when issued, are authorized for wear in the immediate work
     area only. Colors will be dictated by the issuing authority. Name tapes are authorized
     but the following restrictions apply: name tapes will be last name only (no nicknames),
     ABU style and worn over the right breast pocket. Sleeves may be converted to short
     sleeves. When converted, sleeves will touch or come within 1 inch of the forearms when
     the arm is bent at a 90-degree angle; they will have sewn or hemmed edges. Due to
     extreme summer temperatures, commanders may allow personnel not to wear the full
     ABU under the coveralls while on duty. However, ABUs must be immediately available
     for wear.
  3.5. Wear of deployed uniform.
     3.5.1. Desert Uniforms.
        3.5.1.1. Only 385 AEG personnel and transient travelers deployed or deploying
        in/out of the AFCENT/CENTCOM AOR are authorized to wear the Boonie hat and
        Desert Flight Duty Uniform on Incirlik AB.




                                          CHRISTOPHER E. CRAIGE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 6                                           INCIRLIKABI36-2903 6 NOVEMBER 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFMAN 33-363. Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 ABW—39th Air Base Wing
IPTU—Improved Physical Training Uniform
PTU—Physical Training Uniform
