BY ORDER OF THE                                    INCIRLIK AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 24-302
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER
(USAFE)                                                                         9 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                      Transportation

                                                             VEHICLE ACCIDENT AND ABUSE
                                                                               PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 39 LRS/LGRVM                                                          Certified by: 39 LRS/CC
                                                                         (Maj James B. Gherdovich)
                                                                                           Pages: 11


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Management, Operation
and Use of Transportation Vehicles, and references Air Force Instruction (AFI) 24-302, Vehicle
Management provides guidance on the vehicle accident and abuse program at Incirlik Air Base.
Visibility and emphasis is placed at the unit level and under the direct control of the unit
commander to foster better operator care and condition of Incirlik’s vehicle fleet. This instruction
is applicable to all persons operating government motor vehicles/equipment, (owned, rented or
leased) assigned or attached to the 39th Air Base Wing (39 ABW); to include all Geographically
Separated Units (GSU). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/

1. Overview. The key to successfully reducing damage to vehicles is placing responsibility
where it rightfully belongs, that is, with the operator and the operator's commander charged with
maintaining high standards of vehicle operator training and discipline. Consequently, using the
procedures set forth in paragraph 5, this instruction, units will transfer funds for the actual cost of
materials used to repair damage to vehicles operated by their personnel. In cases of vehicle
accident and abuse, unit funds will be transferred to cover material, contract and civilian labor
 2                                                 INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012


expenses. Nothing in this Incirlik Air Base Instruction relieves an individual of personal liability
under a report of survey (ROS). See AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.
     1.1. Goal: To reduce the number of vehicle accidents, abuse and incident cases and reduce
     the risk of personal injury or death while keeping the cost of repairs to an absolute minimum.
     Commanders are required to initiate internal investigations into circumstances surrounding
     accidents, incidents and cases of suspected vehicle abuse or incidents.
     1.2. Definitions:
        1.2.1. Vehicle Accident: A vehicle accident is defined as a collision, impact or abrasion
        against a fixed or moving object with an Air Force owned vehicle or U.S. Government
        Service Administration (GSA) lease vehicle (when available), causing damage and/or
        requiring repairs, whether or not immediately noticeable.
        1.2.2. Vehicle Abuse: Vehicle abuse is defined as an act or omission of negligence or
        misconduct that has caused damage. Vehicle abuse may result in early failure of
        components or immediately detectable damage (Attachment 2).
        1.2.3. Vehicle Incidents: Vehicle incidents are defined as damage not caused by an
        accident or an abuse, and which cannot be considered fair wear and tear; as an example,
        an act of nature.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. Vehicle Management: The 39th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Vehicle Management
     (39 LRS/LGRVM), is responsible for identifying suspected accidents, abuses and incidents
     (Attachment 2). The Chief of Vehicle Management, 39th Logistics Readiness Squadron
     Vehicle Fleet Manager (39 LRS/VFM) or the 39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle
     Management Superintendent (39 LRS/VMS) will evaluate each case and validate each
     alleged vehicle accident, abuse or incident. They will be the final authorities entrusted with
     differentiating between an accident, abuse, or incident. Reporting damage to an Air Force
     vehicle or GSA lease vehicle is the unit’s responsibility. Documentation and tracking of the
     accident, abuse or incident damage repair is the responsibility of the Vehicle Management
     and Analysis (VM&A) section in Vehicle Management. The 39th Logistics Readiness
     Squadron Commander (39 LRS/CC) will be the final authority on determining if financial
     liability will be pursued.
     2.2. Vehicle Operator: The vehicle operator has the primary responsibility to prevent a
     vehicle accident, abuse or incident. Any damage should be immediately reported to the 39th
     Security Forces Squadron (39 SFS). Operators will provide a copy of the SF Form 91, Motor
     Vehicle Accident Report, to customer service when turning the vehicles into Vehicle
     Management. In addition, two copies of the SF Form 94, Statement of Witness, are required
     for GSA lease vehicles. The secondary responsibility rests with the unit's Vehicle Control
     Officer/Vehicle Control Non-Commissioned Officer (VCO/VCNCO), who should be
     inspecting the unit's vehicles periodically for unreported damage and inspect each vehicle
     turned into 39 LRS/LGRVM for repairs.
     2.3. Using Organization: Ultimate financial responsibility for vehicle damage rests with the
     vehicle operator's assigned organization. However, nothing in this Incirlik Air Base
     Instruction relieves an individual of personal liability under a ROS. In cases where multiple
INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                              3


   Air Force owned vehicles or GSA lease vehicles are involved and an investigation cannot
   determine fault, repair cost will be the responsibility of the organization/squadron to which
   the operators are assigned. Group commanders will be responsible for accuracy, review, and
   completeness of any ROS originating within their unit.
3. Accident and Abuse Procedures.
   3.1. Upon determination of vehicle damage as a result of accident or abuse:
      3.1.1. 39 LRS/LGRVM will: Open a vehicle repair estimate work order and take
      pictures to create an accident or abuse case file. As required, copies will also be sent to
      the 39th Air Base Wing Ground Safety (39 ABW/SEG) and/or 39th Air Base Wing Legal
      Office (39 ABW/JA) for their review.
          3.1.1.1. If the estimated repair cost exceeds the vehicle "one-time repair limit," the
          vehicle is considered uneconomically repairable and will not be repaired; however,
          exceptions may be made to meet mission critical needs. The 39 LRS/CC and/or HQ
          USAFE/A4 determine these exceptions, depending on vehicle type.
          3.1.1.2. Upon completion of repairs, VM&A will forward an AF Form 1823, Vehicle
          and Equipment Work Order with the actual repair costs to the 39 LRS/CC, the
          affected organizational commander and VCO/VCNCO.
          3.1.1.3. After repairs are completed, the actual repair cost is computed as follows:
          The using organization is charged with the cost of replacement parts and contractor
          direct labor. (See Attachment 4). The accident cost summary report will be
          accomplished by VM&A 10 days from completion of work and sent to the 39th LRS
          Resource Advisor (39 LRS/RA).
          3.1.1.4. 39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Operations (39 LRS/LGRVO)
          will recover all non-drivable Government Motor Vehicles (GMV) using a military
          wrecker. The initial responsibility to identify and report accidents rests with the
          vehicle operator.
          3.1.1.5. Maintain accident or abuse repair information for a 12-month period.
   3.2. Assigned and using organizations will:
      3.2.1. Ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of the unit’s safety
      program.
      3.2.2. All GMVs involved in an accident, or found to have damage not previously
      reported (Abuse/Incident), must be turned into the 39 LRS/LGRVM customer service
      section as soon as possible, but no later than the next duty day, so damage assessment and
      initial repair cost estimate can be accomplished.
      3.2.3. SF 91 and DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card, must be completed with all
      pertinent information and provided upon vehicle turn-in to 39 LRS/LGRVM. The vehicle
      will not be considered reported to maintenance until the vehicle and all forms are
      properly submitted. The reporting party must record the responding 39 SFS individual
      name and rank in block 81 of SF Form 91.
      3.2.4. The using organization has 10 calendar days from accident/abuse to conduct an
      investigation, gather the police report and/or ROS data (if required), take pictures,
4                                             INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012


    provide a release letter (Attachment 3 and Attachment 4) and/or file an appeal to Vehicle
    Management and Analysis. 39 LRS/LGRVM will open an accident/abuse repair work
    order and begin repairs upon receipt of all required documents. In some circumstances
    the 39 ABW/JA will be required to review the case and release the vehicle for repair.
    3.2.5. Commanders may initiate a DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of
    Property Loss, investigation into the circumstances involving any accident or suspected
    vehicle abuse case where gross negligence is suspected. If the investigation reveals an
    operator’s gross negligence was the proximate cause of damage to a vehicle, commanders
    may assess pecuniary liability for the repair cost in accordance with AFMAN 23-220,
    Para. 8.6.3.
    3.2.6. Accidents and abuse case statistics will be reported/tracked by 39 LRS/LGRV.
    3.2.7. Report U-Drive-It or loaned vehicle damage to 39 LRS/LGRVM within 24-hours.
    3.2.8. Initiate ROS for Air Force property in accordance with AFMAN 23-220 if willful
    negligence is substantiated. Note: The investigator cannot hold the position of
    VCO/VCNCO.
    3.2.9. Commanders disagreeing with the findings of liability may appeal to the 39
    LRS/CC within 10 calendar days from notification. Additionally, intent to appeal must be
    coordinated with Vehicle Management and Analysis. If the 39 LRS/CC does not support
    the appeal, the appeal package will then be forwarded through the 39th Mission Support
    Group Commander (39 MSG/CC) to the 39th Air Base Wing Commander (39 ABW/CC)
    for final determination.
    3.2.10. If the appeal is approved, no transfer of funds will occur. If the appeal is
    unsuccessful or has not been resolved within 60 days of notification, 39 LRS/LGRVM
    will then contact 39 LRS/RA to make sure the required payment is made.




                                         CHRISTOPHER E. CRAIGE, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                   5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-302, Transportation, Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 01 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFPD 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation Vehicles, 07 July 2010
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 1823, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order, 1 December 1979
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, 1 July 2009
DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card, 1 October 1978
SF 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report, 1 February 1993
SF 94, Statement of Witness, 1 February 1983

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 ABW—39th Air Base Wing
39 ABW/CC—39th Air Base Wing Commander
39 ABW/JA—39th Air Base Wing Judge Advocate
39 ABW/SEG—39th Air Base Wing Ground Safety
39 LRS/CC—39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander
39 LRS/LGRVO—39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Operations
39 LRS/LGRVM—39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Management
39 LRS/RA—39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Resource Advisor
39 LRS/VM&A—39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Management and Analysis
39 LRS/VFM—39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Fleet Manager
39 LRS/VMS—39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Management Superintendent
39 MSG/CC—39th Mission Support Group Commander
39 SFS—39th Security Forces Squadron
AFPD—Air Force Prescribing Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
 6                                                   INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012


AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
GSA—Government Service Administration
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ USAFE/A4—Headquarters United States Air Forces in Europe Logistics
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROS—Report of Survey
UDI—U-Drive-It
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Non-Commissioned Officer
VM—Vehicle Management

Terms
Fair Wear and Tear— The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment based on
its age, usage and life expectancy.
Motor Vehicle Accident— Any collision, impact, or abrasion against a fixed or moving object
with a military motor vehicle, that causes damage, whether immediately noticeable or not.
Vehicle Abuse— An act or omission that has caused, or may cause, damage that cannot be
attributed to fair wear and tear under normal use, accident or incidents. Vehicle abuse may result
in early failure of components or immediately detectable damage. Some examples of vehicle
abuse are listed in (Attachment 2) of this instruction. Controversies about classification will be
handled at the lowest level, with the 39 LRS/CC being final authority.
Vehicle Incident— Repairs required as a result of damages beyond the control of an individual,
which have resulted from natural causes. Such repairs will not be categorized as an accident or
abuse. Letters of explanation will accompany vehicles turned in to explain any incident damage.
Examples of incidents are:
     (1) A rock thrown through the windshield by the tire of a vehicle being followed;
     (2) a wind—carried object striking a vehicle;
     (3) hail or other inclement weather damage.
U-Drive-It (UDI)— Vehicle available to support organizations that do not have assigned (like)
vehicles and to augment units with assigned vehicles in meeting infrequent peak requirements
for short-term use. Support is normally limited to 72-hours.
INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                               7


                                         Attachment 2
                             EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

A2.1. Vehicle Maintenance will initiate vehicle abuse action for vehicle/equipment damage or
failure resulting from:
   A2.1.1. Operating vehicle with insufficient oil, coolant, etc. because operator failed to check
   levels according to established requirements, or failure to monitor dash instrumentation.
   A2.1.2. Operating vehicle with applied/dragging parking brakes.
   A2.1.3. Improper distribution or securing of loads in vehicle cargo areas or not following
   established loading and unloading procedures.
   A2.1.4. Using a vehicle for other than its intended or designed purpose (i.e., 6K F/L used to
   transport a 10,000 pound pallet).
   A2.1.5. Failure to clean/maintain vehicle’s interior/exterior to meet corrosion control and
   appearance requirements.
   A2.1.6. Unauthorized wiring, marking, or equipment add-on/modification of a vehicle
   (VCO/VCNCO must submit in writing all equipment add-on or modification requests
   through 39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Management and Analysis (39
   LRS/VM&A) section for VFM/VMS approval).
   A2.1.7. Unqualified/untrained personnel operating vehicles without an instructor present.
   A2.1.8. Operating a vehicle with improperly inflated tires (i.e., not IAW manufacturer’s
   recommendations).
   A2.1.9. Tire wear beyond limits (i.e., below minimum acceptable safe tread depth of 2/32
   inch). Tire wear that exposes the cord renders tires useless for the recapped/re-grooved
   process.
   A2.1.10. Intentional destruction/disfigurement of vehicle’s interior/exterior.
   A2.1.11. Failing to protect the painted surface(s) from corrosion and/or oxidation.
   A2.1.12. Allowing water to accumulate in the vehicle interior (i.e., washing out the interior
   with a hose, failing to close windows during a rainstorm, etc).
   A2.1.13. Over-filling the engine crankcase, transmission, hydraulic reservoirs or other
   operating systems.
   A2.1.14. Servicing the vehicle fuel tank, hydraulic reservoir or other systems with incorrect
   fuel or oils.
A2.2. Other situations where vehicle abuses may be indicated include, but are not limited to, the
following.
   A2.2.1. Failure to report discrepancies in any of the safety-type systems or devices described
   in AFI 24-302, paragraph 3.12.4 that could adversely affect the safety of personnel or the
   operation of equipment.
8                                                INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012


    A2.2.2. Failure to report damage (accident, incident, and negligence) to Vehicle
    Management by end of next duty day. The VFM/VMS can pre-approve delays of this action
    to satisfy immediate mission needs when warranted.
    A2.2.3. Failure to accomplish proper operator care and maintenance.
    A2.2.4. Failure to bring vehicle/equipment in for scheduled maintenance before an overdue
    condition exists. An approved rescheduling by Vehicle Management due to mission
    requirements is permitted.
INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                 9


                                         Attachment 3
                SAMPLE - VEHICLE RELEASE FOR REPAIRS LETTER

A3.1. Sample – Vehicle Release For Repairs Letter.

Figure A3.1. Sample – Vehicle Release For Repairs Letter.

MEMORANDUM FOR 39 LRS/LGRVM
FROM: Unit/CC
SUBJECT: Vehicle Release for Repairs
1. The vehicle below was turned into Vehicle Maintenance for repair of damage, as indicated in
paragraph 2 below.
  Registration Number: XXXXXXX
  Make/Model: XXXXXXX
2. Provide specifics: It has been determined that the vehicle in question was being operated by
SSgt Smith, who was performing official escort duties. During the course of operating the
vehicle, he misjudged the distance between his vehicle and a ground post located in the India
Loop. While backing, he impacted the post and caused damage to the rear bumper.
3. Provide specifics: An investigation will ―or‖ will not be conducted. The operator has ―or‖
has not accepted liability for damages. The following actions have been taken to prevent future
recurrences of this type.
  a. Specify what action will be taken to prevent similar accidents/abuse.
  b. Indicate what preventative measures the VCO/VCNCO has taken.
  c. Indicate how operators will use training/briefing instructions provided to them.
4. All Vehicle Management O&M funds expended for vehicle accident and abuse repair costs,
including contract costs, will be reimbursed by the owning organization, or the organization
responsible for the damage if not the owner. Where responsibility cannot be determined, our
organization will be responsible for reimbursement.
5. This vehicle is released for repairs. Questions regarding this memorandum may be directed to
unit VCO/VCNCO at 676-XXXX.




                                              FIRST M. LAST, Rank, USAF
                                              Commander
 10                                                 INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012


A3.2. Sample – (2nd Endorsement Page) Vehicle Release for Repairs Letter.

Figure A3.2. Sample – (2nd Endorsement Page) Vehicle Release for Repairs.

2
                                                                                 Date

1st Ind, Unit/CC, DD Mmm YY, Vehicle Release for Repairs

39 ABW/JA

MEMORANDUM FOR 39 LRS/LGRVM

This vehicle (registration number) is/is not released for repairs.




                                                 FIRST M. LAST, Rank, USAF
                                                 39 ABW/Legal Office
INCIRLIKABI24-302 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                   11


                                          Attachment 4
                   SAMPLE - VEHICLE ACCIDENT REPAIR LETTER

A4.1. Sample – Vehicle Accident Repair Letter.

Figure A4.1. Sample – Vehicle Accident Repair Letter.


MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT/CC
FROM: 39 LRS/CC
SUBJECT: Vehicle Repair Accident Cost
1. Vehicle (Registration Number), assigned to Unit was turn in on Date to Vehicle Management
with damage that cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear.
2. The total cost of repairs are listed below. They were necessary to return this asset to a safe
and serviceable condition:
  Case Number: XXXXX
  Registration Number: XXXXX
  Work Order Number: XXXXX
  Labor Cost: $XXX
  Material Cost: $XXX
  Total Cost: $XXX
3. In accordance with AFI 24-302, Transportation, Vehicle Management, paragraph 1.13.1.,
O&M funds expended for vehicle accident and abuse repair costs, including contract costs, will
be reimbursed to Vehicle Management by the owning organization, or the organization
responsible for the damage, if not the owner. All references are located on the Vehicle
Management Community of Practice at the following address:
4. In cases where responsibility cannot be determined, the owning organization will be
responsible for reimbursement. The using organization investigates all damage not attributable
to fair wear and tear IAW AFI 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.
5. As of this date; repair for the assigned vehicle has been completed. Vehicle Management will
promptly notify the 39th Logistics Readiness Squadron Resource Advisor to begin the process of
reimbursement.
6. Questions regarding this Memorandum may be directed to the Chief, Vehicle Management,
First M. Last at XXX-XXXX.



                                                FIRST M. LAST, Rank, USAF
                                                Commander
