BY ORDER OF THE                                 INCIRLIK AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 44-102
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER
(USAFE)                                                                   14 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                        Medical

                                                       MANAGEMENT OF DRUG TESTING
                                                                        PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 39 MDOS/SGOW                                                    Certified by: 39 MDOS/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col Shephanie Buffett)
                                                                                       Pages: 11


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 44-1, Medical Operations and
references Air Force Instruction (AFI) 44-120, Military Drug Demand Reduction Program and
provides guidance on for carrying out the military drug demand reduction program at Incirlik Air
Base. This instruction applies to all personnel within the 39th Air Base Wing. The Privacy Act
of 1974 and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 affects portions of
this plan as they pertain to service documents used to collect and assess data. All forms are
subject to the provisions of AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program and as required by this instruction,
contain a Privacy Act Statement, either incorporated in the body of the document or in a separate
statement accompanying the document. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. Unit Commanders:
       1.1.1. Appoint in writing trusted agents that are authorized to receive selection letters,
       notify personnel and sign selection letters in commander‘s absence. Ensure that enough
       trusted agents are appointed so that one is always available when it is a testing day. The
 2                                                  INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012


        unit is responsible for ensuring a trusted agent responds stating their availability when the
        Drug Demend Reduction Program Manager (DDRPM) or Drug Testing Program
        Administrative Manager (DTPAM) make contact with them. They must check their
        email by 0930 each day. Forecast upcoming problems caused by rotation of personnel to
        ensure that a trusted agent is always available.
        1.1.2. Credible observers are detailed by squadron on a monthly rotating basis through
        the Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP) office.
        1.1.3. Observers are detailed to the DDRP Office, 39 MDOS/SGOW, Bldg 865, Room
        IL30A. Observers duty day will be from 0830-1200 hours or until the last person tests.
2. Testing.
     2.1. Daily random inspection testing is conducted in building 855, Room 1L03A. Collection
     time is 0830-1200 hours daily (excluding non-duty days). Appointments may be scheduled
     for after 1200 with prior coordination with the DDRP Office. Squadrons are responsible for
     providing observers for scheduled appointments after 1200. During normal duty hours all
     collections (except aircraft mishaps, medical drug testing, and Alcohol Drug Abuse
     Prevention Training (ADAPT) Program enrollees) will be performed by the DDRP staff. On
     days when base sweeps are conducted, the DDRP office may request additional support.
     2.2. Trusted agents are notified on the morning of the test date of members assigned to their
     unit selected for testing. Members selected are to be instructed on the reporting process once
     notified by the commander or trusted agents. A current file of all trusted agents is
     maintained by the DDRP personnel. Trusted agents are appointed in writing by the
     individual unit commanders and a copy of their appointment letter is kept on file with the
     DDRP staff.
3. Untestable Specimen Rate.
     3.1. The monthly untestable rate must remain less than one percent of all specimens
     collected. In the event that the untestable rate exceeds the monthly one percent, an untestable
     action plan must be completed and forwarded in accordance with AFI 44-120 to
     Headquarters United States Air Forces Europe (HQ USAFE) see Attachment 2.
     Attachment 2 is an approved action plan by HQ USAFE.
4. Drug Testing Program Inspections.
     4.1. The 39 ABW/JA will conduct and document periodic quarterly inspections of the drug
     testing program using DoD Directive and Instructions, Air Force Instructions, and/or
     appropriate checklists.
     4.2. The DDPRM will inspect unit trusted agent programs as requested by the unit. If a unit
     requires assistance with properly administering the program the DDRPM may also inspect
     the unit.
5. Bickel Testing.
     5.1. All service members assigned to Incirlik Air Base (AB) who meet one or both of the
     criteria below will be required to submit to urinalysis testing as an ―inspection‖ test. This is
     not to be confused with a ―commander-directed urinalysis.‖
INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012                                                             3


      5.1.1. All members will be tested immediately after notification to their unit of the
      member‘s positive drug test result based upon a random urinalysis drug test (to include
      unit sweeps and inspection testing).
      5.1.2. All members who have been Absent Without Leave (AWOL) for more than 8
      hours will be tested immediately upon their return to military control.
   5.2. Upon notification from the DDRPM that a member has tested positive, or upon the
   member‘s return to military control from being AWOL, the member‘s commander will use a
   written order to direct the member to submit to urinalysis testing. If the member is on leave
   at the time the commander is notified of a positive test result, the commander will order the
   additional urinalysis test upon the member‘s return to duty.
   5.3. The primary purpose of drug testing is to determine and ensure the security, military
   fitness, and good order and discipline of the members stationed at Incirlik AB, Turkey. It is
   also directed to determine and to ensure that the installation is functioning properly,
   maintaining proper standards of readiness, airworthiness, and that personnel are present, fit
   and ready for duty. These procedures are instituted in accordance with M.R.E 313; U.S. V.
   Patterson, 39 M.J. 678 (N.M.C.M.R. 1993); U.S. v. Danskam, 31 M.J. 77 (C.M.A. 1990);
   U.S. v. Bickel, 30 M.J. 277 (C.M.A. 1990); U.S. v. Moeller, 30 M.J. 676 (A.F.C.M.R. 1990);
   and military appellate court decision.
6. Night Time and Shift Worker Testing.
   6.1. Night time/Shift Workers will be tested randomly throughout the month from 1700 –
   2000. The DDRP Office personnel will conduct the testing. Squadrons must supply
   observers for night testing. Observers duty time for night testing will be from 1700 – 2000 or
   until the last person tests.
   6.2. Donors for night time testing will need to go thru ambulance services to enter building
   855. Donors will be escorted from ambulance services to room 1L03A by a representative of
   the DDRP Office. Donors should show up with their testing letter and military identification
   card. Donors will not be released until they provide an adequate sample.
7. After Hours Testing.
   7.1. All after hours testing of personnel for other than Inspection Tests will be done at the
   Ambulance Services department. Ambulance Services staff are trained as needed in all
   aspects of specimen collection/maintenance by the DDRPM.
   7.2. The proper documentation must be presented before collection can be done (i.e.,
   commander directed letter, search and seizure authorization, etc.). See attachment 2 for
   collection procedures for after hours testing by ambulance services.
   7.3. The documentation will be hand delivered to the DDRP office and maintained in the
   DDRP office.
   7.4. Urine specimens must be under direct control of the collector or must be kept in a secure
   area or container that only the collector has access to. When DDRP personnel arrive the next
   duty day, the collector will hand over the specimens to the DTPAM or DDRPM. Proper
   completion of the chain of custody will be done under the supervision of the DTPAM or
   DDRPM.
 4                                                 INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012


8. Geographically Separated Units (GSU).
     8.1. GSUs will be treated uniquely based on duty location, mission, and personnel strengths.
     8.2. The 425th Air Base Squadron Commander will appoint trusted agents and DTPAMs in
     writing. DTPAMs are required to complete training prior to the collection of samples. The
     39th Air Base Wing DDRPM will provide training to new DTPAMs.
     8.3. The 39 ABW/JA will audit the GSU drug-testing program quarterly per AFI 44-120 and
     provide the Incirlik AB DDRPM with results, which will be maintained in the DDRP
     continuity binder.
9. Security of Urine Specimens.
     9.1. Urine specimens will be secured from the time of collection through actual shipment.
     Failure to maintain adequate security may compromise the commander‘s Drug Testing
     Program and invalidate results. Deviations from the guidelines that follow are not
     authorized. If urine specimens are held under conditions which conflict with these
     guidelines, a full written account must be provided to the 39 ABW/JA no later than 24 hours
     after collection. Specimens will not be shipped until the 39 ABW/JA has reviewed the
     incident.
     9.2. The DDRPM or DTPAM is responsible for the security of the urine specimens from the
     time they are received from the collection agent until they are released through
     registered/first class mail, as appropriate.
     9.3. When not secured in accordance with this instruction, specimens will be maintained
     under direct visual or physical contact.
     9.4. Specimens must be locked in a secure area or container, access to which is limited to the
     collection agent, or the DDPRM, or the designee.
     9.5. Caution must be exercised that no opportunity exists for specimens to be contaminated,
     altered or substituted. Any such opportunity may invalidate test results.
     9.6. Urine specimens will only be collected and processed by trained collection agents.
10. Testing Personnel on Temporary Duty at Incirlik Air Base.
     10.1. Personnel on temporary duty at Incirlik AB are subject to random drug testing.
     Commander directed sweeps are not included in the number of random tests. Commanders
     may coordinate unit sweeps with the Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager.




                                              ERIC A. BEENE, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012                                                       5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 44-120, Military Drug Demand Reduction Program, 03 January 2011
AFI 44-159, Demand Reduction Program, 01 August 2000
DoDD 1010.1, Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program, 09 December 1994
DoDI 1010.16, Technical Procedurs for the Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program, 09
December 1994
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 2624, Drug Testing Specimen Custody Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 ABW/JA—39th Air Base Wing Judge Advocate
39 MDOS/SGOW—
ADAPT—Alcohol Drug Abuse Prevention Training
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Prescribing Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AWOL—Absent Without Leave
DDRP—Drug Demand Reduction Program
DDRPM—Drug Demend Reduction Program Manager
DoD—Department of Defense
DTPAM—Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ USAFE—Headquarters United States Air Force Europe
OPR—Office Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
 6                                                INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012


Terms
Collector— Other personnel that are trained to collect and ship drug urine specimens.
Donor— Military member who is being tested.
Drug Test— A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen, for example, urine is
used to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites.
Notification Letter— Letter issued by the squadron commander to the donor directing them to
report for a random drug urinalysis.
Observer— A person of the same sex as the donor who is designated to directly observe the
donor collect the specimen. Observers are provided by each unit detailed through the Installation
Commander‘s office on a monthly rotating basis. All observers must meet the criteria set in AFI
44-120, Para 4.7.6.7. The request to use a Senior Airman must be approved by the 39 ABW/JA
in writing.
Specimen— Forty-five milliliters of urine rendered in a single collection.
Testing Day— Days that the computer program software or DDRP staff chooses as testing days
for random inspection.
Trusted Agent— An individual appointed in writing by the unit commander to receive the unit‘s
drug urine notification letters, notifies selected individuals, and notifies DDRPM or DTPAM on
the status of selected members.
INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012                                                               7


                                          Attachment 2
                               UNTESTABLE ACTION PLAN

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ USAFE/SGOH

FROM: 39 MDOS/SGOW

SUBJECT: Action Request on Untestable Specimens

1. During the month of February 2010, Incirlik Air Base exceeded the 1% allowable untestable
rate. There were five specimens accounting for ten fatal discrepancy codes and one specimen
accounting for one fatal discrepancy.

   a. GG – Form listed specimen, not bottle received.
   b. FP – Form did not list specimen, bottle received.
   c. BF – Bottle – Two seals, no explanation.

2. The ten fatal discrepancies on the five samples were the fault of Incirlik‘s Geographically
Separated Unit (GSU), Izmir Air Base, resulting in an increased communication between the
Individual Detachment Medical Technician‘s (IDMTs) at Izmir. It has been assured that the
major oversight of not placing the correct form with the specimen will not occur again.

3. The one fatal discrepancy was the fault of Incirlik‘s DDRPM. There were numerous
Memorandum for Records (MFR) with the shipment, resulting in one MFR not being placed in
the correct shipment box. In the future, Incirlik‘s DDRPM will ensure that less paperwork is
included in the shipment so the form or forms will not be misplaced.

4. These items are being implemented to eliminate future, fatal errors:

   a.   Retrain the 425th Air Base Squadron Demand Reduction Program personnel.
   b.   Enforce use of a single test checklist.
   c.   Checklist reviewed and initialed by a second person.
   d.   Ensure minimal paperwork is included in box shipments.

5. A staff assistance visit is being planned to provide training to the Izmir IDMTs. The
reorientation training and implementation of other items should keep the untestable rate below
the 1% standard.

6. If you have any questions, please contact me at DSN 676-5891.



                                                     CYNTHIA FOSTER
                                                     Demand Reduction Program Manager
 8                                            INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012


2

1st Ind, HQ USAFE/SGOH, Action Report on Untestable Specimen

Approve/Disapproved



JASON P. STEEGE, MSgt, USAF, CADAC
Superintendent, Developmental & Behavioral Operations
Office of the Command Surgeon USAFE
INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 9


                                          Attachment 3
                TESTING PROCEDURES FOR AFTER HOURS TESTING

A3.1. Material Required for Collection.
    A3.1.1. Drug Urine Specimen Ledger.
    A3.1.2. DD Form 2624, Drug Testing Specimen Custody Document.
    A3.1.3. Dug Urine Shipping Bottles.
    A3.1.4. Sterile Urine Container (Females).
    A3.1.5. Tamper Resistant Tape.
    A3.1.6. Drug Urine Labels (Labels are a controlled item).
    A3.1.7. Observer Statement.

Table A3.1. Latrine Checklist.

Initials:         Latrine Check

                  Check latrine before collection, ensure there is nothing that can be used to
                  contaminate sample.

                  Only soap and water should be left, no cleaning supplies, liquids, etc. should
                  remain in the latrine.

Table A3.2. Observer Checklist.

Initials:         Observer Briefing

                  Have the observer read and sign the observer statement.

                  Orally brief the observer of their duties, such as washing hands with water,
                  maintaining eye contact, and reporting anything suspicious.

Table A3.3. Outer Garments Checklist.

Initials:         Outer Garments

                  Ensure that if the donor is wearing any bulky outer garments they are
                  removed.
 10                                                  INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012


Table A3.4. Collection Checklist.

Initials:          Collection Steps

                   Using the member‘s identification card the collector will fill out the donor‘s
                   SSN, date and test type on the specimen bottle label.

                   Fill out the testing register with the date, donors rank, name, SSN, and test
                   type.

                   The test type is either command direct (co), consent (vo), or probable cause
                   (po); the requesting agency will tell you which test type to use.

                   With both the observer (supplied by the unit) and the member present, explain
                   to the member that at least 45 mls of urine must be collected at one time, and if
                   less than 45 mls is received the specimen will be discarded and the entire
                   process will be restarted.

                   Ensure that both the member and the observer understand that at no point
                   during the entire process can the bottle leave the observer‘s line of sight.

                   The observer cannot touch the bottle until the tamper resistant tape is in place,
                   and told to do so by the collector. Also, ensure the observer understands that
                   he/she must directly observe the urine leave the body and enter the bottle.

                   Have the member verify the correctness of the SSN on the bottle label.

                   Have the member verify the SSN on the register and ensure that the specimen
                   number on the bottle matches the number recorded.

                   Have the member verify all the information.

                   Observers will verify all information as well. Make corrections if required.

Note: When completing the label and paperwork, minor corrections may be made if an error
occurs. To make corrections, draw one diagonal line through the erroneous figure, write the
correct figure legibly above the error, place initials and dates next to the correction. Each error
must be corrected individually. This procedure should be followed on the label and all
paperwork.

                   Open bottle cap and show member and observer that the bottle is free of any
                   contamination.

                   Have member sign and initial testing register.


Note: Females may be given standard urine collection cups along with the labeled drug urine
bottle. They should be instructed that use of the larger bottle is permitted, but the collecting
INCIRLIKABI44-102 14 FEBRUARY 2012                                                               11


member must pour the urine from the larger collection container into the drug urine bottle, in the
presence of the observer.

                   Have observer escort the member to the restroom, ensuring to keep the bottle
                   in direct line of sight at all times.

                   Instruct the member to hold the bottle above his/her shoulder.

                   Before collecting the specimen, the member will wash hands and under
                   fingernails thoroughly with water only. Dry Hands.

                   When member returns, check the bottle for adequate volume (at least 45mls)
                   and check tightness of lid.

Note: If less than 45mls of urine is provided, the entire contents must be discarded and the
bottle label ―voided‖. Write ‗‘VOID‖ across the bottle label, black out the SSN with a black
marker and write ―quantity not sufficient‖ on the register. The member will stay at the collection
site until an adequate amount has been collected.

                   With the observer and the member watching, apply tamper resistant tape.

                   Starting at one side of the label, in the indicated area, apply the tape going
                   over the top of the bottle lid and completing the tape in the area indicated on
                   the other side of the label.

                   Have the member and the observer verify that the tape is not broken. If all
                   information is correct have the member initial the bottle label.

                   Have the observer initial the bottle label to signify witnessing of sample
                   collection and the verification of all data.

                   The collector will initial on the label next.

                   Have the observer sign and initial the testing register.

                   The collector will sign and initial the testing register next.

                   Return the copy of the commander‘s order and identification card to the
                   member.
