BY ORDER OF THE                                                        INCIRLIK AIR BASE
39TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER                                        INSTRUCTION 31-105V1
(USAFE)
                                                                                 5 JULY 2013

                                                                                      Security

                                                      INCIRLIK AIR BASE CORRECTIONS




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 39 SFS/S5J                                                        Certified by: 39 SFS/CC
                                                                    (Lt Col Brint A. Woodruff)
Supersedes: AFI31-205_INCIRLIKABSUP_I                                                 Pages: 19
            3 MAY 2011


This instruction implements AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense and Air Force Instruction 31-205,
The Air Force Corrections System. This instruction establishes policies, procedures and
standards to be used in both the operation and administration of the Incirlik Confinement
Facility, located on Incirlik Air Base (AB), Turkey. The instruction applies to all Incirlik AB
units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction replaces AFI31-205_INCIRLIKABSUP_I and identifies installation specific
instructions concerning the Air Force Corrections System at Incirlik Air Base into two volumes.
This volume identifies responsibilities for parent units who have personnel in the Incirlik
Confinement Facility (ICF) and contains local requirements for the operation and administration
of the facility.
 2                                                      INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013



                                            Chapter 1

             PROGRAM PURPOSE, GUIDELINES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Program Purpose. All policies and procedures outline in AFI31-205 will be followed in
conjunction with this instruction. The mission of the Incirlik Confinement Facility (ICF) is to
provide correctional services for Air Force and other military personnel awaiting courts-martial
or pending disposition instructions from other commands, and for post-trial inmates pending
transfer to other correctional facilities or awaiting expiration of sentence. The objective of the
facility staff is not to determine innocence or guilt, but to detain until properly released or
transferred.
1.2. Program Guidelines. The installation commander may approve, on a case-by-case basis,
temporary use of the confinement/corrections facilities to house transient confinees under the
control of civilian law enforcement officers. Do not use military personnel as guards for the
transients.
     1.2.1. Civilians may be detained in the ICF under circumstances to be identified by the
     Defense Force Commander (DFC). The DFC will consult the 39th Air Base Wing Staff
     Judge Advocate (39 ABW/JA) on any decision to detain civilians.
     1.2.2. The ICF may house civilians pending release to competent authorities. The restraint
     must meet local agreements and the applicable Status of Forces Agreements (SOFA), along
     with relevant implementation agreements.
     1.2.3. The ICF will not house host nation personnel without prior coordination from the
     installation commander, 39 ABW/JA and host nation authorities.
     1.2.4. A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) is current and on file in Confinement (39
     SFS/S5J) and the Plans (39 SFS/S5P) offices authorizing the use of the fitness center due to
     the ICF not having a recreation yard.
     1.2.5. The ICF is a Level 1 Confinement Facility, designed to house up to two pre-trial
     inmates, detainees or post-trial inmates, normally 180 days or less (can house up to one year
     with Headquarters Air Force Security Forces/Correctional Division (HQ AFSFC/SFC)
     approval) and those awaiting transfer to Regional Correctional Facilities, or as directed by
     HQ AFSFC/SFC.
1.3. Responsibilities. Commanders and supervisors are responsible for ensuring personnel are
familiar with the provisions of this publication and comply with required training for the
confinement facility their personnel may use or operate.
     1.3.1. Parent Unit.
        1.3.1.1. The Air Staff requires the Commander or First Sergeant, or their designated
        representatives visit inmates at least once a month to ensure their health and welfare.
        This visitation will be annotated in the 39th Security Forces Squadron (39 SFS) blotter
        and a copy placed in the CTF. When units are separated geographically from their
        confined personnel contact will be telephonically.
INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013                                                               3


     1.3.1.2. When ICF cannot meet minimum manning requirements, the inmate’s parent
     unit is responsible for providing manpower to sustain facility operations.
     1.3.1.3. The Commander and First Sergeant’s involvement is necessary when
     determining who will be assigned to escort the inmate. It is the parent unit’s
     responsibility for taking the inmate to all scheduled appointments. When escorting
     inmates to appointments, ensure the following escort criteria are followed:
        1.3.1.3.1. The escort, if not the Commander or First Sergeant, will be a disinterested
        individual. Only assign officers and/or NCO’s, equal to, or higher in rank to the
        inmate as escorts.
        1.3.1.3.2. A government vehicle will be used at all times for transporting inmates.
        1.3.1.3.3. All inmate activities outside of the confinement facility need to be verified
        with the Confinement NCOIC.
     1.3.1.4. If the inmate does not have all required clothing/health and comfort items, it is
     the responsibility of the parent unit to obtain the missing items. Uniform and health and
     comfort items for detainees/inmates in a non-pay or total forfeiture status are purchased
     using parent unit O&M funds. (See Attachment 2, Health and Comfort Items) Inmates in
     pay status may purchase items utilizing their Personal Deposit Fund (PDF).
 4                                                    INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013


                                          Chapter 2

                         RECORDS, PROGRAMS AND REPORTS

2.1. Victim/Witness Assistance Program (VWAP). The corrections officer ensures
compliance with established procedures to protect the rights of victims and witnesses in
accordance with (IAW) AFI 51-201 and the Victim and Witness Protection Act of 1982. All
VWAP files will be stored in the confinement office. When the office is not utilized, it will be
secured by lock and key. The only personnel with access to these keys will be inmate guards, the
Confinement NCOIC and the Confinement Officer.
2.2. Sex Offender Notification Program. When releasing inmates in the local area, The
confinement staff will notify all child development agencies and the Air Force Office of Special
Investigations (AFOSI).
INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013                                                                    5


                                            Chapter 3

                                    FACILITY MANAGEMENT

3.1. Inmate Housing. The ICF utilizes cell number one for segregation and cells two and three
for normal custody. Each cell will hold no more than one inmate or detainee except under
circumstances described in AFI 31-205.
3.2. Security, Safety, Fire Prevention and Comfort Measures. The ICF will receive a
monthly fire and safety welfare inspection by a qualified fire and safety inspector. This
inspection will be a thorough review of all aspects of security, safety and fire prevention
measure. The inspecting official will prepare a report covering all deficiencies to be kept
forwarded to the confinement officer for review and approval. All reports will be kept on file for
six months.
   3.2.1. Augmented Security.        When possible, use Close Circuit Television (CCTV) for
   internal and external control.
       3.2.1.1. The ICF will have a minimum of four cameras and one monitor within the ICF
       to maintain internal control over all inmates and detainees.
       3.2.1.2. The Confinement, NCOIC of confinement and staff will have primary
       responsibility to ensure the CCTV system is operational.
       3.2.1.3. The CCTV monitor will be located within the Confinement NCOIC Office and
       placed in a manner as to prevent view from the public.
   3.2.2. Lock and Keys. Duplicate access keys are maintained inside the Base Defense
   Operations Center (BDOC), Police Services Office and ICF NCOIC office. These keys are
   to be utilized in emergency situations to access any of the cells and rooms located in the
   confinement facility. Keys will be inspected monthly for operational capability and rotated
   quarterly to ensure they remain in working order.
   3.2.3. Comfort Measures. Due to the design of the facility, all cells and rooms do not have a
   view of at least 3 square feet to admit natural light. Inmates/Detainees will be allowed one
   hour per day outside the facility to compensate for lack of natural light.
3.3. Furnishings.
   3.3.1. The ICF has one shower facility and each cell is equipped with one sink and one toilet.
   3.3.2. There is a centralized Health and Welfare (H&W) cabinet located on the rear wall of
   the ICF.
   3.3.3. Inmates are provided with one washing machine and one dryer for the cleaning of
   linen and clothing.
   3.3.4. Janitorial supplies will be stored in the cleaning supply locker.
   3.3.5. The ICF dayroom is equipped with a television, VCR and DVD player, air
   conditioner, desk, chair, board games, movies, books, one couch and one chair.
   3.3.6. Inmates are issued a wall rack with bench to store their clothes and hygiene items in.
 6                                                     INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013


3.4. Equipment. Due to the size of the ICF, it has been determined by the confinement officer
that this office does not need a public address system to communicate to inmates/detainees inside
the facility.
3.5. Holding and Detention Cells. The ICF does not have an internal detention cell. If such a
case exists where there are no pre-trial inmates, detainees or post-trial inmates the ICF may be
used as custody restraint to hold apprehended subjects up to 72-hours (maximum) for law
enforcement purposes. Once inmates are present the ICF may no longer be utilized as a
detention cell or holding cell. There is an interview room located adjacent to the Police Services
office which may be utilized in emergency situations to hold a suspect. In both cases, an on-duty
Security Forces member will maintain strict security of affected personnel and area.
INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013                                                                7


                                           Chapter 4

                        ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT

4.1. Processing Inmates into a Facility.
   4.1.1. Initial Confinement Examination. The Initial Confinement Examination will be
   coordinated between the ICF NCOIC and the Medical Officer on Duty (MOD) through
   Ambulance Services (AS) at 676-6554 within 24 hours after entry into confinement. If an
   inmate requires emergency medical care, ICF personnel will call 911. If non-urgent medical
   care is needed, ICF personnel will coordinate care with the MOD through AS at 676-6554
   and notify Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) for transport to the Medical Treatment
   Facility. Ensure adequate escorts are available for all medical encounters according to
   custody grades. ICF personnel will remain in visual or auditory contact with the inmate at all
   times. This may include remaining outside the exam room during medical care as
   determined by the medical provider.
   4.1.2. Fingerprinting.
       4.1.2.1. Inmates will be fingerprinted and photographed within 72 hours of initial
       confinement.
       4.1.2.2. Send all fingerprints by certified mail, return receipt requested. A mailing
       representative or squadron designee will mail fingerprints utilizing the Official Document
       Center (ODC). Attach all certified registered return receipts to the facility copy of the
       DJFD-258, Arrest and Institution Card and file in the Correctional Treatment File
       (CTF).
4.2. Confinement. HQ AFSFC/SFC has directed the confinement/corrections staff to use AF
Form 4289, Monthly Victim/Witness Activity Report Concerning Inmate Status, to supplement
DD Form 515, Roster of Prisoners.
4.3. Status and Custody Grades. Upon initial in-processing, the corrections officer or NCOIC
will classify the inmate into MEDIUM-IN custody unless special circumstances warrant
maximum.
4.4. Quarters Assignment.
   4.4.1. Administrative Segregation. To prevent injury and/or property damage, the only
   furnishings authorized inside the cell during segregation are a bed, mattress, sheets, pillow
   case, and a blanket.
       4.4.1.1. The only reading material authorized during segregation is a book of the
       appropriate religion (e.g., Bible or Quran) and the inmate handbook.
       4.4.1.2. During segregation inmates will consume their meals inside their cells. They
       will be provided with a ground support meal and only a spoon to eat with. Account for
       all items introduced into the cell at the conclusion of the meal.
 8                                                    INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013


4.5. Issuance and Control of Medication. All medication will be secured in the Confinement
NCOIC office. The confinement guard will account for all medication utilizing AF Form 3131,
General Purpose Form, at the beginning of each shift and annotate issue of all medication using
the same form. The ICF staff member will ensure consumption of the medication by visually
checking the mouth of the inmate/detainee by having the individual open his or her mouth and
lift the tongue.
INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013                                                                   9


                                            Chapter 5

                              ALLOWANCES AND SERVICES

5.1. Inmate Communications. Telephone usage is a privilege and is not to be abused or
misused. If abused or misused, all telephone privileges will be terminated. Inmates are
authorized an unlimited amount of “official” calls at the staff’s convenience. English is the only
acceptable language unless prior approval from Confinement Officer or NCOIC is obtained.
   5.1.1. Inmates who wish to make telephone calls must submit a Department of Defense (DD)
   Form 510 with the exception of weekend telephone calls. Personal telephone calls are only
   allowed to be made on weekends and federal holidays. Inmates are authorized to make two
   personal telephone calls per week, with a 15-minute time limit each.
   5.1.2. On federal holidays, inmates are allowed to make one 15-minute telephone call, in
   addition to their two weekly telephone calls, and it must be on that day. It will not be
   combined with any other phone calls.
   5.1.3. All phone calls are subject to monitoring by staff members with the exception of
   “privileged communications”. The use of profanity by either party will not be tolerated and
   will result in the telephone call being terminated.
   5.1.4. Maximum custody inmates and any inmate in disciplinary or administrative
   segregation are not allowed to make personal telephone calls.
5.2. Visitation. Visiting hours will be held on weekends and holidays, from 1300-1500. Family
members and friends may visit during these specified hours. Due to limited space inside the
facility, inmates are allowed two adult visitors at one time. Further limitations as to the number
of visitors may be imposed in order to maintain security and control. Inmates will be responsible
for their own conduct and that of their visitors. Any misconduct will result in the visitation being
terminated and possible loss of visitation privileges for a specific time.
   5.2.1. Inmates are allowed to embrace briefly at the beginning and the end of each visit.
   Holding hands, sitting on laps, cuddling or petting is not permitted and will not be tolerated.
   Failure to obey these rules will terminate the visit, result in possible disciplinary action and
   jeopardize the inmate’s visitation privileges in the future.
   5.2.2. Inmates are not permitted to receive any items from visitors unless the confinement
   staff has inspected it and determined the need. If inmates wish to give authorized items to a
   visitor, they must submit a DD Form 510. If approved, the material will be searched for
   contraband prior to the visitor being allowed to remove the material. Photographs may not
   be viewed or received during the visit without staff approval.
5.3. Support Services. The wear of religious articles (e.g., medallions, head wear, robe etc.)
will be worn only after approval has been obtained from the confinement officer or NCOIC. If
approved, religious items will be conservative in nature and present no risk of compromise of
good order and discipline of the ICF.
 10                                                    INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013


5.4. Funds. Due to the lack of adequate financial institutions on Incirlik AB, Turkey, all inmate
funds are stored in a safe located in the corrections NCOIC’s office. Inmates/Detainees on pay
status will need to have at a minimum of $40.00 which will be added to their Personal Funds
Deposit.
INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013                                                                   11


                                            Chapter 6

                                  CONTROL OF INMATES

6.1. Internal Control.
   6.1.1. Head count within the Confinement Area. At the verbal command "on line,
   headcount," assume the position of attention at the foot end of the bed and/or behind the red
   line facing the door. Remain at this position until told otherwise.
   6.1.2. Details. When inmates are members of a work detail, the headcount will be conducted
   as directed by the detail supervisor.
   6.1.3. Roll Call. Roll Call formations are held at irregular times. At the verbal command
   "on line, roll call," assume the position of attention at the foot end of the bed and/or behind
   the red line facing the door. When the inmate’s last name is called, the inmate will answer in
   a loud voice, "Sir/Ma’am, Inmate/Detainee <Name> present" then will assume the position
   of parade rest.
   6.1.4. Reporting. When inmates report or are directed to report to any staff member or
   visiting official, they will report utilizing military protocol. Inmates will come to the position
   of attention and state “Sir/Ma’am, inmate (name) reports as ordered.” Inmates will not use
   their hands when communicating with staff or interrupt staff members at any time.
   6.1.5. Guard Entry. Prior to opening the confinement door, the guard will call out “On-
   Line” at which time all inmates will stand at attention at the foot end of the bed and/or behind
   the red line facing the door. Segregated inmates will stand at the foot of their bed. When all
   inmates are “On-Line” and can be seen through the window, the guard will then open the
   door. All inmates will remain “On-Line” at the position of attention until the door is closed
   and locked or until told to “Carry-On” by the guard. Any inmate who steps “Off-Line”
   before the door is closed or before being told to do so will be considered as attempting an
   escape.
   6.1.6. Saluting. Unless it degrades security, unrestrained inmates are not denied the
   privilege of rendering the hand salute when appropriate. Inmates will also salute when
   reporting to an officer.
   6.1.7. Giving Way and Overtaking. When walking on the sidewalk or down a hallway,
   inmates will stay on the right side unless directed otherwise. If a staff member or anyone
   else is in an inmate’s path, the inmate will step to the right and state “Excuse me, Sir/Ma’am”
   and then step back and proceed to the next red line or destination. Inmates will not walk
   behind guards while the guard is searching an inmate, or walk up on a guard unannounced.
6.2. Local Area Escorts. The 39 SFS/CC has authorized confinement guards to operate a
government vehicle while escorting inmates/detainees outside the facility in the custody grade of
Medium-in, Medium-out and Minimum, but within the installation during inclement weather.
6.3. Contraband Control. Any article not authorized to be in an inmate’s possession, any item
authorized but that has been modified for a use other than that originally intended, or excess of
an authorized item is contraband. Contraband found on an inmate’s person, in his or her cell, or
at his or her place of work and not specifically authorized for use will be confiscated and result
 12                                                     INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013


in disciplinary action. Inmates are allowed to have only the personal articles or government
property listed as authorized in the inmate hand book. Methods used to control contraband are
metal detectors, military working dogs, frisk searches, strip searches upon entering or leaving the
facility, locker, cell and work area shakedowns, etc.
6.4. Emergency Plans. In the event of an emergency evacuations (fire/structural damage),
response to disturbances and disorders, hostage situations, bomb threats, natural disasters,
medical emergency response, power failures, apprehension of escapees, forced cell
moves/extractions the ICF will notify the Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) and follow
appropriate local checklist.
6.5. Weapons and Other Means of Force. In case of riot situations the 39 SFS/CC authorizes
the ICF staff to utilize weapons (firearm or expandable baton) or Ortho-Chlorobenzylidene
Malonitrile (CS) gas into the confinement/corrections facility when all other means of restoring
order have failed.
6.6. Suicide Watch. Confinement staff will conduct frequent PHYSICAL checks of ALL
inmates/detainees who are placed in segregation. Such physical checks shall be conducted at
intervals not to exceed 15 minutes even if inmates/detainees are under constant surveillance via
CCTV. If inmates/detainees are on suicide watch PHYSICAL checks will be conducted at
intervals not to exceed 5 minutes.
INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013                                                               13


                                           Chapter 7

                             DETAINEE/INMATE TRANSFER

7.1. Pre-Transfer Requirements. The ICF normally retains control of inmates with sentences
of less than one year. When the sentence exceeds one year the corrections NCOIC will request
transfer actions from HQ AFSFC/SFC utilizing OPREP-3 (Operations Event/Incident Report:
Any incident or event where Air Force level interest is indicated, but doesn’t have the potential
to escalate into war) reporting procedures.
 14                                                      INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013


                                            Chapter 8

         PROVISIONS FOR GEOGRAPHICALLY SEPARATED UNITS (GSUS)

8.1. GSUs. The 39th Air Base Wing (39 ABW) GSUs do not have confinement facilities. The
parent unit commander or designee is responsible for contacting the NCOIC of Confinement
prior to transferring an inmate to obtain all pertinent information concerning the ICF (e.g.,
clothing requirements, visitations, transfer issues, etc.). Due to the local 39 ABW AT/FP
requirements, the parent unit must insure inmate/detainee has at least one set of civilian clothing.
8.2. Unit responsibilities remain the same as for units assigned to Incirlik AB, with the
exception of providing escorts.
   8.2.1. The squadron representing the functional community of the inmate (e.g. 39th Force
   Support Squadron for a personnelist, 39 SFS for a security forces member, 39th Logistics
   Readiness Squadron for a logistics airman, etc.) will handle these functions.
8.3. Contact should be made with the inmate’s/detainee’s sister squadron to allow for a
local point of contact and coordination.
8.4. Dependent Care Arrangements. Taking care of the inmate’s/detainee’s family members
is also very important due to the distance between GSUs and Incirlik AB.
8.5. Early Return of Dependents orders will be accomplished for any inmate residing at
the ICF.
8.6. The inmate’s beyanamme will be completed and personal items (household goods,
unaccompanied baggage, and vehicle) will be prepared for shipment.
8.7. Transportation. Transportation to Incirlik is the responsibility of the parent unit. Parent
unit commanders are responsible for adhering to escort requirements when selecting escorts.
8.8. Escorts are placed on temporary duty (TDY) orders with travel expenses coming from
Operation and Maintenance funds.
8.9. Parent units must ensure inmates serving sentences at the ICF are under appropriate
orders (e. g. TDY for sentences less than 180 days, PCS for sentences between 180 days and 1
year).
8.10. The Geographically Separated Unit (GSUs) should be prepared to hold an
inmate/detainee for up to 24 hours while awaiting transportation to Incirlik AB.
8.11. Required Items. The following items are required and will be hand-carried by the escort
during the movement of an inmate/detainee to the ICF:
   8.11.1. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Travel Orders which have been “Red
   Stamped” with an expiration date commensurate with the sentence adjudged.
   8.11.2. Passport (if applicable).
   8.11.3. Turkish General Staff issued Blue Book.
   8.11.4. Medical and Dental records should be hand carried. The NCOIC of Confinement
   will turn the medical and dental records into the clinic.
INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013                                                           15


  8.11.5. Inmates/detainees will need to have at least $40.00 on their person.
  8.11.6. DD Form 2707, Confinement Order, properly filled out. Without this item the
  inmate will not be accepted into confinement.
  8.11.7. AF Form 1359, Report of Result of Trial.
  8.11.8. DD Form 2704, Victim/Witness Certification and Election Concerning Inmate
  Status/VWAP election.
  8.11.9. Inmates will need all items annotated on the Health and Care item list prior to in-
  processing into the ICF.




                                           CHRISTOPHER E. CRAIGE, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 16                                                 INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-205, The Air Force Corrections System, 07 April 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
No Forms Prescribed.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 1359, Report of Result of Trial, 1 November 2000
AF Form 3131, General Purpose Form, 15 February 2006
AF Form 4289, Monthly Victim/Witness Activity Report Concerning Inmate Status, 19 August
2003
DD Form 510, Request for Interview, 1 September 2001
DD Form 515, Roster of Prisoner, 12 December 1955
DD Form 2704, Victim/Witness Certification and Election Concerning Inmate Status, 1 March
1999
DD Form 2707, Confinement Order, 1 September 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
39 ABW—39 Air Base Wing
39 ABW AT/FP—39th Air Base Wing Antiterrorism Force Protection
39 ABW/JA—39th Air Base Wing Staff Judge Advocate
39 SFS—39th Security Forces Squadron
39 SFS/S5J—39th Security Forces Squadron, Confinement
AB—Air Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
DD—Department of Defense
DFC—Defense Force Commander
GSU—Geographically Separated Units
HQ AFSFC/SFC—Headquarters Air Force Security Forces/Correctional Division
INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013           17


H & W—Health and Welfare
IAW—In Accordance With
ICF—Incirlik Confinement Facility
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OPR—Office Primary Responsibility
OPREP—Operations Event/Incident Report
OSI—- Office of Special Investigations
VCR—Video Cassette Recorder
 18                                                                 INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013


                                                      Attachment 2
                                                 REQUIRED ITEMS
MALE / ITEM                                       AUTH      FEMALE / ITEM                                        AUTH

Light Blue AF Shirt                               1         Light Blue AF Shirt                                  1
Blue Trousers                                     1         Blue Trousers                                        1
Coat, Service w/accouterments                     1         Coat, Service w/accouterments                        1
Shoes, Low Quarter                                1 pr      Shoes, Low Quarter/Pumps                             1 pr
Cap, Garrison (Flight)                            1         Cap, Garrison (Flight)                               1
Belt, Blue w/silver tip and buckle                1         Belt, Blue w/silver tip and buckle                   1
Undershirt, Cotton (White)                        1         Tab, blue                                            1
Tie, Blue                                         1         Shirt, ABU                                           4
Shirt, ABU                                        4         Pants, ABU                                           4
Pants, ABU                                        4         Undershirt, Cotton (Brown)                           6
Undershirt, Cotton (Brown)                        6         Belt, Blue w/Black tip and buckle                    1
Belt, ABU                                         1         Boots, Sage Green ( No Steel Toe)                    2 pr
Boots, Sage Green ( No Steel Toe)                 2 pr      Jacket, Field/Gortex/Apex/Parka                      1
Jacket, Field/Gortex/Apex/Parka                   1         Cap, BDU/ABU                                         2
Cap, ABU                                          1         Socks, White (No logo or ankle socks)                8pr
Gloves Black or Green (Cold Weather if needed)    1 pr      Gloves Black or Green (Cold Weather if needed)       1 pr
Socks, White (No logo or ankle socks)             8 pr      Socks, Sage Green (boot)                             6pr
Socks, Sage Green (Boot)                          6 pr      Socks, Black (Nylon)/Panty hose                      2
Socks, black (Nylon)                              2 pr      Underwear, (White)                                   6 pr
Blousing Straps                                   1pr       Blousing Straps                                      1pr
Underwear (White)                                 6 pr      Brassieres/sport Bras (White or beige, no wire)      6
Shoes, Athletic                                   1 pr      Shoes, Athletic                                      1
Shorts, AF PT                                     4 pr      Shorts, AF PT                                        4
Shirt, AF PT                                      4         Shirt, AF PT                                         4
Pants, AF PT                                      1 pr      Pants, AF PT                                         1
Jacket, AF PT                                     1         Jacket, AF PT                                        1
Towels, Bath (White)                              4         Towels, Bath (White)                                 4
Wash Cloth (White)                                4         Wash Cloth (White)                                   4
Fingernail clippers (NO TOE NAIL CLIPPERS or      1         Fingernail clippers (NO TOE NAIL CLIPPERS or File)   1
FILE)
Duffle Bag (NO A-BAGS)                            1         Duffle Bag (NO A-BAGS)                                      1
Pen, non-retractable                              1         Pen, non-retractable                                 1
Notebook                                          1         Notebook                                             1
Laundry Bag (White mesh only)                     1         Laundry Bag (White mesh only)                        1
Laundry Detergent                                 1         Laundry Detergent                                    1
Bible (OPTIONAL)                                  1         Bible (OPTIONAL)                                     1
Current valid military ID card (DD form 2)        1         Current valid military ID card (DD form 2)           1
Dog tags                                                    Wedding band (OPTIONAL/no stones)
INCIRLIKABI31-105V1 5 JULY 2013                                                             19

HEALTH and COMFORT ITEMS
Shampoo/Conditioner                              1       Shampoo/Conditioner        1
Soap, bath w/case                                4 brs   Soap, bath w/case          4 brs
Toothbrush w/case                                1       Toothbrush w/case          1
Toothpaste                                       1 tb    Toothpaste                 1tb
Hair brush/comb                                  1       Hair brush/comb            1
Deodorant, stick                                 2       Deodorant, stick           2
Razor, disposable                                1 pkg   Razor, disposable          1 pkg
Shaving cream (tube only, no pressurized cans)   1 cn    Sanitary napkins/tampons   1 bx
Shoes, shower                                    1 pr    Shoes, shower              1
Skin lotion                                      1       Skin lotion                1
Lip balm                                         1       Lip balm                   1
