BY ORDER OF THE                                   JOINT BASE ANDREWS INSTRUCTION 10-201
INSTALLATION COMMANDER JOINT
BASE ANDREWS                                                                          2 JULY 2014

                                                                                        Operations

                                                          INSTALLATIONWARNING SYSTEM
                                                                OPERATING PROCEDURES




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 11 WG/CP                                                              Certified by: 11WG/CP
                                                                           (Lt Col Ryan P. Brandt)
                                                                                           Pages: 7




This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, and AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management.
It outlines the purpose, procedures, and responsibilities associated with the operation of the Joint
Base Andrews (JBA) Installation Warning System (IWS). It applies to all active-duty and
Department of Defense civilian personnel assigned to the 11th Wing and 79th Medical Wing,
and is informational for personnel assigned to Headquarters, Air Force District of Washington,
89th Airlift Wing, 844th Communications Group, 457th Airlift Squadron, and other mission
partner units located on Joint Base Andrews. This publication may not be supplemented or
further implemented / extended. Air Force Reserve Command, Air National Guard, and Civil
Air Patrol personnel will follow guidance from their appropriate major command (MAJCOM) or
Guard Bureau. Refer recommended changes and questions about this instruction to the OPR
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Waiver authority for this
instruction is the 11 WG/CC. This publication requires the collection and / or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect or maintain the
records prescribed in this publication are contained in 10 USC 8012. The information will be
used by management to alert personnel in the event of an emergency. Routine uses listed in
AFDIR 37-144, Air Force Privacy Act Systems of Records Notices, apply. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims.rims.cfm.
 2                                                         JBANDREWSI10-201 2 JULY 2014


The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.


1. Description.
     1.1. The JBA IWS fulfills the installation’s need for a reliable, rapid, and broad-based
     method to deliver time-sensitive emergent notifications to JBA-assigned personnel. The
     system is designed to transmit computer-generated alert notifications in an expeditious
     manner via desk-top computer pop-up windows, home/work emails, and home/work/mobile
     telephones. It is not designed, nor does it have the capability, to fully replace manual
     notification procedures.
     1.2. The most valuable feature of the IWS system is its capability to rapidly transmit desktop
     computer, email, and Short Message Service (SMS) text message alerts advising JBA
     personnel of emergency situations or advisories in time to take the appropriate protective
     measures.
     1.3. IWS alerts consist of the desktop pop-up, work e-mail, personal e-mail, text messaging,
     text-to-speech to duty phones, and text-to-speech to personal phones.
        1.3.1. Desktop Pop-up. The Desktop pop-up is the system default for all alerts, and is
        most effective during duty hours. When actuated, a “pop-up window” appears in each
        workstation connected to the AFNCR network. The pop-up may be accompanied by an
        audio message or tone. Desktop alerts may include response options for the end user to
        select, or hyperlinks for end users to click. Clicking the “Acknowledge and close” button
        on the bottom of the alert window closes the alert.
        1.3.2. Work E-mail. Work e-mail notifications provide a non-invasive means to notify
        users during duty hours. In general, notifications to user work E-mail address will be
        used for all notifications.
        1.3.3. Personal E-mail. Alerts sent to personal E-mail are sent to the commercial E-mail
        accounts provided by end users in the IWS personal information section. End users have
        the option to respond by calling a number provided or responding via email. Note:
        Messages may be automatically filed in the end user’s “junk E-mail” or “spam” box if
        they have not selected the sending address as a trusted source.
        1.3.4. SMS Text. The IWS system will send a message to the mobile device provided by
        end users in the IWS personal information sections. Messages may include response
        options, which may be tracked by the publishing author.
        1.3.5. Telephone (text-to-speech). The system sends a text-to-voice message to the end
        user’s work, home, and/or mobile phone. Messages may include response options (i.e.,
        “Press 1 to acknowledge”), which may be tracked by the publishing author. Note: IWS
        will only attempt one “call back” if there is no response. Note: Phone alerting is not
        normally employed in an emergency since sending alerts to phone devices may overload
        the telephone network with phone calls, and may take several hours to reach all recipients
        in the IWS database.
JBANDREWSI10-201 2 JULY 2014                                                                   3


2. Policy
   2.1. All military and civilian personnel assigned to JBA and Air Force personnel assigned to
   Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling (JBAB) not already required to enroll in IWS per paragraph 2.2
   below, are highly encouraged to enroll their contact information in the JBA IWS system.
   2.2. The JBA IWS shall not be used to directly contact individual personnel for
   accountability or other unit-wide recalls. The pyramid notification / recall process has been
   established IAW JBAI 10-218 for this purpose. This injunction does not preclude the use of
   IWS to rapidly mobilize leadership and key staff personnel to facilitate the expeditious
   execution of unit-wide recalls.
   2.3. To avoid saturation of end users, IWS notifications shall be mission-essential only. In
   addition, alerts directed to personal mobile devices shall be kept to an absolute minimum,
   consistent with mission execution.
   2.4. Mandatory enrollment:
       2.4.1. All 11 WG- and 79 MDW-assigned military and Department of Defense civilian
       personnel shall enter all applicable organizational information into the system.
       2.4.2. 11 WG- and 79 MDW-assigned active-duty personnel shall enter into IWS their
       work email, work phone, home phone, home email, cellular phone, and text messaging
       device (may be different than their cellular phone). Mobile devices may be used for
       “home phones” if the member does not possess a land-line at his / her residence.
       2.4.3. 11 WG- and 79 MDW-assigned Department of Defense civilian personnel:
            2.4.3.1. Emergency essential. DoD civilian personnel designated as “emergency
            essential” by their core document shall register their devices per paragraph 2.1.2.
            2.4.3.2. Not emergency-essential. DoD civilian personnel not designated as
            “emergency essential” by their core document are required to provide organizational
            information per paragraph 2.1.1, and enroll their work email and work phone in IWS.
            Registration of other devices is highly encouraged to ensure the timely receipt of
            critical life, health, and safety information.
       2.4.4. Members appointed to the JBA Emergency Operations Center and / or the Crisis
       Action Team shall enter their information as per paragraphs 2.4.1, 2.4.2, and 2.4.3 above,
       as applicable.
   2.5. Optional enrollment:
       2.5.1. Contractors with a Common Access Card and a user account on the AFNCR
       network may elect to enter their contact information into the IWS system.
       2.5.2. All users may, at their discretion, elect to provide a spouse’s mobile device
       number as an “alternate” number in IWS, enabling spouses or personnel other than the
       member to receive emergency IWS alerts.
   2.6. Publishing authority.
       2.6.1. 11 WG and JBA-wide alert:
 4                                                         JBANDREWSI10-201 2 JULY 2014


            2.6.1.1. Only Andrews Regional Command Post (ARCP) duty controllers may
            initiate 11 Wing- and/or JBA-wide IWS alerts.
            2.6.1.2. The events and specific devices used for alerting will be listed and approved
            in the IWS Notification Matrix (see paragraph 3.5.2).
            2.6.1.3. Within ARCP, only properly certified controllers may publish alerts.
            Certification training will consist of the following:
                2.6.1.3.1. Understanding of the “two person concept”
                2.6.1.3.2. Task signed off on AF Form 623
                2.6.1.3.3. Understanding of Controller Basic Checklist #10
            2.6.1.4. Alerts issued by ARCP shall have the highest priority on the IWS system and
            take precedence over all other notifications.
        2.6.2. Unit-wide alerts. O-6 level commanders of units directly supported by ARCP may
        designate personnel to publish IWS notifications to personnel within their scope of
        authority (see paragraph 3.2).
     2.7. Users shall disenroll from IWS prior to PCS from JBA or separation from military /
     Federal service (see paragraph 3.7.2).
     2.8. User registration in IWS should be periodically exercised to ensure the robustness of the
     user device database and ability of users to receive alerts.
     2.9. IWS administrators and publishers at all levels will strictly limit access to Privacy Act
     information contained within the IWS system to authorized personnel only with a bona fide
     “need to know”. Reports generated from the IWS system that contain personally identifiable
     information (PII) will be encrypted during transmission and shall only be reviewed by law
     enforcement, Inspector General (IG), ARCP personnel, unit-level administrators, and
     applicable unit-level leadership. Reports containing PII shall be shredded / destroyed upon
     completion of need.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. 11 WG/CC or designated representative:
        3.1.1. The declaration authority for all 11 WG or installation-level IWS alerts.
        3.1.2. Approve the IWS Notification Matrix for the installation (see paragraph 3.6.2).
     3.2. Commanders of units directly supported by ARCP, or his/her designated representative:
        3.2.1. The declaration authority for IWS alerts to personnel with in their scope of
        command.
        3.2.2. May appoint personnel (“unit publishers”) to publish IWS alerts to their units.
        3.2.3. If a unit publisher(s) is appointed, commanders must also appoint IWS
        administrator(s) to assist ARCP with unit user account administration.
        3.2.4. Appoint IWS administrators and publishers in writing, and a copy of the
        appointment letter must be provided to ARCP.
JBANDREWSI10-201 2 JULY 2014                                                                  5


     3.2.5. Ensure unit-level administrators and publishers will be fully trained by ARCP
     personnel prior to being granted access to the IWS system.
     3.2.6. Ensure unit-level IWS administrators shall not also function as IWS publishers;
     the two duties shall be distinct and separate.
     3.2.7. Ensure unit-level publishers transmit only the alerts listed on the IWS Notification
     Matrix (see paragraph 3.6.2).
     3.2.8. Coordinate through ARCP to add alerts to the Matrix, as desired.
     3.2.9. Strictly limit access to Privacy Act information stored on the IWS system to
     authorized personnel with a valid “need to know”.
  3.3. Wing agency directors, and group and squadron commanders:
     3.3.1. Ensure IWS enrollment is included in unit / agency in-processing checklists.
     3.3.2. Ensure personnel assigned to specialized teams (i.e., Crisis Action Team (CAT),
     Emergency Operations Center (EOC), etc) enroll their information in IWS upon
     appointment.
     3.3.3. Ensure compliance with paragraph 2.4
  3.4. 11 FSS:
     3.4.1. Ensure IWS disenrollment is a required item on the JBA virtual out processing
     checklist.
     3.4.2. Verify at “final out” that disenrollment has occurred.
  3.5. 11 WG/XP: Exercise IWS to periodically verify system operation and personnel
  registration of required devices in IWS.
  3.6. ARCP (11 WG/CP):
     3.6.1. Train ARCP controllers, unit-level administrators, and unit-level publishers on the
     use of the IWS system.
     3.6.2. Maintain the IWS Notification Matrix, detailing each event that requires an IWS
     notification and which devices shall be used to disseminate the alert. Coordinate
     proposed changes to the Matrix through 11 WG/CC.
     3.6.3. Maintain IWS scripts corresponding to each event in the IWS Notification Matrix.
     3.6.4. Conduct weekly tests of the IWS system to verify system connectivity to AFNCR
     workstations.
     3.6.5. Configure the system to remove user accounts after prolonged inactivity.
     “Prolonged inactivity” is defined as the user not logging into the AFNCR domain for 220
     days or longer.
     3.6.6. Configure the system to present a desktop pop-up at each login to users who have
     not provided information as required by paragraph 2.4.
     3.6.7. Color-code desktop pop ups according to the following scheme:
        3.6.7.1. Emergencies / FPCON changes: Black and red.
 6                                                         JBANDREWSI10-201 2 JULY 2014


            3.6.7.2. INFOCONs: Yellow
            3.6.7.3. Informational: Blue
            3.6.7.4. Weather: Gray
            3.6.7.5. Warning: (Tornado / HURCON1 / active shooter “all clear”): Red
            3.6.7.6. Other “All Clear”: White
            3.6.7.7. Heat stress conditions: Same as the condition’s color
        3.6.8. Upon request, transmit IWS Notification Matrix-listed alerts on behalf of
        supported unit commanders in an expeditious manner.
     3.7. Unit Client Support Administrators. Assist individual users with IWS client issues on
     unit workstations.
     3.8. Individuals:
        3.8.1. Enroll in IWS by entering the required information (see paragraphs 2.4 and 4)
        within 30 days of arrival on JBA.
            3.8.1.1. If personnel only possess a cell phone and do not have a land line at their
            residence, that number should only be entered as the “mobile phone”. Users should
            not enter the same number for both “home” and “mobile” phone numbers.
            3.8.1.2. Individuals are highly encouraged to register their spouse’s mobile device (if
            applicable) in the “Alternate” contact information field.
        3.8.2. Disenroll from IWS by deleting their information not earlier than the last duty day
        prior to their final out appointment (see paragraph 5).
        3.8.3. Self-identify in IWS if they are a member of the JBA CAT, EOC, 320 AEW
        Operations Center, or other specialized distribution group.
4. Enrolling in IWS:
     4.1. Detailed instructions for enrollment in IWS may be found at the ARCP Sharepoint site
     at https://afdw.afncr.af.mil/org/11_WG/CP/Offical%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx
5. Disenrollment from IWS.
     5.1. Detailed instructions for disenrollment from IWS may be found at the ARCP Sharepoint
     site at
     https://afdw.afncr.af.mil/org/11_WG/CP/Offical%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx.




                                              WILLIAM M. KNIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 11th Wing/Joint Base Andrews
JBANDREWSI10-201 2 JULY 2014                                                                     7


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 33-5, Warfighting Integration, 11 Jan 2013
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFNCR—Air Force National Capitol Region
ARCP—Andrews Regional Command Post
CAT—Crisis Action Team
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
INFOCON—INFOrmation CONdition
IWS—Installation Warning System
JBA—Joint Base Andrews
PCS—Permanent change of station

Terms
AFNCR Network—The computer network supporting Air Force personnel assigned to JBA,
Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, and the Pentagon.
ARCP Sharepoint Site—A website maintained by ARCP personnel containing guides to aid
IWS enrollment and disenrollment.
https://afdw.afncr.af.mil/org/11_WG/CP/Offical%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx.
IWS Notification Matrix—A memorandum signed by the 11th Wing commander or vice
commander detailing all events for which that authorized JBA IWS system publishers may
initiate notification, and the means by which that notification may be disseminated (i.e., work E-
mail, work phone, home E-mail, home phone, mobile phone, SMS text, alternate phone).
Publishers—Those personnel who have been trained and authorized to initiate notification
scripts in IWS that broadcast to some or all personnel connected to the JBA IWS.
Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedures—Pyramid notification / recall procedures are the
requirements implemented to notify or recall base personnel during crisis situations. These
procedures utilize a top-down method of notification and bottom-up acknowledgement.
