BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           JOINT BASE ANDREWS AIR FORCE BASE
ANDREWS AIR FORCE BASE                                                              INSTRUCTION 10-218

                                                                                                                         5 APRIL 2012

                                                                                                                               Operations

                                                                                PYRAMID NOTIFICATION/RECALL
                                                                                                PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 11 WG/CP            (Andrews Regional                                   Certified by: 11 WG/CP (CMSGT John E.
Command Post)                                                                                           Morris Jr.)
                                                                                                         Pages: 20



This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness. It outlines the purpose, procedures and
responsibilities for conducting pyramid notifications and recall of personnel. It applies to all
active duty personnel assigned to the 11th Wing (11WG), and is informational for personnel
assigned to the 89th Airlift Wing (89AW), 79th Medical Wing (79MDW) and tenant units on
Joint Base Andrews. These organizations may supplement this instruction with prior approval of
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), Air
National Guard (ANG) and Civil Air Patrol (CAP) personnel will follow guidance from their
appropriate Major Command (MAJCOM) or Guard Bureau. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the 11 WG/CP, 1220 Operations Dr, Joint Base Andrews MD
20762 using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Waiver authority
for this instruction is the 11 WG/CC. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance
of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect or maintain
the records prescribed in this publication are contained in 10 U.S.C. 8012. The information will
be used by management to locate personnel for alerting purposes. Routine uses listed in AFDIR
37-144, Air Force Privacy Act Systems of Records Notices, apply.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfm/.


       1.     General Policy. .......................................................................................................   2
 2                                                                                   JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012


        2.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    2
        3.      Structure. ................................................................................................................    3
        4.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        3
        5.      Notification/Recall Procedures. .............................................................................                  5
        6.      Accountability and Strength Reporting Procedures. ..............................................                               6

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                10

Attachment 2—WG PYRAMID NOTIFICATION/RECALL                                                                                                   12

Attachment 3—GLOSSARY OF TENANT UNITS                                                                                                         13

Attachment 4—GROUP ADOPT-A-TENANT LIST                                                                                                        14

Attachment 5—PYRAMID NOTIFICATION/RECALL SCRIPTS                                                                                              15

Attachment 6—ACCOUNTABILITY REPORT FOR PYRAMID NOTIFICATIONS                                                                                  17

Attachment 7—WING ACCOUNTABILITY REPORT FOR PYRAMID
             NOTIFICATIONS                                                                                                                    18

Attachment 8—UNIT STRENGTH REPORT FOR RECALL TO DUTY                                                                                          19

Attachment 9—WING STRENGTH REPORT FOR RECALL TO DUTY                                                                                          20


1. General Policy.
     1.1. Recalls and personnel strength reporting should be conducted without public
     announcement (news media) unless the declaring authority advises differently. Do not
     display signs in public that indicate a recall is in progress, unless directed otherwise by the
     declaring authority.
     1.2. Personnel placed on telephone standby will remain in the immediate vicinity (i.e.,
     within hearing distance) of their telephone or carry a cell phone while awaiting further
     instructions. They will be available for immediate recall and will report for duty at their
     regularly scheduled time unless otherwise directed.
     1.3. For pyramid recalls and tests of the pyramid notification system, civilians will be
     contacted as directed by the declaring authority but will not be placed on standby or recalled
     to duty without explicit direction of the wing, group or tenant unit commander. Placing a
     civilian on standby or recalling them to duty incurs additional costs and will only be done in
     the event of an emergency.
     1.4. During a recall to duty, crew/shift workers should follow their current duty schedule and
     remain on telephone standby unless otherwise directed.
     1.5. Units will designate a Point of Contact (POC) for maintaining recall rosters. POCs will
     be identified on the published roster. POCs will include the Andrews Regional Command
     Post for distribution of revised rosters at least quarterly or when changes occur.
2. Purpose.
JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012                                                                  3


   2.1. The purpose of 11 WG Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedures is either to provide
   timely notification to all wing and tenant units or recall personnel to duty. The type of
   information passed using these procedures includes, but is not limited to, national
   emergency; natural disaster; changes in information, force protection or hurricane conditions;
   or other time-sensitive information requiring broad dissemination.
3. Structure.
   3.1. The Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedures consist of two parts, the Wing Pyramid
   Notification/Recall Procedure and the Unit Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedure.
       3.1.1. Wing Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedure. This procedure identifies the
       notification/ recall chain from the 11th Wing Commander (11WG/CC) and information
       passed to the 89th Airlift Wing Commander (89AW/CC) , 79th Medical Wing
       Commander (79 MDW/CC), 844th Communications Group (844 CG/CC), Naval Air
       Facility (NAF/CC), Air National Guard Readiness Center (ANGRC/CC), Air Force
       District of Washington (AFDW), 113th Wing (113WG/CC) and 459th Air Refueling
       Wing (459ARW/CC) down to the group and tenant organization level.
       3.1.2. Unit Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedure. Each group, unit and tenant
       organization is responsible for developing and maintaining a plan to contact all assigned
       unit personnel.
4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. The 11 WG/CC or designated representative is the declaring authority for the 11 WG
   Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedure and responsible for ensuring notification of all 11
   WG units, to include Geographically Separated Units (GSU) at Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling
   and the Pentagon, and tenant organizations assigned to Joint Base Andrews.
       4.1.1. The “Adopt-a-Tenant” program is designed to ensure all tenant units/organizations
       on Joint Base Andrews are notified when the 11 WG Pyramid Notification/Recall
       Procedures are activated, as directed by 11 WG/CC. Each 11 WG group is responsible
       for notifying tenant organizations as shown in Attachment 4. Groups may delegate
       notification of tenant organizations to specific squadrons within their group.
   4.2. The Andrews Regional Command Post is responsible for:
       4.2.1. Executing the 11 WG Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedure, when directed, in
       accordance with Attachment 2. The Command Post will call the Installation Personnel
       Readiness Element (IPRE) immediately when pyramid notification procedures are
       activated. If the Command Post cannot reach the IPRE, they will call the 11th Force
       Support Squadron Commander (11 FSS/CC).
       4.2.2. Conducting tests of the 11 WG Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedure at least
       annually as directed by 11 WG/CC.
   4.3. Wing Agencies, Group Commanders and Tenants.
       4.3.1. The Wing Agencies and Group Commanders are responsible for:
           4.3.1.1. Reviewing/revising recall rosters at least monthly and providing Andrews
           Regional Command Post with a current recall roster by the 1st of each month if
           changes occur. Group, wing staff and/or unit recall rosters will include the
4                                                     JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012


       notification chain to adopted tenants, identified in Attachment 4. All recall rosters
       will be annotated for official use only (FOUO) and shall be protected under the
       provisions of the Privacy Act.
       4.3.1.2. Ensuring strength reporting procedures established within each subordinate
       unit are consistent with the procedures set forth in this instruction.
       4.3.1.3. Ensuring unit pyramid notification/recall procedures are executable when
       communications are inoperable or impaired. Commanders will ensure comm-out
       procedures are as efficient as possible and personnel are familiar with the procedures.
       4.3.1.4. Printing the pyramid notification/recall procedure preformatted scripted
       messages (Attachment 5) on the back of recall rosters or on a separate page
       accompanying the recall roster.
       4.3.1.5. Ensuring each member receives initial (upon unit in processing) and annual
       training (e.g., at Commander’s Calls) on the notification, recall and standby
       procedures unique to their job and respective unit to include updating personal
       information in the AtHoc system.
       4.3.1.6. Identifying mission-essential civilians needed to operate the base and its
       mission essential services and annotating these individuals on the unit’s recall roster.
       These individuals will be identified in their civilian personnel core documents.
       4.3.1.7. Identifying mission essential military personnel on the unit’s recall roster.
       4.3.1.8. Ensuring subordinate units have a current copy of the group pyramid
       notification/recall roster.
       4.3.1.9. Determining whether civilian, contractor, assigned reserve personnel and
       shift workers will be notified/recalled, if not directed by the declaring authority.
       4.3.1.10. Working with tenant units to resolve notification problems.
       4.3.1.11. Working with functional managers to resolve recall or notification
       problems.
       4.3.1.12. Ensuring adopt-a-tenant units have appropriate contact information for their
       parent unit and the adopt-a-tenant contact information is included on the parent unit
       recall roster.
       4.3.1.13. Ensuring recall rosters are updated and annotated on unit in-processing and
       out-processing checklists and reviewed at least annually for accuracy.
       4.3.1.14. Ensuring units are trained in recall procedures and document training
       occurrences.
    4.3.2. The IPRE in the 11FSS will be manned within one (1) hour of initiation time in
    order to compile the Wing’s recall data and report to the Crisis Action Team (CAT)
    admin staff (if activated). If the CAT is not activated, the IPRE will report recall data to
    the Command Post via fax, e-mail or runner.
       4.3.2.1. The IPRE or CAT (if activated) will report problems encountered during
       recalls to appropriate commanders for resolution.
JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012                                                                 5


       4.3.3. Tenant units are responsible for:
          4.3.3.1. Reviewing/revising recall rosters at least monthly and providing Andrews
          Regional Command Post and their host group and squadron with a current recall
          roster by the 1st of each month if changes occur. Host groups for tenant organizations
          are identified in Attachment 4. All recall rosters will be annotated for official use
          only (FOUO) and shall be protected under the provisions of the Privacy Act.
          4.3.3.2. Ensuring unit pyramid notification/recall procedures are executable when
          communications are inoperable or impaired.
          4.3.3.3. Notifying their host group and squadron upon completion of major actions
          (e.g., personnel evacuation, hurricane/information/force protection condition actions)
          or when pyramid notifications are no longer required.
          4.3.3.4. Printing the pyramid notification/recall procedure preformatted scripted
          messages (Attachment 5) on the back of recall rosters or on a separate page
          accompanying the recall roster.
          4.3.3.5. Determining whether civilian, contractor, assigned reserve personnel, and
          shift workers will be notified/recalled, if not directed by the declaring authority.
          4.3.3.6. Working with their host unit to resolve notification problems.
5. Notification/Recall Procedures.
   5.1. Recall Methods. The Wing Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedure is used to initiate a
   personnel recall or to disseminate information.
       5.1.1. Overt Recall Procedures: Use all means available to recall personnel to include
       use of Giant Voice, AtHoc, telephones, radios, speaker-equipped vehicles, etc.
       5.1.2. Covert Recall Procedures: Use only telephone, encrypted radio or personal
       contact to recall base personnel. Do not use Giant Voice, unencrypted radios, AtHoc,
       speaker equipped vehicles, etc.
       5.1.3. Communications-Out/Degraded Recall Procedures: Recall base personnel when
       all communication systems are inoperative or cannot be used. Andrews Regional
       Command Post on-duty controllers will contact the 11th Security Force Group (11 SFG)
       to assist. The SFG will dispatch patrols to notify key unit commanders to initiate the
       communications out recall process. When the contacts have been completed, Base
       Defense Operations Center (BDOC) will notify Command Post.
       5.1.3.1 Communication Outage Procedures. The Andrews Regional Command Post will
       notify group commanders using any available means, to include Land Mobile Radios
       (LMRs), cellular telephones and runners (as provided by 11th Security Forces Group).
          5.1.3.2. The 11 SFG will use public address-equipped vehicles when possible to
          advise personnel in base housing of pyramid notifications/recalls.           Unit
          communication outage procedures should not rely on this as a primary notification
          measure, but as an additional notification measure.
   5.2. Notification/Recall Scripts. To prevent confusion in relaying instructions, this
   procedure dictates use of preformatted scripts to pass notification/recall information.
 6                                                         JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012


     Personnel will read the scripted message verbatim to ensure accurate passage of information.
     The preformatted scripts are identified in Attachment 5.
     5.3. Response. Once a recall script is initiated, all personnel will take appropriate action as
     directed without delay. Do not delay response in order to shave, apply makeup, run errands,
     etc.
        5.3.1. All personnel should report for duty in utility uniforms or as directed by
        commanders or dictated by mission requirements.
        5.3.2. Units will ensure procedures are developed to contact personnel missed during the
        initial recall and continue trying to reach those individuals until notification is made.
        Reaching an individual's answering machine, pager, voice mail or a
        household/family member is not considered notification. Direct contact must be
        made with the individual member.
        5.3.3. Problem areas identified during test, exercise, or actual recall should be forwarded
        to respective group commanders accompanied by a recommended solution.
        5.3.4. Personnel on leave/pass, flight crewmembers in pre or post mission crew rest or
        shift workers in crew rest will not be recalled to duty or placed on telephone standby for
        locally generated exercises unless directed by their commander. Mission-essential
        civilian personnel may be recalled to duty to respond to operational requirements and/or
        to participate in exercises during other than normal duty hours at the discretion of the
        wing, group or tenant unit commander.
     5.4. 11 WG units will be notified in accordance with Attachment 2.
     5.5. Tenant unit notification should be accomplished early in each group notification
     procedure to ensure timely notification of tenant units.
     5.6. Agencies with contractor personnel working within their units are responsible for
     notifying those personnel as applicable.
6. Accountability and Strength Reporting Procedures.
     6.1. Each unit will develop its own pyramid alert notification plan, including telephone-out
     procedures. All 11 WG staff agencies/units will have a centralized point for collecting unit
     data, (i.e. Unit Control Center (UCC)).Each unit will start reporting data to their group/wing
     staff centralized point (i.e. Group Control Center (GCC)) within 1 hour after initiation time
     (see para 6.4.).
     6.2. Each group and the wing staff will have a GCC keep and report the unit/wing staff
     agency’s notification or recall status. This centralized point will be manned NLT 1 hour after
     initiation time (see para 6.4) in order to collect and report their respective unit data to the
     IPRE. All 11 WG units submit status reports to their GCC. GCCs consolidate reports and
     submit to the IPRE during all notifications/recalls unless otherwise directed.
     6.3. Reporting procedures differ for a pyramid recall (personnel are required to report for
     duty) and a pyramid notification (personnel are contacted but not required to report for duty).
        6.3.1. For pyramid notifications or tests of pyramid notification procedures (personnel
        are not required to report for duty. 11 WG units will use Attachment 6 for hourly status
        reports to the IPRE until 100% accountability is achieved. Units will forward
JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012                                                                7


     accountability reports to their GCC listed below. GCCs will consolidate accountability
     reports using Attachment 6 and forward that information to the IPRE. The IPRE will
     use Attachment 7 or hourly updates to report wing accountability progress to the CAT
     (if activated) or Andrews Regional Command Post (fax, e-mail or runner).
         6.3.1.1. The total numbers assigned, on leave/Temporary Duty (TDY) and contacted,
         as reported in Attachments 6 and 7, will include civilians unless otherwise directed
         by the pyramid notification declaring authority.
         6.3.1.2. Non-duty hours. During tests of the pyramid notification system or
         informational notifications during non-duty hours, wing staff/groups/units without a
         24-hour work center may assign an individual as the central point of contact (POC)
         for reporting accountability rather than standing up their GCC/UCC. Unit POCs are
         responsible for forwarding hourly accountability reports as required by para 6.3.1 to
         their GCC or wing staff/group POC. Wing staff/Group POCs will forward
         consolidated accountability reports hourly to the IPRE as required by para 6.3.1.
     6.3.2. For pyramid recalls (personnel report for duty) 11 WG units will complete
     Attachment 8 as described in paragraph 6.5, and forward the completed attachment to
     their respective control center, as identified below. The wing staff/group control centers
     will complete Attachment 8 as described in paragraph 6.5, and forward a consolidated
     wing staff/group strength report to the IPRE.
     6.3.3. The 11 WG Wing Group Control Center (WGCC) is the control center for the11
     WG staff.
     6.3.4. The Andrews Regional Command Post is the control center for the 89th Airlift
     Wing and subordinate units.
     6.3.5. The 79 MDW/MCC is the control center for the 79th Medical Wing and
     subordinate units.
     6.3.6. The 11 OG/GCC is the control center for the 11th Operations Group and
     subordinate units.
     6.3.7. The 11 MSG/GCC is the control center for the 11th Mission Support Group and
     subordinate units.
     6.3.8. The 844 CG/GCC is the control center for the 844th Communications Group and
     subordinate units.
     6.3.9. The 11 SFG/GCC is the control center for the 11th Security Forces Group and
     subordinate units.
  6.3.10. The 811 OG/GCC is the control center for the 811 Operations Group and
  subordinate units.
  6.3.11. The Navy Quarterdeck is the control center for the Naval Air Facility and
  subordinate units.
  6.3.12. The 113 WG/CP is the control center for the 113th Wing and subordinate units.
  6.3.13. The 459 ARW/CP is the control center for the 459th Air Refueling Wing and
  subordinate units.
8                                                          JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012


    6.3.14. The ANGRC UCC is the control center for the Air National Guard Readiness Center
    and subordinate units.
    6.3.15. . The AFDW Command Center is the control center for the Air Forces District
    Washington and subordinate units.
    6.4. Initiation Time (IT) is the time the recall or strength reporting was initiated. Upon
    notification of a recall or strength reporting, the control centers listed in paragraph 6.3 are
    responsible for collecting, consolidating and reporting strength figures for all assigned
    military and civilian personnel and providing this information to the IPRE.
    6.5. Units will report strength figures using the format in Attachment 8, Unit Strength
    Report, as described below.
       6.5.1. Column A: Total Military Assigned - Total number of military personnel assigned.
       The unit is required to provide this number.
       6.5.2. Column B: Total Military NPFD (Not Present For Duty) - Total number of
       military absent on temporary duty, leave, on approved crew rest, shift workers, or in the
       hospital. The unit is required to provide this number.
       6.5.3. Column C: Total Military Available - Total number of military personnel available
       (Column A minus Column B). This number may be larger than the total number assigned
       due to the availability of reservists or Air National Guard members available for duty.
       6.5.4. Column D: Total Military PFD (Present For Duty) - Total number of military
       personnel physically PFD. The unit is required to provide this number.
       6.5.5. Column E: Total Military Available for BMP (Base Manpower Pool) - Total
       number of military personnel available for the BMP. The unit will report the number of
       personnel who are not needed to fulfill the unit tasking based on the scenario or situation
       and will make those personnel available to the BMP. This is extremely important during
       situations such as natural disasters.
       6.5.6. Column F. Total Civilian Assigned. Total number of civilians assigned to the unit,
       including non-appropriated funds positions and interns.
       6.5.7. Column G. Total Civilians Available for Duty. Total number of civilians
       contacted and available for duty if needed (does not include civilians who are on any
       form of leave or TDY).
    6.6. Accountability and strength reports will reflect strength figures "as of” IT + 1, 2, 3, and
    4 hours. Wing staff and group reports will be submitted to the IPRE NLT 15 minutes after
    the "as of" times. Late reports will be reported by the IPRE to the CAT (if activated) as "No
    Report." Once a unit's strength figures stabilize (i.e., there are no changes to report) submit a
    "no change since last report.” Continue strength reporting until directed to terminate.
    6.7. The IPRE will complete Attachment 9, Wing Strength Report, as described below using
    the unit strength reports and forward the completed format to the Crisis Action Team (if
    activated) via fax, email or runner NLT 30 minutes after the "as of" times. The IPRE will
    accept and forward wing staff and group “100%” accountability reports at any time during
    the strength reporting process. The IPRE will confirm receipt of all wing accountability or
    strength reports with the CAT (if activated) via telephone or other means.
JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012                                                              9


     6.7.1. Column A: Total Military Assigned - Total number of military personnel assigned.
     The unit provides this number.
     6.7.2. Column B: Total Military NPFD (Not Present For Duty) - Total number of
     military absent on temporary duty, leave, on approved crew rest, shift workers in crew
     rest, or in the hospital.
     6.7.3. Column C: Total Military Available - Total number of military personnel available
     (Column A minus Column B).
     6.7.4. Column D: Total Military PFD (Present For Duty) - Total number of military
     personnel physically PFD.
     6.7.5. Column E: Total Military Available for BMP (Base Manpower Pool) - Total
     number of personnel available to support the BMP.
     6.7.6. Column F. Total Civilian Assigned. Total number of civilians assigned to the
     wing, including NAF and interns.
     6.7.7. Column G. Total Civilians Available for Duty. Total number of civilians
     contacted and available for duty if needed (does not include civilians who are on any
     form of leave or TDY).




                                         KENNETH R. RIZER, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 10                                                    JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012


                                        Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 10-2501_AFGM 4, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations,
27 January 2012

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
BMP— Base Manpower Pool
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
CAT—Crisis Action Team
FOUO— For Official Use Only
GCC—Group Control Center
GSU— Geographically Separated Unit
IPRE—Installation Personnel Readiness Element
LMR— Land Mobile Radio
MAJCOM–—Major Command
NPFD—Not Present For Duty
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PFD— Present For Duty
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCC—Unit Control Center

Terms
Adopt-a-Tenant program— The “Adopt-a-Tenant” program is designed to ensure all tenant
units/organizations on the installation are notified when the host wing activates the
notification/recall procedures.
JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012                                                                   11


Base Manpower Pool (BMP)— The base manpower tool is the total number of military
personnel available to fulfill the unit tasking based on the scenario or situation.
Command Post (CP)—A unit or sub-unit’s headquarters where the commander and the staff
perform their activities. In combat, a unit or sub—unit’s headquarters is often divided into
echelons.
Covert Recall Procedures— Covert recall procedures consist of performing a recall of
personnel via encrypted radio or personal contact. Use of unsecure communication devices
should not be used.
Crisis Action Team (CAT)— A staff formed by the commander to plan, direct, and coordinate
forces in response to contingencies, crises, natural/manmade disasters, or wartime situations. The
CAT develops courses of action and executes the commander's and HHQ’s directives. The
composition and function of the CAT is largely mission driven and therefore a MAJCOM or unit
commander prerogative. However, membership for the CAT is most frequently a combination of
the commander’s senior staff and special staff which includes a CP representative. The
composition of a CAT varies according to the situation.
Geographically Separated Unit (GSU)— A GSU is a unit that is physically separated from the
parent organization.
Group Control Center (GCC)—The group control center is an entity within each group level
organization activated during crisis situations. The control center acts as the liaison between the
group and the group commander responsible to relay, pertinent information, collect and report
their respective unit data.
Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedures— The pyramid notification/recall procedures are the
requirements implemented to either notify or recall base personnel during crisis situations. The
procedures are used to disseminate timely notification to all wing and tenant units or recall
personnel to duty.
Overt Recall Procedures— Overt recall procedures consist of performing a recall of personnel
via the use of all means to contact personnel.
Unit Control Center (GCC)—The unit control center is an entity within each squadron level
organization activated during crisis situations. The control center acts as the liaison between the
squadron and the squadron commander responsible to relay, pertinent information, collect and
report their respective unit data.
 12                                               JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012


                                   Attachment 2
                     WG PYRAMID NOTIFICATION/RECALL

Figure A2.1. WG Pyramid Notication/Recall.
JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012                          13


                                        Attachment 3
                           GLOSSARY OF TENANT UNITS

Figure A3.1. Glossary of Tenant Units
 14                                               JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012


                                   Attachment 4
                         GROUP ADOPT-A-TENANT LIST

Table A4.1. Group Adopt A Tenant List.
JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012                             15


                                      Attachment 5
                    PYRAMID NOTIFICATION/RECALL SCRIPTS

Figure A5.1. Pyramid Notification/Recall Scripts.
16   JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012
JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012                                       17


                                      Attachment 6
          ACCOUNTABILITY REPORT FOR PYRAMID NOTIFICATIONS

Table A6.1. Unit Accountability Report for Pyramid Notifications.
 18                                                 JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012


                                     Attachment 7
       WING ACCOUNTABILITY REPORT FOR PYRAMID NOTIFICATIONS

Table A7.1. Wing Accountability Report for Pyramid Notifications.
JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012                             19


                                      Attachment 8
                UNIT STRENGTH REPORT FOR RECALL TO DUTY

Table A8. Unit Strength Report for Recall to Duty.
20                                                 JBANDREWSI10-218 5 APRIL 2012


                                    Attachment 9
              WING STRENGTH REPORT FOR RECALL TO DUTY

Table A1.9. Wing Strength Report for Recall to Duty.
