BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         JOINT BASE CHARLESTON
OF JOINT BASE CHARLESTON                                               INSTRUCTION 10-243

                                                                                    4 JUNE 2014

                                                                                       Operations

                                                                      AUGMENTATION DUTY



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 628 ABW/CCC                                                      Certified by: 628 ABW/CC
                                                                        (Col Jeffrey W. DeVore)
                                                                                        Pages: 10


This publication implements Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 10-243, Augmentation Duty. It
applies to all active duty military and civilian personnel on Joint Base Charleston. This
publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) or the Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) and their units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af6l
a/afrims/afrims/ . Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (QPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional's chain of
command. This publication may not be supplemented.

1. Overview. Augmentation is defined as installation-level realignment of personnel, in duties
outside their primary skill set and unit of assignment, to meet the installation's short-term
exercise, contingency, wartime, or emergency requirements. The Augmentation Duty Program is
designed to assist commanders in validating, approving, and documenting the need for these
additional, short-term personnel requirements. It also aids commanders in identifying, training,
and tracking personnel to meet validated requirements.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. The Commander, Joint Base Charleston (JBC) will establish an Augmentation Duty
   Program and Augmentation Review Board (ARB) to determine all installation-level
   augmentation requirements.
2                                                   JBCHARLESTONI10-243 4 JUNE 2014


    2.2. The Deputy Commander, Joint Base Charleston (DJBC) is the primary Augmentation
    Duty Program OPR and ARB chairperson. He/she advises the JBC on ARB decisions and
    serves as the primary approval authority for all augmentee call-ups.
    2.3. The Command Chief (628 ABW/CCC), in close coordination with all wing, group, and
    mission partner senior enlisted leaders, oversees the Augmentation Duty Program on behalf
    of the DJBC and is responsible for day-to-day execution of the program.
    2.4. The ARB will convene annually, or more often as deemed necessary by the DJBC, to
    validate and prioritize augmentation requirements and identify available resources to fill
    them. The ARB has overall responsibility for tasking units to meet augmentation
    requirements, and will also ensure training programs are established to ensure readiness of
    personnel to meet those requirements. The ARB will be comprised of two groups:
       2.4.1. Board Members. Board members represent the command structure at wing, group,
       and mission partner levels. The DJBC serves as the chairperson. All Joint Base
       Charleston wing, group, and mission partner commanders (0-6 level or deputy) should
       serve as board members.
       2.4.2. Board Advisors. Board Advisors represent installation support functions that
       provide key information for ARB action and decision making. At a minimum, advisors
       will consist of the Chief, Manpower & Organization (628 FSS/FSMM); Chief, Military
       Personnel    (628 FSS/FSMP); and the Installation Augmentation Manager (628
       ABW/XP). The chairperson may appoint additional advisors to the ARB as required.
    2.5. The Chief, Manpower & Organization, using approved management engineering
    methods, advises the ARB regarding validation and approval of augmentation requirements.
    Specific responsibilities are:
       2.5.1. Assist units in determining total augmentation requirements under approved
       scenarios.
       2.5.2. Review all augmentation requests prior to each ARB meeting.
       2.5.3. Advise the ARB based on their assessment of the need for and utilization of
       augmentees, and recommend approval/disapproval of augmentation requests.
    2.6. The Chief, Military Personnel advises the ARB regarding validation and approval of
    exemption and shortfall/reclama requests as well as fair-share taskings. Specific
    responsibilities are:
       2.6.1. Advise units regarding augmentee exemption and shortfall/reclama requests.
       2.6.2. Review all exemption requests prior to each ARB meeting.
       2.6.3. Advise the ARB based on their assessment of exemption requests, and recommend
       approval/disapproval of these requests.
       2.6.4. Advise the ARB regarding fair-share unit taskings to fill all validated
       augmentation requirements. Fair-share taskings will be determined by subtracting
       ARB-approved exemptions from a unit's assigned E-1 through E-5 end strength.
    2.7. The Installation Augmentation Manager, in close coordination with 628 ABW/CCC,
    administers the installation's Augmentation Duty Program. Specific responsibilities are:•
JBCHARLESTONI10-243 4 JUNE 2014                                                                3


     2.7.1. Schedule ARB meetings as well as provide agendas, minutes, and other
     documentation to all members as required.
     2.7.2. Conduct an annual call for augmentation and exemption requests.
     2.7.3. Ensure all augmentation and exemption requests are properly documented and
     validated by the Manpower & Organization office and/or Military Personnel section prior
     to being sent to the ARB for action/decision.
     2.7.4. Ensure Unit Augmentation Coordinators fulfill their responsibilities in accordance
     with this instruction.
     2.7.5. Ensure all appropriate installation plans/scenarios include ARB-approved
     augmentation requirements.
  2.8. Unit Commanders will appoint a primary and alternate Unit Augmentation Coordinator
  to manage the unit's augmentation duty program.
  2.9. Supported Unit (units receiving augmentees) Augmentation Coordinators will:
     2.9.1. Determine and clearly define duties for each augmentee.
     2.9.2. Maintain a locally-devised database of all augmentation requirements and
     augmentee training status.
     2.9.3. Establish a training program. Track all required training and coordinate training
     with the augmentees' Unit Augmentation Coordinator. Notify supporting Unit
     Augmentation Coordinators and 628 ABW/CCC of training no-shows.
     2.9.4. Identify and fund required training, necessary equipment, uniform items (rain gear,
     cold weather gear, etc.), and safety gear (steel toed boots, leather work gloves, reflective
     belts, etc.).
     2.9.5. Coordinate with supporting Unit Augmentation Coordinators to replace
     augmentees who are departing for reassignment, separation, retirement, or deployment of
     90 days or more, as well as those who are medically disqualified. Supported units will
     maintain 100 percent augmentee capability at all times.
     2.9.6. Provide augmentees who successfully complete their tour of duty with
     documentation reflecting the status of their training, qualification, and/or certification.
  2.10. Supporting Unit (units supplying augmentees) Augmentation Coordinators will:
     2.10.1. Manage unit augmentees and ensure all unit augmentation taskings, as
     determined by the ARB, are filled at all times.
     2.10.2. Assign augmentees to supported units using the template at Attachment 5.
     2.10.3. Ensure personnel assigned to augmentee duty meet all eligibility requirements to
     perform the duty. Units will not assign personnel with permanent medical or other
     disqualifying conditions.
     2.10.4. Ensure personnel assigned as primary or alternate to a deployment tasking are not
     assigned to augmentee duty until all other eligible resources have been exhausted.
     Augmentee duties will not be grounds for shortfall/reclama of a deployment tasking.
 4                                                   JBCHARLESTONI10-243 4 JUNE 2014


        2.10.5. Ensure personnel assigned to augmentee duty have a minimum of one year
        retainability in the program after being trained in their augmentation duties.
        2.10.6. Ensure augmentees attend scheduled training.
        2.10.7. Monitor availability of augmentees and ensure 100 percent report for exercises,
        contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations as required. Once an exercise or
        contingency is announced, commanders will not approve leave for augmentees unless it
        is emergency leave.
        2.10.8. Replace augmentees who are departing for reassignment, separation, retirement,
        or deployment of 90 days or more, as well as those who are medically disqualified.
        2.10.9. Immediately advise the Installation Augmentation Manager of any difficulties
        with filling augmentee requirements due to deployments or other mission requirements.
        2.10.10. Ensure augmentees return issued equipment/gear prior to reassignment,
        separation, retirement, or within 7 days after removal from augmentee duty.
        2.10.11. Develop and maintain an augmentee recall roster. Unit Augmentation
        Coordinators will be directed by the DJBC or 628 ABW/CCC to implement the recall
        roster.
3. Process and Procedures.
     3.1. Establishing and Implementing Augmentation Requirements.
        3.1.1. Augmentation is used primarily to support temporary, short-term workload surges
        during exercise, contingency, wartime, and emergency situations. Sustained use of
        augmentees will not be used to offset normal manpower shortfalls.
        3.1.2. Unit commanders will exhaust all military personnel and skilled/trained DoD
        civilian resources within their organization prior to seeking augmentation from other
        organizations.
        3.1.3. Units requesting to establish or eliminate augmentation requirements must gain
        approval from the ARB.
        3.1.4. Units will submit requests, using the template at Attachment 3 along with any
        supporting documentation, through their chain of command to the Installation
        Augmentation Manager.
        3.1.5. Requests for augmentation may be submitted at any time, but no later than the
        suspense established by the Installation Augmentation Manager prior to the next
        scheduled ARB meeting. The Chief, Manpower & Organization will review requests and
        present them at the next ARB meeting. The augmentation request process is outlined in
        the flow chart at Attachment 2.
        3.1.6. Requests for exemption from augmentation taskings may be submitted at any time,
        but no later than the suspense established by the Installation Augmentation Manager prior
        to the next scheduled ARB meeting. The Chief, Military Personnel will review requests
        and present them at the next ARB meeting. Units will submit requests, using the template
        at Attachment 4, through their chain of command to the Installation Augmentation
        Manager.
JBCHARLESTONI10-243 4 JUNE 2014                                                             5


  3.2. Augmentee Call-Up Procedures.
     3.2.1. When a supported unit deems it necessary to utilize augmentees, the unit
     commander will submit a request through their chain of command to the DJBC. The
     request will include the number of personnel required, beginning date, estimated
     duration, and justification.
     3.2.2. Upon approval, the DJBC or 628 ABW/CCC will notify supporting Unit
     Augmentation Coordinators and provide necessary tasking information. The supporting
     Unit Augmentation Coordinator will in tum notify their augmentees.
     3.2.3. If the supported unit does not request use of all allotted augmentees, the
     Installation Augmentation Manager will determine each supporting unit's fair-share
     tasking based on the percentage of tasked personnel.
     3.2.4. Upon notification of a recall, augmentees will report immediately to the supported
     unit for accountability. Only the DJBC may direct alternate reporting procedures.
     3.2.5. Augmentees not utilized by the supported unit will be returned immediately to the
     supporting unit and notify their Unit Augmentation Monitor. The supported unit will
     notify both the DJBC and supporting unit when unutilized augmentees are returned.




                                          JEFFREY W. DEVORE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, Joint Base Charleston
 6                                             JBCHARLESTONI10-243 4 JUNE 2014


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation /or Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARB—Augmentation Review Board DoD-Department of Defense
DJBC—Deputy Joint Base Commander JBC-Joint Base Commander
QPR—Office of Primary ResponsibilityAttachment 2
JBCHARLESTONI10-243 4 JUNE 2014                  7


                             Attachment 2
                  AUGMENTATION REQUEST PROCESS
 8                                                             JBCHARLESTONI10-243 4 JUNE 2014


                                                 Attachment 3
                 AUGMENTATION REQUEST MEMORANDUM EXAMPLE



                                                 Your Letterhead
                                                                                                            Date
MEMORANDUM FOR Your CHAIN OF COMMAND
FROM: Your UNIT/CC
SUBJECT: Augmentation Request for you Unit
 1. The purpose of this memorandum is to request augmentation for your unit. The following justification is
 provided:
     a. Personnel Requested: Provide the number of requested augmentees.
     b. Duty Description: Describe the activity to be performed by requested augmentees.
     c. Current Manning Levels: Provide the number of personnel currently performing the activity.
     Include numbers for authorized, assigned, deployed, exempted (as approved by the ARB), etc.
     d. Mission Impact: Describe how not obtaining augmentees will impact your unit's ability to
     successfully perform its assigned mission. Be specific, i.e. need for increased coverage, 24-hour
     shifts, why the mission cannot be accomplished within existing resources, etc.
     e. References: Identify all applicable directives, instructions, references, etc, to support your request.
     Include applicable paragraph numbers for each reference.

 2. My POC for this request is TSgt Unit Augmentation Coordinator, DSN 673-1234.




                                                      UNIT A. COMMANDER, Lt Col, USAF
                                                      Commander
1st Ind, Your CHAIN OF COMMAND
MEMORANDUM FOR 628 ABW/IP


Concur/Nonconcur                                       JOHN B. DOE, Col, USAF
                                                       Commander
2nd Ind, 628 ABW/XP
MEMORANDUM FOR Your UNIT/CC


Your request was approved/disapproved by the ARB on

                                                        JAMES C. SMITH, Maj, USAF
                                                        Chief, Plans and Programs
JBCHARLESTONI10-243 4 JUNE 2014                                                                                  9


                                               Attachment 4
                    EXEMPTION REQUEST MEMORANDUM EXAMPLE



                                                Your Letterhead
                                                                                                   Date
MEMORANDUM FOR Your CHAIN OF COMMAND
FROM: Your UNIT/CC
SUBJECT: Exemption Request for Your Unit
 1. The purpose of this memorandum is to request exemption from augmentation taskings for your
 unit. The following justification is provided:
    a. Exemptions Requested: Provide the number of personnel requested for exemption from augmentation
    tasking.
    b. Current Manning Levels: Provide the number of personnel currently authorized, assigned, deployed, etc.
    c. Mission Impact: Describe how not obtaining the requested exemption will impact your unit's
    ability to successfully perform its assigned mission. Be specific, i.e. not able to provide a given
    service or cover required 24-hour shifts, etc.
    d. References: Identify any applicable directives, instructions, references, etc, to support your request.
    Include applicable paragraph numbers for each reference.
 2. My POC for this request is TSgt Unit Augmentation Coordinator, DSN 673-1234.




                                                     UNIT A. COMMANDER, Lt Col, USAF
                                                     Commander
1st Ind, Your CHAIN OF COMMAND
MEMORANDUM FOR 628 ABW/XP
Concur/Nonconcur


                                                    JOHN B. DOE, Col, USAF
                                                    Commander
2nd Ind, 628 ABW/XP
MEMORANDUM FOR Your UNIT/CC
Your request was approved/disapproved by the ARB on



                                                    JAMES C. SMITH, Maj, USAF
                                                    Chief, Plans and Programs
 10                                                          JBCHARLESTONI10-243 4 JUNE 2014


                                              Attachment 5
                 AUGMENTEE APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM EXAMPLE


                                               Your Letterhead
                                                                                                    Date
MEMORANDUM FOR SUPPORTED UNIT AUGMENTATION COORDINATOR
                        628 ABW/CCC
FROM: Your UNIT/CC
SUBJECT: Augmentee Appointment
 1. The following member(s) is (are) assigned as an augmentee. I certify, to the best of my knowledge, the
 member(s) has (have) at least 12 months retainability to serve as an augmentee as of the date of this letter.
      a. Last Name, First Name, MI :
      b. Rank:
      c. DOS:
      d. OFFICE SYMBOL:
      e. DUTY PHONE:
 2. (As required) This member is replacing Last Name, First Name, MI; Rank.
 3. (As required) Justification for this replacement is reassignment, separation, retirement,
 deployment tasking, medical/administrative disqualification, other (specify).
 4. My POC for this request is TSgt Unit Augmentation Coordinator, DSN 673-1234.




                                                      UNIT A. COMMANDER, Lt Col, USAF
                                                       Commander
