BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          JOINT BASE CHARLESTON
OF JOINT BASE CHARLESTON                                               INSTRUCTION 32-7064

                                                                            26 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                      JOINT BASE CHARLESTON HUNTING
                                                                AND FISHING PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 628 CES/CEAN                                                      Certified by: 628 ABW/CC
                                                                       (Col Richard D. McComb)
                                                                                         Pages: 15



This publication implements the Joint Base Charleston Hunting and Fishing Program. It applies
to all military and civilian personnel on Joint Base Charleston. This publication applies to the
Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and their units.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may not be supplemented.

1. Overview. This instruction provides the guidance for the oversight of the hunting and fishing
programs on properties managed by Joint Base Charleston (JBC).
   1.1. Management of this program is designed to meet two objectives:
       1.1.1. Provide recreation opportunities to authorized individuals in accordance with all
       applicable state and federal regulations
       1.1.2. Ensure protection of the installation’s valuable natural resources.
   1.2. Safety and security of personnel, materials, and facilities are of primary importance.
 2                                           JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012


     1.3. Hunting and fishing may be suspended without notice to ensure mission completion.
     1.4. Permit fees shall be used solely to support this program per DoD policy. Monthly funds
     collected will be deposited per MOU between Natural Resources Office and 628 FSS. A
     quarterly report of collected fees will be provided by FSS to the 628 CES/CEAN.
2. Eligible Participants and Authorized Areas.
     2.1. Access to natural resource based recreational activity has been divided into two
     categories:
        2.1.1. Category A – Open to the general public, regardless of association with the
        military or other Department of Defense (DoD) agencies. This includes retired military
        and DoD contractors. Numbers of visitors or participants will be regulated within
        manageable quotas based on resource capabilities. These numbers are up to the
        discretion of the Natural Resources Office. Category A areas include the Pier Charlie
        dredge spoil area when participating in organized dog drives only; and Northside,
        Marrington Plantation and MenRiv Hunt Areas as defined in Attachment (1): Hunting
        and Fishing Access Map.
        2.1.2. Category B – Open to DoD employees and their guests (Category A permit
        holders). This includes all military and civilian employees and their dependents that
        possess Common Access Cards (CAC). Guests must be accompanied by their sponsor at
        all times. For the purpose of this instruction, dependent children are defined as
        unmarried, living at home less than 21 years old or students (12 hours minimum) and less
        than 23 years old. Category B areas include all authorized areas for hunting and fishing
        on JBC Weapons as defined in Attachment (1) and all authorized areas at North Auxiliary
        Air Field as defined in Attachment (2).
     2.2. Any person who provides false information regarding their eligibility status, violates
     any portion of this instruction, or conducts him or herself in any way that is dangerous to self
     or others is subject to having their hunting and fishing privileges revoked with no monetary
     refund of permit fees. Military members, who engage in conduct in violation of the Uniform
     Code of Military Justice, could also face disciplinary action.
3. Requirements for Hunting and Fishing on JBC.
     3.1. The OAC located on JBC Weapons and the Outdoor Recreation Center (ORC) at JBC
     Air will issue all hunting and fishing permits, copies of this instruction and any other
     pertinent information.
        3.1.1. All hunters and other participants, regardless of age, must possess: (1) Actual card
        or certificate of successful completion of an S.C. Department of Natural Resources
        (SCDNR) approved Hunter Safety Education Course or another state approved hunter
        education course. Bow hunters may satisfy this requirement by completion of a state
        approved Bow Hunter Safety Course; (2) JBC Hunting Permit ($20) or Combination JBC
        Hunt and Fish Permit ($25); and (3) appropriate state and/or federal license(s). All
        fishermen (includes crabbing) must possess the appropriate state license and/or permits
        and JBC fishing permit ($7).
        3.1.2. All firearms used for hunting must be registered with JBC Weapons Security
        Forces by completing and submitting (a) Air Force Form 1314, Firearms Registration and
JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012                                                          3


      (b) DD Form DO 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition. These
      documents are available at the OAC (Building 1700, 764-2120) and ORC (Building 647,
      963-5270). Hunters are authorized to transport firearms only on their way to/from
      scheduled hunts.
   3.2. All DoD personnel must carry their CAC or retired military ID on their person when
   hunting or fishing. All non-DoD personnel, including guests, are required to obtain an
   annual recreational badge ($10) for access to designated recreational areas. Lost badges must
   be reported immediately to Dispatch (764-7555).
   3.3. Applicants must provide appropriate documentation to determine permit eligibility
   including: CAC or retired military ID, Hunter Safety Education Card, state hunting and/or
   fishing license and state driver's license. Lost permits and badges can be replaced at the
   OAC for $5.00 fee. Annual recreation badges for non-DoD personnel are obtained at JBC
   Weapons Visitor Control Center (Building 302) following successful permit application at
   OAC.
   3.4. Possession of CAC, retired military ID and/or appropriate recreation badge and JBC
   hunting/fishing permits authorizes entry into designated areas during approved hunting,
   fishing and scouting times as indicated on schedules authorized/issued by the JBC Natural
   Resources Office.
   3.5. Dependents age 13 and younger may fish only when accompanied by an adult, 21 years
   old or over. Fishing permits are not required until age 16. Dependents age 11 and younger
   cannot hunt but may accompany an authorized hunting sponsor. Dependents age 12 to 15
   must have a gratis JBC hunting permit. Hunters age 12 to 15 must be with a licensed/
   permitted sponsor 21 years of age or older who must maintain sight and voice contact with
   the dependent hunter. Personnel who are 16 years old and older must purchase permits and
   may hunt and/or fish on their own. Person 65 years of age or older with a SC state-issued
   gratis license will be issued an annual gratis Over 65 permit.
   3.6. Military personnel who are residents of South Carolina stationed outside of the state.
   Upon presentation of official furlough or leave papers, shall be allowed to fish or hunt
   without a state fishing or hunting license, or a saltwater fishing stamp. Base hunting permit,
   Big Game permit and state and federal duck stamp must be purchased when applicable.
4. General Regulations.
   4.1. Bag Seasons and Limits.
      4.1.1. Hunting and fishing shall follow the laws and regulations of the federal
      government and the state of South Carolina. Modifications are noted in this instruction.
      4.1.2. The season lengths and bag limits, as set by state and federal laws, may be reduced
      or canceled by the Natural Resources Office based on advice or recommendations from
      state and federal wildlife officials for reasons of wildlife conservation.
   4.2. Enforcement.
      4.2.1. Air Force Security Forces personnel, JBC Natural Resources personnel, and JBC
      volunteer game wardens are authorized to enforce this instruction. These personnel may
      carry and discharge firearms to euthanize injured or nuisance wildlife.
4                                           JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012


       4.2.2. Violations of state or federal game laws will be reported to the JBC Weapons
       Security Forces dispatcher who may send a patrol officer to take a report. Such
       violations will be reported to appropriate state or federal officers. Violations of this
       instruction will be reported to the Natural Resources Office and may result in suspension
       or revocation of hunting/fishing privileges following review by Natural Resources
       Manager.
    4.3. Restrictions.
       4.3.1. Protection and conservation of resources are of primary importance. Participants
       in the hunting and fishing program and all outdoor recreational users are required to
       avoid:
           4.3.1.1. cutting, breaking, moving, or harming the flora;
           4.3.1.2. littering: including shell casings, bait holders, food and beverage containers;
           4.3.1.3. driving vehicles "off-road" except in the performance of official duties;
           4.3.1.4. building fires;
           4.3.1.5. introducing or releasing any plants or animals; and
           4.3.1.6. recreational trail use during posted hunting hours.
       4.3.2. Persons involved in hunting and fishing shall not have in their possession, or be
       under the influence of alcoholic beverages, narcotics, stimulants, depressants or
       hallucinogens. They must be capable of the full and rational exercise of all mental and
       physical faculties at all times. This includes NAAF hunters who may be camping or
       spending the night.
       4.3.3. No convicted felons or persons convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic
       violence may hunt with a firearm on JBC.
       4.3.4. Swimming is prohibited in ponds, creeks and rivers on JBC. Children under the
       age of 14 are not allowed around creeks, ponds, or rivers unless accompanied by an adult.
       4.3.5. There will be no hunting at JBC Weapons in Marrington, east of Big and Little
       David’s Ponds when Boy Scouts are camping. Hunting may also be curtailed or limited
       due to training exercises or other organized groups such as YMCA, Boy Scouts, Cub
       Scouts, Girl Scouts, etc. at North Auxiliary Air Field (NAAF). This is up to the
       discretion of the Airfield Manager.
    4.4. Deer Hunting Tree Stands.
       4.4.1. Still hunters must shoot from elevated stands (handicapped persons not included).
       A limited number of JBC stands are available to hunters on a first-come basis on JBC
       Weapons and at NAAF. No reservations or personal claim of hunt areas is permitted.
       Report any such attempts to the Duty Game Warden for JBC Weapons and/or Natural
       Resources office for NAAF.
       4.4.2. No tree stands may be constructed by hunters. Hunters may employ personal tree
       stands. No spikes, bolts, nails, etc., will be put into trees to secure stands. Stands will be
       clearly marked, in a readily visible location, with the hunter's name and a contact phone
       number or will be subject to removal.
JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012                                                        5


      4.4.3. Stands may be placed one month before the season begins and must be removed,
      along with any steps, within two weeks of the end of the season.
      4.4.4. Hunters must use a safety harness/rope.
      4.4.5. JBC tree stands will be safety inspected annually by Natural Resources personnel.
      4.4.6. Guns will not be loaded until the hunter is in the stand and should be unloaded
      prior to hunter’s descent.
5. Specific Hunting Regulations for JBC Weapons.
   5.1. The only wildlife that may be hunted on JBC Weapons are:
White-tailed deer       Bobcat                  Grey squirrel           Fox
Wild hog                Rabbit                  Raccoon
 Wild turkey            Bobwhite Quail          Coyote
 Migratory Game Birds
 (as defined by SCDNR Regs.)


   5.2. There are numerous other species of mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians on the
   installation. None shall be harmed or disturbed in any way. This includes species, which
   might be permitted under state regulations. Specifically included on the "NO HUNTING
   LIST" are alligators, turtles, non-poisonous snakes, fox squirrels, and federally protected
   migratory birds.
   5.3. Hunting is authorized in the Marrington, MenRiv (bow only), Northside, Eastside
   Unrestricted and Southside (bow only) Areas per attached Hunting and Fishing Access Map.
   Dates and hunt hours are set by the Natural Resources Manager and published in a Hunting
   Schedule available at the Outdoor Adventure Center (OAC), the Natural Resources Office
   and posted at Hunter Check Station. The schedule is subject to periodic revision. Hunters
   should check with OAC or Natural Resources office for revisions.
   5.4. There is no restriction on taking coyotes or wild hogs during scheduled deer hunts.
   These kills will be noted on the hunt log. Other species may be taken only during respective
   seasons.
   5.5. Authorized weapons include: shotguns, muzzleloaders, cross bows and bows and
   arrows. No rifles or handguns may be used by hunters.
   5.6. There will be no discharging of firearms with slugs within 400 yards of North Rhett,
   Red Bank or Bushy Park roads. Multiple shot shotguns will not be discharged within 200
   yards and bows not shot within 50 yards of these roads. These distances need not be
   observed if positive measures are implemented to ensure firing is directed away from these
   exposures.
   5.7. There will be no discharge of firearms using slugs within 400 yards of the station
   boundary. These distances need not be observed if positive measures are implemented and
   firing is directed away from these exposures.
6                                           JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012


    5.8. Shotguns using multiple shot shall not be discharged within 200 yards of station
    boundary. These distances need not be observed if positive measures ensure firing is
    directed away from these exposures.
    5.9. Hunting is not authorized in the Northside small arms range safety arc when the range is
    "hot". The Natural Resources office will be contacted by FLETC when weekend operations
    are requested for the firing range. Tenant Commands handling ordnance outside of normal
    working hours will notify the Natural Resources office and affected hunt areas will be closed.
    5.10. Deer, quail, migratory game bird, grey squirrel and rabbit hunters will wear clothing
    (shirt, coat or vest) of solid, visible, international (SVI) orange at all times (except on the
    stand in bow-only areas). This includes the pre- hunt muster. The Duty Game Warden is
    authorized to judge acceptability of garments.
    5.11. Sponsors are responsible for their guest's and dependent's actions and are allowed one
    guest or one 15 years of age or younger dependent per hunt. Stand placements are as
    follows:
       5.11.1. Non-hunting dependents must occupy the same stand as their sponsor.
       5.11.2. Hunting dependents aged 12-15 may take a stand only when accompanied by a
       sponsor. The dependent may be the designated hunter and have the only allowed
       firearm. With written approval from the Natural Resources Manager armed dependent
       hunters may be allowed to occupy a stand adjacent to an armed sponsor's stand.
       5.11.3. Following the hunt muster, guests must ride with and occupy a stand adjacent to
       their sponsor, at least 100 yards away but no more than 200 yards away.
    5.12. With the exception of small game hunters, all hunters will muster and attend safety
    brief at the Marrington Hunter Check Station before hunt departure time. Hunters will
    register on the hunt log, full name, phone number, POV license number, category, hunt area,
    stand number and grid number. All hunters will check out with the duty game warden or his
    designated assistant(s) within 30 minutes of the end scheduled hunts. Game Wardens must
    notify Dispatch (764-7555) when the hunt begins and secures for the day.
    5.13. Hunters will not ride in truck beds not modified for carrying passengers (i.e. with
    benches and seat belts). Driving speeds will be slow and safe based on existing road
    conditions.
    5.14. Deer Hunting General Regulations
       5.14.1. Antlerless deer may be taken if authorized by the Natural Resources Manager.
       Harvest restrictions (e.g., number, sex, antler characteristics) are set by the Natural
       Resources Manager.
       5.14.2. Deer weighing less than 70 pounds will not be killed. A hunter who kills an
       underweight deer will surrender their base permit to the Duty Game Warden and their
       hunting privileges will be suspended for three weeks. A second offense will result in a
       30-day suspension. A third offense will result in suspension of hunting privileges for the
       remainder of the hunting season. If the violation occurs near the end of the deer season,
       suspension will continue into the next deer season. Other base policy infractions will be
       handled on a case-by-case basis by the Natural Resources Manager.
JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012                                                           7


     5.14.3. For reasons of safety and security, the number of hunters allowed at JBC
     Weapons hunt areas will be limited to: 25 Northside and 20 in Marrington/MenRiv. The
     only exceptions to these limits are scheduled dog drives supervised by game wardens.
     Access is on a first-come basis as determined by order of sign up on hunt log.
     5.14.4. Hunters are responsible for processing deer.        Field dressing deer is not
     authorized. Deer will be taken to the Check Station where jawbones and harvest data will
     be taken under direction of Duty Game Warden. Deer stored in the check station cooler
     will be tagged with hunter's name, date harvested and removed from cooler within three
     days. Hunters failing to follow posted cooler protocol will lose hunt privileges.
     Unprocessed, antlerless deer must be properly tagged before taken off-station.
  5.15. Still Hunting for Deer.
     5.15.1. Equipment
      Required                                      Recommended
      Working light (turned on going to and Binoculars
      from stand in dark)                   Boots/heavy shoes
      Watch and Knife                       Portable tree stand
      Safety harness/rope                           Insect repellent
      Cord (to raise weapons to stand)
      SVI Orange Clothing


     5.15.2. Stand locations (100-yard radius) will be available to hunters on a first-come
     basis as signed-up on hunt log. Hunters will mark their stand location on the Check
     Station wall map. Hunting in unassigned stands, stalking, tracking wounded game out of
     assigned areas or encroaching on adjacent, occupied stands is strictly forbidden. Hunters
     will not leave their stand until the designated time (a.m. hunts) or one-half hour after
     official sunset (p.m. hunts) unless an emergency situation or dangerous weather
     conditions develop. The duty game warden must be contacted before an emergency
     departure is authorized.
     5.15.3. Gun Hunting- Authorized firearms are 20, 16, 12, and 10 gauge shotguns using
     slugs (buckshot is not authorized for still hunting) and muzzleloaders, (caliber .45 to .58).
     Hunters will load firearms only after getting in their stand and unload before leaving the
     stand. Hunters using muzzle loading firearms will arm their weapon only when in the
     stand by loading, capping, or inserting the primer. Before leaving the stand muzzle-
     loaders will disarm their weapon by decapping, or removing the primer or discharging
     weapons into the ground.
  5.16. Bow Hunting Deer
     5.16.1. Hunting Procedures- Hunters will mark their stand location on the hunter check
     station wall map. This map clearly delineates bow only hunt areas. Duty Game Wardens
     and Natural Resource personnel are the only personnel authorized to use a firearm to
     dispatch wounded animals in designated bow only areas. A 50-yard buffer zone will
8                                         JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012


       exist between stands and the wood lines adjacent to houses, buildings, the golf course and
       public, paved public roads.
       5.16.2. Authorized weapons are crossbow, long bow, straight limb, reflex, recurve, and
       compound. Bows must have a minimum draw-pull weight of 35 pounds and cast a
       hunting arrow 125 yards to a point of similar elevation. Arrows must be broadheads with
       a minimum width of 3/4 inches and have well-sharpened, metal, cutting edges. The use or
       possession of a poison arrow, an arrow with explosive tip, or any device propelled by any
       means that is used for the purpose of injecting or delivering any type of drug into an
       animal is prohibited. Cross bows will be cocked upon arrival and uncocked when
       departing from the stand.
    5.17. Dog Drive Deer Hunting
       5.17.1. Equipment
                         Required                               Recommended
                         SVI orange clothing                    Watch

       5.17.2. Hunters may take two deer per day, either antlerless (when tags are available) or
       buck. Hunters who kill deer during dog drives will be allowed the head, skin and first
       choice of meat. The remainder of the meat will be divided by drawing lots with one meat
       draw per hunter.
       5.17.3. Authorized weapons are 20, 16, 12, or 10 gauge shotguns (no slug barrels) using
       buckshot.
       5.17.4. Hunters wishing to bring dogs on station must register with the Dog Drive
       Coordinator in advance of hunts and will be assigned dates when their dogs can be
       brought on station. Individual dog packs must range from three to twelve dogs. Dog
       owners must be able to show proof of rabies vaccination by a licensed veterinarian.
       5.17.5. Hunting Procedures
          5.17.5.1. The Dog Drive Coordinator is in charge of hunts. The Coordinator may
          designate a Duty Game Warden(s) to assist in the conduct of the hunt.
          5.17.5.2. The Duty Game Warden will see that hunters sign the hunt log as they
          arrive at the Check Station. Hunters will take their stand in the order which they
          signed up on the hunt log.
          5.17.5.3. Hunters will remain on the stand until picked up. At no time will two or
          more hunters be on the same stand with a loaded gun. Weapons wi11 be unloaded
          when in trucks. After disembarking in the hunting area hunter's weapons will not be
          loaded until the transport vehicle has stopped to put out the next stander. All hunters
          will stand on the edge of the road next to the area being driven.            Under no
          circumstances will any hunter stand on the opposite side of the road or shoot at any
          deer as it passes directly between standers.
          5.17.5.4. When the standers are picked up for return to the Hunter Check Station,
          hunting is secured. To be eligible for a meat draw riders will return to Check Station
          and help process game (dog handlers are excluded if they are locating dogs).
JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012                                                          9


  5.18. Wild Turkey Hunting
     5.18.1. Except where noted in this instruction, South Carolina state rules and regulations
     for turkey hunting on private land apply.
     5.18.2. The season will begin with a limit of one gobbler per hunter. All gobblers must
     have beards six inches or longer. Dependents under age 16 may take gobblers with
     beards less than six inches. Bag limits and harvest restrictions will be set annually by the
     Natural Resources Manager and are subject to modification during the season.
     5.18.3. Turkey hunting will be on weekends only. Hunts may be canceled for safety
     and/or security reasons. Hunters will muster at the Marrington Hunter Check Station one
     hour and forty- five minutes before sunrise for a lottery to determine eligibility and hunt
     locations. Hunters will depart the check station following the lottery and will hunt until
     0900 (early out) or until 1200. All hunters will check out with the duty game warden or
     his assistant. The duty game warden must be notified in case of an emergency departure.
     5.18.4. Lottery procedures are as follows. The Northside, Eastside Unrestricted and
     Southside Areas, will be divided into smaller, numbered hunt areas (see check station
     map). Each hunt morning, hunters will draw to determine if and where they will hunt
     that morning. Markers will be placed in a can numbered one through the total number of
     hunters present participating in the draw. If, for example, thirteen hunt areas are
     available that morning, hunters who draw markers one through twelve will be eligible to
     hunt and will select their hunt areas in the order of the number on the marker they drew.
     The Duty Game Warden will select first. If more hunters have mustered than there are
     hunt areas available those hunters who do not pick a number lower than the maximum
     number of hunt areas available will not be able to hunt that morning. However, each
     hunter who drew a hunt area may take one hunting companion with him but only one
     gun. Each of these hunters is eligible to take one legal turkey that morning. No one is
     obligated to take another hunter with him or her.
  5.19. Small Game and Waterfowl
     5.19.1. Equipment

            Required                  Recommended
            Working Light             Insect repellant
            Watch                     Boots/heavy shoes

     5.19.2. Authorized weapons are shotguns. Bow and arrows may also be used for rabbit.
     Shot size and pellet composition will comply with state and federal migratory bird and
     waterfowl laws and regulations. For waterfowl hunting, the only authorized shot is non-
     toxic steel.
     5.19.3. Dogs may be used per state regulations. Hunters are responsible for their dogs.
     Uncontrollable dogs will be barred from the station.
     5.19.4. Hunting Procedures
 10                                        JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012


          5.19.4.1. Small Game - Small game hunting is authorized in Marrington only.
          Hunters will check in/out via the Marrington Plantation Hunter Check Station Small
          Game Hunt Log.
          5.19.4.2. Waterfowl- Hunters will check in/out with the Duty Game Warden at the
          Hunter Check Station. On a first-come basis, waterfowl hunters will be assigned
          ponds by the duty game warden. Electric trolling motors and air-cooled outboard
          motors only (see fishing regulations l.b.) are permitted on personal boats.
   5.20. Wild Hog Hunting
      5.20.1. Wild hog may be taken during scheduled deer hunts. Hog hunting policies and
      procedures will generally follow those stated for deer hunting except as noted below.
      5.20.2. No harvest limits or restrictions apply (weight, sex, number, etc.).
      5.20.3. Special hog population control hunts using dogs are authorized under the
      direction of the Natural Resources Manager. Hand guns are authorized for use in hog
      population control activities: trapping and hunting with dogs.
   5.21. Scouting
      5.21.1. Scouting for game by licensed hunters is authorized during daylight hours as
      follows:
          5.21.1.1. Marrington and MenRiv - Category A and B personnel during non-hunting
          hours and the remainder of the year sunrise to sunset with appropriate permits and passes.
          5.21.1.2. Northside - Category A and B personnel during deer season, Tuesdays,
          Thursdays, and weekends (during non-hunting hours) and the remainder of the
          year sunrise to sunset with appropriate permits and passes.
          5.21.1.3. Southside - Category B personnel during deer season on Tuesdays,
          Thursdays and weekends (during non-hunting hours only) and the remainder of the
          year sunrise to sunset with appropriate permit and passes.
6. Specific Hunting Regulations for North Auxiliary Air Field (NAAF).
   6.1. General Regulations
      6.1.1. 628th CES/CEAN will coordinate all hunting activities at NAAF with 437
      OSS/OSA (Airfield Management). Hunting schedules will be adjusted or cancelled as
      needed for training exercises, outside users, etc. at the request of 437 OSS/OSA. An e-
      mail will be sent out each week advising hunters of any changes to the hunt schedule for
      that week. Permit holders wishing to hunt at NAAF who do not have e-mail access
      should call the Natural Resources office at 764-7335, in advance to ensure hunting is
      allowed that day. Provided there are no training exercises or outside users at NAAF, hunt
      schedule will be as follows:
-- Hunting will be allowed seven days per week in hunt areas 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 14, 15A, 15B,
  17A, 17B, 17C, 19B, 20, and 21 (see Attachment 2).

-- Hunting will be allowed Friday through Monday only in hunt areas 4, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16,
   19A, I-1, and I-2.
JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012                                                          11



     6.1.2. Hunter should pay strict attention to the ―off limits‖ areas depicted on the map in
     Attachment 3. NAAF is an active airfield used regularly for touch and go landings air
     drops and other training maneuvers. Driving or entering these areas could result in
     serious accidents and at a minimum could result in the loss of hunting privileges. If a
     wounded animal enters any area that is ―off limits‖ hunters will not enter that area but
     will advise fire department personnel and follow their instructions for retrieving the
     animal.
     6.1.3. Hunters will report directly to the Fire Station to sign in and out of the hunting log
     book. The log book is located in the foyer area of the Fire Station. Failure to sign in or
     out will result in a loss of hunting privileges.
     6.1.4. On weekends when hunting is allowed, hunters may camp but only in the area
     adjacent to Building Number 1, also known as the Pecan Grove. This area is just to the
     right as you come in the gate. Campfires are prohibited. Campers are responsible for
     policing their area prior to departure. Failure to clean up campsites after use could result
     in a loss of camping and/or hunting privileges. No utility hook ups of any kind are
     authorized. Campers will be required to sign in/out of a camping log book when staying
     at NAAF.
     6.1.5. Restrooms by the combat controllers’ compound are the only facilities that can be
     used by approved campers. Again, fire station facilities, including office areas, living
     quarters, latrines and vehicle stalls are off-limits.
     6.1.6. The fire station is secured at 2200 hours nightly until 0700 hours the next morning.
     Firefighters will not be called or disturbed during these hours except during an
     emergency. Hunters who wish to hunt early in the morning will be required to camp the
     night before as the airfield gate is locked. During working hours (0700-2200), hunters
     will be required to use the phone at the front gate to call the Fire Dept in order to gain
     access to NAAF.
     6.1.7. All dirt roads are open for vehicular traffic. The speed for the paved road leading
     to the fire station is 10 MPH. Visitor parking is available at the side of the fire station.
     Do not park in front of the fire department vehicles, vehicle stalls, or in any manner that
     would block or impede the route of a fire department vehicle. Parking ramp ―A‖ is the
     only aircraft ramp/taxi way area authorized for POV travel with a speed limit of 25 MPH.
     When driving in wooded areas, use caution and low rates of speed. On-base driving
     hazards may include, but are not limited to, other vehicles, aircraft traffic, heavy
     equipment/fire fighting apparatus, lack of traffic control devices, blind curves, washouts,
     flooded areas and fallen trees.
     6.1.8. All South Carolina hunting laws for the Orangeburg County area will apply to
     NAAF. All areas are subject to patrol by the SCDNR enforcement personnel and JBC
     Natural Resource office personnel. Any poaching or other illegal activities should be
     reported to the JBC Natural Resources Office (843/764-7335 or -7951). Violators of
     state and/or federal laws, rules, regulations, or NAAF regulations will have hunting
     privileges suspended pending further investigation. State or federal violations will be
     reported to appropriate regulatory officials.
12                                        JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012


     6.1.9. Hunting will be prohibited in areas 22-25. In the interest of mission requirements,
     security, and/or safety, the senior fire official on duty may restrict, limit, ban or otherwise
     prohibit hunting/camping at NAAF at any time.
     6.1.10. Bows and shotguns may be used in Areas 1, 2, 3, I-1, and I-2. Rifles, bows and
     shotguns are permitted in all remaining hunt areas. See Attachment (2).
     6.1.11. Target practice and/or sighting in of rifles/scopes is strictly prohibited anywhere
     on NAAF. Additionally, handguns are strictly forbidden anywhere on NAAF.
     6.1.12. Authorized weapons include: shotguns (slugs only), muzzleloaders, cross bows
     and bows and arrows. No handguns may be used by hunters. Rifles are allowed for deer
     hunting (still hunting) only in approved areas. Rifle approved areas are marked on the
     hunt map for NAAF. See Attachment (2).
     6.1.13. The only animals that may be hunted at NAAF when in season are white-tailed
     deer and wild turkey. Coyotes and wild hogs may be taken during authorized deer hunts.
     No other animals will be hunted or harassed in any way.
     6.1.14. Hunting is permitted in wooded areas only. Hunting in open areas around ramps,
     taxi ways, and runways or in between runways is prohibited. In addition, the wooded
     area behind the fire station is off limits for hunting, except for areas I-1 and I-2 which are
     approved for bow and shotgun only.
     6.1.15. If a hunter wounds an animal but is unable to locate it he/she should notify
     Natural Resource personnel with the approximate area at (843) 764-7335 or 764-7951.
     Natural Resource office will relay pertinent information to BASH personnel on-site at
     NAAF.
  6.2. Still Hunting for Deer
     6.2.1. Hunters must sign in and out of designated hunting areas. It is the sole
     responsibility of the hunter(s) to properly sign in and out at the end of each hunt. Hunters
     may not change areas without first signing out of the original area and into the new one.
     Only one hunter is allowed in any given area at a time. The only exception to this rule is
     when a minor under the age of 16 is hunting with a sponsor.
     6.2.2. Installation of privately owned tree stands is permitted, however, having a stand
     pre-set in a particular area does not give the owner exclusive rights to that area. All areas
     are signed out first come, first serve. If a hunter leaves a stand in the woods, he or she
     does so at their own risk. In addition, stands must be installed in a manner so as not to
     impede vehicle traffic.
     6.2.3. Scouting for hunting locations may be conducted in specific areas only. Hunters
     must sign out a specific area prior to scouting. Scouting in un-assigned areas is
     prohibited.
     6.2.4. Hunters should be aware that a doe quota (30) has been established for NAAF and
     the same number of tags has been issued to NAAF by the South Carolina Department of
     Natural Resources (SCDNR). All antlerless deer must be tagged, even if harvested on
     scheduled either-sex days for that county. Tags can be obtained from Natural Resource
     personnel. Tags will be issued on a first come, first served basis. When those tags are
     depleted, no more antlerless deer may be harvested. Hunters will not be allowed to use
JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012                                                           13


      personal tags that have been issued to them by SCDNR. Antlerless deer must be properly
      tagged before being moved from the location of the kill.
      6.2.5. All deer harvested will be recorded in the logbook at the fire station. Information
      should include sex of the deer, where taken and approximate weight. Deer weighing less
      than 70 pounds shall not be killed.
      6.2.6. Field dressing is not allowed at NAAF.
      6.2.7. During still gun hunts for deer, there shall be no hunting or shooting from, on, or
      across any road open for vehicle traffic.
   6.3. Wild Turkey Hunting Regulations
      6.3.1. Hunters must sign in and out of designated hunting areas. It is the sole
      responsibility of the hunter(s) to properly sign in and out at the end of each hunting day.
      Hunters may not change areas without first signing out of the original area and into the
      new one. Turkey hunters may hunt in pairs, however, should stay within visual and voice
      distance from each other. When hunting in pairs, only one hunter will be allowed to have
      a gun.
      6.3.2. Hunters must have state-issued turkey tags. All turkeys must be properly tagged
      prior to moving the turkey from the location of the harvest. A log book will be kept in
      the Fire Station to record number and approximate size of turkeys taken. Hunters should
      also record beard length, spur size and approximate weight.
7. Fishing Regulations.
   7.1. JBC Weapons fishing policies will follow SCDNR rules and regulations unless
   otherwise noted in this instruction. Gutting and cleaning fish at JBC Weapons fishing
   locations or along base waterways is prohibited.
   7.2. Electric trolling motors and air-cooled, outboard motors are authorized for use on ponds.
   Water-cooled outboard motors are not authorized.
   7.3. Transportation to fishing location areas shall be in privately owned vehicles (POVs).
   7.4. Authorized Areas/Access
      7.4.1. Categories A and B personnel are authorized to fish in Marrington Plantation's
      ponds and at Mary's Landing. No check in or out required. Fishermen will not drive
      into, loiter, or fish in the stable area. Fishing at James Pond is reserved for Scouts when
      they are conducting scheduled activities in the area (camping, field event. etc.).
      7.4.2. Category B personnel with up to three guests in their vehicle are authorized to fish
      Hooker Lake, the TC docks, and Goose Creek's east bank at Grace Hopper Bridge. On
      the Cooper River Category B fishing is authorized at Piers Edwards, Bravo, and Wharf
      Alpha and the river bank south of Pier Alpha up to Pier Charlie. No other areas are
      authorized. No vehicles will be driven onto the piers, docks or wharf. Personnel fishing
      from piers, docks or wharf are strongly recommended to wear personal flotation devices
      (life jackets). This is a requirement for children 12 and under. Fishing will be secured at
      individual piers, docks or wharf when a ship is berthed. Fishing will be secured at Pier
      Bravo and Wharf Alpha and all banks along the river within Public Traffic Route (PTR)
      distance when an explosive vessel is berthed. Weapons Safety will calculate the PTR
 14                                       JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012


      distance and provide to Natural Resources when this condition exists. JBC Weapons
      Security boat piers/docks including parking area, floating dock and boat ramp on Old
      Tom Road just up river from Pier Edwards are off limits to fishermen. No fishing is
      permitted in the Cooper River when Traffic Control is set. At sunset all gates to piers and
      wharfs will be secured by Security personnel and reopened at sunrise.
      7.4.3. Pier Edwards is the only area authorized for night fishing. Otherwise, fishing is
      authorized from sunrise to sunset daily. Fishing will be secured at Pier Edwards all banks
      along the river within Public Traffic Route (PTR) distance when an explosive vessel is
      berthed at Pier Bravo or Wharf Alpha. Weapons Safety will calculate the PTR distance
      and provide to Natural Resources when this condition exists.
8. Wildlife Population Control in Ordnance Areas.
   8.1. Department of Defense policies based on explosive safety concerns preclude
   recreational activity, including hunting, in ordnance storage areas. Therefore, a depredation
   program will be used to ensure animal populations do not exceed acceptable levels.
   Controlling species will minimize accidents between explosive loaded conveyances and
   wildlife. It will also minimize damage to Earth-Covered Magazines from digging, burrowing
   and rooting wildlife.
   8.2. Depredation will be allowed in East and Northside Ordnance Storage Areas during the
   State of South Carolina’s normal hunting seasons and will be carried out simultaneously with
   regularly scheduled JBC-Weapons Station recreational hunts.
   8.3. Depredation will be accomplished using the policies and procedures outlined in this
   instruction unless otherwise noted in this section. Due to safety and security issues
   depredation participants will be limited to Naval Munitions Command (NMC) approved
   badge holders who are on an NMC Entry Authorization List.
   8.4. Weapons used for depredation in the ordnance storage areas will be limited to shotguns,
   muzzle loaders, cross bows and bows. Depredation of deer in the critical area around loaded
   above ground ammunition facilities will be from authorized tree stands positioned and
   pointed 180 degrees from the explosive site. Critical distances are: 1200' (using single shot
   firearms) and 600' (using multiple shot firearms). At no time will a hunter discharge a
   weapon closer than 50' to any explosive facility.
   8.5. No depredation or scouting will be allowed in the East or Northside Ordnance Area
   when explosive operations are in progress. Additionally, no depredation is allowed in the
   vicinity of the Explosive Ordnance Disposal Open Detonation/Open Burn range when active.




                                           RICHARD D. MCCOMB, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 628 ABW
JBCHARLESTONI32-7064 26 DECEMBER 2012                                    15


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resource Management, 17 September 2004
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—- Air Force
AFB—- Air Force Base
AFMAN—- Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information Management System
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule
