BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         JOINT BASE CHARLESTON
JOINT BASE CHARLESTON                                                 INSTRUCTION 36-2203

                                                                              25 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                        RETREAT CEREMONY



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 628 ABW/CCC                                                      Certified by: 628 ABW/CC
Supersedes: CHARLESTONAFBMAN                                         (Colonel Martha A. Meeker)
            36-2203, 30 September 2004                                                   Pages: 7


This instruction describes the movements and procedures for the Retreat Ceremony at the base
flag pole at Joint Base Charleston, South Carolina. It is a guide for persons teaching, learning or
participating in the retreat ceremony. This manual applies to all Joint Base Charleston members.
Retreat will be conducted according to the schedule published annually by the CCM office, or on
special occasions as directed. Unit CC or organization responsible will determine the uniform for
the ceremony. This publication applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and their units. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Air
Mobility Command (AMC) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The following information in this document is substantially revised and must be completely
reviewed.
 2                                              JBCHARLESTONI36-2203 25 JANUARY 2011


The 628 ABW/CCC office will be responsible for developing/publishing the annual retreat
Schedule, with concurrence of the 437 AW/CCC office, for the 628 ABW and 437 AW. The
schedule will be posted on the CCM EIM page, https://eim.amc.af.mil/org/628ABW/
Command%20Chief/default.aspx. The flight commander or POC will be responsible for making
decisions for retreat cancellation (rain, lightning, or heat stress index such as black flag). They
will also be responsible for making any schedule changes pertaining to their assigned retreat date
by contacting the other squadrons to see who is available to swap. The POC will need to contact
the 628 ABW/CCE, 437 AW/CCE, 628 ABW/CCC, and 628 SFS with the updated information.
The flag detail will have the option of using the Installation flag (8”x11 3/8 x17”) or the All-
purpose flag (5”x 9”x6”) if conditions dictate. The All-purpose flag is maintained in the 628
ABW/CCC office. Once retreat is over, it is the responsibility of the NCO of the flag detail to
ensure that the installation flag is taken to the Security Forces Control Center, so that SFS can
raise the flag at 0001 hours.
1. The Flight:
     1.1. The 628 ABW/CCC office will be responsible for developing/publishing the annual
     retreat Schedule, with concurrence of the 437 AW/CCC office, for the 628 ABW and 437
     AW. The schedule will be posted on the CCM EIM page https://eim.amc.af.mil/org/
     628ABW/Command%20Chief/default.aspx.            The flight commander or POC will be
     responsible for making decisions for retreat cancellation (rain, lightning, or heat stress index
     such as black flag). They will also be responsible for making any schedule changes
     pertaining to their assigned retreat date by contacting the other squadrons to see who is
     available to swap. The POC will need to contact the 628 ABW/CCE, 437 AW/CCE, 628
     ABW/CCC, and 628 SFS with the updated information.
     1.2. The flight commander will form up the flight as described in AFPAM36-2241,
     Professional Development Guide, 1 July 2009.
     1.3. Upon completion of the flight being formed up, the flight commander can place the
     flight at parade rest and wait for retreat to begin. The music is played automatically over the
     base public address system at 1600.
     1.4. Following the last note of retreat, the flight commander will call the flight to attention
     and then call present arms.
     1.5. Following the National Anthem, the flight commander will call order arms and will
     keep the flight at attention until the flag is folded and has been taken to the front steps of the
     wing building.
     1.6. The flight commander can then dismiss the flight.
2. Flag Detail:
     2.1. The flag detail will consist of six (6) members, A NCO, plus three (3) Airmen on the
     flag detail, and two (2) road guards.
     2.2. The flag detail will have the option of using the Installation flag (8”x11 3/8 x17”) or the
     All-purpose flag (5”x 9”x6”) if conditions dictate. The All-purpose flag is maintained in the
     628 ABW/CCC office.
JBCHARLESTONI36-2203 25 JANUARY 2011                                                              3


   2.3. All members of the flag detail will line up with the wing building to their left and the
   squadron flight to their right. The NCO will be furthest to the right facing directly in front of
   the pole along the edge of the grass.
   2.4. Five minutes prior to the beginning of retreat the NCO will call the detail to attention
   and give the command. FORWARD, MARCH. At that point the detail will begin to march
   as well as fall into their positions. Road guards will remain in position at parade rest.
   2.5. The NCO will march around the right of the pole. After passing the flagpole they will
   take ten (10) steps, perform a left flank, take another three (3) steps, and halt. The NCO will
   halt and perform a left face. At this point, the NCO should be parallel to the middle detail
   member.
   2.6. The Airman that was to the NCO’s left will march and perform a right flank, take one
   (1) step forward and halt so that they are one (1) pace to the right of the flagpole facing the
   flight.
   2.7. The third person will perform a right flank, take one (1) step and halt so that they are
   directly in front of the flagpole one (1) pace away.
   2.8. The fourth Airman will perform a right flank, and take three (3) steps forward and halt
   so that they are one (1) pace to the left of the flagpole facing the flight.

Figure 1. Flag Detail.




   2.9. Once everyone is in position, the NCO will give the command DETAIL, SECURE.
   The two facing the flight will perform either a right or left face so that they are facing the
   flagpole and the middle person will begin to untie the rope from around the cleat. Prior to
   the detail beginning, a team member should loosen the rope from the cleat so that it is still
   secure, but will not cause a time delay if previously secured too tight. Once released, the
   middle Airman will hand the rope off, first to the left, then to the right. The two individuals
   with the rope will hold it left hand over right, hands chin high.
   2.10. Once the team is ready the NCO will call READY, POST all three (3) members will
   take two (2) steps backwards.
   2.11. The team will now wait for retreat to begin. The NCO can put the team to parade rest.
   The two members holding the rope will perform all movements of parade rest except for their
4                                                JBCHARLESTONI36-2203 25 JANUARY 2011


    right hands. They will leave it chin high holding the rope tight so that it makes a triangle
    from hand to hand to top of pole.
    2.12. Retreat will sound; the two road guards will post to stop traffic and stand at parade rest
    with their right arms extended and their right hands flared. The flag detail team will remain
    at parade rest. Note: If the flag is at half-staff it must first be raised to full-staff before it can
    be lowered. During retreat, it will be hoisted briskly to the staff head, thus, the NCO must
    call the detail to attention on the first note of retreat.
    2.13. Following the last note of retreat, the NCO will come to attention and call the flag
    detail to DETAIL, ATTENTION. The flag detail members holding the rope will come to
    the position of attention holding the rope tight with both hands left over right, chin level.
    2.14. The NCO will then call PRESENT, ARMS the NCO and the middle flag detail
    member not holding the rope will present arms. The National Anthem will play.
    2.15. As the anthem is playing, the members will begin to bring the flag down hand over
    hand. The goal is to have the flag unlatched and secure simultaneously as the anthem ends,
    As the flag is being lowered and comes within reach of the middle member, they will order
    arms and begin to gather in the flag. The individual will unhook the halyards as they
    descend.
    2.16. The NCO will help control the speed in which the flag is being lowered. A slight head
    nod up and down will mean to speed up the decent. A slight head shake right will mean to
    slow down the decent. This movement will be watched for by the detail member facing the
    NCO.
    2.17. Once the flag is secured, the members holding the rope will then take one (1) step
    towards the pole and secure the rope to the lanyard. This is done by one member giving an
    eye wink to initiate the movement. Once secured, they will return to the position of attention.
    2.18. The NCO will call the command READY, POST. Only the members without the flag
    will perform either a right or left face so that they are facing the flight. This will not include
    the NCO. They will then automatically step off with the left foot, take five (5) steps then
    step stop. They will automatically perform either a right or left face so they are facing each
    other.
    2.19. After the members are in place the individual holding the flag will march over to the
    person on their right and hand the union portion of the flag to that member. Make sure that
    the union is to the receiving persons left. The middle member will then walk over and hand
    the opposite end to the other detail member. The member receiving the flag will take
    necessary back steps to make sure the flag is taut. The person who handed off the flag will
    then position themselves center on the flag facing the flight. NOTE: This center member
    may help in securing the flag if the wind is blowing by simply pinching the flag, but should
    not move down as the flag is being folded.
    2.20. The members will perform a flag fold as described in AFPAM36-2241V1. They can
    also contact the base Honor Guard and ask for guidance.
    2.21. As the flag is being folded, the person on the union side will remain stationary while
    the person folding will step in towards the union side. The middle person will also remain
    stationary but can aid in folding the flag if the wind is blowing by pinching the flag. Once
JBCHARLESTONI36-2203 25 JANUARY 2011                                                             5


  the flag folder is directly in front of the middle person, they will both simultaneously take the
  next step forward. This will allow a smaller step when they post as described in 2.23.2.
  2.22. Once the flag is completely folded and tucked, the person who folded the flag will
  secure it to their chest left hand over right, middle finger tip touching middle finger tip. The
  tip of the flag will point toward the persons chin.
  2.23. Once all members are done moving, the NCO will march over and position themselves
  four (4) paces, centered in front of the flag detail. The NCO will have the flight to the left
  and the flag detail to the right. The command of READY, POST will be given and the
  following will occur simultaneously.
     2.23.1. The two members who folded the flag will perform either a right or left face so
     that they are facing the flight.
     2.23.2. The individual that was centered will step forward so that they are to the left of
     the flag bearer.
     2.23.3. The NCO will perform a left face so that they are facing the flight.
  2.24. At this point the three Airmen will be abreast facing the flight with the middle Airman
  holding the flag. The NCO will be four (4) paces ahead of the Airmen also facing the flight.
  2.25. The NCO will give the command of FORWARD, MARCH. The detail will begin
  marching towards the flight. Approximately five (5) paces from the Flight Commander, the
  NCO will halt the detail. The NCO will present arms and state “Sir/Ma’am, the flag is
  secured.” The commander will return the salute.
  2.26. After the commander has lowered their salute the NCO will perform an about face and
  give the command LEFT WHEEL, MARCH. The NCO will go to a mark time march and
  the three (3) Airmen will also begin a mark time and wheel turn to the left. Once they have
  made a 180 degree turn and are facing the Wing building, the NCO will call FORWARD,
  MARCH on consecutive left feet. The detail will march forward towards the wing building.
  2.27. The NCO will only present arms if leadership is in formation in the center in front of
  the wing building. The commander of the wing leadership flight will salute as the detail
  passes. After passing the leadership flight, the NCO will order arms and the detail will
  continue to the wing building. The NCO will then call DETAIL, HALT. At that point the
  NCO can dismiss the detail.
  2.28. The road guards will remain posted until the flag detail has crossed the street to the
  wing building.
  2.29. Once retreat is over, it is the responsibility of the NCO of the flag detail to ensure that
  the installation flag is taken to the Security Forces Control Center, so that SFS can raise the
  flag at 0001 hours.
 6                                            JBCHARLESTONI36-2203 25 JANUARY 2011


3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms
     3.1. Prescribed Forms: No forms are prescribed by this publication.
     3.2. Adopted Forms: AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             MARTHA M. MEEKER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
JBCHARLESTONI36-2203 25 JANUARY 2011                         7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW— Air Base Wing
CC— Commander
CCC— Command Chief Master Sergeant Executive
CCCE— Command Chief Executive Assistant
DS— Director of Staff
DV— Distinguished Visitors
NLT— No Later Than
MSG— Mission Support Group
MDG— Medical Group
MXG— Maintenance Group
OG— Operations Group
1 CTCS— 1st Combat Camera Squadron
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
POC— Point of Contact
