BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-RICHARDSON
JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-                                            INSTRUCTION 31-118
RICHARDSON
                                                                                   2 MAY 2013
                                                           Certified Current 30 September 2013
                                                                                      Security

                                               MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
                                                                        PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 673 SFS/SFPP                                                    Certified by: 673 MSG/CC
                                                                          (Col Frank Battistelli)
Supersedes:   3WGI 31-204,                                                             Pages: 39
              20 October 2005


This instruction implements AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense and is used in conjunction with
Joint Publication AR 190-5 and AFI 31-218, Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, and is based
upon the Uniform Vehicle Code and Model Traffic Ordinance, and complies with the National
Highway Safety Program Standards promulgated under the National Highway Safety Act of
1966. This traffic code assimilates, to the maximum extent possible, the Alaska statewide traffic
code and the Municipality of Anchorage, Title 9, and vehicle and traffic codes. The provisions
of this instruction apply to all personnel assigned, attached, or associated to the 673d Air Base
Wing (673 ABW) and all other individuals, whether military or civilian, while upon any 673
ABW installation or property. This instruction establishes policies and procedures governing
motor vehicle traffic supervision and registration requirements on Joint Base Elmendorf-
Richardson (JBER). Compliance with this instruction cannot be waived. This publication may
not be supplemented and no waivers may be granted for any part of the publication. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR), using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See
Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information. The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


Collected information is "For Official Use Only-Law Enforcement Sensitive (FOUO-
LES).” “This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of The Air
Force: Powers and duties; delegation by and DoDI 1000.19, Mishap Investigation,
Reporting and Recordkeeping; DoDI 6055.4, Department of Defense Traffic Safety
Program and AFRs 125-3, Security Police Handbook and 125-14, Motor Vehicle Traffic
Supervision. The applicable Privacy Act SORN(s), F031 AF SP L, Traffic Accident &
Violation    Reports,    June     11,    1997,   62     FR    31793,    is  available at
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/. By order of the 673rd Air Base Wing Commander,
this instruction will be strictly adhered to on JBER in accordance with the Internal
Security Act of 1950. Official records created as a result of this publication will be
maintained and disposed of in accordance with AFMAN 33-363.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This instruction
has been changed to correlate with new policies and procedures and updated terminology.

      1.     Introduction: ...........................................................................................................       3
      2.     Driving Privileges: .................................................................................................           3
      3.     Motor Vehicle Registration: ..................................................................................                  6
      4.     Traffic Planning and Codes: ..................................................................................                  6
Table 1.     Safety .....................................................................................................................    8
Table 2.     Equipment Requirements .......................................................................................                  8
Table 3.     Age and Weight Chart ...........................................................................................               10
Table 4.     Prohibited Areas ....................................................................................................          11
Table 5.     Parking ...................................................................................................................    17
Table 6.     No Parking .............................................................................................................       18
      5.     Driving Records and Traffic Point System: ...........................................................                          24
      6.     Impounding Privately Owned Vehicles: ................................................................                          24
Table 7.     Reasons for Impoundment .....................................................................................                  25
      7.     Information Collections. ........................................................................................              26

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              27

Attachment 2—JBER POINT ASSESSMENT FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS TABLE                                                                             31

Attachment 3—SUSPENSION/REVOCATION GUIDELINES                                                                                               34

Attachment 4—TRAFFIC ACCIDENT CLASSIFICATION GUIDELINES                                                                                     39
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                       3


1. Introduction:
   1.1. Program Management. To provide the safe and efficient movement of traffic on JBER,
   all statutes under Title 13, Public Safety, Alaska Administrative Code Title 28, Motor Vehicle
   Laws of Alaska, and Municipality of Anchorage Traffic Code are applicable to traffic on
   JBER, except as noted in this instruction.
   1.2. Responsibilities. The Defense Force Commander (DFC) is responsible for the
   enforcement of all traffic laws and regulations, including applicable state and city laws, on
   JBER.
   1.3. Delegation of Authority. The Commander, 673d Air Base Wing (673 ABW/CC) has
   delegated authority under this instruction to the Commander, 673d Mission Support Group
   (673 MSG/CC). The 673d Air Base Wing Staff Judge Advocate (673 ABW/SJA) maintains
   the letter of delegation.
2. Driving Privileges:
   2.1. Requirements for Driving Privileges. Driving a Government Motor Vehicle (GMV)
   or Privately Owned Vehicle (POV) on JBER is a privilege granted by the 673 ABW/CC.
   Accordingly, you must comply with the laws and instructions governing motor vehicle
   operation on the installation. Everyone operating a motor vehicle must maintain in their
   vehicle and produce, upon request from the Security Forces (SF) or contract guard, the
   following:
       2.1.1. Proof of ownership or registration of the vehicle.
       2.1.2. A valid state driver’s license and/or AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle
       Operator Identification Card (if operating a GMV), supported by a Department of
       Defense (DoD) military identification card. NOTE: Must not be under suspension or
       revocation in any State.
       2.1.3. Regulatory permits or other pertinent documents relative to shipping and
       transportation of special cargo.
       2.1.4. Documents that establish identification and status of cargo or occupants, when
       appropriate.
       2.1.5. Proof of current vehicle insurance. Proof is defined as physical documentation
       describing the insured vehicle by vehicle identification number (VIN) or license plate
       number, the name of the company providing coverage, a policy identification number,
       and the valid dates of coverage.
   2.2. Stopping and Inspecting Personnel or Vehicles. SF may stop vehicles on JBER when
   violations of this instruction and/or other local or state laws are witnessed based on 673
   ABW/ CC authority.
       2.2.1. SF may conduct examinations of vehicles/property entering or exiting the
       installation. These checks are commonly referred to as Base Entry Point Checks or
       Random Anti-Terrorism Measures. Searches of rental vehicles used for official military
       duties in lieu of government vehicles, and contractor/delivery company vehicles allowed
       entry through established procedures are authorized in accordance with AFI 31-101,
       Integrated Defense.
4                                     JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


       2.2.2. On-base traffic stops of POVs/GMVs are authorized when there is reasonable
       basis to believe it’s necessary to enforce a traffic regulation or when there is suspicion of
       criminal activity.
    2.3. Implied Consent to Blood, Breath, or Urine Tests. A person who operates or drives a
    motor vehicle on JBER will be considered to have given consent to a chemical test of his/her
    blood or breath for the purpose of determining the blood alcohol content, if they are
    suspected of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated. Operators will also submit to a
    blood or urine test for any illegal narcotics, if requested. The primary testing method for all
    personnel will be breath, subject to availability of a certified machine and operator. Test by
    blood will be offered in the absence of a certified machine and operator. Refusal to submit to
    a chemical test of blood or breath will result in revocation of installation driving privileges.
    A 12-month revocation will be imposed, regardless of the outcome or findings of
    administrative or court-martial proceedings.
    2.4. Implied Consent to Vehicle Impoundment. A person who operates or drives a motor
    vehicle on JBER will be considered to have given consent to the removal and temporary
    impoundment of their POV if their POV is: interfering with traffic, threatens public safety,
    involved in criminal activity, contains evidence of criminal activity, stolen, abandoned,
    interfering with military operations, left unattended in a restricted or controlled area, or has
    multiple offenses of outdated administrative paperwork.
    2.5. Suspension or Revocation of on-base Driving Privileges. The 673 MSG/CC is the
    installation commander’s designated representative concerning suspension and revocation
    actions. Suspension and revocation actions apply to both private and government vehicles,
    regardless of the type of vehicle operated for which action was taken. The 673 MSG/CC
    may also suspend or revoke an individual’s installation driving privileges for offenses not
    listed by instruction or regulation.
       2.5.1. Driving privileges are usually suspended when other measures fail to improve a
       driver’s performance. Measures shall include counseling, remedial drivers training, and
       defensive driver training programs. Driving privileges may also be suspended for up to 6
       months if the driver continually violates installation parking regulations. The 673 MSG/
       CC determines standards for suspension based on frequency of parking violations.
       2.5.2. Vehicle operators who are suspected of having committed an offense warranting
       suspension or revocation will be cited for the offense and informed that
       suspension/revocation action will be pursued. When such violations do not warrant
       immediate suspensions, violators will be instructed to contact 673 SFS/Reports and
       Analysis (S5PA) on the second duty day following the issuance of the citation. S5PA
       will initiate the suspension/revocation process.
       2.5.3. Unit/CCs or staff agency directors may request suspension/revocation action of
       on-base driving privileges for a military or civilian employee. Requests will be made, in
       writing, to the 673 MSG/CC through the 673 SFS/S5PA.
       2.5.4. When notified of an off-base driving under the influence or driving while
       intoxicated (DUI/DWI) incident involving active duty personnel, the Base Defense
       Operations Center (BDOC) will notify the offender’s first sergeant or commander.
       Pertinent information will be recorded in the SF blotter. The 673 SFS/S5PA will initiate
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                        5


     a request for suspension of the member’s installation driving privileges once reliable
     evidence of the offense is obtained. Reliable evidence includes off-base military or
     civilian police arrest reports, chemical test results, refusal to consent to complete
     chemical testing, videotapes and other pertinent evidence. Units learning of a military
     member’s arrest or incarceration for a DWI or DUI charge are required to contact the
     BDOC at 552-4444/3421.
  2.6. Reciprocal Procedures. The 673 MSG/CC will honor revocations issued by other
  installations, regardless of service component affiliation. The 673 MSG/CC will honor
  suspensions on a case by case basis. Anyone may petition 673 MSG/CC for partial or
  limited driving privileges.
  2.7. Administrative Due Process for Suspensions and Revocations. Appeal of an
  administrative revocation or suspension and rebuttal of a DD Form 1408, Armed Forces
  Traffic Ticket, must be submitted as follows:
     2.7.1. Refer to AFI 31-218, paragraph 2.6, for administrative process.
     2.7.2. Military personnel and government civilian employees may appeal revocations or
     suspensions in writing to 673 MSG/CC through their unit commander and 673
     SFS/SFPA. Appeals must arrive at 673 SFS/S5PA within 14 calendar days after receipt
     of the revocation/suspension. Restricted privileges may be requested at any time during
     the suspension/revocation period.
     2.7.3. Non-affiliated civilians, contractors, and military family members may appeal
     revocations, suspensions or request restricted driving privileges in writing to 673
     MSG/CC through 673 SFS/SFPA.
     2.7.4. Military personnel and government civilian employees may submit requests for
     restricted GMV or POV privileges through their unit commander and 673 SFS/S5PA, to
     673 MSG/CC.
     2.7.5. Refer to AFMAN 31-116, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, paragraph
     5.1 through 5.2, for a listing of the traffic points system and offenses related to
     suspension/ revocation of driving privileges. Use of the point system is mandatory.
  2.8. Restoration of Driving Privileges on Acquittal. When an official report or finding
  determines lack of guilt or charges are dismissed or reduced to an offense not amounting to
  intoxicated driving, the suspension of the individual’s driving privileges will be vacated,
  unless the preliminary suspension was based on refusal to submit to chemical tests. The
  revocation resulted from a breath alcohol content (BrAC) or blood alcohol content (BAC) of
  0.08 or higher, or the operator was driving or in physical control of a motor vehicle while
  under another revocation or suspension. A driver is in physical control when in position to
  control the motor vehicle, whether to regulate or restrain its operation or movement. FOR
  EXAMPLE, sitting in a parked car behind the steering wheel, keeping it in restraint or in a
  position to control its movement is considered “in physical control.” For exemptions refer to
  AFI 31-218, paragraph 2.9.
  2.9. Restricted Driving Privileges or Probation. The 673 MSG/CC may authorize partial
  or restricted driving privileges to those whose authority to drive on military installations was
  suspended or revoked by a military service authority. The 673 MSG/CC will ensure the
 6                                      JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


     individual still has valid civilian driving credentials. Reference AFI 31-218, paragraph 2-10
     and this instruction, for the appeal process.
     2.10. Extensions of Suspensions and Revocations. Any individual found driving or in
     physical control of a motor vehicle while under revocation or suspension will have 2 years
     added to the termination date of their original revocation or suspension. In addition,
     administrative action may be initiated based on the commission of any traffic, criminal, or
     military offenses; for example, active duty military personnel driving on the installation in
     violation of a lawful order. NOTE: In accordance with AFI 31-218, Table 5-1, Army
     Soldiers caught driving while driver’s license or installation driving privileges are under
     suspension or revocation will lose on-base driving privileges for five years, while everyone
     else will be for 2 years.
     2.11. Reciprocal State-Military Action. Upon order of revocation or suspension of an
     individual’s installation driving privileges by the 673 MSG/CC for an intoxicated driving
     incident, 673 SFS/SFPA will notify the Alaska Department of Motor Vehicles of the
     revocation or suspension via Alaska State Form DMV 446A, Notice and order of
     Revocation/ Disqualification. The State of Alaska will take action, or forward the request for
     action to the state issuing the offender’s driver’s license. Alaska State Form DMV 453A,
     Under 21 Violations-Notice and Order of Revocation, will be used to document any incident
     involving a military member’s underage consumption of alcohol, regardless the amount of
     intoxication or influence, and will be processed in the same fashion as the DMV 446A.
     2.12. Reinstatement of Driving Privileges. Refer to AFI 31-218, Motor Vehicle Traffic
     Supervision, for reinstatement of suspensions or revocations.
3. Motor Vehicle Registration:
     3.1. Registration Policy. All persons operating motor vehicles entering JBER must ensure
     their vehicles have a valid state registration. License plates will be kept free of dirt, snow, or
     other road film hindering identification of the vehicle (including tinted covers). Vehicles
     parked or operated on the installation must display current state license plates.
     EXCEPTION: Vehicles parked at the Auto Hobby Shop awaiting parts or under
     construction and vehicles parked in any base recreational vehicle (RV) storage lot are exempt
     from this requirement.
     3.2. Defense Biometric Identification System (DBIDS). Locally issued identification
     DBIDS or the AF Form 75, Installation Visitor Pass, will be used to identify personnel
     requesting access to JBER on a temporary basis. Visitors must show proof of items required
     in paragraph 2.1, this instruction, to receive an AF Form 75. AF Forms 75 are obtained at the
     Boniface Gate Visitor Control Center (VCC) or the JBER-Richardson Gate VCC. After
     hours, AF Forms 75 will be issued by the Boniface or JBER-Richardson Gate Entry
     Controller.
4. Traffic Planning and Codes:
     4.1. Traffic Planning. Refer to AFI 31-218, paragraph 4.1.
     4.2. Installation Traffic Code:
        4.2.1. Speed Limits.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                     7


        4.2.1.1. No person will drive a vehicle at a speed greater than the posted speed limit.
        Drivers will reduce speed to a reasonable and prudent level under existing weather,
        road, and traffic conditions with regard for actual and potential hazards.
        4.2.1.2. The speed limit on JBER is 25 miles per hour (mph), unless otherwise
        posted.
        4.2.1.3. An operator may not drive at a slow speed as to impede the normal flow of
        traffic.
        4.2.1.4. Current road conditions will be determined by a color coded system. All
        POV/GMV operators on JBER will comply with the speed limits applicable to the
        posted road condition. Operation of POVs will not be restricted during Road
        Condition Black (provided the roads remain open), but POV operators will comply
        with the 10 mph speed reduction.
     4.2.2. Traffic Offenses. Refer to Attachment 2, this instruction, Alaska Administrative
     Code and State of Alaska Statutes Title 28, for a list of traffic offenses enforceable on
     JBER. Also refer to Attachment 3, this instruction, Suspension/Revocation Guidelines,
     for a list of assessments for violations.
     4.2.3. Use of Radar/Laser Detection Devices. The use of radar/laser detection devices to
     indicate the presence of speed recording instruments, or to transmit simulated erroneous
     speeds, is prohibited.
     4.2.4. Supplemental Installation Traffic Code Provisions.
        4.2.4.1. Motorcycles and mopeds.
            4.2.4.1.1. For the purpose of this instruction, motorcycles include any motor
            driven cycle. Active duty motorcycle operators must attend an approved
            motorcycle safety course. Motorcycles may be operated on base during road
            condition GREEN. NOTE: No operation of motor driven cycle will be
            authorized on the installation during the winter months for safety concerns.
            Operating a motorcycle on base during road condition AMBER, RED, or BLACK
            is prohibited. NOTE: Lightweight motorized scooters (GO-Peds or similar
            machines) are prohibited from night time operation on installation roadways
            unless equipped with a headlight, tail light, and turn signals. Lightweight
            motorized scooter operators are required to wear reflective vests with a minimum
            of 138 square inches of reflective material. Motorized scooters, pocket bikes, or
            any other motor vehicle designed as a toy and not specifically approved by the
            US Department of Transportation (DOT) for use on public roads MAY NOT be
            operated on any JBER roadway. The burden of proof of DOT approval lies with
            the operator/sponsor.
            4.2.4.1.2. Segway’s ® are only authorized for warehouse (inside and outside)
            use. They are strictly prohibited from use on sidewalks, parking lots, and
            roadways, in accordance with AFI 91-207/PACAF Sup 1, Traffic Safety Program.
            Likewise, all operators are required to wear approved Consumer Product Safety
            Commission (CPSC), American National Standard Institute (ANSI), or Snell
            Motor Foundation ® helmets.
 8                                      JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


                4.2.4.1.3. Motorcycle registrations must comply with requirements under
                paragraph 2.1, this instruction. Operators must possess a motorcycle endorsement
                on their valid driver’s license and active duty personnel must have a Motorcycle
                Safety Foundation Course (MSFC) completion certificate/card issued by a DoD-
                approved instructor.
                4.2.4.1.4. Motorcyclists and/or passengers will not be granted access to the base
                unless they are wearing all required personal protective equipment (PPE). Safety
                requirements for motorcycle, ATV and snow machine operation on the
                installation and for Air Force personnel off the installation include the following
                (refer to AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, paragraph 3.4.2,
                and PACAF SUP 1, paragraph 3.4.2.4).

Table 1. Safety
A helmet designed to meet or exceed DoT standards, worn and properly fastened below the chin.
Impact resistant goggles, wrap around glasses, or full face shield on the helmet that meets or
exceeds ANSI ratings. A windshield does not constitute proper eye protection.
Long sleeve shirt or jacket and long trousers.
Full fingered gloves (non-slip type to permit a firm grip of controls).
Motorcycle riders will choose riding apparel as upper garments that incorporate high visibility
colors (for example, fluorescent yellow-green, fluorescent orange-red or fluorescent red, etc.)
during the day and a retro-reflective upper garment during the night. Outer upper garment will be
visible and not covered. Wearing a backpack is authorized if it has high visibility colors/high
visibility reflective properties or does not obscure the high visibility and reflectivity of the rider’s
upper garment or have a reflective belt attached covering the exposed sides of the backpack.
Sturdy over the ankle footwear that affords protection for the feet and ankles (durable athletic
shoes that cover the ankles may be worn).

Table 2. Equipment Requirements
Mirrors. Motorcycles will have both left and right rear view mirrors mounted on the handlebar
or fairing.
Headlight. Headlight must be on whenever motorcycle is in motion.

            4.2.4.2. Restraint Systems:
                4.2.4.2.1. The 673 SFS/S5PA will ensure Security Forces Management
                Information System (SFMIS) and/or AF Form 1313, Driver Record, are
                appropriately annotated when seat belt and other PPE violations are identified.
                4.2.4.2.2. All non-use of occupant protective devices (for example, seat belts and
                motorcycle PPE) will be enforced as a primary traffic violation; these violations
                alone are justification for traffic stop and grounds for citation.
                4.2.4.2.3. DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Citation, will be issued to all
                active duty violators with a requirement for the violator to notify his/her
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                   9


          commander/first sergeant within 24 hours. Upon receipt of the DD Form 1408
          the 673 MSG/CC will suspend driving privileges immediately in accordance with
          the driving privilege suspension listed in Attachment 3, this instruction. SFMIS
          and/or AF Form 1313 will be appropriately annotated to reflect suspension.
          Commanders will ensure the member is afforded due legal process as outlined in
          AFI 31-218, paragraph 2.7.
          4.2.4.2.4. Safety Belts. All military personnel and civilians operating motor
          vehicles on JBER will wear safety belts. Except as provided in Table 3, this
          instruction, a driver may not transport a child under the age of 16 in a motor
          vehicle unless the driver has provided the required safety device and properly
          secured each child as described in this subsection.
             4.2.4.2.4.1. If the child is less than one year of age or weighs less than 20
             pounds ensure they are properly secured in a rear-facing child safety seat that
             meets or exceeds the standards of the United States Department of
             Transportation (DOT). The child safety seat will be used in accordance with
             the manufacturer's instructions.
             4.2.4.2.4.2. Children between one and five years of age who weigh 20 pounds
             or more, will be properly secured in a child restraint device that meets or
             exceeds the standards of the United States DOT and is used in accordance
             with the manufacturer's instructions.
             4.2.4.2.4.3. Children between four and eight years of age and weigh between
             20 and 65 pounds and are less than 57 inches will be properly secured in a
             booster seat that is secured by a seat belt system or by another child passenger
             restraint system. The system or seat must meet or exceed the standards of the
             United States DOT and will be used in accordance with the manufacturer's
             instructions.
             4.2.4.2.4.4. Children over four years of age and exceed the height or weight
             requirements in Table 4.3. will be properly secured in a seat belt.
             4.2.4.2.4.5. Children eight years of age but less than 16 years of age who do
             not exceed the height and weight requirements in Table 3, this instruction,
             will be properly secured in a child safety device approved for a child of that
             age/size by the United States DOT or in a safety belt.
             4.2.4.2.4.6. The seat must be properly secured/fastened using the vehicle’s
             restraint system. Children between 4 and 7 must be in a restraint or a safety
             seat belt. Two vehicle occupants may not use one seatbelt by sitting side-by-
             side or one on another’s lap. The vehicle operator is responsible for all
             passengers to be restrained.
 10                                   JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013



Table 3. Age and Weight Chart
                                                        Toddlers at least 1    Children over 4 but
                                                        or less than 5 year of less than 8 years of
                        Infants less than 1 year of
                                                        age                    age
                        age
      Weight            Up to 20-35lbs                  20lbs                     More than 20lbs but
                                                                                  less than 65lbs
      Type              Infant only or rear-facing      Forward-facing or         Booster seat or higher
                        convertible                     convertible               weight car seat
      Direction         Rear-facing Only                Forward-facing            Forward-facing

      Notes             Harness straps at or below      Harness straps at or      Booster used with lap
                        shoulder level                  above shoulders           and shoulder belt

               4.2.4.2.5. Operators refusing to wear a safety belt after being advised that wear is
               mandatory will be denied entry to the installation at any entry gate.
               4.2.4.2.6. SF will ticket all non-active duty personnel for safety belt violations on
               DD Form 1805, United States District Court Violation Notice.
          4.2.4.3. Headphones and Earphones. No person may wear headphones, earphones,
          cellular phones, iPods ®, or other listening and entertaining devices (including those
          with single ear-pieces or non-ear-bud external speakers) while driving, walking,
          jogging, riding a bicycle, skateboarding or rollerblading on any street, roadway or
          other surface (including parking lots and road shoulders) specifically engineered for
          motorized vehicles. EXCEPTIONS: Sidewalks, improved or unimproved running
          paths/trails, or other similar recreational areas not intended for motorized vehicle use
          are not subject to this requirement. Cell phones utilizing a hands-free devices and
          motorcycle helmet intercom systems designed to provide communication between a
          motorcycle operator and passenger are authorized.
       4.2.5. Off-installation violations (for example, use of cell phone while operating GMV
       without a hands free device) of this traffic code will result in administrative actions only
       against service members.
       4.2.6. Traffic offenses listed in state of Alaska Statutes, Title 28, are enforceable on
       JBER under the authority of Section 13, Title 18, and US Code.
       4.2.7. Off-road vehicles usage:
          4.2.7.1. All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV) and snow machine information, operation, and
          authorized areas.
               4.2.7.1.1. Permits and Registration. Assigned personnel operating ATVs or snow
               machines on the installation trail system must obtain an iSportsman permit
               through http://jber.isportsman.net website.       In addition, all ATVs/snow
               machines are required to be insured and registered with the state of Alaska.
               Riders will be issued a $50 dollar fine for ATVs/snow machines that are not
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                         11


               registered with the state of Alaska. Riders must also attend a onetime hands-on
               training course. In accordance with AFI 91-207, ATV operators on JBER must
               have proof of training such as MSF, Specialty Vehicle Institute of America
               (SVIA) course before operating on the range.
               4.2.7.1.2. Operation Procedures for ATVs/Snow machines. Operation on JBER
               is permitted in designated areas only. Information may be obtained on the
               iSportsman website. Visitors may operate ATVs/snow machines on JBER when
               accompanied by a qualified permit holder, who accepts responsibility for persons
               in the group. During summer months, ATVs must be transported (not ridden) to
               and from authorized areas, as designated by Base Natural Resources Office.
               Snow machines may travel through housing areas only on JBER-E by the most
               direct route to the nearest trail. Speed will not exceed 10 mph. Snow machine
               operation is permitted from 0600-2200 daily. Operation of ATVs or snow
               machines, specifically designed for youth, is permitted when accompanied by a
               qualified and knowledgeable person over 16 years of age. The youth must be in
               plain sight. Snow machine operation prior to the accumulation of a sufficient
               depth of snow (12 inches) and operation on frozen lakes (until the ice is 6 inches
               thick) is prohibited. The Base Natural Resources Office will open trails and lakes
               as instructed by 673 MSG/CC.

Table 4. Prohibited Areas
PROHIBITED AREAS
Housing areas and main base (restricted to authorized trails reached by the most direct route)
specifically including, but not limited to:
Taxiways and runways, sidewalks and seeded areas, playgrounds and picnic areas
The 381 IS antenna farm adjacent to 46th Street
Gasoline storage areas in the area of 46th Street and Airlifter Drive
Munitions storage area north of Six-Mile Lake on 46th Street
In any restricted or controlled area on the installation
Within 50 feet of any static display aircraft
Family Camp area, Base gas stations and the Burger King drive-through
Army Air Force Exchange Services AAFES facility/shoppette parking lots

               4.2.7.1.3. Required Individual Safety Equipment for ATVs/Snow Machines. All
               operators and passengers must wear protective devices as described in paragraph
               4.2.4.1.4 and Table 1, this instruction.
               4.2.7.1.4. Safety Requirements. ATVs and snow machines will have an
               operational headlamp and tail light and be equipped with a throttle, which when
               released by hand, will return the engine speed to idle. All off-road vehicles must
               have an effective muffler system to reduce noise.
               4.2.7.1.5. Snow Machine/ATV Storage. All personnel residing on JBER, who
12                                  JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


            own snow machines, will store snow machines in their garages, in an approved
            673 FSS RV storage lot, or in an off-base storage facility. Temporary parking of
            snow machines is permitted on paved surfaces in the base dormitory/family
            housing areas for periods not to exceed 48 hours for maintenance and to
            load/unload before or after trips. ATVs or snow machines will not be parked or
            stored on the lawns.
            4.2.7.1.6. Protection of Wildlife and Natural Resources. No one, while operating
            an ATV/snow machine within the limits of JBER, will willfully destroy natural
            resources or harass wildlife. Riding an ATV through lakes, streams, or wetlands
            is prohibited.
            4.2.7.1.7. Areas Posted as Prohibited. No one will operate their ATV/snow
            machine in areas posted with signs stating “No Snowmobiling,” “No ATVs or
            snow machines,” “Trail Closed,” or “Motorized Vehicles Prohibited.”
            4.2.7.1.8. Specially equipped ATVs in housing areas. ATVs equipped with snow
            removal equipment may be operated in the family housing areas specifically for
            snow removal only.
 4.3. Traffic Law Enforcement Principles. No person will willfully fail or refuse to comply
 with any lawful order or direction of any traffic enforcement officials or persons directed by
 security forces to control traffic.
     4.3.1. Prohibited Practices:
        4.3.1.1. Eluding an Enforcement Official. Any driver of a motor vehicle who
        willfully fails or refuses to bring his/her vehicle to a stop or who otherwise flees or
        attempts to elude pursuing security forces vehicles will be cited, detained, and/or
        apprehended. The emergency signals given by the enforcement official may be by
        hand, voice, whistle, emergency light, or siren. Military members will be
        apprehended for a violation of Article 92/Failure to Obey Order or Regulation. A
        SFMIS Report will be accomplished detailing the nature of the offense (for both
        civilian and military offenders). Military members will be released to unit CC/First
        Sergeant and civilian personnel to their employer/ supervisor/sponsor. Vendors or
        contractors whose supervisor is not readily available will be escorted from the
        installation upon completion of required paperwork.
        4.3.1.2. Eluding Traffic Control Devices. It’s unlawful for any person to drive
        through parking lots or other areas to elude specific traffic control devices, to include
        signs, stanchions, and persons controlling traffic, unless directed to do so.
        4.3.1.3. Crossing Fire Hose. Vehicle operators will not drive over an unprotected
        fire hose laid down on any roadway during an emergency response, unless directed to
        cross by SF or fire department personnel.
        4.3.1.4. Driving in Prohibited Areas. Operators will not drive vehicles in areas
        prohibited by this traffic code, or in areas specifically identified in this section. The
        driver of a motor vehicle will not drive through an area that is posted, marked, or
        barricaded by means of barriers, traffic cones, or signs.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                      13


        4.3.1.5. Limitations on Backing. A GMV operator will not back a vehicle unless
        such a movement can be made safely. When backing vehicles with limited vision to
        the rear, a spotter will be used. If no spotter is available, the operator, prior to
        backing, will visually check the area in which the vehicle will be backed. A GMV
        operator will sound the horn in addition to other measures in this paragraph.
        4.3.1.6. Overtaking and Passing Foot Troops. All drivers will yield the right-of-
        way to all formations of foot troops marching on a street or roadway on JBER.
           4.3.1.6.1. If overtaking a formation going in the same direction, the operator will
           not pass the formation until signaled or motioned by the troop commander. The
           maximum speed while passing troops using the roadway (from any direction) is
           10 mph. Drivers are responsible to obey posted 15 mph physical training (PT)
           zones and be cognizant of their times.
           4.3.1.6.2. When meeting a formation going in the opposite direction, the operator
           will reduce speed and pass with caution.
        4.3.1.7. Yield to pedestrians who are in marked areas designated as crosswalks.
        4.3.1.8. Authorized Exceptions:
           4.3.1.8.1. The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to a
           dispatch, or SF vehicle in the pursuit of a suspected violator of the law, may
           within reason and with due regard for the safety of all persons, exercise the
           following privileges only when using authorized visual and audible signals.
           4.3.1.8.2. Authorized emergency vehicles may park or stand, irrespective of the
           provisions of this traffic code, provided they do not create a traffic hazard and the
           parking is for official reasons.
           4.3.1.8.3. Authorized emergency vehicles may proceed past a red light, stop
           signal, or stop sign only after using all emergency lights and sirens. Emergency
           vehicles must not assume they have the right of way and are responsible to
           proceed only when safe to do so.
           4.3.1.8.4. Authorized emergency vehicles may exceed the maximum speed limits,
           as long as this does not endanger life or property and is limited to Code 3
           responses (potential life or death situations).
           4.3.1.8.5. Authorized emergency vehicles may disregard regulations governing
           direction of travel or turning in specified directions as long as these actions do not
           needlessly or unduly endanger life or property.
     4.3.2. Open Container. No person may drive a vehicle with an open container of an
     alcoholic beverage in the passenger compartment of the vehicle.
     4.3.3. Unattended Vehicles:
        4.3.3.1. No vehicle operator will park a vehicle or motorcycle without first stopping
        the engine, locking the ignition, and removing the key. EXCEPTION: Emergency
        equipped vehicles may be left running unattended when emergency equipment is
        operating and needed to maintain power for accessories.
14                                JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


        4.3.3.2. During winter periods, vehicles may be left running unoccupied for no more
        than 15 minutes to warm up the engine prior to operating. Vehicles should have a
        properly installed remote start device which disables the vehicle when the key is not
        in the ignition if someone attempts to tamper with it. Operators are responsible for
        safety and security of vehicles (vehicle must be locked). Vehicle operators are
        prohibited from leaving a vehicle running while entering a facility to conduct
        business (for example, stopping at the Commissary or Joint Military Mall to shop or
        dropping off mail at the Post Office or picking up/dropping off personnel at base
        schools or Child Development Centers (CDC).
        4.3.3.3. Unattended Children in vehicles:
            4.3.3.3.1. Children under 12 years of age will not be left unattended in a running
            motor vehicle.
            4.3.3.3.2. Children over the age of 6 years of age will not be left unattended in
            vehicles that are not running during periods of severe weather or under any
            conditions for periods that exceed 15 minutes.
            4.3.3.3.3. Children under 5 years of age WILL NEVER BE LEFT
            UNATTENDED IN A VEHICLE.
     4.3.4. Unattended Vehicles. Vehicles will not be left unattended on jacks. Vehicles
     that must have wheels removed for extended periods of repair or vehicle maintenance
     will be lowered onto jack stands and have other wheels chocked.
     4.3.5. Safe Operation of Vehicle:
        4.3.5.1. No person will operate a vehicle with more occupants than available restraint
        devices. No person will be permitted to operate a POV or GMV with personnel in the
        cargo area (for example, truck bed, trunk, and so forth) of the vehicle.
        4.3.5.2. Any motor vehicle carrying a payload which hinders the steering, braking or
        stability of a vehicle will not be operated on JBER.
        4.3.5.3. Animals in uncovered vehicles must be tethered to prohibit the animal from
        exiting the vehicle while in motion.
        4.3.5.4. All limbs and/or body parts should remain inside the vehicle at all times
        when in motion. NOTE: Hanging your arm out the window while driving is
        appropriate, as it may be required to provide a physical turning indication. It’s the
        driver’s responsibility to ensure all occupants comply with this paragraph.
        4.3.5.5. All vehicles must be maintained in a mechanically safe condition. Vehicles
        found to be unsafe will not be operated. Owners must contact a towing company to
        remove an unsafe vehicle to a vehicle maintenance location (Auto Hobby Shop or
        off-base repair shop). If the vehicle is not removed, the operator will be cited for the
        offense and have 72 hours to fix the condition. If proof of correction is provided to
        the BDOC, the citation may be voided and forwarded to 673 SFS/SFPA.
        4.3.5.6. Any motor vehicle towed by another vehicle must be coupled to its towing
        vehicle by means of a rigid towing device, in addition to the regular hitch or coupling.
        No additional connecting device may contain more slack than is necessary to permit
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                      15


        proper turning of the vehicles connected, and the additional connecting safety devices
        must be connected to both the towing and the towed vehicles and to the drawbar or
        other rigid connecting device in a manner which will prevent the drawbar or other
        rigid connecting device from dropping to the ground in the event of its failure. The
        additional safety devices must be of sufficient strength to retain control of the towed
        vehicle in the event of failure of the rigid connecting device. The drawbar may not
        exceed 15 feet in length from one vehicle to the other. There must be displayed upon
        the connection a white flag or cloth at least 12 inches square (ref: 13 AAC 04.275).
        4.3.5.7. Vehicles must have fenders, mud flaps or other anti-spray device to prevent
        the vehicle from being a hazard to other vehicles.
     4.3.6. Driving With Obstructed Vision or Safety/Warning Lights. No operator will
     operate a vehicle without first clearing all windows, front, side, and rear of all
     obstructions. Operators will also clear obstructions, snow, ice, and dirt from all
     headlights, safety lamps, warning lights, and license plates. Vehicles which are not cargo
     vehicles will not be loaded so as to restrict visibility to the rear. Tinted license plate
     covers or tinted light covers may not be used on JBER. Clear covers are authorized as
     long as the plate is clearly visible. Scratched or faded plate covers are not authorized.
     4.3.7. Headlight Requirements. Headlights will be used 30 minutes prior to sunset
     until 30 minutes after sunrise, and when visibility is reduced. The use of parking lights,
     when a vehicle is in motion during reduced visibility/hours of darkness is only allowed
     while vehicles are entering installation entry control points.
     4.3.8. Extended Bumpers. POVs having extended bumpers to accommodate cab-over
     campers will not exceed a length of 18 inches when the camper is dismounted from the
     vehicle. Those bumpers, which cannot be shortened to 18 inches, will display two red
     lights activated by tail and brake lights. Rear turn signals must be visible from a distance
     of at least 150 feet. In addition, one reflector must be mounted on each side of the
     bumper to call attention to the extended length.
     4.3.9. Cellular Phone Use. Use of cellular phones while operating a motor vehicle is
     prohibited at all times, unless the vehicle is safely parked or unless vehicle operator uses
     a hands-free device. The wearing of any other portable headphones, earphones, or other
     listening devices (except for hands-free cellular phone devices), while operating a motor
     vehicle is prohibited. Use of those devices impairs driving and masks or prevents
     recognition of emergency signals, alarms, announcements, the approach of vehicles, and
     human speech.
     4.3.10. Vehicle Accessory Deficiencies. Persons will not operate a vehicle on JBER
     that does not comply with state of Alaska, Air Force, or DoD safety requirements. All
     safety devices (lights, brakes, emergency brake, turn indicators, back-up indicators,
     seatbelts, and horn) installed by the vehicle manufacturer, must be operational.
        4.3.10.1. All individuals cited for defective safety equipment may have up to 14
        calendar days to report to 673 SFS/S5PA with the citation to verify the defect has
        been corrected. After 14 calendar days, persons issued a DD Form 1805 will pay the
        fine or appear at their designated court date to show the deficiency has been
        corrected. Persons issued a DD Form 1408 who do not report within 14 calendar
16                                  JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


         days, will be subject to a request for command action and the assessment of traffic
         points, when warranted. Uncorrected deficiencies will result in the vehicle not being
         permitted to operate on the installation and the operator subject to further
         administrative or punitive action.
         4.3.10.2. Unsafe or defective vehicles identified as causing a vehicle accident, will
         result in the suspension of the vehicle operator’s base driving privileges for 6 months.
  4.4. Speed Measuring Devices/Traffic Stops. SF are authorized to use laser radar
  (LIDAR), conventional Doppler radar, and vehicle pace methods to measure vehicle speeds.
  SF is not required to show the individual the measured speed result on the LIDAR or radar.
  When vehicle operators are signaled to pull over, they will pull over to the curb or outermost
  edge of the roadway in a safe manner and come to a complete stop. The vehicle operator
  must put the vehicle in park, set the emergency brake, and comply with any additional verbal
  SF instructions.
 4.5. Installation Law Enforcement Personnel. Must make detailed investigations of
 accidents described below:
     4.5.1. Accidents involving Government vehicles or Government property on the
     installation.
     4.5.2. Any POV accidents on the installation involving a fatality, personal injury, or
     when a POV is inoperable as a result of an accident that occurred on JBER is considered
     a major accident. An accident will not be deemed a major accident based solely on the
     cost of damage. Accidents determined as minor will be recorded via the 673 SFS Minor
     Vehicle Accident Worksheet. Information will be exchanged between all parties
     involved and a blotter entry will be made. Accident investigators may impound a motor
     vehicle pending further investigation upon 673 MSG/CC approval.
  4.6. Traffic Accident Investigation Reports. The traffic accident investigator will
  complete the AF Form 1315 within 72 hours, unless granted an extension by the Security
  Forces Operations (SFO) Superintendent.
     4.6.1. Vehicle operators involved in a traffic accident will immediately notify the
     BDOC.
     4.6.2. Vehicle operators involved in a minor traffic accident (see Attachment 4) will
     exchange information at the scene of the accident. If the accident is minor in nature,
     drivers may opt to exchange information and handle it amongst themselves. Operators
     are not required to report the accident to BDOC when an SF patrolman responds to the
     accident scene.
     4.6.3. If the operator of a vehicle strikes an unattended vehicle they must attempt to
     contact the owner of the unattended vehicle. The operator is required to leave a note
     (containing contact information), in a conspicuous location on the unattended vehicle,
     prior to attempting to locate the owner. If the operator is unable to locate the owner, he
     or she will contact the BDOC and await the arrival of SF patrols. If the operator
     successfully locates the owner of the vehicle, refer to paragraph 4.6.2, of this instruction.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                            17


          4.6.4. When a driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving immediate notice of
          an accident and there is an individual in the vehicle at the time capable of doing so, that
          person will notify the BDOC immediately.
   4.7. Use of Traffic Accident Investigation Report Data. Copies of AF Forms 1315 will be
   provided upon request to 673 SFS/SFPA. Copies of reports will be available approximately
   one week after the date of the accident. Accident investigators will annotate seat belt usage
   and air bag deployment (if applicable), and should include insurance company and policy
   numbers on the AF Form 1315.
   4.8. Parking. Vehicles will not be parked in areas marked or designated as reserved
   parking, or where it is prohibited by signs, markings on the pavement or adjacent curb, or
   other provisions of this code.
          4.8.1. No person will stop, stand, or park a vehicle, unless necessary to avoid other
          traffic or comply with the directions of an enforcement official, in any of the following
          places listed in Tables 5. and 6, this instruction.

Table 5. Parking
DO NOT PARK WITHIN                    LOCATIONS/SITUATIONS
50 Feet                               Hangar, ammunition/fuel storage areas, except in designated
                                      parking spaces.
30 Feet                               Of approach side of a flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
                                      traffic control signal located at the side of roadway
20 Feet                               Crosswalks.
15 Feet                               Trash containers. Furnace room/building exit (except for
                                      loading/unloading. Fire hydrant/US Post Office mailboxes).
10 Feet                               Buildings/structures (except in designated parking spaces).
 18                                 JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013




Table 6. No Parking
NO PARKING
                                  Opposite the flow of traffic.
                                  Inside buildings that are not motor pools or vehicle warm
                                  storage buildings (GMVs only).
                                  On or along public roadways or non-residential parking lots
                                  for longer than 48 consecutive hours.
                                  In fire lanes or other areas prohibited by signs or markings.
                                  Campers, trailers or motor homes within 15 feet of buildings.
                                  On grass or seeded areas (unless specifically permitted by
                                  673 MSG/CC during special events).
                                  In such a manner that impedes the free flow of traffic in an
                                  authorized thoroughfare.
                                  On sidewalks or walkways designated for pedestrian traffic.

      4.8.2. JBER Long-Term Parking Areas. There are three principle designated areas for
      long-term parking. The first, a fenced area located on the east side of Doolittle Avenue, is
      available for general long-term parking. The second, west of facilities 7079, 7083, and
      8005, is for unaccompanied housing resident long-term parking. The third is Warehouse
      Street and Circle Dr., which must be coordinated with 773 LRS. Unit Commanders are
      authorized to allocate a portion of their assigned unit parking areas as mass deployment
      parking for individual deplorer, but must coordinate these actions with 673d Civil
      Engineer Squadron (CES/CEO) snow and ice control leadership during snow season to
      ensure removal operations can continue.
      4.8.3. Parking in Housing Areas. Motor vehicles must be parked in a driveway, marked
      parking area, or on the street with the flow of traffic. Motorcycles must be stored at an
      approved lot during winter months or in housing garages. Motor homes and trailers,
      whether recreational, boat, or utility, will not be parked in housing areas or dormitory
      parking lots for maintenance or pre/post trip loading/unloading for any period greater
      than 48 hours. Motor homes and trailers must be stored in authorized on-base 673d Force
      Support Squadron (673 FSS) storage areas or at an off-base storage facility. NOTE:
      This includes all temporary lodging facility (TLF) and lodging facilities for people in
      permanent change of station (PCS) or temporary duty (TDY) status. Refer to the Aurora
      Military Housing Handbook along with current supplement changes for further
      explanation of permissible activities and restrictions.
         4.8.3.1. Major maintenance in parking areas/housing areas/construction areas. Major
         maintenance such as bodywork and disassembly of transmission or the motor, will
         not be performed on vehicles in any parking areas or housing areas.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                      19


        4.8.3.2. Minor repairs, such as changing tires, fan belts, wheel cylinder, and motor
        tune-ups are authorized (with the exceptions of oil and/or transmission fluid changes
        which remain prohibited). Refer to the Aurora Military Housing Handbook along
        with current supplement changes for further explanation of permissible activities and
        restrictions.
     4.8.4. Parking While on TDY/Leave Status. Base housing residents who are departing
     TDY or on leave may leave their primary means of transportation parked in base housing
     during that period of time. They will ensure there is a point of contact (POC) name and
     phone number available who can move the vehicle if the need arises.
     4.8.5. Dormitory/Barracks residents who are departing TDY or on leave, must either
     ensure there is a POC’s name and phone number available who can move the vehicle if
     the need arises, or park in the long-term parking area. A POC’s name and phone number
     who can access/move the vehicle will be left with the unit First Sergeant, the Dormitory
     Manager, and visibly positioned inside the vehicle on the dashboard where it can be read
     through the windshield. Vehicles left at the dormitories during TDY or leave periods
     must be in compliance with all other provisions of this instruction regarding state
     registration (at the time of departure) and vehicle condition/serviceability. More
     information on deployment parking areas can be obtained from the 673 SFS.
     4.8.6. Personnel who use the Air Mobility Command (AMC) passenger terminal for a
     flight may park in the AMC long-term parking area for a period not to exceed 60 days.
     Owners will register the vehicle with AMC terminal personnel and receive a 732 Form
     14, Parking Pass, to be placed inside the vehicle on the dashboard.
     4.8.7. Personnel living on or off the installation who are departing TDY may leave their
     vehicle in a long-term parking area designated by the respective unit commander.
     Personnel must follow the same guidelines regarding POCs outlined in paragraph 4.8.4,
     this instruction.
     4.8.8. Special Parking Situations. Base housing residents are authorized to park on
     sidewalks and in “no parking” zones during snow removal operations. All attempts to
     legally park a vehicle must be exhausted before parking on sidewalks or in “no parking”
     zones. No vehicle will be parked in a manner which creates a safety hazard. Vehicles
     must be immediately parked in legal parking spaces within 2 hours following snow
     removal operations.
     4.8.9. Lock-outs. Operators who are locked out of their vehicles may contact the Fire
     Dispatcher or the BDOC (who will then request assistance from the fire department) for
     assistance if one of the following circumstances exists: A child is locked in vehicle, a
     vehicle is impeding traffic, or a vehicle is running with an unrestrained pet inside. In all
     other circumstances the vehicle operator will be directed to contact an off-base vendor for
     assistance.
     4.8.10. Vehicle Resale. Vehicles advertised for sale will not be posted in any area for
     the specific purpose of advertisement, unless parked at the “For Sale” lot. NOTE: If the
     vehicle is the seller’s primary means of transportation, it can be driven and parked
     according to normal rules.
     4.8.11. Parking Warden Program:
20                                     JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


           4.8.11.1. Commanders may designate personnel in the grades of SSgt or above to
           assist SF in parking enforcement. Parking wardens will only issue tickets for parking
           or expired registration violations and abandoned vehicles.
           4.8.11.2. Appointments will be made, in writing, to 673 SFS/SFPA and include up to
           two personnel per unit. Letters must be updated annually during the month of
           January or as changes occur. Include the nearest building number to the parking lots
           where enforcement will occur. The 673 SFS/SFPA and 673 SFS/SFOP will monitor
           the program.
           4.8.11.3. The 673 SFS/S5PA will train all personnel appointed as parking wardens.
           Monitors will issue DD Forms 1408. It’s important that monitors include how or
           where they can be reached by the violators. When contacted by the violator, the
           monitor will fill in any pertinent missing data in Sections 1-10. Forms that are
           incomplete or that were written by personnel not designated as a parking warden will
           not be processed and will be returned to the unit or destroyed.
           4.8.11.4. Parking wardens will forward all completed DD Forms 1408 to 673
           SFS/S5PA within 3 duty days (following contact with the violator).
        4.8.12. Reserved Parking. When not addressed by major commands (MAJCOM),
        installation commanders determine reserved parking policy for their installations.
        Number of available spaces, facility design and layout, traffic flow, and number of
        vehicles using facilities will help determine the number and location of reserved parking
        spaces. The installation commander determines policy and procedures governing
        reserved parking a part of the installation supplement to this instruction, separate traffic
        control instruction, or base parking plan. The publication must address approval, issue,
        control, and review of reserved parking and will give special consideration to bicycle,
        motorcycle, visitor, and car pool parking. Handicap parking is regulated under the
        uniform federal accessibility standards and applies to all Air Force installations.
        4.8.13. Requests for reserved parking slots are submitted on AF Form 332, Base Civil
        Engineer Work Request. It must be coordinated through 673 SFS Police Services (SFOJ)
        and 673d Civil Engineer Squadron, Production Control (673 CES/CEOMP).
     4.9. Traffic Violation Reports (Citations). DD Forms 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket,
     and 1805, United States District Court Violation Notice, are both used on JBER.
        4.9.1. All traffic violators on military installations will be issued either a DD Form 1408,
        or a DD Form 1805, as appropriate. Unless specified otherwise by separate Service/DLA
        policy, only on-duty law enforcement personnel (including game wardens) designated by
        the installation law enforcement officer may issue these forms. Air Force individuals
        certified under the Parking Traffic Warden Program may issue DD Form 1408 in areas
        under their control. SF will use SFMIS to complete an AF Form 3545, Incident
        Complaint Report, when a lengthy explanation is required for serious violations such as
        drunk, negligent, or reckless driving.
        4.9.2. SF will use the traffic complaint report to record all complaints of traffic violations
        from the base populace and notify unit First Sergeants upon contact with the subjects of
        complaints. NOTE: SF patrolmen will not issue citations to subjects of traffic
        complaints. Appropriate action by SF patrolmen will be taken when the complaint details
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                      21


     a crime supported by physical evidence (for example, hit and run/DWI). For non-
     criminal traffic complaints, the subject will be notified of the complaint, afforded the
     opportunity to make a statement, and advised on applicable traffic laws.
     4.9.3. Persons subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) are subject to
     trial by court-martial or punishment under Article 15/UCMJ. Other types of disciplinary
     or administrative action deemed necessary by the unit commander for violations of the
     provisions of this instruction, other applicable regulations, directives, or laws pertaining
     to traffic, are available.
     4.9.4. Persons not subject to the UCMJ can be cited in accordance with this instruction
     or Alaska state law and may be subject to trial before a US Magistrate for violations of
     law pertaining to traffic.
     4.9.5. All persons are subject to administrative action by the installation commander, or
     designated representative, for violations of this instruction.
     4.9.6. Citations may be issued and assessed points in accordance with state law.
  4.10. Standards and Procedures for Processing Intoxicated Drivers:
     4.10.1. The 673 SFS/S3OT is responsible for training Security Forces personnel in the
     recognition of intoxicated drivers and certifying them on administration of the National
     Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) Standardized Field Sobriety Tests
     (SFST). In addition, S3OT is responsible for coordinating the certification of SF
     personnel on the Data Master breath-testing device.
     4.10.2. Only a person certified as an operator under Title 13 Alaska Administrative Code
     (AAC) 63.050 may operate the Data Master. To certify as an operator the applicant must
     successfully complete an 8 hour course of instruction approved by the Scientific Director
     of the Alaska Department of Public Safety Scientific Crime Detection Laboratory.
  4.11. Blood Alcohol Concentration Standards:
     4.11.1. Civilian persons operating a motor vehicle with a BrAC or BAC of .08 or higher
     will be charged with DWI. Military members will be charged with violation of Article
     111/Drunken Operation of a Motor Vehicle in accordance with the UCMJ. Persons
     (civilian or military) thus charged will be subject to a one year revocation of driving
     privileges. Civilians will be turned over to Anchorage Police Department (APD) for
     further processing. S5PA will forward an AK DMV Form 446 to the Alaska DMV in
     cases where military offenders are stopped on-base, so appropriate license
     revocation/suspension action can be taken by the offender’s state of issue.
     4.11.2. When a civilian or military member has a BrAC/BAC of less than 0.05 percent,
     it is presumed the person is not under the influence of alcohol. If the percentage is 0.05
     but less than 0.08, it is presumed the person is impaired. The SF Patrolman will consider
     this standard with other competent evidence in determining if the level of intoxication is
     sufficient to prevent safe operation of the vehicle. Examples include reckless driving,
     vehicle accident, involuntary expulsion of bodily fluids or unconsciousness, and so forth.
     4.11.3. Any individual found to have alcohol in their system will not be permitted to
     operate a vehicle for a minimum of 8 hours or until the operator obtains a .00 BrAC.
     Operators suspected of DWI who are not charged with the offenses based on the results
22                                  JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


     of BrAC testing, but who do have detectable levels of alcohol in their system, will be
     released to their unit First Sergeant (or designate) for transport upon release by the SF
     patrolmen.
 4.12. Chemical Testing Policies and Procedures:
     4.12.1. SF will use the Data Master/Compact Data Master (CDM) breath-testing device
     as the primary means to establish BrAC after sufficient probable cause has been
     established. Voluntary submittal of blood sample will be determined on a case by case
     basis. Refer to paragraph 4.15, this instruction, for limitations on involuntary fluid
     extractions.
     4.12.2. Before providing a sample, the individual suspected of an intoxicated driving
     offense must be observed for at least 15 minutes immediately before testing, ensuring the
     suspected person does not drink, eat smoke, chew tobacco, ingest any substance, or expel
     any bodily fluids. The 15-minute observation period will be conducted at the BDOC or
     other location where the Data Master is physically located.
     4.12.3. A verification of calibration of the Data Master must be completed once every 60
     days. The report is submitted to the Scientific Director of the Alaska State Crime Lab.
     The unit Data Master Supervisor is responsible for completing any report and notifying
     the Scientific Director if the Data Master is to be taken off-line, moved, or transported for
     service.
     4.12.4. Medical authorities will conduct tests for the presence and concentration of
     alcohol or other drugs in the blood, bodily fluids, or tissues of any person killed in an on-
     base motor vehicle accident or mishap.
  4.13. Detection, Apprehension, and Testing of Intoxicated Drivers. SF personnel will
  stop any vehicle displaying unusual or abnormal driving behavior and determine the cause of
  their unusual driving behavior. If the operator is suspected of being intoxicated, SF
  patrolmen will administer SFSTs, record their observations on the DD Form 1920, Alcoholic
  Influence Report, and apprehend the operator if sufficient evidence of impairment is
  established. NOTE: If the intoxicated operator is a civilian, Anchorage Police Department
  (APD) will be notified to respond. If it’s apparent that there will be a delay in APD’s
  response, SF patrolman may conduct SFSTs and BrAC via Data Master to preserve evidence.
  All evidence will be turned over to APD upon their arrival. The DD Form 1920 used to
  record the SFSTs will be forwarded to SFPA in the daily paperwork.
  4.14. Voluntary Breath and Bodily Fluid Testing Based on Implied Consent:
     4.14.1. SF personnel will administer tests based on implied consent when a person is
     legally stopped while driving or in physical control of a motor vehicle on the installation.
     4.14.2. When advising the driver that failing to consent to a chemical test may result in a
     revocation of their installation driving privileges, SF will also advise that the results of
     chemical tests obtained under implied consent are admissible as evidence in judicial and
     non-judicial proceedings.
     4.14.3. Individuals who have hemophilia, other blood-clotting disorders, or any medical
     or surgical disorder under treatment with an anticoagulant may refuse a blood extraction
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                       23


     without penalty. SF will offer a breath or urine test to these individuals. Valid refusals
     for these conditions must have the concurrence of a medical doctor.
     4.14.4. If a person suspected of intoxicated driving refuses to submit, do not administer a
     test except as specified in paragraph 4.15, this instruction.
  4.15. Involuntary Extraction of Bodily Fluids in Traffic Cases:
     4.15.1. These procedures apply only to the investigation of intoxicated driving related
     offenses and are explained in detail in Rule 312d, Military Rules of Evidence (MRE),
     Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM) and AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management.
     4.15.2. Involuntary bodily fluid extractions (blood and urine) require a valid search and
     seizure authorization pursuant to Rule 315, MRE, and MCM. Forced extractions are
     considered only when the individual is involved in an accident in which there is death,
     serious personal injury, or significant property damage. A search and seizure
     authorization is not required when there is a clear indication that evidence of intoxication
     will be found and there is reason to believe that the delay to obtain search authorization
     would result in the loss or destruction of the evidence. Warrantless searches will only be
     conducted after coordination with SJA and after attempts at obtaining search
     authorization have failed due to unavailability of the appropriate commander or
     magistrate.
     4.15.3. If search authorization is not obtained due to unavailability of the appropriate
     commander or magistrate, the commander of a medical facility is empowered to
     authorize the extraction from an individual located in the facility at the time an
     authorization is sought. Before authorizing the extraction, the commander must consult
     with SJA. The commander need not be on duty and any qualified medical person can
     perform the extraction.
  4.16. Testing at the Request of the Apprehended Person:
     4.16.1. A person subject to implied consent tests can request additional testing. The
     requesting individual will pay for these tests, and the tests must be performed at an
     approved facility, such as an off-base hospital or research facility. If the requesting
     individual desires admissibility of these tests in a military or civilian court, the test and
     testing method must be approved by the state of Alaska. Complete these tests as soon as
     possible, noting any delay on the test documents.
     4.16.2. The apprehending official may assist the individual requesting additional tests.
     However, tests conducted under authority of the UCMJ remain valid when circumstances
     prevent timely release of the individual or any other reason additional testing is not
     completed.
  4.17. Off-installation Traffic Activities. APD enforces traffic laws in areas not under
  military control. If APD is found to have primary jurisdiction over an incident occurring on
  JBER, copies of all reports and associated materials will be provided to APD.
  4.18. Compliance With Local and State Laws. All personnel operating motor vehicles on
  JBER will comply with local and Alaska state traffic laws.
 24                                  JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


   4.19. Noise and Pollution Control:
      4.19.1. No person will operate a vehicle emitting excessive sound, whether mechanical
      or stereo, or a vehicle that emits or leaks excessive smoke or fluids. Excessive sound is
      defined as a sound which will cause a normal person to shout or significantly raise the
      tone of voice to effectively communicate. Accelerating a vehicle in such a manner as to
      cause a loud or unusual noise is prohibited. Sounding a horn is prohibited except to
      avoid accidents or when backing a GMV.
      4.19.2. All motor vehicles, including automobiles, trucks, snow machines, motorcycles,
      and off-road vehicles (ORV), are prohibited from being operated in and near on-base
      residential areas in such manner as to create a disturbance of the peace through operation
      or excess noise regardless of the time of day.
5. Driving Records and Traffic Point System:
   5.1. Disposition of Driving Records. Security Forces Reports and Analysis (SFPA) will
   establish procedures to promptly notify the Defense Force Commander (DFC), when a
   person assigned to or employed on the installation is transferred to another installation,
   released from military service, or ends employment or affiliation with the installation.
      5.1.1. If persons transferred to another Air Force installation have valid points or other
      entries on their driving records, the S5PA will forward records to the gaining installation
      Reports and Analysis section. The gaining DFC will coordinate with applicable
      commanders and continue any Air Force suspension or revocation based on intoxicated
      driving or accumulation of traffic points.
      5.1.2. Security Forces Reports and Analysis (S5PA) will follow AFI 33-364, Records
      Disposition – Procedures and Responsibilities, to maintain and destroy records of
      military personnel released from active duty. Driving records remain active in the case of
      immediate reenlistment, change of officer component, or military and civilian retirement
      when continued vehicle registration is authorized.
      5.1.3. Security Forces Reports and Analysis (S5PA) will forward driving records of
      military family members containing point assessments or other entries to the sponsor’s
      gaining installation and review in the same manner as for service members. Retain
      driving records of retirees electing to retain installation driving privileges.
6. Impounding Privately Owned Vehicles:
   6.1. General. This policy is based on the interests of the Air Force in crime prevention,
   traffic safety, and the orderly flow of vehicle traffic. Security Forces Investigations (S2I) is
   the POC for all impounded vehicles on JBER.
   6.2. Implied consent to vehicle impoundment. As a condition to accepting installation
   driving privileges, drivers give their consent for the removal and temporary impoundment of
   their POV. Drivers also agree to reimburse an authorized agency or contractor for the cost of
   towing, storage, and disposal shall a need arise to remove or impound their vehicle. A POV
   will be impounded if it’s:
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                          25


Table 7. Reasons for Impoundment
Illegally parked for unreasonable periods.
Interferes with traffic operations.
Interferes with military operations.
Creates a safety hazard.
Disabled by accident or incident.
Left unattended in, or adjacent to, a restricted, controlled, or off-limits area, or abandoned.
Involved in criminal activity, or contains evidence of criminal activity.

   6.3. Towing and Storage. All towing on JBER will be conducted by a towing vendor
   through contract.
   6.4. Procedures for Impoundment:
       6.4.1. Unattended POVs. Conspicuously place DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle
       Notice (refer to DoDD 5525.4, Enforcement of State Traffic Laws on DOD Installations),
       on POVs considered abandoned or improperly unattended. Document this action with an
       entry in the SF blotter and place a copy of the DD Form 2504 in the appropriate folder
       located in the BDOC.
           6.4.1.1. Allow the owner 3 days from the date the POV is tagged to remove the
           vehicle. If the vehicle is not moved within the allotted time, the vehicle will be towed
           at the earliest opportunity.
           6.4.1.2. SF will complete a DD Form 2505, Abandoned Vehicle Removal
           Authorization, 24 hours prior to the removal of the vehicle and conspicuously place it
           adjacent to the DD Form 2504.
           6.4.1.3. After the vehicle is removed, SF completes the DD Form 2506, Vehicle
           Impoundment Report (See DoDD 5525.4), as a record of action taken.
           6.4.1.4. If the owner is located, they will remove all personal property from the
           vehicle. If the owner is incapable or cannot be located S2I will conduct an inventory
           of personal property.
           6.4.1.5. Investigators will not open closed containers such as suitcases unless
           necessary to identify the owner or if the contents might present a danger to the public.
           6.4.1.6. All personal property will remain with the vehicle.
           6.4.1.7. SF will contact the owner through the unit or forward a DD Form 2507,
           Notice of Vehicle Impoundment, to the address of the last known owner.
   6.5. Search Incident to Impoundment Based On Criminal Activity:
       6.5.1. If the owner or operator of a vehicle impounded for suspected criminal activity is
       not present, search authorization from the appropriate commander or magistrate will be
       obtained unless evidence or contraband is in plain view or readily discernible from the
       exterior of the vehicle.
 26                                  JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


       6.5.2. If the owner or operator is present, such as during a criminal incident or if the
       operator is apprehended, and sufficient probable cause exists to seize the vehicle, you
       may search the vehicle without search authorization when there is a reasonable danger to
       police or public, there is a risk of loss or destruction of evidence, or the search is
       reasonable under rules governing search incident to apprehension.
       6.5.3. Consult 673 ABW/SJA for assistance on searches incident to impoundment based
       on criminal activity.
       6.5.4. Keep vehicles in SF custody when holding them for evidentiary purposes. Release
       recovered stolen POVs to the registered owner, unless held for evidentiary purposes, or to
       the law enforcement agency reporting the vehicle stolen, as appropriate.
   6.6. Disposition of Vehicles After Impoundment. Impounded vehicles will be held as long
   as necessary for evidentiary, law enforcement, or other legal purposes. When vehicles are no
   longer needed, they will be released to the owner per 673 ABW/SJA recommendations
   through SFI. Impounded and abandoned vehicles will be released to a contract towing
   company after 60 days of making reasonable good faith efforts to contact the owner.
7. Information Collections. No information collections are required by this publication.




                                            BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                               27


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program, 9 October 2009.
AFI 31-218, Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 25 January 2006.
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006.
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006.
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 Oct 2011.
AFMAN 31-201 Vol. 2, Legal Considerations, 1 November 2004.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 October 2011.
Alaska Traffic Law Manual, 2010-2011 Edition.
DoDD 5525.4, Enforcement of State Traffic Laws on DoD Installations, 1 October 1986.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 75, Installation Visitor Pass.
AF Form 332, Base civil Engineer Work Request.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
AF Form 1313, Driver Record.
AF Form 1315, Accident Report.
AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card.
AF Form 3545, Incident Complaint Report.
DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket.
DD Form 1805, United States District Court Violation Notice.
DD Form 1920, Alcoholic Influence Report.
DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice.
DD Form 2505, Abandoned Vehicle Removal Authorization.
DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment.
Alaska State Form DMV 446A, Notice and order of Revocation/Disqualification.
Alaska State Form DMV 453A, Under 21 Violations-Notice and Order of Revocation.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAC—Alaska Administrative Code.
AAFES—Army & Air Force Exchange Service.
 28                                JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


ABW—Air Base Wing.
AF—Air Force.
AFB—Air Force Base.
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System.
AFI—Air Force Instruction.
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive.
AMC—Air Mobility Command.
ANSI—American National Standard Institute.
APD—Anchorage Police Department.
AS—Alaska Statutes.
ATV—All Terrain Vehicles.
BAC—Blood/Alcohol Content.
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center.
BrAC—Breath/Alcohol Content.
CC—Commander.
CDC—Child Development Center.
CDM—Compact Data Master.
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron. x
CPSC—Consumer Product Safety Commission.
DBIDS—Defense Biometric Identification System.
DD—Department of Defense (Forms).
DFC—Defense Force Commander.
DoD—Department of Defense.
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive.
DOT—U.S. Department of Transportation.
DUI—Driving Under the Influence.
DWI—Driving While Intoxicated.
FSS—Force Support Squadron.
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle.
JBER—Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.
LIDAR—Laser Radar.
MAJCOM—Major Command.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                29


MCM—Manual for Courts-Martial.
MPH—Miles per hour.
MRE—Military Rules of Evidence.
MSFC—Motorcycle Safety Foundation Course.
MSG—Mission Support Group.
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer.
NHTSA—National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility.
ORA—Operational Risk Assessment.
ORV—Off Road Vehicles.
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces.
PDA—Personal Digital Assistants.
POC—Point of Contact.
POV—Privately owned vehicle.
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment.
PCS—Permanent Change of Station.
PT—Physical Training.
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule.
SF—Security Forces.
SFPA—Security Forces Analysis and Reports.
SFPD—Pass and Registration.
SFMIS—Security Forces Management Information System.
SFI—Security Forces Investigations.
SFO—Security Forces Operations.
SFS—Security Forces Squadron.
SFST—Standardized Field Sobriety Test.
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate.
TDY—Temporary Duty.
TLF—Temporary Lodging Facility.
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice.
USC—United States Code.
VCC—Visitor Control Center.
 30                              JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


VIN—Vehicle Identification Number.
WG—Wing.
WGI—Wing Instruction.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                31


                                            Attachment 2
           JBER POINT ASSESSMENT FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS TABLE

Table A2.1. JBER Point Assessment for Traffic Violations
Violation: Reckless driving (willful and           Points assessed: 6
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property)
Violation: Owner knowingly and willfully           Points assessed: 6
permitting a physically impaired person to
operate the owner’s motor vehicle
Violation: Fleeing the scene (hit and run)–        Points assessed: 6
property damage only.

Violation: Driving vehicle while impaired          Points assessed: 6
(BAC more than 0.05 percent and less than
0.08 percent).

Violation: Speed contests.                         Points assessed: 6

Violation: Speed too fast for conditions.          Points assessed: 2

Violation: Speed too slow for traffic              Points assessed: 2
conditions, and/or impeding the flow of traffic,
causing potential safety hazard.

Violation: Failure of operator or occupants to     Points assessed: 4
use available restraint system devices while
moving (operator assessed points).

Violation: Failure to properly restrain children   Points assessed: 2
in a child restraint system while moving (when
child is 4 years of age or younger or the weight
of child does not exceed 45 pounds).

Violation: One to 10 miles per hour over           Points assessed: 3
posted speed limit.

Violation: Over 10 but not more than 15 miles      Points assessed: 4
per hour above posted speed limit.

Violation: Over 15 but not more than 20 miles      Points assessed: 5
per hour above posted speed limit.

Violation: Over 20 miles per hour above            Points assessed: 6
posted speed limit.
 32                                    JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013



Violation: Following too close.                      Points assessed: 4

Violation: Failure to yield right of way to          Points assessed: 4
emergency vehicle.

Violation: Failure to stop for school bus or         Points assessed: 4
school–crossing signals.

Violation: Failure to obey traffic signals or        Points assessed: 4
traffic instructions of an enforcement officer or
traffic warden; or any official regulatory traffic
signor device requiring a full stop or yield of
right of way; denying entry; or requiring
direction of traffic.

Violation: Improper passing.                         Points assessed: 4

Violation: Failure to yield (no official sign        Points assessed: 4
involved).

Violation: Improper turning movements (no            Points assessed: 3
official sign involved).

Violation: Wearing of headphones/earphones           Points assessed: 3
while driving motor vehicles (two or more
wheels).

Violation: Failure to wear an approved helmet        Points assessed: 3
and/or reflectorized vest while operating or
riding on a motorcycle, MOPED, or a three or
four–wheel vehicle powered by a motorcycle–
like engine.

Violation: Improper overtaking.                      Points assessed: 3

Violation: Other moving violations (involving        Points assessed: 3
driver behavior only).

Violation: Operating an unsafe vehicle (see          Points assessed: 2
note 2).

Violation: Driver involved in accident is            Points assessed: 1
deemed responsible (only added to points
assessed for specific offenses).
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                           33



NOTES:

1. When two or more violations are committed on a single occasion, points may be assessed for
each individual violation.
2. This measure should be used for other than minor vehicle safety defects or when a driver or
registrant fails to correct a minor defect (e.g., a burned out headlight not replaced within the
grace period on a warning ticket).
 34                                      JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013


                                           Attachment 3
                         SUSPENSION/REVOCATION GUIDELINES

Figure A3.1. Suspension/Revocation Guidelines

VIOLATION                                                        ASSESSMENT


Driving while license or installation                     2-year revocation is mandatory on
driving privileges are suspended/                         determination of facts by installation
revoked license.                                          commander.


DUI                                                       1-year revocation of driving privileges.


Failure to submit to a base entry/exit                    1-year revocation of driving privileges.
point check.


Refusal to submit to or failure to complete               1-year revocation of driving privileges.
chemical test.


Driving a motor vehicle while under the                   1-year revocation is mandatory on
influence of any narcotic or while                        conviction.
under the influence of any other drug
(including alcohol) to the degree rendered
incapable of safe vehicle operation.


Hit and run – failure to leave                            1-year revocation is mandatory on
contact information and report                            conviction.
to Security Forces after striking
an unattended vehicle.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                   35



Leaving the scene of an accident                  1-year revocation is mandatory on
involving an occupied vehicle                     conviction.
without exchanging information
or rendering required assistance.


Perjury or making a false statement or            1-year revocation is mandatory on
affidavit under oath to responsible               conviction.
officials relating to the ownership or
operation of motor vehicles.


Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle               1-year revocation is mandatory on
belonging to another, when the act does           conviction.
not amount to a felony.


Use of a motor vehicle in the commission          1-year revocation is mandatory on
of a felony.                                      conviction.


Vehicular eluding when creating a substantial     1-year revocation.
risk of bodily injury by operating a vehicle
in a reckless manner.


Commission of an offense in another state         Reciprocal to length of revocation
which, if committed on the installation, would    issued by state or required under this
establish grounds for suspension or revocation.   instruction (whichever is greater).


Driving without insurance                         6-months revocation plus possible
                                                  impoundment of vehicle.


Mental or physical impairment (not including      6-months revocation.
alcohol or other drug use) to the degree
rendered incompetent to drive.
 36                                    JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013




Persons who accumulate 12 traffic points within       6-months revocation.
12 months or 18 traffic points within 24 months.


Permitting an unlawful or fraudulent use of an        6-months revocation.
official driver’s license.


Unsafe or defective vehicles, identified by           6-months suspension. The vehicle
accident investigator, as causing a vehicle           may also be impounded.
accident.


Reckless driving                                      6-months suspension and 10 points.


Engaged in an acceleration/speed                      6-months suspension.
contest/exhibition.


Eluded/Attempted to elude police officer              6-months suspension.


Negligent Driving                                     3-months suspension


Failure to give immediate notice of accident,         First offense: 30-day suspension.
(resulting in bodily injury to or death of a person   Any subsequent offense thereafter:
or property damage to an apparent extent of           6-month suspension.
$2,000 or more) to Security Forces.


Failure to transfer, renew, or maintain               First offense: Handled by first sergeant/
requirements for vehicle operation.                   or commander.
(Valid state registration and insurance)              Second offense: 30-day suspension.
                                                      Third or subsequent violation: 1-year
                                                      suspension.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                  37



Personnel accumulating three parking tickets        30-day suspension.
within a 6-month period.


Littering from a vehicle.                           First offense: 30-day suspension.
                                                    Any subsequent offense thereafter:
                                                    6-month suspension.


Exceeding posted speed limits in housing            First offense: Automatic 30-day
areas and designated active school zones, by        suspension.
more than 5 MPH.                                    Any subsequent offense thereafter:
                                                    6-month suspension.


Parked in a designated handicapped parking          First offense: Handled by first sergeant
slot, without authorization.                        of commander.
                                                    Second Offense: 30 day suspension
                                                    Any subsequent offense thereafter:
                                                    6-month suspension.


A child not wearing an approved child restraint     30-day suspension of installation
system.                                             driving privileges.


All non-use of operator/passenger                   First offense: 1-week suspension
protective devices (i.e., seat belts, motorcycle.   Second offense in 12-month period:
ATV, snow machine PPE, and so forth)                1-month suspension.
                                                    Third offense in 18-month period:
                                                    1-year suspension


Driving While Talking on Cell Phone Without         First offense: 7-day suspension of
a Hands-free device(s).                             driving privileges and 3 points.
                                                    Second offense in 1-year period:
                                                    30-day suspension and 3 points.
 38                                    JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013



Minors in possession or consuming alcohol,             First offense: N/A
controlled substances, or using/attempting             Second offense: 3-month suspension.
to use a fraudulent identification (ID) card/          Third or subsequent offense: 1-year
driver’s license to obtain alcohol regardless of       suspension.
whether or not the minor/offender was operating
a motor vehicle at the time of the offense.


NOTE 1: All offenses will be evaluated for barment action based on the seriousness of the
incident.


NOTE 2: When two or more violations are committed on a single occasion, assess the points for
the offense having the greater value.
NOTE 3: When a serious incident involving a motor vehicle occurs, the violator will be notified
that suspension action will be pursued through the 673 MSG/CC and provided with reporting
instructions.
NOTE 4: All suspension/revocations on JBER run consecutively not concurrently.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI31-118 2 MAY 2013                                                       39


                                        Attachment 4
               TRAFFIC ACCIDENT CLASSIFICATION GUIDELINES

A4.1. Classification Of Traffic Accidents. According to severity of injuries or property
damage sustained. Major classifications include the following:
   A4.1.1. Severity Of Injury:
      A4.1.1.1. Fatal Accident. A motor vehicle accident that results in fatal injuries to one
      or more personnel. A fatal injury is one that results in death within 12 months of the
      accident causing the injury.
      A4.1.1.2. Incapacitating Injury. An injury, other than fatal, that prevents the injured
      person from walking, driving, or normally continuing the activities that he or she was
      capable of performing before the accident. Examples are severe lacerations, broken or
      distorted limb, skull fracture, crushed chest, internal injury, unconsciousness when taken
      from the accident scene, or inability to leave the accident scene without help.
      A4.1.1.3. Non-Incapacitating Evident Injury. An injury, other than fatal and
      incapacitating, that is evident to any person at the scene of the accident. Examples are
      lump on head, abrasions, or minor lacerations.
      A4.1.1.4. Possible Injury. An injury reported or claimed that is not a fatal,
      incapacitating, or non-incapacitating evident injury. Examples are momentary
      unconsciousness, claim of injuries that are not evident, limping, or complaint of pain,
      nausea, or hysteria.
   A4.1.2. Severity Of Vehicle Damage:
      A4.1.2.1. Disabling Damage. Any damage to a vehicle such that it cannot be driven (or
      towed in the case of trailers) from the scene of the accident in the usual manner by
      daylight after simple repairs, and without further damage or hazard to itself, other traffic
      elements, or the roadway.
      A4.1.2.2. Functional Damage. Any non-disabling damage to a vehicle that affects
      operation of the vehicle or its parts. Examples are doors, windows, hood, and trunk lids
      that will not operate properly; broken glass that obscures vision; or any damage that
      could prevent the motor vehicle from passing an official motor vehicle inspection.
      A4.1.2.3. Other Motor Vehicle Damage. Any damage to a vehicle that is neither
      disabling nor functional damage. Such damage usually affects only the load on the
      vehicle or the appearance of the motor vehicle. Examples are damage to hubcaps, trim, or
      grill; glass cracks that do not interfere with vision; dents; scratches; body punctures; or
      damage to load.
