BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-RICHARDSON
JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-                                             INSTRUCTION 90-205
RICHARDSON
                                                                                   30 APRIL 2014

                                                                             Special Management

                                                              SELF-ASSESSMENT PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 673 ABW/IGI                                                       Certified by: 673 ABW/CD
                                                                       (Mr. Donald C. Weckhorst)
                                                                                         Pages: 14




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General - The
Inspection System, and applies to all 673d Air Base Wing (673 ABW) and 3d Wing (3 WG)
personnel. It implements procedures for group and squadron commanders, as well as staff
agency chiefs to set procedures and policies within their organizations to ensure an effective self-
assessment program. Functional managers must use Headquarters Air Force (HAF) checklists,
PACAF supplemental checklists, and approved locally developed checklists as the basis for unit
mission checklists. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
Air National Guard (ANG) units and their members on Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
(JBER). Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the publication OPR for
non-tiered compliance items and this instruction cannot be supplemented or further extended.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR), using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route
the AF Forms 847 through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS). See Attachment 1 for Glossary, References and Supporting Information.
 2               JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014


1. Purpose:
     1.1. The purpose of this instruction is to assist units in conducting self-assessments, manage
     the Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT), administer the unit self-assessment
     programs and establish procedures and protocols for using the Inspector General Evaluation
     Management System (IGEMS) in response to Wing IG identified deficiencies. This
     instruction will also standardize common practices for the installation (See Figure 1, this
     instruction).

Figure 1. Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP)




     1.2. The objectives of unit self-assessments and unit compliance inspections are to identify
     deficiencies which preclude or inhibit mission accomplishment and support the
     Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP). Additionally, the primary focus of the self-
     assessment program is to assess compliance and encourage continuous improvement within
     wing organizations.
     1.3. In the new Air Force Inspection System (AFIS), Commanders will inspect their units’
     ability to execute the mission, manage resources, lead people, and improve performance on a
     continual basis. Functional experts on staffs (FAM) will focus on enabling via checklist
     creation; while commanders will focus on verifying compliance through their CCIP.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The 673 ABW/IGI will manage the JBER Self-Assessment Program by:
        2.1.1. Directing standardized inspection frequency and documentation.
        2.1.2. Publishing wing self-assessment/CCIP guidance.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014                                     3


     2.1.3. Providing electronic MICT documents upon request.
     2.1.4. Facilitating cross-feed of HQ PACAF Inspector General (HQ PACAF/IG)
     inspection results to JBER units.
     2.1.5. Acting as liaison between HQ PACAF/IG, 673 ABW Commander (673
     ABW/CC), 3 WG Commander (3 WG/CC), and all subordinate units.
     2.1.6. Coordinating and integrating with 3 WG/IG Self-Assessment Program Manager
     (SAPM) to provide administrative oversight.
     2.1.7. Providing Unit Administrator (Unit Admin) training to Group and Squadron
     SAPM.
     2.1.8. Providing IGEMS training to Group level SAPM personnel for inspection
     deficiency management.
  2.2. Commanders and Staff Agency Chiefs will:
     2.2.1. Implement unit measures supporting 673 ABW and 3 WG Self-Assessment
     Programs.
     2.2.2. Appoint, in writing, SAPMs for their respective units. Provide a copy of the
     appointment letter to 673 ABW/IGI and 3 WG/IGI, respectively. Ideally, the unit SAPM
     should be the MICT Unit Administrator. The self-assessment program should be
     managed by a member who will provide the adequate level of influence necessary for
     success. See Attachment 2, this instruction.
     2.2.3. Commanders, through the use of MICT, will:
        2.2.3.1. Review self-assessment results in MICT.
        2.2.3.2. Monitor progression of open deficiencies to closure every 30 days.
        2.2.3.3. Commit resources to ensure successful MICT implementation.
        2.2.3.4. Identify primary and alternate Group/Squadron MICT administrators who
        will act as the primary point of contact (POC)/liaison between the 673 ABW MICT
        program manager and the unit for all issues related to set-up, member management,
        training, and support needs.
        2.2.3.5. Direct use of MICT throughout the unit and ensure implementation and
        support.
        2.2.3.6. Resolve deficiencies by applying resources and corrective action plans at the
        appropriate time. Non-compliance should not be seen as a measure of fault or
        leadership effectiveness; the unit culture must accept identifying and correcting non-
        compliance.
     2.2.4. Commanders, through the use of IGEMS, will:
        2.2.4.1. Assign SAPM to coordinate with OPR/Office of Collateral Responsibility
        (OCR) to manage and track Wing IG identified deficiencies (that is, POLAR FORCE
        Exercises, Mission Assurance Exercises (MAE), CCIP inspections) from cradle-to-
        grave.
 4               JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014


            2.2.4.2. Monitor OPR/OCR progress of the corrective action plan and documented
            accomplishment of each milestone.
            2.2.4.3. Review and approve responses to deficiencies in IGEMS.
            2.2.4.4. Review each assigned deficiency every 30 days until the deficiency is closed
            by the closing authority.
     2.3. SAPMs responsibilities:
        2.3.1. SAPMs will follow-up on open deficiencies every 30 days and update changes to
        any compliance status in MICT within 5 duty days.
        2.3.2. SAPMs will maintain a unit self-assessment binder (electronically or hard copy).
        2.3.3. The OPR/OCR for Wing IG identified deficiencies must coordinate their response
        with the unit SAPM. The unit SAPM will have an IGEMS account in order to manage
        the assigned deficiency.
        2.3.4. The SAPM will ensure the OPR/OCR provides the information required under the
        Problem Breakdown, Root Causes, Root Cause Analysis (RCA) Methodology, Corrective
        Action Plan (CAP)/ Countermeasures, and Workflow Status tabs.
3. Inspection and Follow-Up Requirements:
     3.1. Semiannual Assessment Reviews. Commanders and staff agency chiefs will verify
     HAF Checklists and additional HQ PACAF Checklists are completed and current for existing
     programs every 6 months on a May/November schedule.
        3.1.1. Assessment Reports. Inspection reports will be reviewed by 673 ABW/3 WG/CCs
        upon completion, via the monthly Commanders Inspection Management Board (CIMB).
        3.1.2. Unit Self-Assessment completion report will be submitted in accordance with
        Attachment 3, this instruction.
     3.2. Higher Headquarters (HHQ) Findings. Discrepancies and observations noted by HHQ
     inspections will be reviewed in accordance with reporting procedures identified in the report
     or as directed by appropriate HHQ. Recommendations will be reviewed and validated by the
     Group Commander and forwarded to 673 ABW/IGI. The 673 ABW/IGI will forward all
     responses and recommendations for closure to respective Wing CC for final submission to
     HHQ. HHQ makes final decision on approval and acceptance of the corrective actions.
4. Documentation Requirements:
     4.1. Self-Assessment Binder. All units and staff agencies, will maintain self-assessment
     binders electronically or hard copy. The preferred method will be at the discretion of the
     respective commander.
     4.2. Table of Contents. All binders will contain a standard Table of Contents as identified
     below with the following tabs established.
        4.2.1. TAB A – Instructions and Policies. This instruction will be filed at Tab A. A
        formal unit operating instruction (OI) or self-assessment schedule is optional and, if
        applicable, will be filed here.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014                                      5


     4.2.2. TAB B – Self-Assessments Reports. Self-Assessment Completion Report (see
     Attachment 3, this instruction) and MICT Inspection Summary Report current as of the
     last semi-annual self-assessment cycle will be filed at Tab B.
     4.2.3. TAB C – By Law Compliance Areas, as applicable (ensure the following
     checklists are posted/evaluated on unit’s MICT site if applicable and available).
        4.2.3.1. Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR).
        4.2.3.2. Suicide Prevention Program.
        4.2.3.3. Combating Trafficking In Persons.
        4.2.3.4. Transition Assistance Programs.
        4.2.3.5. Voting Assistance Programs.
        4.2.3.6. Intelligence Oversight (IO).
        4.2.3.7. Relocation Assistance Program.
        4.2.3.8. Equal Opportunity.
     4.2.4. TAB D – Major Graded Areas (MGA), as applicable (ensure the following
     checklists are posted/evaluated on unit’s MICT site if available). Air Force Compliance
     MGAs represent key processes, procedures, and requirements based on public law,
     executive orders, directives and instructions. CCIP will focus on detecting non-
     compliance with all applicable governing directives and on unit effectiveness in the four
     MGAs: Managing Resources, Leading People, Improving the Unit, and Executing the
     Mission. MGAs, as identified in AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System,
     Attachment 4, include the following:
        4.2.4.1. MGA 1. Managing Resources:
            4.2.4.1.1. Adequacy (Manpower, Funds, Equipment, Facilities, Guidance).
            4.2.4.1.2. Stewardship (Manpower, Funds,           Equipment,     Facilities   and
            Environment, Guidance, Airmen’s Time).
        4.2.4.2. MGA 2. Leading People:
            4.2.4.2.1. Communication (System, Feedback, Intent, Comm-induced Waste,
            Messaging, Agility).
            4.2.4.2.2. Discipline (Compliance, Pride, Accountability, Customs, courtesies,
            uniform wear, Attention to Detail).
            4.2.4.2.3. Training (Individual, Team, Unit).
            4.2.4.2.4. Development (Professional, Personal).
            4.2.4.2.5. Quality of Life Engagement (Work Life, Unit Morale, Basic Services,
            Home Life).
        4.2.4.3. MGA 3. Improving the Unit:
            4.2.4.3.1. Strategic Alignment (Authorities, Strategic Planning, Performance
            Metrics).
 6               JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014


               4.2.4.3.2. Process Operations (Key Work Processes, Risk Management,
               Commitment to Continuous Improvement, Use of Air Force Smart Operations
               (AFSO) 21 Tools.
               4.2.4.3.3. Commander’s       Inspection     Program      (CCIP)     (Management,
               Effectiveness).
               4.2.4.3.4. Data Driven Decisions (Data Collection, Decision Processes).
            4.2.4.4. MGA 4. Executing the Mission:
               4.2.4.4.1. Primary Mission(s) (Warfighter of USAF CC satisfaction, Right
               Quality, Right Quantity, Right Time).
               4.2.4.4.2. AEF Readiness (Warfighter of USAF CC satisfaction, Right Quality,
               Right Quantity, Right Time).
               4.2.4.4.3. Mission Assurance Command and Control (Warfighter or USAF CC
               satisfaction, Right Quality, Right Quantity, Right Time).
        4.2.5. TAB E – Air Force/PACAF Special Interest Items (SII). Air Force and HQ
        PACAF establish SIIs by policy letter. SIIs can be found at HQ PACAF/IG web site:
        https://pacaf.eim.pacaf.af.mil/sites/Reports%20and%20SII%27s/Special%20Interes
        t%20Items/Forms/AllItems.aspx. File a copy of all current SIIs in this TAB. It’s
        recommended that any unit responsible for an SII cross-reference the applicable SII with
        other SII documentation on file (for example, a continuity book, file plan, points of
        contact). Units will complete SII checklists in accordance with the established methods
        and timelines provided on the SII policy letter and provide status to HQ PACAF/IG
        through 673 ABW/IGI.
        4.2.6. TAB F – Self-Inspection Deficiencies. MICT self-assessment deficiency report
        will be placed behind this TAB or cross-referenced to MICT. Report will be updated
        monthly (every 30 days) until deficiencies are closed.
        4.2.7. TAB G – Other Inspections/ Staff Assistance Visit (SAV). Use this TAB to file
        (or cross-reference) other HHQ inspection results or evaluations conducted by outside
        agencies. This section should include all evaluations, regardless of the nature of the
        inspection (for example, mobility, reception, quality assessment). Keep the report on file
        for 3 years or until replaced by the next inspection of similar type.
        4.2.8. TAB H – Other Materials. Place miscellaneous documentation in this tab.
5. Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT):
     5.1. MICT is an interactive application designed to help all levels of leadership implement
     the self-assessment program and checklist management requirements as defined in AFI 90-
     201. MICT is the application for the 673 ABW/3 WG units to manage their unit self-
     assessment program. All MICT users have permissions to download various reports and
     checklists.
     5.2. Self-assessment programs provide commanders with a vital tool for internal assessment
     of unit health and complement external assessments. The tools within MICT are available to
     all levels of leadership. Starting from the lowest levels, MICT Administrators and their
     designated Self-Assessment Checklist Assessors can access and run applicable checklists.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014                                       7


   Self-Assessment Program (SAP) results can be displayed for later viewing. To facilitate the
   flow of information up and down the supervisory and inspection chains, each level of
   authority is assigned specific roles, responsibilities, and visibility within MICT.
   Administrators will set MICT permissions and can be adjusted as necessary upon request.
   MICT permissions are established as follows in Table 1 below.

Table 1. Permissions Established for MICT
  Administrators    Have the ability to manage members, permissions, can create checklists,
                    manage checklist POCs, customize the unit, and create units. Members
                    with the Admin permission, at any level, have the ability to grant
                    permissions to other members in their units.

  Managers          Have the ability to create checklists, manage Checklist POCs, and
                    assessments.

  Assessors         Users can run assessments and view some reports. This is the default
                    permission for users to become a Checklist POC.

  Inspectors        Provides the Inspector tab and access to documents and links uploaded
                    against checklist questions.

  Reviewers         Read only access to the unit. This would be appropriate for a Quality
                    Assurance member or for an Inspector.


   5.3. MICT Responsibilities:
      5.3.1. The 673 ABW/IGI Office will:
          5.3.1.1. Act as the Wing’s liaison with the MAJCOM MICT Lead Manager.
          5.3.1.2. Act as the overall member management and permission granting authority
          for 673 ABW and 3 WG administrators.
          5.3.1.3. Identify Wing MICT administrators at all levels (wing, group, and
          squadron).
          5.3.1.4. Identify and consolidate software issues and suggestions for future software
          improvements to be forwarded to the Major Command (MAJCOM) MICT Lead
          Manager.
          5.3.1.5. Develop MICT guidance (“business rules”) for subordinate organizations
          (group, squadron, other Staff agencies) for MICT data entry.
          5.3.1.6. Use MICT to develop appropriate reporting tools to meet the needs of wing
          leadership.
      5.3.2. Unit MICT Administrators will:
          5.3.2.1. Manage checklist permissions assignment and tracking for their area of
          responsibility.
 8               JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014


            5.3.2.2. Ensure Self-Assessment Checklist Assessors in their area of responsibility
            are trained in the use of MICT.
            5.3.2.3. Educate/train Checklist Assessors on using unit-generated checklists and
            ensure Checklist Assessors are aware that locally created checklists will not
            automatically update.
            5.3.2.4. Monitor the assessment currency of the units tracked HAF checklists, HQ
            PACAF supplemental checklists, and locally developed checklists, as required.
        5.3.3. Checklist Assessors will complete inspection checklists for their respective
        programs. Any question answered “No” on a self-assessment checklist will automatically
        correlate to a “Non-Comply” rating for the Overall Assessment.
        5.3.4. Checklists will be reviewed and validated by the checklist supervisor. Critical and
        significant deficiency minimum closure levels will be the checklist supervisor or
        individuals assigned manager permissions within the unit.
        5.3.5. When a checklist is revised or changed in MICT by the HAF or MAJCOM FAM
        (as indicated by the checklist title in red font) units will review and re-assess the new
        version of the checklist during the next scheduled assessment cycle (May or November).
        Any open deficiencies from the previous assessment will automatically be transferred to
        the new assessment if the respective SAC question carried forward on the new version.
        5.3.6. To assist with identification of changed or revised checklists, units will
        accomplish the following report retrieval steps in MICT: open Reports tab, click
        Assessment, then click Unit Compliance. The resulting report will list all assessments
        completed by the unit and contains a “Changed Since Closed” column. If this column is
        annotated “Yes” it signifies the checklist was revised since the last assessment. NOTE:
        Checklists are guides and should not be considered all-inclusive. All applicable AFIs,
        Technical Orders, Policy Letters, and so forth, are subject to inspection. Well written
        checklists cover the basics, but cannot address all aspects of unit health. Leadership
        involvement is critical. Tier level definitions and waiver authority for checklist questions
        can be found in AFI 33-360, Table 1.1
        5.3.7. Local Checklist Creation and Inclusion in MICT. Local checklists must be
        approved by the appropriate MAJCOM Functional Account Manager (FAM). Units will
        follow the naming convention guidance for local checklists as prescribed in AFI 90-201,
        paragraph 5.7.3.5 Units will forward MAJCOM FAM approved local checklists to the
        respective IGI to ensure proper naming conventions are utilized before uploading actions
        occur in MICT.
6. Inspector General Evaluation Management System (IGEMS):
     6.1. IGEMS is the Air Force system of record IGs will use for scheduling, planning, and
     report writing for all inspections. IGEMS is the tool used to assign, monitor, and close
     deficiencies identified during the inspection process.
     6.2. Registration. IGEMS requires registration to access the program. Registration includes
     completing a digitally signed System Authorization Access Request (DD Form 2875, System
     Authorization Access Request (SAAR)) and submitting the DD Form 2875 to the IGEMS
     Help Desk. After approval from the IGEMS Helpdesk, new users can request an IGEMS
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014                                           9


   account by clicking the Register link on the IGEMS Home Page. The user then fills out the
   requested information, and an Administrator will accept or reject the request. Recommend
   Group/Squadron SAPMs be designated unit IGEMS monitor.
   6.3. IGEMS Roles. IGEMS is a role-based application. User access and privileges are
   dependent upon assigned roles. There are five primary roles briefly described in Table 2,
   this instruction. All registered users are assigned the role of Basic User. Basic User role will
   be required for SAPM to respond to unit inspection deficiencies.

Table 2. IGEMS Primary Roles
                Every IGEMS user is assigned this role by default. This role allows the user to
Basic User
                view schedules and assigned deficiencies.
                This role allows a user to be assigned to an inspection. This user performs one or
Inspector       more of the following functions on an inspection team; Team Chief, Division
                Chief, Work Center Administrator, Murder Board, or Inspector.
Scheduler       This user schedules inspections and may make inspection team assignments.
                This user performs inspection planning activities to include: the assignment of
Planner
                inspection duties and selection of inspection items.
              This user manages user accounts and application settings via the Admin tab on the
Administrator Home Page. Administrator also assigns deficiencies from the Deficiencies tab on
              the IGEMS Home Page.

7. Crosstalk:
   7.1. Copies     of   previous     HQ     PACAF/IG   reports   can  be    found    at:
   https://pacaf.eim.pacaf.af.mil/sites/Reports%20and%20SII%27s/Inspection%20Report
   s/Forms/AllItems.aspx. The 673 ABW/IGI will forward copies of all HQ PACAF/IG
   inspection reports as they are made available from HQ PACAF/IG. The JBER Self-
   Assessment       home      page       is    located  at     the   following    link:
   https://jber.eim.elmendorf.af.mil/673ABW/XP/SAPM/default.aspx.
   7.2. HQ PACAF/IG has a home page which includes Bearcat Briefs, Special Interest Items,
   Trend Analysis, and Inspection Schedules. Each group/unit/agency is highly encouraged to
   review this website at https://pacaf.eim.pacaf.af.mil/IG/IGI/default.aspx.
   7.3. The Inspector General Briefs provide an insight on how other units are accomplishing
   compliance-related tasks. The TIG Brief is available on the Air Force Portal at:
   https://www.my.af.mil/gcssaf/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=sA4057E1F3A790
   E62013AD29829BA0DD1. This periodical provides insight on Inspector General programs
   from the Secretary of the Air Force Inspector General and his deputy, as well as provides
   some best practices and inspection tips in place throughout the Air Force.
   7.4. MICT Help Guides are located at: https://mict.us.af.mil/Guides.aspx and contain
   MICT Training Guides. MICT Community of Practice (CoP) site is located at:
   https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/25432/default.aspx.
 10             JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014




7.5. IGEMS training link:
https://otoc4j.hill.af.mil/igems/WebHelp/IGEMS_CBT/Introduction.htm

8. Information Collections. No information collections are required by this publication.




                                            BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014                11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General - The Inspection System, 26 April 2006.
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 2 August 2013.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access Request (SAAR)
Prescribed Forms
No forms were prescribed by this publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFIS—Air Force Inspection System
AFSO—Air Force Smart Operations
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Component
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CAP—Corrective Action Plan
CCIP—Commander’s Inspection Program
CIMB—Commander’s Inspection Management Board
FAM—Functional Area Manager
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HQ PACAF—Headquarters Pacific Air Force
IGEMS—Inspector General Evaluation Management System
IO—Intelligence Oversight
JBER—Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAE—Mission Assurance Exercise
MGA—Major Graded Areas
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
 12            JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014


OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RCA—Root Cause Analysis
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAAR—System Authorization Access Request
SAPM—Self-Assessment Program Manager
SAPR—Sexual Assault and Prevention Response
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SII—Special Interest Items
673 ABW—673d Air Base Wing
3 WG—3d Wing
TIG—The Inspector General
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014                                      13


                                        Attachment 2
        SELF-ASSESSMENT PROGRAM MANAGER APPOINTMENT LETTER

Figure A2.1. Self-Assessment Program Manager Appointment Letter


                                                                                 (Date)


MEMORANDUM FOR 673 ABW/IGI


FROM: __________


SUBJECT: Appointment of Self-Assessment Program Managers/MICT Administrators


1. In accordance with AFI 90-201, paragraph 5.4.5.10.2, the following individuals are appointed
as primary/alternate self-assessment program managers for the___________.
Primary:                             DSN:                  DEROS:


Alternate:                           DSN                   DEROS:


2. Direct any questions concerning this subject to the program managers listed above.




                                            Squadron or Group CC signature block
 14             JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSON INSTRUCTION 90-205 30 APRIL 2014


                                        Attachment 3
                SELF-ASSESSMENT PROGRAM REPORT TEMPLATE

Figure A3.1. Self-Assessment Program Report Template

                                                                                      (Date)


MEMORANDUM FOR 673 ABW/IGI


FROM: (Unit)


SUBJECT: Self-Assessment Program Report


1. A unit semi-annual self-assessment was conducted on (Date). This self-assessment validated
the units’ adherence to Air Force and PACAF policy and directives using HAF Checklists,
PACAF Supplemental Checklists, local checklists, applicable AFIs, Air Force directives,
inspection assessed compliance areas, and special interest items using USAF and PACAF
checklists.


2. Assessment Summary: (Narrative by Unit Self-Assessment Program Manager).


3. Open deficiencies will be tracked in the Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) and
evaluated every 30-days until unit can demonstrate compliance and recommended closure by the
Commander.


4. If you have any questions, please contact SSgt John Doe, Unit Self-Assessment Program
Manager, at XXX-XXXX.




                                           Unit Commander Signature Block
