BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-RICHARDSON
JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-                                            INSTRUCTION 51-901
RICHARDSON
                                                                                   18 JULY 2014

                                                                                             Law

                                                    DEPENDENT MISCONDUCT PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 673 SFS/S5PD                                                     Certified by: 673 ABW/JA
                                                                            (Lt Col Bryan Davis)
                                                                                        Pages: 16
Supersedes:    3WGI 31-209, 16 July 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals.
The purpose of this instruction is to establish policies, responsibilities, and procedures for the
administrative disposition of misconduct committed by military dependents on Joint Base
Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) and to formally establish the JBER Dependent Misconduct
Program (DMP) and Dependent Misconduct Board (DMB). It applies to all military sponsors,
dependents visiting or residing on JBER, and all commanders of units and organizations
assigned, attached, or tenants on JBER, as well as military dependents who reside off base and
engage in misconduct on JBER, and does apply to the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard
units and members. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
publications OPR for non-tiered compliance items and this instruction cannot be supplemented
or further extended. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See Attachment 1 for
Glossary of References and Supporting Information. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                   JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014


This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by
the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The applicable Privacy Act SORN(s) FO31 AF SP I
Registration Records (Excluding Private Vehicle Records) (June 11, 1997, 62 FR 31793) is
available at http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/. Forms affected by the Privacy Act
have an appropriate Privacy Act Statement (PAS) incorporated in the body/heading of the
form. Consult AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, for further guidance on PAS’s
required prior to collection of personal information.


1. Purpose:
     1.1. The purpose of this instruction is to establish policies, responsibilities, and procedures
     for the administrative disposition of misconduct committed by military dependents on JBER
     and to thereby enforce applicable laws and ensure the good order, discipline and security of
     the installation. This instruction formally establishes the JBER Dependent Misconduct
     Program (DMP), Dependent Misconduct Board (DMB) and procedures for Dependent
     Misconduct Hearings (DMH). The jurisdiction of the DMB covers misconduct committed
     by juvenile and adult dependents. This instruction is to be construed to secure the good order
     and security of all persons and property located on JBER and shall be liberally applied to
     achieve those ends.
     1.2. Current Air Force policy and federal law provide an installation commander with
     limited options when confronted with dependent misconduct occurring on a military
     installation. Debarment action or suspension of certain privileges (such as patronage of the
     exchange) are permissible actions delineated in Air Force publications, but provide limited
     flexibility. The DMP provides additional options that can be tailored to fit the unique
     circumstances of each case. There are several matters that should be considered in
     determining the appropriate action when dependent misconduct occurs. They are
     rehabilitation of the dependent, punishment of the dependent, protection of others from the
     dependent, preservation of good order and discipline on JBER, deterrence of the dependent
     and those who know of the misconduct and administrative penalty from committing the same
     or similar misconduct, and impact on the sponsor and other dependent family members.
2. Scope. Not every instance of dependent misconduct will be disposed of under the DMP. The
program does not replace the current fitness determination and debarment process; it is intended
to compliment it. The DMB will meet monthly, and as directed by the Commander, 673d
Mission Support Group (673 MSG/CC), to review all open cases of dependent misconduct. The
date of discovery of dependent misconduct, status of investigation/disposition, and final actions
taken will be tracked. It is expected that the majority of the dependent misconduct will be
reported to the DMB by SFS Reports and Analysis. Unit commanders, however, may also refer
cases to the DMB with recommendations for action.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. Installation Commander:
        3.1.1. Order and Discipline. The installation commander is charged with the
        responsibility of enforcing the law and maintaining good order and discipline on the base,
        in accordance with DoDI 5200.08, paragraph 1.2 and AFI 31-101, paragraph 2.3.4. The
        DMP assists to achieve this objective.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014                                                         3


         3.1.2. Curfew Hours. The following curfew hours are established for juveniles at
         JBER:

Table 1. Curfew Hours
Age                                Weekdays                         Weekends & Holidays
15 and Under                       2200-0500                        2300-0500
16-17                              2400-0500                        0100-0500
NOTE: Juveniles may be outdoors during curfew hours (if the sponsor has received written
permission from the Commander, 673 MSG). Examples include, but not limited to, juveniles
engaged in off-duty employment, or those participating in an organized base or civic activity that
require the juvenile to be outside during curfew hours. Furthermore, juveniles may be allowed
outside past curfew hours, without any prior written permission, if they are in the company of the
sponsor or guardian.

         3.1.3. Unattended Youth. The unattended youth policy is established to supervise
         youth activity, prevent youth misconduct, and ensure their safety. Unattended youth is
         defined as those juveniles who are not supervised by someone 12 years of age or older.
         Only those youth 13 years of age or older may be left unattended overnight. Supervision
         is defined as close proximity to continuously monitor the child and provide immediate
         verbal instructions.

Table 2. Unattended Youth Policy
Age                  Unattended in       Playground          Left in Vehicle      Walk to School
                     Quarters            Unattended          Unattended           Alone
0-5                  No                  No                  No                   No
6-9                  No                  Yes                 Yes                  Yes
10-11                No (Note 1)         Yes                 Yes                  Yes
12-16+               Yes                 Yes                 Yes                  Yes
NOTE 1. Babysitters must be 16 years of age or older for overnight stays.

         3.1.4. Delegated Authority. The 673 ABW/CC has delegated the primary authority to
         convene the DMB and manage the DMP to the 673 MSG/CC. The installation
         commander may appoint an alternate DMB President as needed by separate
         memorandum.
         3.1.5. Dependent Misconduct. The installation commander is responsible for action
         taken in addressing dependent misconduct cases at JBER. With the exception of
         barments, authority for all other administrative actions taken pursuant to this instruction
         is hereby delegated to the 673 MSG/CC.
      3.2. Mission Support Group Commander and Deputy Commander:
         3.2.1. As detailed above, the 673 MSG/CC will serve as the DMB President, presiding
         over monthly meetings of the DMB. The 673 MSG/CD may also convene the DMB at
4                                  JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014


       his/her discretion, if deemed necessary. When a DMH is convened, the DMB President
       will preside as the hearing officer. In each instance the DMB President is the disposition
       authority for dependent misconduct addressed pursuant to this instruction.
       3.2.2. The 673 MSG/CC will coordinate with 673 ABW/JA and 673 SFS when referral
       to local law enforcement or non-military juvenile correction is appropriate.
    3.3. Law Enforcement Authorities:
       3.3.1. A representative from 673 SFS will attend all DMB meetings.
       3.3.2. The 673 SFS, Air force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) and Criminal
       Investigation Division (CID), as the primary law enforcement agencies at JBER, will
       investigate alleged instances of dependent misconduct as appropriate and coordinate with
       Anchorage Municipality officials, as needed. In addition to existing notification
       requirements, 673 SFS and/or AFOSI, Det 631 will notify 673 MSG CC/CD and 673
       ABW/JA of alleged dependent misconduct and forward resulting reports, if available.
       These agencies will also be prepared to clarify or expand on reported misconduct when
       requested. The 673 SFS/S5PA will maintain the records for dependent misconduct
       incidents when the incident occurs on the installation and a report is generated.
       3.3.3. The 673 SFS will comply with procedures outlined in 673 SFS OI 31-101, V2,
       Operations Support, when responding to a reported incident.
    3.4. Staff Judge Advocate:
       3.4.1. A representative from 673 ABW/JA will attend all DMB meetings.
       3.4.2. The 673 ABW/JA will provide legal reviews or opinions to assist the DMB
       regarding dependent misconduct. The legal reviews are for official use only (FOUO) and
       will not be released to those who have been involved in misconduct or to their sponsors.
       3.4.3. The 673 ABW/JA will coordinate/support investigation of dependent misconduct
       with 673 SFS, AFOSI, CID, and/or local law enforcement agencies, as needed.
       3.4.4. The 673 ABW/JA will provide a legal advisor for any formal DMH convened.
       3.4.5. The 673 ABW/JA will communicate to 673 SFS/S5PA any corrective actions
       imposed on a dependent offender which requires enforcement by 673 SFS (for example,
       curfews, base restrictions, and debarment).
    3.5. Unit Commanders, First Sergeants, and Supervisors:
       3.5.1. Unit commanders will brief their personnel on this instruction and will require the
       participation of the military sponsor in the DMP process and the sponsor’s attendance,
       when requested, at hearings. Participation of military dependents in the DMB process is
       voluntary, however failure to appear and to satisfy all of the DMB’s orders (to include
       any penalties imposed) may result in a recommendation to the 673 ABW/CC that the
       dependent be barred from JBER due to his/her unwillingness to participate in the DMP.
       3.5.2. The unit commander and first sergeant shall attend the DMH and decide whether
       to require the military sponsor’s supervisor also attend the hearing. In the event the unit
       commander and/or first sergeant are unable to attend, he/she will appoint an alternate.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014                                                     5


      3.5.3. Unit commanders, first sergeants, and supervisors may counsel a military sponsor
      for inadequately responding to family member misconduct.
      3.5.4. First sergeants and supervisors will report all instances of dependent misconduct to
      their unit commanders. Unit commanders may, in turn, refer the misconduct to the DMP
      for disposition.
   3.6. Military Sponsors and their Dependents:
      3.6.1. The military sponsor is ultimately responsible for the actions of his or her family
      member(s) and guest(s). The sponsor is also responsible for ensuring that both adult and
      minor family members are aware of the standards of conduct they are expected to
      maintain. The sponsor will cooperate with the DMP in an effort to promote good order
      and discipline in the community. The success of the DMP as a rehabilitative tool
      ultimately rests on the willingness of dependent offenders and their military sponsors to
      participate in the program. These efforts include participation in rehabilitative measures
      and compliance with administrative sanctions when directed by the DMB (for example,
      supervision of base beautification detail). A military sponsor’s response to a family
      member’s misconduct may be considered in determining the appropriate disposition of
      the dependent’s case.
      3.6.2. When a minor is involved in the DMP and a hearing is convened, the consent of
      the minor’s parent or guardian is required. The consequences of non-participation or
      non-cooperation may result in debarment from base or revocation of certain base
      privileges.
      3.6.3. When a dependent receives notification that a hearing will be convened, the
      military sponsor is required to attend and will encourage their dependent to attend the
      hearing.
4. Dependent Misconduct Board (DMB) Meetings:
   4.1. The DMB will meet monthly and as directed by 673 MSG/CC to review open cases of
   dependent misconduct. The meetings will be attended by at a minimum the DMB President,
   a 673 SFS representative, and 673 ABW/JA representative. Others may attend the meeting at
   the invitation of the DMB President. The date of discovery of dependent misconduct, status
   of investigation/disposition, and final actions taken will be tracked by the DMB Panel.
   4.2. As each case is considered, the first step is a preliminary determination whether the
   alleged dependent misconduct occurred. This preliminary determination is made by the
   DMB President. Although it should be the rare circumstance, it’s possible certain dependent
   misconduct referred to the DMB is more properly addressed by an immediate fitness
   determination or debarment. In the event it is determined that the alleged misconduct
   occurred and an immediate fitness determination or debarment action in not necessary, a
   notification memorandum will be issued to the dependent sponsor. If it is determined there is
   insufficient evidence to conclude the alleged misconduct occurred, the DMB President may
   either defer the case pending receipt of additional evidence or close the case as
   unsubstantiated.
   4.3. Notification Memorandum (see Attachment 2, this instruction).          The notification
   memorandum will consist of:
 6                                  JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014


        4.3.1. A plain, concise, and definite statement of the essential facts constituting the
        dependent misconduct;
        4.3.2. Notice to the sponsor and dependent of the potential adverse consequences; and
        4.3.3. Notice of the opportunity to provide a written response within 10 calendar days of
        receipt of the Notification Memorandum.
     4.4. Sponsor and Dependent Submission of Written Matters. Upon receipt of matters, the
     DMB President may:
        4.4.1. Determine the allegation is unsubstantiated and close the case.
        4.4.2. Determine the allegation is substantiated but no action required.
        4.4.3. Determine the allegation is substantiated and decide the corrective action.
        4.4.4. Direct that the DMB meet for discussion and recommendations.
        4.4.5. Convene a dependent misconduct hearing either informal or formal.
5. Dependent Misconduct Hearings (DMH):
     5.1. Hearings provide a mechanism to gather additional information regarding the
     misconduct itself as well as any evidence in aggravation, extenuation, or mitigation. In the
     case of juvenile offenders, hearings also provide a mechanism to ensure the juvenile is held
     personally accountable and may be conducive to a program of rehabilitation. There is no
     entitlement to a hearing. Hearings are held solely at the discretion of the DMB President.
        5.1.1. Informal DMH. The informal DMH will consist of the DMH President, the
        dependent offender, the offender’s sponsor/parents, and the sponsor’s first sergeant. The
        sponsor’s commander and sponsor’s supervisor may attend at the DMH President’s
        discretion. The DMB President may hold this hearing in his/her office or a comparable
        space.
        5.1.2. Formal DMH. The formal DMH will consist of the DMB President as the
        hearing officer, the dependent offender, the offender’s sponsor/parents, the sponsor’s
        commander, the sponsor’s first sergeant (see Attachment 3, this instruction), the
        sponsor’s supervisor, and a DMB advisory panel. The formal DMH will be held in the
        JBER courtroom. The formal DMH advisory panel may consist of representatives from
        any of the following agencies, at the DMB President’s discretion: The 673 ABW/JA, 673
        ABW/CSM; 673 SFS or AFOSI, JBER Family Advocacy, and any other professionals
        deemed appropriate.
     5.2. Standard of Proof. The standard of proof necessary to find that the dependent
     committed the misconduct in question is a preponderance of the evidence. This standard is
     met when the credible evidence, taken as a whole, shows that it is more probable than not
     that the fact sought to be proved (that is, that the dependent committed the act) actually
     occurred.
     5.3. DMB Hearing Procedures:
        5.3.1. If the 673 MSG/CC determines that a DMH is appropriate, dependent offenders
        will receive a notification letter (see Attachment 4, this instruction) by the military
        sponsor’s e-mail or the dependent’s home address. A delivery and/or read receipt should
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014                                                      7


      be used. This letter will provide official notice of the alleged offense and information on
      the date, time, and location of the hearing. Additionally, it will inform the dependent and
      sponsor that failure to appear and to satisfy all of the DMB’s orders (to include any
      penalties imposed) may result in a recommendation to the 673 ABW/CC that the
      dependent be barred from JBER due to his/her unwillingness to participate in the DMP.
   5.3.2. The DMB may request the appearance of any witness(es) it deems necessary for the
   resolution of the case. The Military Rules of Evidence do not apply to DMHs, and the DMB
   President may rely solely on hearsay evidence (to include law enforcement reports) in
   arriving at his/her decision.
      5.3.3. The dependent and/or sponsor will be provided a reasonable opportunity to present
      matters in rebuttal, extenuation, or mitigation in the form of oral or written statements by
      the dependent or sponsor and documentary or tangible evidence.
      5.3.4. The dependent and/or sponsor may present relevant witness testimony. The
      dependent offender has no right to have military legal counsel or a civilian attorney
      represent him/her during the hearing, nor does he/she have the right to cross-examine the
      witness(es) called by the DMB.
      5.3.5. Following the dependent’s and/or sponsor’s presentation(s), the DMB President
      will consider the case presented and determine if the alleged misconduct was committed.
6. Corrective Action:
   6.1. Consistent with any findings of misconduct, the DMB President, with the advice of the
   DMB advisory panel and any other representatives the DMB President deems appropriate,
   determines the corrective action. The DMB may impose any of the following actions on the
   offender. The following list is not exhaustive.
      6.1.1. No action.
      6.1.2. Verbal counseling or admonishment by the DMB President.
      6.1.3. A formal letter of admonishment or warning issued by the DMB President or the
      sponsor’s commander.
      6.1.4. Refer the offender and/or sponsor to an off-base agency for counseling or
      rehabilitation.
      6.1.5. Refer the offender to a county or city shoplifter’s education program.
      6.1.6. Place certain areas or base functions off-limits to the offender.
      6.1.7. Impose a curfew.
      6.1.8. Suspend or revoke certain privileges, including, but not limited to access to the
      base exchange or commissary, on-base driving, and entering certain buildings or
      accessing certain areas of the base.
      6.1.9. Terminate military family housing for the offender and/or family with the
      concurrence of the 673 ABW/CC.
 8                                  JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014


        6.1.10. Require that the offender perform specified community service for a required
        number of hours, providing that adequate supervision is provided (for example, refuse
        collection, grounds maintenance, pulling weeds, or other similar activities).
        6.1.11. Refer the offender to an off-base community service program (for example, the
        Salvation Army®, Goodwill®, or other similar organization).
        6.1.12. Require that the offender submit a formal apology to the party or parties
        offended, or an essay reflecting on his/her offense. The DMB should inform the offender
        that an unsigned version of the essay could be published in the base paper or public
        affairs newsletter to deter other would-be offenders.
        6.1.13. Order restitution be paid and/or made by the offender.
        6.1.14. Recommend barment of the offender to the 673 ABW/CC.
     6.2. Costs for any corrective actions imposed is the responsibility of the offender and/or
     sponsor. The sponsor is also responsible for ensuring the dependent’s compliance with or
     participation in any actions imposed.
7. Information Collection. No information collections are required by this publication.




                                             BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014                                                     9


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009.
DoDI 5200.08, Security of DOD Installations and Resources, 10 December 2005.
673 SFS OI 31-101, V2, Operations Support, 30 May 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Prescribed Forms
No Forms were prescribed by this publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force.
AFB—Air Force Base.
AFMAN—Air Force Manual.
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Investigations.
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System.
CID—Criminal Investigation Division.
DMB—Dependent Misconduct Board.
DMP—Dependent Misconduct Program.
DMH—Dependent Misconduct Hearing.
JBER—Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility.

Terms
Dependent—For the purposes of this instruction, dependent includes any person entitled to a
dependent identification card or sponsored onto the base by a military member. This definition
is much broader than the typical definition of “dependent” because it can include, for example,
significant others who are not a spouse as well as family members or friends temporarily residing
with or visiting the military member on the installation.
Minor—Any person under the age of 18 years.
Misconduct—Any violation of federal, state or local statute, Air Force Instruction, base
regulation, or any other activity which is prejudicial to good order and discipline on JBER or
otherwise breaches the peace on JBER. The DMB will have discretion to intervene in all
 10                                JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014


appropriate cases, but such intervention does not abrogate the installation’s responsibility to
report cases of criminal dependent misconduct to the local authorities.
Preponderance of the Evidence—The standard of proof necessary to find that the dependent
committed the misconduct in question is a preponderance of the evidence. This standard is met
when the evidence as a whole shows that it is more probable than not that the facts sought to be
proved (i.e., that the dependent committed the act) actually occurred. In other words, if the
evidence shows a greater than fifty percent probability that the dependent committed the
misconduct, the Board should find the dependent committed the misconduct.
Sponsor—An adult who is the parent or guardian of a juvenile alleged to have committed
misconduct on JBER. A sponsor includes a host of a guest from off-base or who has
responsibility for the conduct of dependents in his or her charge.
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014                                                   11


                                          Attachment 2
                         SAMPLE NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM

Figure A2.1. Sample Notification Memorandum
673 MSG/CC
Bldg 8517, 20th Street
JBER, AK 99506


MSgt John Doe
1234 Bosler Drive
JBER AK 99506

Dear MSgt Doe

The Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) Dependent Misconduct Board has received a
report that your dependent, Dependent Doe, [briefly describe the misconduct], which occurred
on Day Month Year.

No final determination has been made finding that the alleged misconduct occurred; however if
determined as alleged, such misconduct is not consistent with the maintenance of good order and
discipline on JBER and would subject your dependent to potential debarment (exclusion or
removal) from base. Only the JBER installation commander has the authority to debar an
individual from the installation. The Dependent Misconduct Board has the authority to impose
lesser sanctions/requirements as a condition of avoiding debarment.

Should the Board determine that your dependent committed the offense, an appropriate
punishment will be determined. Punishments may include one or more of the following:

a. Verbal counseling;
b. Issuance of a formal letter of admonishment or warning;
c. Order to prepare a written essay;
d. Order to prepare and deliver an oral presentation;
e. Order to write or orally deliver a formal apology to the victim and/or sponsor;
f. Referral to an appropriate agency for counseling;
g. Imposition of a curfew;
h. Restriction to on-base residence, except for travel to-from work/school;
i. Referral to a base community service program;
j. Referral to an off-base community service program;
k. Order to provide restitution for stolen, damaged, or destroyed property;
l. Recommendation that base privileges be suspended or revoked;
m. Recommendation of debarment from base;
n. Referral to civilian juvenile/criminal authorities;
 12                                JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014


o. Termination of base housing; or
p. Any other action deemed appropriate under the circumstances.

You and your dependent have 10 calendar days from receipt of notice to submit any written
matters that you want considered by the Dependent Misconduct Board prior to a final
determination. The written matters may rebut the allegation or simply be matters in extenuation
or mitigation.

Please acknowledge receipt of this memorandum no later than 1400 on XX March 20XX by
responding by e-mail or by telephone at (907) 552-xxxx. Should you have any further questions
or concerns involving this matter, please contact me.

                                                   Sincerely



                                                   JANE F. DOE, Col, USAF
                                                   Dependent Misconduct Board President
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014                                                       13


                                          Attachment 3
        SAMPLE LETTER TO SPONSOR’S FIRST SERGEANT/COMMANDER

Figure A3.1. Sample Letter To Sponsor’s First Sergeant/Commander
673 MSG/CC
Bldg 8517, 20th Street
JBER, AK 99506


MSgt Joseph P. Smith
673 Squadron/CC and CCF
Via e-mail address: joseph.smith@us.af.mil

Dear MSgt Smith

The Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) Dependent Misconduct Board requests your
attendance at our Board hearing being held on XX March 20XX. MSgt John Doe of your
organization and his/her dependent, Dependent Doe, have been notified as well and are urged to
attend in response to a matter which occurred on XX February 20XX. This hearing will be held
on XX March 20XX at 1400 in the Courtroom located on the third floor of the People Center,
Building 8517, 20th Street, JBER, AK.

During the course of the hearing, the Board President will review any evidence and call any
witnesses that he/she deems necessary. The President will offer requested attendees an
opportunity to make a statement and present material, either orally or in writing, relevant to the
matter.

Should the Board determine that the dependent committed the offense, an appropriate
punishment will be determined. Punishments may include one or more of the following:

a. Verbal counseling;
b. Issuance of a formal letter of admonishment or warning;
c. Order to prepare a written essay;
d. Order to prepare and deliver an oral presentation;
e. Order to write or orally deliver a formal apology to the victim and/or sponsor;
f. Referral to an appropriate agency for counseling;
g. Imposition of a curfew;
h. Restriction to on-base residence, except for travel to-from work/school;
i. Referral to a base community service program;
j. Referral to an off-base community service program;
k. Order to provide restitution for stolen, damaged, or destroyed property;
l. Recommendation that base privileges be suspended or revoked;
m. Barment from base;
 14                                 JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014


n. Referral to civilian juvenile/criminal authorities;
o. Termination of base housing;
p. Any other action deemed appropriate under the circumstances.

The Dependent Misconduct Program is not meant to replace of nor do away with maintaining
healthy relationships, parental roles in disciplining their child(ren), or ensuring appropriate
conduct of dependents, but instead to provide a more formal rehabilitative tool to assist military
sponsors as needed.


Please ensure MSgt John Doe is available and attends the scheduled forum. Should you have
any further questions or concerns involving this matter, please contact me by e-mail or by calling
552-xxxx.

                                              Sincerely



                                             JANE F. DOE, Lt Col, USAF
                                             Dependent Misconduct Board President
JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014                                                    15


                                          Attachment 4
                               SAMPLE LETTER TO APPEAR

Figure A4.1. Sample Letter To Appear
673 MSG/CC
Bldg 8517, 20th Street
JBER, AK 99506


MSgt John Doe
1234 Bosler Drive
JBER AK 99506

Dear MSgt Doe

The Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) Dependent Misconduct Board has directed that
you and your dependent, Dependent Doe, attend a hearing addressing the event during which
Dependent Doe [briefly describe the misconduct], which occurred on XX February 20XX.
This hearing will be held on XX March 20XX [provide at least two weeks’ notice] at 1400 in
the Courtroom located on the third floor of the People Center, Building 8517, 20th Street,
JBER, AK.

During the course of the hearing, the Board will review any evidence and call any witnesses that
it deems necessary. The Board President will offer you and your dependent an opportunity to
make a statement, either orally or in writing. You may offer any other evidence, so long as the
Board President finds that it is relevant to the case.

Should the Board determine that your dependent committed the offense, an appropriate
punishment will be determined. Punishments may include one or more of the following:

a. Verbal counseling;
b. Issuance of a formal letter of admonishment or warning;
c. Order to prepare a written essay;
d. Order to prepare and deliver an oral presentation;
e. Order to write or orally deliver a formal apology to the victim and/or sponsor;
f. Referral to an appropriate agency for counseling;
g. Imposition of a curfew;
h. Restriction to on-base residence, except for travel to-from work/school;
i. Referral to a base community service program;
j. Referral to an off-base community service program;
k. Order to provide restitution for stolen, damaged, or destroyed property;
l. Recommendation that base privileges be suspended or revoked;
m. Barment from base;
 16                                JBELMENDORF-RICHARDSONI51-901 18 JULY 2014


n. Referral to civilian juvenile/criminal authorities;
o. Termination of base housing;
p. Any other action deemed appropriate under the circumstances.

The Dependent Misconduct Board is not meant to take the place of nor do away with your part in
disciplining your dependent or ensuring appropriate conduct of your dependent, but instead it
provides a more formal rehabilitative tool to help you and your dependent. Since it is a
rehabilitative program, community service is the preferred form of disciplinary action. Your
active involvement in the program can have a positive impact on the Board’s decisions.

It is recommended that prior to the day of the hearing, you help your dependent examine his/her
actions that resulted in this incident and prepare your dependent to discuss the alleged acts of
misconduct in a mature, truthful fashion.

Please acknowledge receipt of this memorandum no later than 1400 on XX March 20XX by
responding by e-mail or by telephone at (907) 552-xxxx. Should you have any further questions
or concerns involving this matter, please contact me.

                                             Sincerely



                                             JANE F. DOE, Lt Col, USAF
                                             Dependent Misconduct Board President
