BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-RICHARDSON
JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-                                          INSTRUCTION 31-107
RICHARDSON
                                                                               5 APRIL 2013
                                                          Certified Current 3 September 2013
                                                                                    Security

                                                        WEAPONS REGISTRATION AND
                                                   CHILD ACCESS PREVENTION POLICY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 673 SFS/S5PD                                                  Certified by: 673 MSG/CC
                                                                        (Col Frank Battistelli)
Supersedes:   3WGI 31-107,                                                           Pages: 13
              20 October 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense, and is
used in conjunction with AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, AFI 31-101/PACAF Sup, and United
States Army Alaska (USARAK) Regulation 190-1, Military Police Physical Security. This
publication applies to all personnel who reside, work or enter onto Joint Base Elmendorf-
Richardson (JBER) including Reserve, Guard and Civil Air Patrol. Compliance with this
instruction cannot be waived. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route the AF
Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).                     See
Attachment 1 for Glossary of References and Supporting Information. The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by
the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 USC 8013, Secretary of the Air Force: Powers
and duties; delegation by. The applicable Privacy Act SORN(s) FO31 AF SP I Registration
Records (Excluding Private Vehicle Records) (June 11, 1997, 62 FR 31793) is available at
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/. Forms affected by the Privacy Act have an
appropriate Privacy Act Statement (PAS) incorporated in the body/heading of the form.
Consult AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, for further guidance on PAS’s
required prior to collection of personal information.
 2                                 JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This document
incorporates changes as a result of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) that merged the
support services of Elmendorf Air Force Base and Fort Richardson to JBER. This change
established the 673d Air Base Wing (673 ABW) as the host unit for the JBER installation and
realigned the groups, squadrons and garrison within it. Department of Defense personnel
assigned or attached to JBER will follow this document for the purpose of privately owned
weapons (POW).
1. Purpose. This instruction mandates the registration of POWs for members residing on the
installation in privatized housing or government quarters and all persons participating in
recreational activities on JBER. It also mandates the use of locking gun cabinets, tamper
resistant mechanical locks, or other safety devices. For the purpose of this instruction a child is
defined as any person less than 18 years of age. Further, a POW is defined as any instrument
that propels a projectile through its barrel by the use of an explosive powder or device, and a
facility is defined as any location on an installation governed by the authority of the installation
commander. The intent of this policy is not to prohibit the use of POWs by authorized users, but
to ensure children do not gain access to POWs without adult consent and supervision. It also
provides commanders with access to a database of POWs stored by their members on the
installation.
2. Policy. Individuals who desire to carry, transport, and/or store POWs on base will
immediately declare and register their POWs upon entering the base at the visitor control center
(VCC). Civilians and off-base residents will register their POWs at the VCC immediately upon
entry to base. Civilian personnel who wish not to have their firearm permanently entered into
the firearm registration database may, at the time of registration, request the registration
documents be held for pick-up upon departure from base upon conclusion of participation in an
authorized shooting activity. Any registration held longer than 24 hours at either VCC will be
entered into the Security Forces Management Information System (SFMIS) database as a matter
of record on the next duty day. Unit commanders will ensure members know of the requirement
for weapons registration during in-processing to JBER. To help the members register their
POWs, Air Force Commanders designate unit POW monitors and Army Commanders’ Unit
Armorer will prepare an AF Form 1314, Firearms Registration (see paragraph 3.9, this
instruction), for members who have POWs and are assigned to government-controlled family
housing, privatized housing, billeting, temporary lodging facilities (TLF), and JBER
dormitories/barracks.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. Each military sponsor responsible for a government-controlled family housing or
     privatized housing unit will ensure all POWs stored within the unit are registered, stored
     unloaded and secured in a locked container or container equipped with a tamper-resistant
     mechanical lock or other safety device.
     3.2. Mechanical locks or other safety devices will be properly engaged to ensure the weapon
     is rendered inoperable.
JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013                                                   3


  3.3. Military sponsors will ensure POWs stored in locking gun cabinets constructed with
  glass windows have an additional level of security in place (for example, trigger lock, and so
  forth) to prevent the removal or use of POWs if the glass is broken.
  3.4. The keys and combinations for mechanical locks and/or other safety devices must be
  closely controlled to prevent access by children and other unauthorized persons.
  3.5. Ammunition can be stored in a locked drawer of a gun cabinet or stored in a gun safe.
  Ammunition not stored in a locked drawer of a gun cabinet or stored in a gun safe will be
  placed in another location (separate from POWs) that a reasonably prudent person would
  believe to be secure from a child or other unauthorized individuals. Ensure firearms and/or
  ammunition are not stored near furnaces, hot water heaters, or in/around mechanical rooms
  or other heat sources.
  3.6. POWs will not be stored in privately owned vehicles (POV), including privately owned
  aircraft (POA) on JBER.          Additionally, children will not be left unattended in
  vehicles/aircraft containing POWs. POWs and ammunition will not be permanently or
  routinely stored in vehicles. At no time will POWs be allowed in any government-owned
  building on JBER, except for storage (Security Forces, United States Marine Corps, US
  Army armories or The Rod and Gun/Skeet Range's weapons storage area/ room/safes) and
  official business conducted by local/state/federal law enforcement officers.
  3.7. Security Forces (SF), has developed a sample firearms awareness talking paper. This
  will be used to familiarize registered POW owners with the danger of child access to POWs
  and preventive measures (see Attachment 2, this instruction).
  3.8. The 673d Air BaseWing Safety Office (673 ABW/SE) will serve as the focal point for
  questions concerning container or locking mechanism adequacy.
  3.9. Each organization or tenant unit on JBER is required to assist its members residing on
  the installation to register their weapons using the AF Form 1314. This form will be
  prepared in triplicate. One copy will be forwarded to the 673d Security Forces
  Squadron/Reports and Analysis Section (S5PA), one copy will be kept in a unit POW folder
  maintained by the unit POW monitor/Unit Armorer, and one copy will be maintained by the
  individual.
     3.9.1. Unit commanders will ensure each person registering a firearm for storage on the
     installation signs a DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition,
     acknowledging they do not have a qualifying conviction under the Lautenberg
     Amendment to the 1968 Gun Control Act, in accordance with DoDI 6400.6, Domestic
     Abuse, Title18 USC922, and AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy. Units will maintain the
     signed DD Form 2760 with the file copy of the AF Form 1314 within S5PA, and return it
     to the registrant when firearms are de-registered from the installation in accordance with
     DoDI 6400.6 and 18 USC922.
     3.9.2. The 673 SFS Form 0107, Weapons Registration Record. Upon completing
     registration of the POW at the VCCs or Pass and ID Section, Building #8517, SFS Form
     0107 will be completed and provided to the registrant as a pocket card that must be
     carried whenever a registered POW is transported on base for verification of the POW
     being properly registered.
4                                 JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013


       3.9.3. Air Force unit commanders will appoint a POW monitor and alternate in writing.
       USARAK and tenant commanders will appoint unit armorer and alternate armorer. The
       appointment letter will be forwarded to 673 SFS/S5PA. POW monitors and unit
       armorers will ensure AF Forms 1314 are properly accomplished, to include a home
       address of the owner, and that they are signed by the organization or tenant commander.
       Monitors/armorers will forward the completed AF Forms 1314 to S5PA. The POW
       monitor/armorer will file a copy of the AF Form 1314 along with a signed copy of the
       Storage of POW letter (see Attachment 3, this publication) in the unit POW folder/arms
       room. Each member storing a POW on JBER will sign the letter, acknowledging their
       responsibilities in accordance with PACAF and installation requirements for preventing
       child access to POWs.
       3.9.4. SF will update the POW database in the SFMIS using the AF Form 1314.
    3.10. Unit POW monitors/armorers will ensure POWs are properly registered by assigned
    members living in government-controlled family housing, privatized housing, and
    dormitories/barracks. In addition, unit POW monitors/armorers will check with members
    moving on-base after residing off-base and with members newly arrived on station to ensure
    POW registration.
    3.11. Unit commanders will ensure members are informed of storage and registration
    requirements for POWs acquired during the period of their assignment to government-
    controlled family housing, privatized housing, and dormitories/barracks. POWs and
    ammunition stored in unit armories will only be withdrawn upon written approval of the unit
    commander or First Sergeant. Written approval will include the reason for withdrawal,
    weapon type, caliber, duration the weapons are to be withdrawn and contact information.
    POWs not returned by the date indicated on the withdrawal letter will be upchanneled to the
    individual’s unit Commander/First Sergeant. Members should also provide supporting
    documentation (leave papers, PCS orders, housing paperwork) when submitting withdrawal
    requests. POW Monitor appointment and letters delegating authority below the unit
    commander will be provided to the respective Arms Storage location.
    3.12. Unit POW monitors/armorers will ensure members departing via permanent change of
    station (PCS), retiring or separating, out-process through the 673 SFS/S5PA to de-register
    weapons. SF will keep all paperwork on file for one year after the member permanently
    departs the base.
    3.13. Storage of POWs in the JBER Aero Club or Six-Mile Sportsman’s Club facilities or
    inside of POAs is prohibited. JBER Aero Club or Six-Mile Sportsman’s Club personnel who
    do not reside on JBER and wish to store their POWs on base, must store them in the SF,
    United States Marine Corps, US Army armories or Rod and Gun/Skeet Range's weapons
    storage area/room/safes. EXCEPTION: Members who are in between flights (that is, arrive
    on JBER at 0800, and fly out at 1200) may temporarily keep their POWs in an approved,
    locked storage container, located in the respective club building and kept under constant
    supervision. However, the POWs cannot remain there overnight. Club management
    personnel will adhere to POW registration and storage requirements outlined in paragraphs
    3.1 through 3.9.1, this instruction.
       3.13.1. A temporary firearm storage safe is available at the alternate Base Defense
       Operations Center (BDOC) located in Building #656, A Street. This container meets the
JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013                                                   5


     security requirements for the temporary storage of all POWs and small amounts of
     ammunition. Personnel will use this container when they are not able to store POWs in
     their respective unit arms rooms, other authorized locations or when situations require the
     temporary storage of such weapons and ammunition (tha is, an Airman/Soldier who
     resides in the barracks returns from hunting but cannot locate his/her armorer, a person in
     transition status, a person on temporary duty in guest housing with a firearm, FSS
     Personnel, Skeet Range patrons working on the installation, and so forth).
     3.13.2. POWs will be accepted for temporary storage at the alternate BDOC Building
     #656 by SF personnel from anyone at anytime.
     3.13.3. Before accepting a POW at BDOC, SF personnel will complete an AF Form
     1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, and provide a copy to the owner.
     3.13.4. Weapons can be maintained in this temporary storage safe for as long as
     reasonable or necessary pending storage in another approved location. However, the
     owner will contact BDOC (384-0823) at intervals not to exceed 48 hours to provide up-
     to-date information relating to the final disposition of the weapon stored. If a weapon has
     been stored longer than 72 hours, the BDOC Controller will attempt to make contact with
     the individual’s Commander or First Sergeant to have the weapon moved to the
     appropriate armory for storage.
     3.13.5. After weapons have been stored for over 30 days with negative contact from the
     owner, SF will make arrangements for transferring possession of the weapon to unit
     commanders for disposition.
  3.14. The JBER POW registration policy does not apply to military members residing off the
  installation. However, unit commanders of personnel residing off the installation that own
  POWs, will be provided a brochure to familiarize off-base members with the dangers of child
  access to POWs and preventative measures. This can be accomplished by developing a
  handout training pamphlet, etc. Refer to Attachment 2, this instruction. Document this
  training in the unit POW folder/arms room. (see Attachment 3, this publication).
  3.15. Transporting POWs:
     3.15.1. POWs will only be transported to and from their place of purchase or storage;
     i.e., from family quarters, or the SF, United States Marine Corps, US Army armories or
     Rod and Gun/Skeet Range's weapons storage area/room/safes to authorized sporting
     events or activities on or off-base. SF Form 0107 will be carried on the persons
     transporting POWs on JBER. The SF Form 0107 will be accepted for proof of
     registration onto other installations within AK (e.g., Fort Wainwright, Eielson AFB).
     The 673 SF Form 107 will be accepted at JBER entry points for proof of weapon
     registration.
     3.15.2. POWs being transported on-base will be secured in a firearm case in the trunk of
     vehicles. For vehicles without a trunk, firearms will be encased in a container other than
     the glove compartment and carried in such a manner that they will not be readily
     available to the driver or passengers. The use of gun socks are not authorized.
     Ammunition magazines or clips must be stored separately from the POW during
     transport. Commercially available trigger locks and other security devices are strongly
     recommended to deter and prevent loss and theft.
 6                                  JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013


        3.15.3. JBER Aero Club or Six-Mile Sportsman’s Club personnel may transport POWs
        to and from their POAs, and aboard their POAs, when departing/entering JBER to/from
        trips, in addition to transporting POWs to/from one of the approved armories. All
        transportation requirements of this instruction will be followed during these movements.
        3.15.4. Carrying a loaded or unloaded concealed weapon on JBER is prohibited. This
        prohibition against concealed carry includes those in possession of the State of Alaska
        Concealed Weapons permit or those covered by the Law Enforcement Officer Safety Act
        (LEOSA) of 2004 as amended by the FY13 NDAA, reference Chapter 44 of Title 18
        USC. The only exceptions are: personnel in possession of an AF Form 523, Concealed
        Weapons Permit, signed by the installation commander or designated authority,
        local/federal law enforcement officials performing official-duties and off duty Anchorage
        Police Department (APD), officers per JBER-MOU-322, Memorandum of Agreement
        Between JBER and Anchorage Police Department. This paragraph does not apply to
        areas authorized for recreational activities on and off the installation (for example, during
        camping, hiking, hunting, wearing weather protection attire). If at any time an individual
        is contacted by law enforcement while carrying a concealed weapon during recreational
        activities they are required to immediately notify the officer of the weapon.
     3.16. Use of on-base lands or facilities for discharging firearms or use of unusually
     dangerous weapons other than, SF intervention, weapons qualifications, wildlife responses,
     and wing sanctioned events is strictly prohibited.
        3.16.1. In authorized recreations areas on JBER-R outside of the cantonment area, POWs
        will be transported in the same manner as stated in paragraph 3.15.2, this instruction.
4. Dormitory/Barracks/Billeting/TLF Residents Requirements:
     4.1. POW registration is required for all unaccompanied and temporary housing residents.
     Registrations will be accomplished in accordance with paragraph 3.9, this instruction. POW
     storage in unaccompanied or temporary housing is strictly prohibited.                    All
     Dormitory/Barracks/ Billeting/TLF Residents must identify POW storage locations on the
     AF Form 1314, Firearms Registration.
        4.1.1. Army personnel residing in unaccompanied (barracks) or temporary housing must
        store POWs in unit armories.
        4.1.2. Air Force personnel residing in unaccompanied (dormitories) or temporary
        housing may store POWs in the 673 SFS armory or other locations specifically
        authorized under this instruction for accompanied members.
     4.2. Law Enforcement/Government Agencies Weapon Storage Requirements. All law
     enforcement personnel and agents, civilian and federal, are required to store their duty
     weapons and ammunition in the SF armory while they are residing in on-base billeting
     facilities. Storage of duty weapons/ammunition in billeting facilities, Government Owned
     Vehicle (GOV), or POVs is prohibited.
5. Sale and Purchase of Registered Firearms. The sale of a registered firearm will be
reported to unit commander designees within 48 hours of the sale. Each military sponsor
responsible for a government-controlled family housing or privatized housing unit or member
JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013                                                      7


living on-base will ensure that firearms purchased or acquired are registered immediately after
taking delivery of the firearm.
6. Prohibited POWs. The following is a listing of firearms and components and explosives that
are prohibited from private ownership or prohibited, unless registered with the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms and a transfer tax paid. Anyone considering the acquisition of
any of the listed items or of any weapon not of a current, normally manufactured, commercial
pattern must contact the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, concerning the legality of
and registration process for the specified item. Muzzle loading firearms manufactured before
1878 and modern replicas of them in patterns commercially sold are legal, even though wording
in the following list might indicate otherwise.
   6.1. Shotguns with barrels of 18 inches or less.
   6.2. Rifles with barrels of 16 inches or less including pistols with detachable shoulder stocks.
   6.3. Any altered shotgun or rifle that is less than 26 inches overall length.
   6.4. Any other non-conventional, commercial or homemade firearm capable of firing a shot
   and being concealed on a person.
   6.5. Fully automatic firearms and any part for converting semiautomatic firearms to fully
   automatic.
   6.6. Mufflers or silencers designed for use on firearms.
   6.7. Destructive devices including explosives, incendiary or poison gas bombs, grenades,
   rockets, pyrotechnics, missiles, mines, grenade or artillery simulators, smoke grenades,
   fireworks and similar devices.
7. Non-standard POWs and other Prohibited Items. It’s prohibited to possess, conceal,
carry, transport, store, transfer or sell any of the following weapons or devices on JBER
installations. If an individual is found to be in possession of any of the weapons below they will
be confiscated and appropriate action taken.
   7.1. Ballistic, automatic, switch-blade, gravity or spring-operated knives of any blade length.
   NOTE: Automatic knives may be carried while on official military duty (that is, during
   training or performance of military duties) on JBER lands. They are illegal if carried off
   JBER within the state of Alaska.
   7.2. Any other knife with a blade length exceeding six inches if carried concealed. Knives
   used for wild game or food preparation are excluded only while the individual is engaged in
   recreational sports.
   7.3. Metal knuckles or any other hard-pointed device worn over the hand to be used for
   striking.
   7.4. Cattle prods, blackjacks, slappers, slap jacks, saps, palm saps, nun-chucks or any
   related/homemade device or bludgeon, excluding clubs designed for use while fishing.
8. Prohibited Activities Within the Housing and Cantonment Areas. The following items
are identified as nonstandard weapons; BB guns, pellet guns, paint ball guns, air soft guns,
archery equipment, crossbows, wrist rockets (sling shots), potato cannons, these weapons will
only be discharged on JBER for authorized purposes on authorized ranges. Adult supervision is
 8                                JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013


required when used by children under 16 years of age. Eye protection (safety glasses/goggles) is
recommended. Firing at animals (domestic or wild), to include birds and fish, is prohibited.
9. Release of Firearms Information. Firearm registration information is considered sensitive
and covered by the Privacy Act. Release of POW registration information outside of command
channels will only be accomplished after coordination with 673d Air Base Wing Legal Office
and with the approval of the 673 MSG/CC.
10. Information Collections. No information collections are required by this publication.




                                            BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013                                     9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 20 September 2010.
AFI 31-101, PACAF SUP 1, Integrated Defense, 10 June 2011.
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004, 16 May 2011.
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2005.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
DODI 6400.6, Domestic Abuse, 21 August 2007.
JBER MOU-322, Memorandum of Agreement Between JBER and Anchorage Police
Department, 6 January 2012.
USARAK Regulation 190-1, Military Police Physical Security, 09 November 2010.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 523, Concealed Weapons Permit
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
673 SFS Form 0107, Weapons Registration Record
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
AF Form 1314, Firearms Registration
DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing.
AF—Air Force.
AFMAN—Air Force Manual.
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive.
AFI—Air Force Instruction.
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management Systems.
APD—Anchorage Police Department.
BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure.
GOV—Government Owned Vehicles.
JBER—Joint Base Elmendorf- Richardson.
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility.
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces.
 10                             JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013


PAS—Privacy Act Statement.
PCS—Permanent Change of Station.
POA—Privately Owned Aircraft.
POV—Private Owned Vehicles.
POW—Privately Owned Weapon.
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule.
SF—Security Forces.
SFMIS—Security Forces Incident Management System.
TLF—Temporary Lodging Facilities.
VCC—Visitor Control Center.
USARAK—United States Army Alaska.
JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013                                                   11


                                         Attachment 2
                                 HOME FIREARM SAFETY

A2.1. Whether you are a collector, a hunter, or a gun control advocate, it is your responsibility
to ensure your family’s safety by talking with your child about the potential dangers of guns and
what to do if one is found.
A2.2. Talking to Your Child About Gun Safety:
   A2.2.1. Despite all that kids know about guns, most don't know how to safely handle a gun
   when and if they find one. That's why it's so important for parents to talk to their children
   about gun safety. But there are challenges. Today, there is no industry standard for gun
   safety. For example, one handgun might have a pin (like the kind that pops out of a turkey
   when it's cooked) to show if a bullet's in the chamber. The child might see the pin but not
   know what it means. Likewise, many kids know how to release a gun magazine but may not
   be aware that there's often one bullet left in the chamber. If they believe a gun is empty but
   one bullet remains, an accident could happen.
   A2.2.2. Kids also typically know where guns are in the home. Parents who have guns at
   home may think their children don't know where they've hidden guns, but kids find them.
   Even guns in locked cabinets can be pried open. Whether it's a firearm, or something as
   common as a carpenter's nail gun, BB gun, or an air gun, all are easy for kids to get, and all
   are dangerous. Parents should assume that their children are going to come across a gun at
   some point in their youth and proactively teach them about gun safety.
A2.3. There is a number of programs that can help you get started. One of the most popular is
Eddie Eagle, a program of the National Rifle Association® (NRA). It offers this four-step
approach to gun safety:
   A2.3.1. Stop.
   A2.3.2. Don’t touch.
   A2.3.3. Remove yourself from the area.
   A2.3.4. Tell an adult. It’s also important that kids tell an adult about the gun they found.
   Remember, however, that curiosity about guns is not limited to children. The adult your
   child tells may not know basic gun safety either and cause an accident themselves. It's best
   to give your child an easily remembered list of adults that you trust to safely take action.
   That's why it's a good idea to rely on teaching your children what to do if they encounter a
   gun rather than to rely on what other adults say.
A2.4. If You Have a Gun in Your Home:
   A2.4.1. Many children are raised with guns in the home, particularly if hunting is an
   important part of family recreation. Families who have guns in the home need to teach
   children to use guns safely and responsibly. To ensure the safest environment for your
   family:
       A2.4.1.1. Take the ammunition out of the gun.
       A2.4.1.2. Lock the gun and keep it out of reach of children.
12                             JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013


     A2.4.1.3. Lock the ammunition and store it apart from the gun.
     A2.4.1.4. Store the keys for the gun and the ammunition in a different area from where
     you store household keys. Keep the keys out of reach of children.
     A2.4.1.5. Lock up gun cleaning supplies, which are often poisonous.
JB ELMENDORT-RICHARDSONI31-107 5 APRIL 2013                                                    13


                                         Attachment 3
                     STORAGE OF PRIVATELY OWNED WEAPONS

Figure A3.1. Storage Of Privately Owned Weapons



MEMORANDUM FOR (UNIT/ORDERLY ROOM)

FROM: Member’s Name

SUBJECT: Storage of Privately Owned Weapons

I have read JBERI 31-107, the attached Firearm Safety and Storage Pamphlet and understand the
dangers associated with firearm storage. I acknowledge I have a duty to register my firearms if I
reside on base. I will incorporate weapons safety procedures when storing weapons or
ammunition and educate my family members of the dangers associated with firearms.




                                                          (Member Signature Block)
