BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS
LANGLEY AFB (ACC)                                                    INSTRUCTION 23-101

                                                                           13 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                            PRECIOUS METALS RECOVERY
                                                                      PROGRAM (PMRP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 633 LRS/LGRMI                                                   Certified by: 633 MSG/CC
                                                                   (Col David B. Chisenhall, Jr.)
                                                                                        Pages: 4



This instruction implements AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management, and establishes procedures
applicable to the Precious Metals Recovery Program (PMRP). This instruction applies to all
activities generating precious metals. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

1. Squadron commanders will appoint a primary and alternate Precious Metals Program
Monitor (PMPM) from sections/shops receiving, issuing, and using fine precious metals
and generating precious metals residue/scrap. The letter of appointment will include the
name, grade, office symbol, and duty phone of each monitor. Include the supply account
codes/number used to order precious metals, building number, types of recovery equipment used,
if any, the kind of precious metals scrap generated, and the kind of fine precious metals and high
precious metals content items used, such as anodes, brazing, and solder which have Controlled
Item Code (CIC) "R" assigned.
   1.1. Appoint individual(s) in writing to process and turn-in silver accumulated in the
   recovery bucket. The LRS commander will appoint, in writing, individual(s) not involved in
   the PMRP to witness the harvesting weight of the recovery bucket.
 2                            JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS 23-101 13 FEBRUARY 2014


2. The base PMRP Manager is responsible for the following:
     2.1. Serve as the OPR for this instruction and act as the focal point for all matters concerning
     the PMRP.
     2.2. Ensure that each organization on the installation involved in the PMRP appoints a
     PMRP monitor and alternate.
     2.3. Maintain a list of the organizations, organization monitors/alternate's name, phone
     number, location, i.e.: building number, type of recovery equipment, and kind of precious
     metals generated. Do not maintain a list of organizations not involved in PMRP.
     2.4. No record keeping is required by PMRP Manager, however record keeping for fine
     precious metals and high content items assigned CIC "R'' is required by the using/generating
     activity and will be subject to periodic review/audit by the PMRP Manager or investigative
     agencies.
     2.5. Ensure that each activity receiving, issuing, and using fine precious metals that are
     assigned a CIC "R" appoint individual(s) in writing to receipt for and issue these materials.
     Ensure these activities maintain auditable records, and that the records and quantities of
     materiel on hand are audited by disinterested personnel not involved in the use of the
     precious metals periodically, but not less than two times per year.
     2.6. The PMRP Manager will prepare a surveillance schedule for and visit each participating
     activity at least once every 24 months. During this visit they will review operations,
     documentation, and adherence to overall program requirements to ensure an effective PMRP.
     The PMRP manager will prepare, maintain, and forward a surveillance report and follow-up
     on discrepancies noted for corrective action for each PMRP monitor.
     2.7. Maintain liaison with the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO),
     Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), and the Precious Metals Area Representative (PMAR) to
     keep abreast of precious metals recovery techniques and to obtain or give assistance on the
     overall PMRP.
     2.8. Conduct program management training for activity monitors as required.
     2.9. Establish a local program to identify National Stock Number (NSN) with Precious
     Metals Indicators assigned.
     2.10. Establish precious metal recovery areas.
     2.11. Ensure the precious metal turn in log is being maintained.
3. The Unit PMRP Monitor is responsible for the following:
     3.1. Conduct and maintain a self-inspection program IAW DoD 4160.21-M.
     3.2. Identify precious metals on bench stock with a blue dot.
     3.3. Ensure that any material being turned in should be separated in zip lock bags and
     identified by NSN and quantity.
     3.4. Annotate NSN and quantity on the turn in log prior to quarterly turn in. Have the LRS
     representative to sign bottom of the turn in log when making a quarterly turn in.
JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS 23-101 13 FEBRUARY 2014                                             3


   3.5. Ensure precious metal assets are turned in to the Inspection Section, PMRP Manager
   every quarter (Jan, Apr, Jul, Oct). PMRP Manager will forward all precious metals collected
   along with a copy of the maintenance turn in log through Warehouse Distribution Section for
   DRMO processing.
   3.6. Ensure all assets listed on the Precious Metal listing belonging to the organization are
   properly managed IAW with this regulation and its referenced directives.
4. If at any time individual(s) use chemicals (X Ray, NDI, processing film, photo film, etc. )
that contain silver, a recovery bucket is required.
5. Disposal of the silver recovery buckets are accomplished jointly by Base Environmental
Office and the PMRP Manager. Documentation of this will be kept in the warehouse precious
metals turn in log. Maintain an auditable record of silver turned in using total weight of
accumulation bucket.




                                           JOHN J. ALLEN, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                       JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS 23-101 13 FEBRUARY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management, August 8, 2013
DOD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual, August 18, 1997
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 847. Recommendation for Change of Publication
Adopted Forms
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CIC—Controlled Item Code
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
IAW—In Accordance With
NSN—National Stock Number
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMAR—Precious Metals Area Representative
PMPM—Precious Metals Program Monitor
PMRP—Precious Metals Recovery Program
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
