BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS
LANGLEY AFB (ACC)                                                   INSTRUCTION48-102

                                                                          10 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                         Aerospace Medicine

                                             WORKPLACE HAZARD COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                    PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 633 AMDS/SGPB                                                 Certified by: 633 MDG/CC
                                                                             (Col Wayne Pritt)
Supersedes:   LAFBI48-102, 11 March                                                   Pages: 7
              2006.


This instruction implements AFPD 90-8, Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health
Program. This instruction provides specific information for implementation of the Code of
Federal Regulations Title 29, Part 1910.1200 (29 CFR 1910.1200) and Air Force Instruction 90-
821, Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) for all organizations on Langley AFB. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes include incorporating installation-specific procedures to meet the hazard
communication program requirements outlined in AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.3. Specifically, these
changes include container labeling procedures and requirements, and procedures for determining
the hazard of a chemical.
 2                                          JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI48-102 10 OCTOBER 2012


1. Workplace Requirements
     1.1. Each workplace using potentially hazardous materials will maintain a HAZCOM book.
     It must be kept in a readily accessible area and all workers must be aware of its location. The
     book will be sub-divided and contain the following information:
        1.1.1. Tab A: A copy of this instruction.
        1.1.2. Tab B: AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication.
        1.1.3. Tab C: The work area’s hazardous chemical inventory (can be obtained from the
        EMIS).
        1.1.4. Tab D: A Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each potentially hazardous
        material used in the workplace as listed on the chemical inventory.
        1.1.5. Tab E: A list of all non-routine tasks involving potentially hazardous materials to
        include protective measures the workers must follow. If the protective measure
        information exists in a technical order, operating instruction, or standard operation
        procedure, the document can be referenced.
        1.1.6. Tab F: Workplace Specific Hazardous Communication Training Plan.
        1.1.7. Tab G: A copy of the Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) routine industrial
        hygiene survey reports for the last 10 years, plus a copy of all special survey reports
        completed during the past year and copies of all replies to those reports.
     1.2. BE will be consulted if there are questions regarding the applicability of this instruction
     to a particular work area.
2. Responsibilities
     2.1. Commanders will ensure a Hazard Communication Program is established in each
     workplace using potentially hazardous material and ensure the HAZCOM book is
     maintained.
     2.2. Work area supervisors will:
        2.2.1. Ensure the section’s Hazard Communication Program and the HAZCOM book
        meets the requirements of this supplement.
        2.2.2. Ensure all work area personnel receive the training described in AFI 90-821.
        2.2.3. At least annually, reconcile MSDSs on file (if file outside of HMIRS and ESOH-
        MIS are maintained) and the work area/shop hazardous chemical inventory.
        2.2.4. Ensure the section’s non-routine task descriptions and chemical inventories are up
        to date and an MSDS is available for all potentially hazardous materials in the workplace.
        (Note: The MSDS on file must be from the manufacturer of the item currently in use in
        the workplace).
        2.2.5. Ensure all containers for potentially hazardous materials remain labeled. If
        materials are transferred to other (in-shop) containers, supervisors shall ensure the other
        containers are properly labeled to identify the hazardous chemicals and apply appropriate
        hazard warnings.
JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI48-102 10 OCTOBER 2012                                                        3


      2.2.6. Ensure contractors working in or around the workplace where they may be
      exposed to potentially hazardous materials are advised of the section’s Hazard
      Communication Program and the contents of the HAZCOM book.
      2.2.7. Ensure any contractor bringing potentially hazardous materials into the area also
      provides a MSDS to accommodate training anyone potentially exposed to the product.
      2.2.8. Must comply with LAFBI HAZMART Procedures.
   2.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Flight will:
      2.3.1. Inspect each applicable workplace’s Hazard Communication Program and
      HAZCOM book, and review training status during routine industrial hygiene surveys.
      2.3.2. Provide MSDSs to workplaces as the need is identified.
      2.3.3. Provide technical assistance to supervisors in preparing lesson plans.
   2.4. Public Health (PH) Flight will:
      2.4.1. Provide technical assistance to supervisors when preparing lesson plans and the
      Workplace Specific HAZCOM Training Plan for the particular chemical hazards in their
      workplace.
   2.5. 633 LRS, Material Flight Storage and Issue Section, Inspection Section, (and similar
   sections in Medical Logistics, LRS Vehicle Maintenance, or Self-Help at CE) ensures
   containers of potentially hazardous materials are properly identified and labeled. The
   procedures of AFI 90-821 paragraph 2.6 will be followed if a product needing a label is not
   labeled.
   2.6. Each supply acquisition and distribution activity (633 LRS, Medical Logistics, CE Self-
   Help) will:
      2.6.1. Obtain a MSDS on all potentially hazardous materials “locally” procured by their
      activity and forward a copy of the MSDS to BE.
      2.6.2. AFI 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, Chapter 10, paragraph 42.1 provides
      procedures to follow when the MSDS is not received at the time of first shipment.
   2.7. Contracting Office will:
      2.7.1. Ensure all contractors are trained before working in or near an Air Force industrial
      workplace where they may be exposed to potentially hazardous materials. Note that
      radioactive or radiation producing items are not allowed on Langley AFB without prior
      approval of the Base Radiation Safety Officer, which is the base Bioenvironmental
      Engineer.
3. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs)
   3.1. BE helps workplaces procure MSDSs for the potentially hazardous materials used in
   each workplace based upon their approved chemical inventory. The workplace supervisor
   must coordinate any addition to the workplace chemical inventory with BE in advance so that
   proper protective measures can be identified. As determined in the EMIS database or during
   BE’s workplace surveys, the chemical inventory will be reviewed and the MSDSs will be
   inventoried to ensure that all MSDSs are present.
 4                                        JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI48-102 10 OCTOBER 2012


     3.2. BE maintains the MSDS master file containing all hazardous chemicals used in
     workplaces at Langley AFB. This master file consists of the Hazardous Material Information
     Resource System (HMIRS) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
     Form 174, Material Safety Data Sheet, or equivalent forms. This MSDS information is
     readily available to all base workers through the BE or from the EMIS database.
     3.3. As stated above, workplace supervisors will maintain a copy of the MSDS for each
     potentially hazardous material used in their workplace. It is the work area supervisor’s
     responsibility to make sure the MSDS is available at all times to all workers.
     3.4. Anyone desiring additional MSDS information may contact BE at extension 4-7069.
     Requests after normal duty hours will be directed to the BE staff via beeper by calling the
     Urgent Care Clinic at extension 4-6800.
     3.5. To comply with federal hazardous materials regulations, the base Fire Department will
     maintain MSDSs for all hazardous chemicals surpassing the threshold planning quantity
     (TPQ) limit, IAW 40 CFR 370.21 (MSDS Reporting). CE Readiness Flight is responsible
     for maintaining and updating the list of TPQ hazardous chemicals.
4. Container Labeling Procedures and Requirements
     4.1. Labeling of hazardous chemical containers will be done IAW 29 CFR 1910.1200 (f).
     4.2. 633 LRS, Material Flight Storage and Issue Section, Inspection Section, (and similar
     sections in Medical Logistics, LRS Vehicle Maintenance, or Self-Help at CE) will ensure all
     chemical containers entering the installation/unit through the supply system or through local
     purchase are properly labeled. Supervisors will ensure labels on containers of hazardous
     chemicals used in their work area/shop will contain the minimum requirements:
        4.2.1. The identity of the hazardous chemical in the container.
        4.2.2. Appropriate hazard warnings that include information about the specific physical
        and health hazard(s), including target organ effects of the chemical in the container.
     4.3. Refer to AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.6.3. for materials exempted from HAZCOM labeling
     requirements.
5. Employee Information and Training
     5.1. Unit commanders will ensure supervisors and employees of work areas using hazardous
     materials receive training.
     5.2. Supervisors will ensure subordinate workers are trained on the AF HAZCOM program
     before the workers handle or are occupationally exposed to hazardous materials. The
     supervisor, the organization occupational health coordinator, or other formal organization
     training structure may provide this training. Supervisors will supplement this training to
     provide information on work area specific chemical hazards. Training for newly assigned
     personnel will normally be completed within 15 days of assignment.
     5.3. In conjunction with the industrial hygiene survey, BE will identify shop-specific items
     requiring training (i.e., OSHA Expanded Standards). Supervisors will develop lesson plans
     covering the training items with help from PH and BE. Supervisors will conduct annual
     occupational health training for all workers using the latest BE industrial hygiene/special
     survey reports.
JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI48-102 10 OCTOBER 2012                                                        5


   5.4. All training will be documented on AF Form 55 or equivalent.
6. Hazardous Chemical Inventory
   6.1. The work area supervisor will develop the hazardous chemical inventory. BE will
   review this inventory during periodic surveys.
   6.2. The supervisors will maintain the hazardous chemical inventory in Tab C of their
   HAZCOM book and update it as necessary.
   6.3. As a minimum, the inventory will include the identity of each hazardous chemical used
   in the work area, as it appears on the MSDS or as cross-referenced by national stock number.
   The inventory may be compiled from EMIS. Proprietary information will not be included on
   the hazardous chemical inventory.
7. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials
   7.1. Non-routine tasks are:
      7.1.1. Those tasks included with a work area’s activities but performed infrequently; for
      example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent, or cleaning up spills.
      7.1.2. Temporary duties performed outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty
      Code (AFSC) or job series.
   7.2. The work area supervisor will list all non-routine tasks performed in this work area
   which involving hazardous materials. This list will be maintained in Tab E of the HAZCOM
   book and updates to the list will be sent to BE. The supervisor will ensure work area OIs
   thoroughly describe non-routine tasks, associated hazards, and controls for the infrequent
   tasks performed in the work area. Operating instructions do not need to be prepared if
   technical orders or other official documents adequately describe these tasks and the
   protective measures. Supervisors will ensure workers review these procedures before
   performing the non-routine tasks.
   7.3. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, the supervisor of
   the activity will ensure these workers have received the following training prior to beginning
   the activity:
      7.3.1. Supplemental training, as necessary, on work area-specific chemical hazards and
      associated controls.
      7.3.2. The supervisor of the activity will forward training documentation to the worker’s
      formal supervisor describing the training conducted.
8. Procedures for Determining the Hazard of a Chemical
   8.1. The installation will rely on the supplier or manufacturer of purchased chemicals for
   hazard determination and ensure a MSDS is available. The installation does not/will not
   produce hazardous chemicals.
9. Ordering, Handling, or Using Potentially Hazardous Materials
   9.1. AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, establishes procedures and standards
   for all hazardous materials except munitions, medical supply items and hazardous waste.
 6                                        JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI48-102 10 OCTOBER 2012


     The base HAZMART (633 LRS/HAZMART, 4-3837) manages hazardous material
     procurement on Langley AFB.
     9.2. Anyone ordering hazardous materials must enter a request into EMIS and provide a
     copy of the manufacturer-specific MSDS to the base HAZMART. Personnel will not borrow
     chemicals from other work areas.
     9.3. A joint review by the supervisor and BE will precede all newly planned uses of
     potentially hazardous materials. Tech data, hazardous material information, MSDS, and
     other BE resources shall be carefully reviewed to properly identify any hazards and to assign
     necessary controls. Items especially critical in this review include labeling of containers
     (especially proper labeling of in-shop containers), ventilation, fire protection, personal
     protective and first aid equipment, training (general hazard familiarization), chemical
     disposal, and written procedures.
10. Contractor Operations
     10.1. The 633 CONS, Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO), with assistance from BE
     and work area supervisors, if requested, will advise contractors of hazardous chemicals they
     may encounter and protective measures needed in the normal course of their work in the
     work area. The ACO will also tell the contractor MSDS information is available through BE
     and provide information on the labeling system.
     10.2. At the pre-performance conference and subsequently during the contract performance
     period, the requiring activity Quality Assurance Evaluator will advise work area supervisors
     and AF employees monitoring the performance of contractors of hazardous chemicals
     introduced by the contractor. The contractor is required to submit information on the use of
     hazardous materials according to the Federal Acquisition Regulation clause 52.223-3,
     Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data.
11. Records. Dispose of records in accordance with the Decision Logic Tables located in the
Records Information Management System (RIMS) version 3.0.




                                             KORVIN D. AUCH, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 633d Air Base Wing
JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI48-102 10 OCTOBER 2012                                          7


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 Code of Federal Regulations 1910.1200, Federal Hazard Communication Program
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 5 Mar 2005
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
