BY ORDER OF THE                                             JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS
OF THE COMMANDER JOINT BASE                                         INSTRUCTION 32-102
LANGLEY-EUSTIS
                                                                              11 MARCH 2014

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                               HUNTING AND FISHING PROGRAM(FORT
                                                                     EUSTIS ONLY)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 733 FSD                                                         Certified by: 733 MSG/CC
                                                                     (Col William S. Galbraith)
Supersedes:   TCFE Regulation 210-15, 26                                               Pages: 14
              August 2008


This publication implements the Fort Eustis Hunting and Fishing Program. It applies to all
persons eligible to hunt and fish at Fort Eustis. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363,Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                          JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014



                                           Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. Purpose. This instruction prescribes policies and procedures for hunting and fishing on
Fort Eustis.
1.2. Scope. The requirements in this instruction applies to all persons eligible to hunt and fish
at Fort Eustis.
1.3. Definitions.
     1.3.1. Inland Water. Any fresh body of water found within the boundaries of Fort Eustis.
     1.3.2. Night Fishing. Fishing in the hours between 30 minutes following sunset and 30
     minutes prior to sunrise IAW the sunrise-sunset table published by the Virginia Department
     of Game and Inland Fisheries is considered night fishing.
     1.3.3. Revocation. Permanent removal of hunting privileges for lifetime.
     1.3.4. Suspension. Temporary removal of hunting privileges up to one year.
     1.3.5. Youth Fishermen. Any person under the age of 16.
JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014                                                             3


                                            Chapter 2

                                           HUNTING

2.1. Persons authorized to hunt and fish on Fort Eustis must follow the provisions of this
instruction and be familiar with the Federal and State Laws governing hunting and
fishing. This instruction will not be interpreted to permit acts contrary to Federal and State laws.
2.2. All hunters will read and sign the Hunters memorandum of Understanding
(Attachment 2) and the Release and Hold Harmless Agreement (Attachment 3). Hunters
will be briefed on hunter safety at the time they purchase their permit and will be required to sign
the briefing at (Attachment 4). The safety brief will remain active for the hunting season. All
hunters must have successfully completed a Certified Hunter Education Course and present a
certificate of completion at the time of purchasing a permit. Copies of all of the above
documents will be kept on file at the Outdoor Recreation (ODR) Rental Office.
2.3. Hunters must have in their possession a valid Fort Eustis hunting permit and a
privately owned weapon registration issued by the 733d Security Forces Squadron (SFS).
2.4. Active duty military personnel and their family members, regardless of station of duty,
civilian services employees, retired military personnel and retired civil service personnel
are authorized to hunt and fish.
2.5. Non-affiliated personnel are authorized to purchase a hunting permit for hunting in
“open areas” identified in the Installation Natural Resources Management Plan
(INRMP). Some areas of Fort Eustis may be designated “restricted areas” where no hunting by
non-affiliated personnel is allowed. Interested individuals must contact ODR requesting
permission to hunt and fish.
2.6. Hunting Permits. Hunting permits can be obtained at the ODR Rental Office, 828 Kells
Drive during normal operating hours. The permits will be sold IAW the activity fee schedule
developed annually by the 733d Force Support Division (FSD) consistent with the requirement
in title 16 U.S. Code 670a(b)(2). All hunters age 12 and older must purchase a hunting permit in
order to hunt.
2.7. Blaze orange must be worn in accordance with state law. In addition to State law, Fort
Eustis deer hunters must wear the legally required blaze orange while deer hunting during all
deer hunting season; archery, muzzle loading and firearms. Waterfowl hunters must wear the
legally required blaze orange for deer hunting while in transit to and from waterfowl hunting
locations during deer season. Rabbit hunters hunting in parties of more than one and/or utilizing
hounds must wear the legally required blaze orange for deer hunting.
2.8. Parking in non-designed areas or without a visible parking                         permit    is
prohibited. Hunting and parking areas will be posted in the Game Check Station.
2.9. Electronic calls are prohibited.
2.10. Hunters must return to the Game Check Station immediately upon leaving the
hunting area and must bring all harvested game animals to the Game Check Station upon
leaving the hunting area.
 4                                            JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014


2.11. Hunting hours for all species will be IAW the annual sunrise-sunset table published
in the annual Hunting and Trapping Regulations published by the Virginia Department of
Game and Inland Fisheries.
2.12. Dog training with live animals is prohibited.
2.13. All guns must be unloaded, cased and inaccessible while being transported within a
vehicle. Ammunition may be stored within the same case as the weapon as long as the weapon
is unloaded, cased and inaccessible. Inaccessible is defined as not within reach of the driver
under normal driving operations, i.e., not in the front seat.
2.14. Youth Hunting.
     2.14.1. Under age 12 – Must be within arm’s reach of a parent or licensed hunter 18 years of
     age or older and hunt in youth designated stands only. Only one weapon (bow, gun, muzzle
     loader) may be present in the stand and must be operated by the youth.
     2.14.2. Dependents ages 12 to 15 may hunt alone as long as the adult is within direct line of
     sight of the youth. Only one weapon (bow, gun, muzzle loader) may be present in the stand
     and must be operated by the youth while the parent supervises unarmed from an adjacent
     stand in direct line of sight.
     2.14.3. Age 16 and older – May hunt alone IAW the general hunting rules used for adult
     hunters. If a youth age 16 and older is hunting IAW general hunting rules, they are forbidden
     from using the youth stands at any time during the season.
     2.14.4. All youth hunters, regardless of age, hunting on their first license (apprentice or
     standard) must hunt the youth stands and must be in arm’s reach of a parent at all times.
2.15. Deer Hunting.
     2.15.1. All hunters must use a four point safety harness while on the stand. Hunters may
     retrieve harvested deer if the deer is within sight from the hunter’s assigned high stand.
     Hunters may retrieve harvest deer that fall “out of sight” after normal shooting hours or when
     all hunters are out to the hunting area.
     2.15.2. Deer must not be field dressed in the hunting areas. All harvested deer must be
     brought to the Game Check Station to be checked in and processed. All antlered deer must
     be tagged IAW Virginia State Law prior to moving the animal. Antlerless deer are not
     required to be tagged prior to movement if the 733d Civil Engineering Division (CED) has
     been granted authorized use of special permits, i.e., Damage Control Assistance Program
     (DCAP), Deer Management Assistance Program (DMAP) or Deer Population Reduction
     Program (DPOP), but must be tagged immediately upon receiving the special permit from the
     Game Check Station. If special permits are not available for use, the antlerless deer must be
     tagged IAW Virginia State Law prior to movement.
     2.15.3. Shooting deer over or through fences is prohibited.
2.16. Archery Deer Hunting. Bow and arrows and crossbows are authorized weapons for deer
hunting and can be used during the archery, muzzleloader and firearms seasons. Carrying a bow
or crossbow with an arrow nocked or with an arrow in hand while on the ground is prohibited.
Archery and crossbow hunters must pass an archery shooting ability test every 5 years before
hunting with archery tackle. Archery hunters must hit a 7 inch target 5 out of 6 times at
JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014                                                           5


unknown distances with broadheads. Archery hunters will have two chances annually (1
September through 31 August) to pass the test. Expandable broadheads are permitted, but
mechanical broadheads are prohibited. Expandable broadheads are defined as those that at “rest”
meet the minimum state blade and expand to a larger blade width. Mechanical broad heads are
defined as those that at “rest” do not meet the minimum state blade width.
2.17. Muzzleloader Deer Hunting. Muzzleloaders are authorized weapons for deer hunting
and can be used during the muzzleloader and firearms seasons. Muzzleloaders without primers
or percussion caps inserted are considered unloaded. Inserting primer or percussion caps prior to
being in a stand is prohibited. Primers and/or percussion caps must be removed prior to
dismount of the stand.
2.18. Shotgun Deer Hunting. Shotguns are an authorized weapon for deer hunting and can be
used only during the firearms season. Shotgun hunters must use slugs only; the use of buckshot
is prohibited. Carrying a loaded shotgun to and from stands is prohibited.
2.19. Turkey Hunting. Limited turkey hunting is allowed and is managed by the CED.
2.20. Hunting Stands. There is a system of marked trees in each hunting area that are
identified numerically. Hunters must sign for a particular marked tree and must utilize personal
climbing stands to climb any tree within 100 yards of the marked tree. Selected hunting areas
will have 1-3 double metal stands that are reserved for youth hunters, senior citizen hunters (age
65 and older), disabled hunters (possessing appropriate handicapped/disabled documentation)
and active duty military members not owning a personal climber. Senior citizens and disabled
hunters who are capable of using climbers are encouraged to do so when able to provide as many
opportunities for the youth and other senior or disabled hunters to have an opportunity to hunt.
Areas and stands identified as “youth only and /or wheelchair only” may not be hunted by any
person for any reason during any time except those in that category. Youth hunters are defined
in paragraph 2.14. of this instruction.
   2.20.1. Hunting more than 100 yards from a marked tree is prohibited.
   2.20.2. The placing, marking or attaching of personal stands is prohibited.
   2.20.3. Personal climbers utilized by hunters must be a minimum of 12 feet high.
   2.20.4. Scouting is permitted during the month of September on Saturdays following work
   details until 1600 hours.
   2.20.5. Changing or trading high seats is prohibited unless approved by Game Check Station
   personnel.
   2.20.6. Deer hunters will participate in a lottery to determine their order for stands when
   hunters outnumber available stands. Priority will be given to active duty military.
   2.20.7. Archery hunters must be a minimum of 100 yards from any occupied building or
   residential housing and 50 yards from any public road.
   2.20.8. Muzzleloader and firearm hunters must be a minimum of 200 yards from any
   occupied building or residential housing and 100 yards from any public road.
2.21. Small Game Hunting. Hunting of small game and game birds will be permitted only in
designated hunting areas. Hunting areas will be assigned on a first-come, first-served basis.
Small game and game bird hunting, other that waterfowl, will be authorized following the
 6                                            JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014


conclusion of deer season through 31 January. Waterfowl hunting season will be conducted in
accordance with dates set by Federal law.
2.22. Migratory Game Bird Hunting.
     2.22.1. All migratory game bird hunting will conform to Federal and State Laws, as well as
     CED restrictions. Hunters must comply with current limitations to time, species, and sex of
     wildlife being hunted. ODR constructed blinds are granted on a first-come, first-served
     basis.
     2.22.2. Waterfowl hunters must use non-toxic shot. Waterfowl hunters must be 500 yards
     from any other hunter. Waterfowl decoys are not permitted to be left positioned overnight.
     2.22.3. Water fowling on waters beyond the shoreline of Fort Eustis is governed exclusively
     by Federal and State Laws. Temporary ground blinds may be erected for waterfowl hunting
     with prior approval of ODR only if deer hunting is not being conducted within the hunting
     area. Waterfowl hunting is permitted only from designated blinds if deer hunting is being
     conducted within the hunting area.
2.23. Boundaries, Off-Limits, Training Areas and Impact Areas. Numerous signs which
read “Military Reservation – Keep Out” mark the perimeter of Fort Eustis. Sportsmen must
confine hunting to the reservation. Road blocks, barriers, locked gates, and range guards will not
be overrun or bypassed for any reason. Hunters may walk around locked gates to access
reserved hunting areas. Refer to the Fort Eustis Hunting Map at the Game Check Station for
exact locations of off-limit areas. Endangered Species Management Areas are designated on the
Fort Eustis Hunting Map and are appropriately marked in hunting areas. Entering these areas is
prohibited and could result in criminal prosecution.
     2.23.1. Most hunting areas are training areas that have been reserved through Range Control.
     Access to these areas reserved for hunting is strictly prohibited to all persons except fire and
     emergency personnel, without coordination with the Game Check Station. Persons who
     desire to enter a hunting area for official government business must coordinate with the
     Game Check Station prior to entering; without exception. If access is required by any person
     from any government agency or Fort Eustis Directorates, all hunters will be removed
     following coordination with the Game Check Station prior to entrance.
2.24. Fires. Immediately report all fires to the Fort Eustis Fire Department, (757)878-4281 or
911. Building campfires or warming fires is prohibited.
JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014                                                          7


                                            Chapter 3

                                            FISHING

3.1. Lawful Fishing. Fishing in inland waters must be angling with a hook and line or rod and
reel. A hand landing net may be used to land fish legally hooked in all waters.
3.2. Fishing Permit. Persons who have reached their 16th birthday and desire to fish on Fort
Eustis must be in possession of a current fishing permit and Virginia Freshwater and/or saltwater
fishing license. Fishing permits can be obtained at the ODR Rental Office, 828 Kells Drive
during normal operating hours. The permits will be sold IAW the activity fee schedule
developed annually by the FSD.
3.3. Youth Fishermen. Under age 16 must be accompanied by a licensed fisherman 18 years of
age or older at all times. Accompanied is defined as within plain view where the youth’s actions
can be closely monitored. Age 16 and older may fish alone if properly licensed.
3.4. All night fishermen must physically sign in with the Police Desk, 648 Washington
Boulevard, prior to night fishing and must sign out following the completion of night
fishing. Fishing during the transition times between day and night does not excuse the fisherman
from signing in or out.
3.5. Freshwater Fishing.
   3.5.1. Fish may be taken by hook and line only. Each line, to include casting or spinning
   equipment, will contain no more than two hooks per line. This limit does not apply to
   artificial lures.
   3.5.2. Fort Eustis Lake is the only authorized location for freshwater fishing and is “Catch
   and Release” only due to health advisories against the consumption of fish due to
   polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination within fish tissues.
   3.5.3. The following is prohibited when fishing.
       3.5.3.1. Fishing after the possession of the daily creel limit.
       3.5.3.2. Fishing with more than two lines simultaneously.
       3.5.3.3. Using set lines, trout lines, and bank poles. This includes using poles or lines
       that are unattended.
       3.5.3.4. Fishing at times other than those legally authorized and published.
       3.5.3.5. Using seines, fish traps spears, explosives, and lights.
       3.5.3.6. Using waders or float tubes.
       3.5.3.7. Any activity that may disturb lake-bottom sediment not included above.
       3.5.3.8. Daily creel limits are enforced IAW Virginia State Regulations.
       3.5.3.9. Gasoline powered motors are prohibited.
       3.5.3.10. Personal floatation devices are required to be worn by persons 17 years of age
       and younger when fishing from boats on Fort Eustis Lake. Personal floatation devices
 8                                            JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014


        must be accessible for persons 18 years of age and older. Floatation devices in covered
        compartments are not considered accessible.
3.6. Saltwater Fishing.
     3.6.1. State and Federal Regulations will govern fishing in the James and Warwick Rivers
     and tributaries of these waterways beyond the shoreline of Fort Eustis.
     3.6.2. Virginia Saltwater Fishing License is required to fish in the James or Warwick Rivers
     from Fort Eustis shorelines.
     3.6.3. Children 12 and under fishing from piers are required to wear personal floatation
     devices.
     3.6.4. Warwick Pier and the Harrison Road shoreline (from Goose Island to Mulberry Point)
     are the only authorized locations for saltwater fishing on Fort Eustis.
     3.6.5. Fishing within or from the shorelines of training areas (except those adjacent to the
     shoreline from the James River Reserve Fleet compound to Mulberry Point) is prohibited on
     Fort Eustis.
     3.6.6. Use of minnow traps are authorized for personal use in tidal tributaries.
     3.6.7. Daily creel limits are enforced IAW Federal and Virginia State Regulations.
JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014                                                            9


                                          Chapter 4

                                    RESPONSIBILITIES

4.1. The 633d Air Base Wing Commander (633 ABW/CC) delegates authority and
responsibilities over the hunting and fishing program at Fort Eustis as follows:
   4.1.1. ODR. Obtain the season's hunting dates; distribute all information pertaining to
   hunting and fishing to include maps, promotional and regulatory materials; publish fees and
   charges annually; update website; sell permits; and reserve training areas through Range
   Facility Management Support System as allowed and ensure that all prerequisites are met by
   the hunter prior to sale of permit.
   4.1.2. Safety Office. Review all safety related aspects of the hunting and fishing program.
   4.1.3. CED. Set harvest limits and restrictions required in addition to Federal and State law,
   produce hunting maps depicting all boundaries and limitations to hunting, and produce two
   general hunting and two waterfowl hunting wall size maps and electronic copies of each five
   working days prior to the beginning of each season.
   4.1.4. SFS. Enforcement of fish and game laws and suspension (temporary removal of
   hunting privileges up to one year) or revocation (permanent removal of hunting privileges for
   lifetime) of all seasonal hunting and fishing permits issued by the ODR Rental Office.
      4.1.4.1. Personnel found in violation of Federal Laws, State Laws or this publication
      may incur a season- long suspension of hunting and/or fishing privileges executed by the
      733 SFS Commander. If revocation of privileges is warranted, a committee consisting of
      members from SFS, ODR, Army Support Activity-Eustis (ASA-E) and CED will
      convene and make a recommendation to the 733d Mission Support Group (MSG)
      Commander for approval. Persons receiving suspensions and/or revocations will be
      notified in writing by the 733 SFS Commander.
      4.1.4.2. Persons wishing to appeal a suspension of hunting and/or fishing privileges may
      appeal in writing to the 733 MSG Commander. The appeal must be done in writing and
      routed through the first 0-5 Commander in the chain of command (for Soldiers, Airmen
      and Civilian employees), through the SFS Commander who will forward the appeal to the
      733 MSG Commander for action. The appellant will be notified in writing of the
      commander’s decision.
      4.1.4.3. Persons wishing to appeal a revocation of hunting and/or fishing privileges may
      appeal in writing to the 633 ABW/CC. The appeal must be done in writing and routed
      through the first 0-5 Commander in the chain of command (for Soldiers, Airmen and
      Civilian employees), through the 733 SFS Commander to the 733 MSG Commander.
      The appellant will be notified in writing of Commander’s decision.
 10                                        JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014



4.2. In accordance with the JBLE MOA, Annex Q-3 and DoD Initial Guidance for BRAC
2005, Joint Basing Implementation, Attachment D, dated 22 January 2008, Army small
arms range management elements are exempt from integration into the Joint Base
construct as Army ranges are mission functions. As such, the Range Operations Branch,
Training Division, ASA-E exercises control of access to training areas and ranges in support of
all recreational activities.




                                           JOHN J. ALLEN, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014                                    11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resource Management, 17 September 2004
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ASA—E—Army Support Activity-Eustis
CED—Civil Engineering Division
DCAP—Damage Control Assistance Program
DMAP—Deer Management Assistance Program
DPOP—Deer Population Reduction Program
FSD—Forces Support Division
MSG—Mission Support Group
ODR—Outdoor Recreation
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCB—Polychlorinated Biphenyl
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
 12                                 JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014


                                  Attachment 2
                    MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

Figure A2.1. Memorandum of Understanding.
JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014                  13


                                   Attachment 3
                 RELEASE AND HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT

Figure A3.1. Release and Hold Harmless Agreement.
 14                                     JBLANGLEY-EUSTISI32-102 11 MARCH 2014


                                     Attachment 4
                       GENERAL FIREARMS SAFETY BRIEF

Figure A4.1. General Firearms Safety Brief.
