BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        JOINT BASE MCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURST
JOINT BASE MCGUIRE-DIX-                                         INSTRUCTION 32-1001
LAKEHURST
                                                                          27 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                         LOAD TESTING OF GENERATORS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.
               e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 87 CES/CEOFP                                                      Certified by: 87 CES/CC
                                                                 (Lt Col Matthew P. Benivegna)
Supersedes:   MCGUIREAFBI32-1001,                                                       Pages: 5
              1 April 2000


This instruction implements responsibilities, In Accordance With (IAW) AFI 32-1062, Electrical
Power Plants and Generators, and AFI 32-1063, Electrical Power Systems, between the 87th
Civil Engineering Squadron (CES) and using organizations, in the operation and maintenance of
Emergency Power Units (EPUs) at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, New Jersey. This
publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). This publication may not be supplemented. The authorities to waive wing/unit
level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. The use of the name or mark of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the Air Force

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include:
 2                                   JBMcGuire-Dix-LakehurstI32-1001 27 FEBRUARY 2014


Removes obsolete information and was redesigned to bring this publication in line with current
Electronic Transfer System Standards.
1. General. To ensure emergency power is available at essential facilities, both the CES and
using organizations must be assigned specific responsibilities. The CES is, in general,
responsible for field-level maintenance and will give generator operator training for using agency
personnel required to run the emergency power unit in case of a commercial power failure. The
using organization, jointly with electrical power production personnel, is responsible for operator
maintenance.
2. Mission. To ensure the capability to launch aircraft in support of emergency war operations
and to maintain the day-to-day operation in times of commercial power failures and load
shedding.
3. The Base Civil Engineer will:
     3.1. Perform field-type maintenance on EPUs concerned.
     3.2. Perform lube oil changes, battery changes, and similar types of maintenance.
     3.3. Maintain proper levels of fuel, oil, coolant, and battery electrolyte.
     3.4. Schedule fueling of units if tank levels are below one-half when observed on
     maintenance checks.
     3.5. Provide operator training to organizations to ensure all designated personnel can start
     and operate the EPUs.
        3.5.1. Maintain a list of people who are able to operate an EPU. The list will be kept in
        the Power Production Shop, on file at the using organization, and posted near the EPU.
        The letter will be signed by both the trainer and trainee and dated as of date trained.
        3.5.2. Coordinate the need for recertification with the using organizational commander
        (or his/her designated representative).
        3.5.3. Update the list of operators at least once each year.
     3.6. Perform joint operational testing of all EPUs with a qualified member of the using
     organization.
        3.6.1. Ensure testing of the automatic start/transfer system if the unit has one.
        3.6.2. Ensure engine driven generator sets are exercised under actual load conditions
        each month for one (1) continuous hour after the unit reaches operating temperature.
        3.6.3. Complete all entries on AF Form 487, Emergency Generator Operating Log. The
        forms will be kept on file in the Power Production Shop.
        3.6.4. Ensure all switches are reset and positioned correctly to reduce response time to a
        minimum in the event of a commercial power loss.
        3.6.5. Defer operational exercise of emergency systems when a prime power loss has
        occurred between scheduled exercises and the emergency power system performed
        satisfactorily.
        3.6.6. Inspect each site in between generator operation. Check all fuel, oil, and coolant
        levels. Check all switches for proper positions; correct any discrepancies.
JBMcGuire-Dix-LakehurstI32-1001 27 FEBRUARY 2014                                                3


      3.6.7. Leave the EPU facility in a neat, clean condition after maintenance visits.
      3.6.8. Respond quickly to repair EPU malfunctions. In the event of multiple EPU
      malfunctions, power production personnel will respond in priority order sequence as
      represented in the most current generator priority listing.
      3.6.9. Maintain an information folder complete with historical records for each EPU to
      include AF Form 719, Historical Record-Diesel-Electrical Generator and System.
      3.6.10. Post clear and concise emergency power system operating instructions and single
      line drawings for electric, fuel and external coolant at each operating location.
4. The Using Organization will:
   4.1. Ensure only certified operators operate the electrical systems.
      4.1.1. Assign at least one key individual in the unit to be responsible for coordinating all
      training needs, and be a central point of contact for discussing all problems concerning
      the operation of the EPU serving the unit.
      4.1.2. Inform Civil Engineering of training needs as soon as they are known. Identify
      personnel to be trained by name and rank via letter addressed to Civil Engineering.
   4.2. Perform joint operational testing of the EPU under actual emergency load conditions for
   the time required with power production personnel. The operational test will include a check
   of fuel, lube oil, coolant, and battery electrolyte levels.
   4.3. Start and operate EPUs in case of a commercial power loss.
   4.4. Notify Civil Engineering Customer Service whenever an EPU is placed in operation, as
   well as for problems encountered during EPU start up or operation.
   4.5. Secure the generator after the resumption of commercial power. Perform post-operation
   inspection to include checking fuel and oil levels.
   4.6. Check EPU and transfer switch once a week to ensure all switches are set in the proper
   positions.
   4.7. Check fuel levels each week to ensure at least one-half tank of fuel is available. Notify
   Civil Engineering Customer Service if fuel is needed.
   4.8. Ensure good general housekeeping of EPU facilities. Do not store lawn mowers,
   gasoline, and other miscellaneous items inside of the generator facility.
   4.9. Exercise EPUs supporting navigational aids for air traffic control facilities according to
   procedures in paragraph 3.6 and AFI 13-204 V3. Prudent use of generators (prevent wear)
   and fuel (energy resources) must be considered when running a generator for weather
   conditions.
 4                                 JBMcGuire-Dix-LakehurstI32-1001 27 FEBRUARY 2014


5. Fuel Requirements. If a low fuel level is identified after normal duty hours, and the EPU is
not operating, notify Civil Engineering Customer Service, for fuel delivery on the next duty day.




                                            JAMES C. HODGES, Col, USAF
                                            Commander, Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
JBMcGuire-Dix-LakehurstI32-1001 27 FEBRUARY 2014                       5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-203, Air Traffic Control, 15 October 2004
AFI 32-1062, Electrical Power Plants and Generators, 1 June 2005
AFI 32-1063, Electrical Power Systems, 10 June 2005
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFCESA 487, Emergency Generator Operating Log
AF IMT 719, Historical Record-Diesel-Electrical Generator and System

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
EPU—Emergency Power Unit
JB MDL—Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
