BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       JOINT BASE MCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURST
87TH AIR BASE WING                                             INSTRUCTION 36-2502

                                                                          23 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                     SENIOR AIRMAN BELOW-THE-ZONE
                                                                       PROCEDURES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.epublishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 87 ABW/CCCE                                                     Certified by: 87 ABW/CC
                                                                       (Col James C. Hodges)
                                                                                      Pages: 16




This instruction implements AFI 36-2502, Enlisted Promotion/Demotion Programs and MPFM
06-57, Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-Zone (BTZ) Promotion Program. This instruction
establishes policy and procedure governing the SrA BTZ process. This instruction applies to all
units and staff agencies assigned to 87th Air Base Wing.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.


1. Roles and Responsibilities:
   1.1. The 87th Air Base Wing Commander (87 ABW/CC):
       1.1.1. Serves as the convening authority for the SrA BTZ promotion process. The 87
       ABW/CC formally approves/disapproves selection board recommendations and may
       elect not to issue the full quota of promotions.
2                          JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014


    1.2. The 87th Air Base Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant (87 ABW/CCC):
       1.2.1. Provides program direction and guidance; to include coordination on all
       correspondence and information on the program.
       1.2.2. Approves the Military Personnel Section’s (MPS) proposed BTZ board time and
       date.
       1.2.3. Selects individuals to serve on the board no later than (NLT) two weeks prior to
       the board date.
    1.3. MPS:
       1.3.1. Act as the overall office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the 87th Air Base
       Wing BTZ Program and serve as the Central Base Board (CBB) Recorder.
       1.3.2. No later than the second week of each quarter coordinate with the 87 ABW/CCC
       on the number of promotion quotas available, which units will receive their own
       promotion quotas and the proposed CBB members along with date, time and location the
       board is to convene.
       1.3.3. Distribute BTZ unit eligibility rosters and notify squadrons of the number of
       promotion quotas to be considered by the CBB two months prior to the board convening.
       1.3.4. Collect eligibility rosters, SURFs, copies of all decoration citations, current Air
       Force Fitness Management System (AFFMS) print-outs and AF Form 1206s, Nomination
       for Award, from squadrons.
       1.3.5. Identify date, time and location of the BTZ face-to-face evaluation. The primary
       location is the 87th Air Base Wing Conference Room. The alternate location is the 87th
       Mission Support Group Conference Room.
       1.3.6. Suspense small units to forward completed nomination packages on each nominee
       to the MPS no later than the first Friday of the third month (i.e. March, June, September
       and December). Submissions beyond the MPS suspense date will not be provided to the
       CBB.
       1.3.7. Large units must provide selectee names no later than the day of the CBB within
       prescribed time set forth.
       1.3.8. Prepare a nomination folder on each nominee to include a SURF, copies of all
       decoration citations, current AFFMS print-out and AF Form 1206, as prescribed in
       paragraph 7.3. Accomplishments used on the AF Form 1206 may come from any period,
       beginning the day the Airman entered active duty to present.
       1.3.9. Prepare score sheets IAW Attachment 2 for each board member to use along with
       summary sheet for the board recorder’s use.
       1.3.10. Coordinate changes as necessary with the 87 ABW/CCC and nominating units.
       1.3.11. Provide the list of nominees to 87 ABW/JA for a records check in the Automated
       Military Justice Analysis and Management System (AMJAMS). 87 ABW/JA will
       provide the results to 87 ABW/CCC within one duty day of receipt. The fact that an
       Airman has a record in AMJAMS does not automatically disqualify them for BTZ
       promotion.
JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                  3


     1.3.12. Prepare a report based on the findings of the CBB. The report should contain a
     list of board members, board recorder and order of merit (identifying total score and
     select/non-select status). This ensures alternates are identified in the event the selectee(s)
     become ineligible for promotion. The report should be signed by the board president.
     1.3.13. Coordinated the report through 87 ABW/CC for approval.
     1.3.14. Project BTZ promotions as soon as possible in the Military Personnel Data
     System.
     1.3.15. Destroy nomination folders when no longer needed.
     1.3.16. Brief unit commanders on removal and withhold policies and procedures. If a
     BTZ selectee is removed and the first alternate selectee’s Date of Rank (DOR) is past
     due, they will receive the original BTZ DOR and an effective date of unit commander’s
     approval. The MPS will assist the Airman in applying for a retroactive promotion
     effective date to HQ AFPC/DPSOE according to AFI 36-2502.
  1.4. Units:
     1.4.1. Units will consider all individuals meeting time in service (TIS) and time in grade
     (TIG) requirements, even if they are Temporary Duty (TDY) or on leave. For a member
     who is projected or may have already departed your unit, you may still be required to
     consider them for BTZ promotion. If the report no later than date (RNLTD) is the first
     day of the first processing month (i.e. January, April, July or October) or later, then they
     must be considered by the losing unit.
     1.4.2. All individuals appearing on Parts 1 and 2 of the eligibility listing must be
     considered. Squadron commanders or designee will use the unit eligibility list to identify
     nominees for BTZ promotion consideration. An appropriate evaluation process should be
     established to determine unit nominees by reviewing the airmen’s Enlisted Performance
     Report’s (EPR) (if applicable), personnel information file (PIF), supervisor or first
     sergeant recommendation, etc.
     1.4.3. AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, is prepared for each nominee (Attachment
     4). The nomination will be no more than 18 lines in length, including sub-bullets and
     headings. The AF Form 1206 will contain the following headings: Leadership and Job
     Performance in Primary Duty, Significant Self Improvement, and Base or Community
     Involvement. Common acronyms may be used as long as the meaning is clear; otherwise
     acronyms will not be used. The use of an acronym list is not permitted. The AF Form
     1206 will cover accomplishments that occurred between the entry on active duty and the
     board cutoff date. The board will also consider any decoration citations, current AFFMS
     print-out and the Single Unit Retrieval Format (SURF). No other written information can
     be used for consideration. PIF reviews will be conducted by First Sergeant or designated
     Additional Duty First Sergeant. Submit all documents to the MPS. *Directed by
     Headquarters Air Force (HAF) reports are no longer required or authorized.
     1.4.4. The unit commander will notify MPS Promotions no later than the promotion
     effective date of BTZ selects who possess negative quality indicators, i.e. 2 or less EPR
     rating, poor fitness assessment or unfavorable information file (UIF).
 4                             JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014


2. Eligibility:
     2.1. Airman 1st Class (A1C) candidates must meet minimum requirements IAW AFI 36-
     2502.
     2.2. The immediate commander must recommend A1Cs for promotion who are fully
     qualified for promotion BTZ. Qualifications include 36 months TIS and 20 months TIG, or
     28 months TIG; whichever occurs first. A1Cs must also possess a 3 skill level. If selected,
     promotion to SrA BTZ is 6 months prior to the otherwise fully qualified promotion date.
3. Quotas:
     3.1. The MPS determines the base-wide quota distribution by means of a 15 percent
     selection rate each cycle. The Force Support Squadron Commander (FSS/CC) approves
     distribution. For supplemental BTZ promotion to SrA, the FSS/CC has approval authority
     for those not previously considered.
4. Large Unit Selection Procedure:
     4.1. Large units (defined as having seven or more eligible A1C(s) will receive quotas and
     make selections at unit level. Large units will establish procedures that ensure that the SrA
     BTZ board is fair, equitable and provides timely promotion consideration. Once selections
     are made, large unit commanders underline the selectee(s) name, sign, date and return the
     BTZ eligibility listing to the MPS no later than the day of the CBB. Unit commanders must
     also provide a memorandum to MPS indicating their selects, non-selects and alternates NLT
     the day of the CBB.
     4.2. Large units may nominate any or all eligible A1Cs from their unit for consideration to
     the CBB. This decision should be rendered NLT the fifth day of the third month of each
     quarter. If this option is selected, that unit will relinquish selection authority and all quotas to
     the CBB.
     4.3. Consider all individuals meeting TIS and TIG requirements; to include Airmen TDY, on
     leave, or those having a projected reassignment with a RNLTD subsequent to the first
     processing month. Commanders review qualifications and decide whether to forward the
     member’s name to the SrA BTZ board for consideration.
5. CBB and Face-to-Face Evaluation Procedures:
     5.1. Small units (defined as having six or less eligible A1Cs) will nominate to the CBB.
     Units may send any or all eligible Airmen from their unit to meet a CBB.
     5.2. The CBB and Face-to-Face Evaluation will be held the third week of the third month
     (i.e. March, June, September and December) with coordination through the 87th Air Base
     Wing Command Chief’s Executive Assistant (87 ABW/CCCE).
     5.3. The CBB will use a standard score sheet (Attachment 2) to evaluate and grade the
     following categories: Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty, Significant Self
     Improvement, Base and Community Involvement, Military Bearing, Dress and Appearance
     and Communication Skills.
     5.4. The CBB will be comprised of the following: Board President (87 ABW/CCC or
     designee), Group Superintendents, and if not available, a Chief Master Sergeant (CMSgt) or
JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                    5


   CMSgt select from each group. If there is not a CMSgt or CMSgt select available, then a
   Senior Master Sergeant (SMSgt) will be utilized.
   5.5. Each member of the board will score and rank order each record. Significant
   differences in board member scores will be evaluated and resolved by the board president.
   However, no member will be required to alter any score they have given in any record unless
   it violates scoring rules. The board recorder will combine the rankings of each nominee.
   Selectees (according to how many promotions are available) will be determined by using
   rank order scoring. If a tie exists, add the rank order score of the president to determine final
   selectees.
   5.6. The CBB President will ensure fair and equal consideration of each nominee.
   5.7. All eligible members will meet a face-to-face evaluation unless unavailable due to
   TDY/deployment or scheduled leave. All absences must be pre-excused/pre-approved by the
   87 ABW/CCC. Members unable to meet the board will be given the average board score
   tallied from those who met the board. The CBB will include the face-to-face board results in
   the final scoring if at least half of those eligible are available to meet the face-to-face board.
   See Attachment 5, Guide for Below-the-Zone Promotion Board for preparation of the CBB
   Face-to-Face Evaluation.
6. Selection Process:
   6.1. The board president and board members will administer the BTZ Face-to-Face
   Evaluation (see Attachment 5).
   6.2. Selection is based on the “whole person” concept by scoring the AF Form 1206 using
   Attachment 2. All scores will be used by board members to provide a rank order of merit; 1
   thru XX to the board president with 1 being the best, 2 being the second best and so forth.
   Individual board members must break their own ties to develop a clear order of merit.
   6.3. The board recorder will complete the Board Recorder Tally Sheet (Attachment 3) and
   provide it to the board president along with the completed and signed Board Member Score
   Sheets for review.




                                              JAMES C. HODGES, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
 6                       JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Program, 31 Dec 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
MPFM 06-57, Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-Zone (BTZ) Promotion Program, 18 Aug 06
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination of Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMJAMS—Automated Military Justice Analysis and Management System
BTZ—Below the Zone
CBB—Central Base Board
MPS—Military Personnel Section
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PIF—Personnel Information File
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RNLTD—Report Not Later Than Date
TIS—Time in Service
TIG—Time in Grade
PIF—Personnel Information File
UIF—Unfavorable Information Folder
JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014                                               7


                                              Attachment 2
                               BOARD MEMBER SCORE SHEET


Award Category: SrA BTZ

Quarter:      1st     2nd    3rd    4th



Scoring Breakdown
                                 Category                                      Point Value
A   Leadership & Job Performance in Primary Duty                                  1-60
B   Significant Self Improvement                                                  1-10
C   Base or Community Involvement                                                 1-10
D   Military Bearing                                                               1-5
E   Dress and Appearance                                                           1-5
F   Communication Skills                                                          1-10


Nominees’ Scores (use whole point increments only)
           Name                 Unit    A    B     C       D     E    F     Total     Rank
                                                                            Score     Order




Board Member’s Certification
“I solemnly swear that I have performed the duties imposed upon me without prejudice or
partiality, having in view both the special fitness of the Airman and the efficiency of the
United States Air Force.”
                 Name                                 Signature                     Date
8                           JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                       Attachment 3
                    BOARD RECORDER TALLY SHEET EXAMPLE


Award Type: SrA BTZ

Quarter:      1st     2nd    3rd    4th



                                               Board Member
                                                 Rankings
                                                                               Board     Final
                                                                     Total
             Name                   Unit    MSG MDG WSA                        Pres.     Rank
                                                                     Score
                                                                               Rank      Order




Board Recorder’s Certification
“I solemnly swear that I have performed the duties imposed upon me without prejudice or
partiality, having in view both the special fitness of the Airman and the efficiency of the
United States Air Force.”
                Name                                 Signature                      Date
JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014   9


                            Attachment 4
                AF FORM 1206 NOMINATION EXAMPLE
 10                        JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                        Attachment 5
                        GUIDE FOR BTZ PROMOTION BOARDS

A5.1. Selection: Selection is based on a combination of the AF Form 1206 (80 points) and the
face-to-face interview (20 points). When required, the board president will facilitate open
discussion to resolve any disparities that could skew the scoring process.
   A5.1.1. AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award: Effective evaluation of the AF Form 1206
   requires a detailed thought process; it’s challenging to review nomination packages and
   determine who is the “Best of the Best.” Each board member must remember it’s not the
   writer; it’s the accomplishment of the nominee which makes the difference. Strong emphasis
   must be on initiative, achievement and impact, not writing style. When evaluating an AF
   Form 1206, the individual’s write-up cannot exceed 18 lines (including the 3 category
   headings). Attachment 4 contains the recommended distribution of lines. The total possible
   points that can be awarded are 80. There are only three approved categories (listed below)
   that will be scored. Additionally, nomination submissions in excess of the 18-line limit
   (including the 3 category headings) will not be scored beyond the 18 lines. Each line will be
   evaluated on its own merit as it relates within the respective category. Using whole or half
   point increments, board members have the opportunity to award maximum points to each
   section. They cannot award points beyond the maximum points allocated for each category
   and all ties are broken using the Board President’s scoring.
Heading                                                                      Point Value
Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty                               1 – 60
Significant Self-Improvement                                                 1 – 10
Base and Community Involvement                                               1 – 10
       A5.1.1.1. Nomination Headings: Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty.
       The individual’s primary duty accomplishments are the most important element of the
       nomination package. This is the most difficult section to score because everyone does an
       outstanding job in his or her area of expertise. Below are guidelines to assist board
       members in differentiating the impact on the mission and leadership role.
       - Innovative methods/programs developed, designed, implemented and impact
       - Process Improvement – cost savings, percentage improved or reduced
       - Superior leadership or training skills
       - Quantification and qualification of results
       - Key additional duties with significant impact
       - Wing working group or committee chair/member
       - Higher HQ, service unique or DoD involvement
       - Unit/Wing/Group/command-level and higher awards (both individual and unit;
       deployed or home station)
       A5.1.1.2. Significant Self Improvement: The primary focus of this section is the
       individual’s professional and personal development and how it benefits the Air Force.
       The key factors to this category are individual commitment level and personal sacrifice.
       You can judge this by answering the following questions. How much time was involved?
JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                 11


       How much effort was expended? Was the achievement done on duty or during off-duty
       time?
       - Off-duty Education (in-residence, on-line, correspondence classes, etc.)
       - Upgrade Training (5-level completion, CDC progress, formal training courses, etc.)
       - Advanced career field or Air Force Specialty training
       - Readiness training
       - Conference or symposiums related to job or career field/specialty (how nominee used
       information to improve process, mission impact, etc.)

       A5.1.1.3. Base and Community Involvement: This section rounds out the whole person
       concept. Unit and base activities/support should be weighed more heavily on community
       involvement because they directly impact Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst and the
       surrounding community. Again, the individual’s commitment level and personal sacrifice
       are the key factors in evaluating this section. How much time and effort was involved?
       What was the amount of time committed to the achievement and the frequency? Did the
       member participate or lead the effort?
       - Involvement in professional organizations
       - Key leadership position on executive council coupled by the achievement or results
       - Color/Honor Guard and sustained participation
       - Leadership position or role in community
       - Special Olympics, Boy Scouts, Big Brother/Sister, etc. (Number of hours and
       frequency)
       - Coaching sporting teams (squadron intramural teams, adult or youth programs, etc.)
       - Participating in major community ceremonies such as unit member retirement,
       POW/MIA vigil, retreat, marched in community parade while in uniform (i.e. Veteran’s
       Day, Fourth of July, and Liberation Day)
       - Base Sponsored Programs
       - Quarterly/Annual Awards Committee
   A5.1.2. Face-to-face Interview: The primary purpose of the face-to-face interview is to
   evaluate nominees’ dress and appearance, military bearing, oral expression and articulation
   of responses. This is a very subjective area for board members to evaluate and you must
   baseline your judgment against military standards. Since this section of the nominative
   process has limited points available, the use of whole or half point increments are permitted.
   The total possible points that can be awarded are 20.
Category                                                                          Point Value
Military Bearing                                                                  1–5
Dress and Appearance                                                              1–5
Communication Skills                                                              1 – 10
       A5.1.2.1. Dress and Appearance:
Uniform: cleaned, pressed and proper fitting.
Accouterments: properly placed on the uniform.
Jewelry: not more than three rings, correct earrings, no visible necklace, etc.
Decorations: ribbons in proper order, clean/serviceable condition.
 12                         JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014


Hair: appropriate style, length, color, approved ornamentation.
       A5.1.2.2. Military Bearing:
Room entry: appropriate facing movements
Reporting: appropriate introduction
Posture
       A5.1.2.3. Communication Skills:
A5.2. Face-to-face Interview Board Guidelines: The 87 ABW/CCCE is responsible for
contacting the board members to provide instruction in regard to preparing board questions. The
board president will task each of the board members with a specific category (see below for
categories). Board members are to prepare two questions (one opinionated and one factual) for
their respective board category. Questions will be thought provoking and designed to assess the
nominee’s ability to organize thoughts and articulate a response. Questions will come from
some or all of the following areas:
   A5.2.1. Current Events. General knowledge of current AF, command or base news or world
   events and their opinions regarding them (for example: Operation ENDURING FREEDOM,
   Overseas Contingency Operations, Iran, Korea, CSAFs 5 priorities, CMSAF Viewpoints,
   etc.). Current Events will only cover the time period within one week of the scheduled board
   date.
   A5.2.2. Airman Heritage. Reference AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide
   (Ch. 2)
   A5.2.3. Customs and Courtesies. Reference AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development
   Guide (Ch. 8)
   A5.2.4. Enlisted Force Structure, General and Specific Airman Responsibilities. Reference
   AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide (Ch. 9)
   A5.2.5. Individual Accomplishments.       Prepare questions to evaluate the nominee’s
   knowledge, involvement and impact on his/her personal                     and/or unit's
   success/accomplishments--how his/her accomplishments/leadership impacted the successes
   of their unit (this is an excellent opportunity to gather background information on the
   nominee). Use the nominee’s AF Form 1206 for this.
A5.3. See Attachment 6 for more guidance.
JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                     13


                                          Attachment 6
                                   MEETING THE BOARD

1. Be early. Stand while you wait--do not sit down. If possible, carry your uniform to the
   board and change just before you meet the board.
2. When you arrive, there will be an official greeter, probably standing outside the meeting
   room. He/she should inform you who is on the board, what the reporting instructions are,
   and any other special instructions. If not, ASK!
3. Do not take your hat or purse into the room.
4. If you are instructed to knock before entering, knock only once, but firmly.
5. When you open the door, take a good look at the room. Look for the chair you will be sitting
   in. Walk the most direct route to position yourself in the front of the chair facing the board
   president. Do not stop and perform a facing movement, stop in place. Save the facing
   movement for your departure. Look directly at the president, salute (if it’s an officer) and
   say, “Sir/Ma’am, Airman ___________ reports to the Senior Airman Below-the-Zone
   board.” The Board President will return your salute (if officer) and instruct you to be seated.
6. Back up until you feel the calves of your legs touch the chair. Do not look back or down.
   Don’t turn your back to the board members until you are departing.
7. Sit in the middle of the chair, not on the edge or all the way back.
8. Sit at attention and place your hands on your thighs. The idea is to be erect and alert, but not
   rigid. NEVER slouch or recline, even though the Board President may tell you to relax. Do
   not tap fingers, crack knuckles, play with rings, wipe sweaty palms, etc.
9. Do not cross your legs. Place one foot slightly in front of the other.
10. Smile and establish rapport with the board.
11. When answering questions, do not turn your body. Turn your head toward the person asking
   the question and then pan the board members when giving your answer. Good eye contact
   with all the board members is very important.
12. The first questions are usually relaxing icebreakers, such as, “Where are you from?” or
   “Where do you work?”
13. After being asked a question, repeat the question if appropriate and preface your answer with
   'Sir/Ma'am/Chief.' Try to give more than the basic answer, the board members are looking
 14                          JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014


   for evidence that you can articulate and think on your feet.
14. If you do not understand a question, ask the board member to repeat it. If you do not know
   the answer at that point, ask to return to the question later. If you know part of the answer,
   getting partial credit is better than none at all. Lastly, if you flat don't know, simply tell the
   board you are unable to answer the question at this time.
15. When answering opinion type questions, give a thoughtfully considered one. Tell the board
   members whether or not your opinion is in line with current policy. Most importantly,
   defend your position with logic, fact and personal experience, not emotion. Be tactful, don’t
   crusade, and don’t apologize.
16. If the board asks you if you have any comments, thank them for their time and add any other
   comments that may be appropriate.
17. When you are finished, the president will say “Airman ____________, you are dismissed.”
   a. Answer, 'Thank you Sir/Ma'am'.
   b. Push down on your thighs with your hands, stand up, and look directly at the president.
   c. Salute (if an officer) and wait for the salute to be returned. If the president is enlisted,
       nod your head once.
   d. Perform the appropriate facing movement to put you in direct line with the door. Exit the
       room smartly, marching with coordinated arm swing.
                                         Summary
Be yourself. The board wants to know you. You must believe you are worthy of Below the
Zone promotion—and you are a WINNER. Someone else believed it; otherwise they would not
have taken the time to nominate you.
JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014                                              15



                                                                                  Yes   No
Memorized and rehearsed Airman’s Creed in front of an audience?
Studied the applicable PDG Chapters?
Rehearsed your introduction, including goals, personal life, etc…
Studied your 1206 that was submitted?
Know your current chain of command?
Uniform has been dry cleaned, both slacks and service jacket together? This
prevents uneven fading of the fabric.
Shoes have been polished and edge dressed? Do not forget the welt (wear the
sole meets the shoe) it often collects dust/dirt between the threads
Ribbons and devices are clean, serviceable and polished? And match your
vMPF RIP?
Males: ensure cleanly shaven (depending on time of day, may need to shave
again), haircut exceeds standards (do not forget side burns), and if worn
mustache is within standards.
Females: Ensure bangs are off your eyebrows and hair does not extend below
the bottom of your collar. Don’t even make it close, board members should
not have to look twice to see if you’re in compliance. Ensure lose ends are
pinned away.
Males and Females, are ID bracelets, rings, excessive items from pockets
removed?
**Note if it is raining the day of the board, carry your uniform and shoes in
with you and change on site. This will ensure you present a clean, professional
image.
 16                          JBMCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURSTI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                          Attachment 7
                             BOARD PRESIDENT CHECKLIST

Pre-Board                                                                     Yes   No
Check room set up
Ensure greeter/board recorder are present
Introduce yourself to the board members and each other
Discuss board procedures and review questions
Verify all nominee ribbon RIPs are available

Conducting the Board
Welcome, congratulate and put nominee at ease
Introduce yourself as board president, then your board members by rank,
name and unit
Explain proceedings to nominee, define questions (2 each/1 factual/1
opinionated)
Encourage nominee to start by telling the board about themselves (career,
family, short/long-term goals, etc.)

Begin board questions

Completing the Board
Ask the nominee if they have any questions they would like to re-address or
closing comments they wish to make to the board members
Ask the nominee to recite the Airman’s Creed
Instruct the nominee not to discuss the questions or board process with
anyone as it may compromise the process and give others an unfair
advantage
Offer closing congratulations
Dismiss nominee

Post-Board
Score nominees
Gather all score sheets and surplus documents
Instruct board members to not discuss results until official release by the
87th Air Base Wing Commander
Ensure room is left in neat and orderly manner
Provide final score sheet to 87th Air Base Wing Command Chief
