BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           KADENA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 44-102
KADENA AIR BASE (PACAF)
                                                                               12 AUGUST 2009
                                                                Certified Current, 26 August 2011
                                                                                         Medical

                                                         CONTROLLING OCCUPATIONAL
                                                    EXPOSURES TO BLOOD, BODY FLUIDS,
                                                   AND OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS
                                                                     MATERIALS (PA)

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 18 AMDS/SGPM                                                   Certified by: 18 AMDS/CC
                                                                         (Col Ronald D. Poole)
Supersedes:   18WGI 44-102, 17 March 2003                                             Pages: 26



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 44-1, Medical Operations and Title
29, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens.
It establishes guidelines for personnel who have reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to
bloodborne pathogens (BBPs) in the course of their duties at Kadena Air Base (AB). This
instruction applies to all organizations on base (including tenant units) whose personnel have
reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
materials in the course of their assigned duties. This primarily involves personnel working in the
Medical Group, Fire Department, Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron, Security Forces, Office of
Special Investigation (OSI), and other organizations whose employees are required to provide first
aid response as part of their duties. All personnel working on Kadena AB should understand how
BBPs are transmitted in case they must respond to an injured/ill coworker, dried blood found on an
object, or a biohazard spill. This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command or Air
National Guard units and their personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the filed through the appropriate functional
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. This publication requires collecting and maintaining information protected
by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10 United States Code Section 55, Medical and
Dental Care; 10 USC § 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; powers and duties; delegation by, and
2                                                                             KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons,
November 22, 1943. Forms affected by the Privacy Act (PA) have an appropriate PA statement.
Systems of records notice 62 FR 31793, Reporting of Medical Conditions of Public Health and
Military Significance, applies.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updating references and post exposure procedures and adding revised responsibilities and
HIV and Hepatitis B Post Exposure Prophylaxis Determination charts.

       1.     Overview. ...............................................................................................................    2
       2.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................      2
       3.     Exposure Determination. .......................................................................................              6
Table 3.1.    Partial List of Category II Job Classifications and Tasks. .....................................                             6
       4.     Procedures. .............................................................................................................    7
       5.     Contracted Operations. ..........................................................................................            8
       6.     Record Keeping. ....................................................................................................         9
       7.     Prescribed Forms. ..................................................................................................         9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            10

Attachment 2—KADENA AB BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS EXPOSURE CONTROL
             PLAN/TRAINING PROGRAM TEMPLATE                                                                                               13

Attachment 3—BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN EXPOSURE PROTOCOL                                                                                        21

Attachment 4—DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD AND BODY SUBSTANCES
             SPILLS                                                24

Attachment 5—BIOHAZARD LABEL AND TURN IN TAG                                                                                              26


1. Overview. This instruction establishes guidelines for personnel who have reasonably anticipated
occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens (BBPs) in the course of their duties at Kadena AB.
This instruction assigns responsibilities to all organizations on base (including tenant units) whose
personnel have reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other
potentially infectious materials in the course of their assigned duties. This primarily involves
personnel working in the Medical Group, Fire Department, Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron,
Security Forces, Office of Special Investigation (OSI), and other organizations whose employees are
required to provide first aid response as part of their duties. However, all personnel working on
Kadena AB should understand how BBPs are transmitted in case they must respond to an injured/ill
coworker, dried blood found on an object, or a biohazard spill.
2. Responsibilities.
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                               3


  2.1. As the “employer,” the Kadena Air Base Commander is responsible for all facets of the
  Kadena AB Bloodborne Pathogen (BBP) Exposure Control Program (ECP). The commander
  shall establish a written ECP designed to eliminate or minimize employee exposure to blood,
  body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials (PIMs). This program must:
     2.1.1. Identify duties that reasonably pose a risk of occupational exposure to blood, body
     fluids, or other PIMs.
     2.1.2. Ensure initial and annual training is accomplished and documented on an AF Form 55,
     Employee Safety and Health Record, for at risk personnel.
     2.1.3. Ensure that each unit (group and squadron) commander complies with the
     Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidance referred in Attachment 2,
     Kadena AB Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Control Plan/Training Program Template,
     paragraphs 1.1 and 1.2, as well as the expanded policies set by this program.
     2.1.4. Ensure that all training for self-aid and buddy care as well as Cardiopulmonary
     Resuscitation (CPR) will include basic information concerning bloodborne and other
     potentially infectious pathogens, their transmission, and methods of exposure control.
  2.2. The 18th Medical Group (18th MDG) will:
     2.2.1. Provide medical oversight for eligible workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other
     PIMs in the course of their duties. Medical oversight for potentially exposed workers
     includes:
         2.2.1.1. Immunizing (to include documentation) authorized workers against BBPs.
         2.2.1.2. Medical follow-up, treatment, and documentation for authorized personnel
         exposed to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials in the course of
         their duties. (See Attachment 3, BBP Exposure Protocol.)
     2.2.2. Review and approve Unit ECPs and educational programs.
     2.2.3. Dispose of contaminated waste (when requested by organizations) through the
     medical waste disposal contract.
     2.2.4. Provide technical advice and supervisory assistance on:
         2.2.4.1. The types of personal protective equipment (PPE) needed to protect workers
         from exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs.
         2.2.4.2. Training workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the course of
         their duties.
         2.2.4.3. Decontaminating surfaces contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other PIMs.
         (See Attachment 4, Decontamination Procedures for Blood and Body Substances Spills)
     2.2.5. Provide a medical consultant who will evaluate exposure incidents. The evaluation
     results will be reported quarterly in the Infection Control Review Function meeting.
  2.3. Unit commanders will identify the OSHA exposure risk category (see paragraph 2.,
  Exposure Determination) their personnel fall under and ensure all personnel at risk for
  occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs are adequately protected, receive
4                                                       KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


    both initial orientation and annual training, and comply with established guidelines and
    requirements defined in this program and 29 CFR 1910.1030.
    2.4. Commanders of organizations with personnel at risk for occupational exposures will
    designate an office of primary responsibility (OPR) for completing the unit’s BBP ECP (see
    Attachment 2) and monitoring compliance with engineering and work practice controls,
    personal protective equipment (PPE), housekeeping, hazard communication and training
    documentation, as stipulated by this program.
    2.5. All organizations with workers in Category I and II job classifications (see paragraph 3.1
    for Category descriptions) will:
       2.5.1. Develop an ECP for their workers using the attached template (see Attachment 2).
       All ECPs must be sent to 18th MDG/Public Health and Infection Control both initially and
       annually. The Public Health Officer (PHO) and Infection Control Officer (ICO) will review
       and forward the ECP to the 18th MDG Infection Control Review Function for approval.
       2.5.2. Ensure the unit’s written ECP and its documentation is available to workers who may
       have questions and authorized program evaluators for required review.
       2.5.3. Ensure workers with reasonably anticipated occupational exposures to blood, body
       fluids, or other potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties in-process through
       18th MDG Public Health (PH) prior to starting duties.
       2.5.4. Ensure workers with reasonably anticipated occupational exposures to blood, body
       fluids, or other potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties out-process
       through PH upon termination of employment (Permanent Change of Station (PCS),
       Permanent Change of Assignment (PCA), separation, or retirement). NOTE: Department of
       Defense Dependent School (DoDDS) nurses in-process and out-process through US Naval
       Hospital Okinawa.
       2.5.5. Develop, schedule, educate, and document worker training on the medical aspects of
       exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs, organizational procedures, and the storage and
       use of PPE.
       2.5.6. Purchase, properly store, and ensure the use of PPE needed to protect workers from
       possible BBP exposure in accordance with AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
       Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program. There must be
       enough PPE on hand to protect all workers involved in procedures with potential exposures.
       Additionally, PPE must be available in sizes which appropriately fit all workers potentially
       exposed. All PPE must be approved by Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE). Note: Units
       are responsible for buying their PPE.
       2.5.7. Clean, launder, repair, replace, and/or dispose of PPE at no cost to the employee.
       2.5.8. In the event of a blood or body fluid exposure takes place, follow established
       procedures outlined in paragraph 3.1
       2.5.9. Ensure that areas, equipment, clothing, and materials contaminated by blood, body
       fluids, or other PIMs are appropriately decontaminated. This may be done by properly
       trained unit employees or by certified contractors.
    2.6. Supervisor Responsibilities:
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                                 5


     2.6.1. Supervisors of Category I (see paragraph 3.1.1) personnel and all medical,
     firefighting, security police, and OSI personnel will ensure their workers in-process through
     PH prior to starting work involving reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to blood,
     body fluids, or other PIMs.
     2.6.2. Supervisors will ensure both initial and annual training is documented on the
     employee’s AF Form 55, as either Initial Bloodborne Pathogen Training (IBBPT may be
     used to indicate training) or Annual Bloodborne Pathogen Training (ABBPT abbreviation
     may be used to indicate training).      Initial training must occur prior to the employee
     beginning work in a work center with risk of exposure to blood or body fluids, or other PIMs.
     2.6.3. Ensure adequate PPE (gloves, masks, goggles, face shields, outer protective garments,
     etc.) is available for workers to use at all times where there is a potential for occupational
     exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs.
     2.6.4. Enforce the wearing of PPE during procedures in which there is a potential for
     occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs. Worker noncompliance with
     adhering to policies and directives of this program must be immediately addressed through
     appropriate administrative procedures.
     2.6.5. Evaluate and document all worker exposure incidents which occur during
     performance of their duty.
         2.6.5.1. Complete a thorough narrative summary in the 18th Wing (18 WG) Form 33,
         Blood and Body Fluid Exposure/Incident Report. This narrative summary will include
         the individual’s name, job description, source of the blood, body fluid, or other infectious
         materials if known, and a statement on how the exposure occurred. Copies of this form
         will be forwarded to Ground Safety Division (18 WG/SEG) and PH (18 AMDS/SGPM)
         for their information and action. Note: For exposure incidents occurring in the 18th
         MDG the supervisor will complete an AF Form 765, Medical Treatment Facility Incident
         Statement (PA) along with an 18 WG Form 33.
         2.6.5.2. Determine if the worker wore (or did not wear) appropriate PPE or if the PPE
         was breached during the incident. This information will be included in the narrative
         summary.
     2.6.6. Keep a sharps injury log for recording of injuries from contaminated sharps. The
     sharps log must include type and brand of device, the location of the incident, and an
     explanation of how the incident occurred. Forward this information quarterly to the PHO
     and ICO.
     2.6.7. Request assistance on BBP and/or tuberculosis training, as needed.
  2.7. Individual Responsibilities:
     2.7.1. All at risk individuals (active duty member, government employee, contract employee,
     student or volunteer assigned or attached to work in any affected organization) are
     responsible for knowledge of and compliance with this program.
     2.7.2. All individuals are required to wear the correct PPE appropriately.
     2.7.3. Employees who are possibly exposed to a BBP must report the incident to their
     supervisor immediately.
6                                                      KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


3. Exposure Determination.
    3.1. Exposure Categories. OSHA established three exposure categories for protection against
    occupational exposure to infectious diseases to include Hepatitis B (HBV), Hepatitis C (HCV),
    and Human Immunodeficiency (HIV) viruses. These categories are:
       3.1.1. Category I: Category I tasks are considered HIGH risk and include tasks that involve
       routine exposure to human blood, body fluids, or tissues. All procedures or other job-related
       tasks that involve an inherent potential for mucous membrane or skin contact with human
       blood, body fluids, or tissues, OR a potential for spills or splashes are Category I tasks. Use
       of appropriate personal protective equipment is required for employees engaged in Category
       I tasks. Category I job classifications that are present on Kadena AB include physicians,
       dentists, nurses, physician assistants, laboratory officers, medical lab technicians, dental and
       dental lab technicians, dental hygienists, dental assistants, dental volunteers, radiologists,
       radiology technicians, optometrists, optometry technicians, immunization technicians,
       aeromedical technicians, nursing assistants, emergency medical technicians, paramedics
       (e.g., 33 RQS), mortuary affairs, and medical clinic housekeepers.
       3.1.2. Category II: Category II tasks are considered MODERATE risk. An individual’s
       routine tasks involve no exposure to human blood, body fluids, or tissues, but employment
       may require performing unplanned/emergency Category I tasks. Appropriate personal
       protective equipment will be readily available to every employee engaged in Category II
       tasks. Category II job classifications and tasks which they may incur exposure include, but is
       not limited to:

Table 3.1. Partial List of Category II Job Classifications and Tasks.
                      JOB                                                TASK
Firefighters                                        Emergency Rescue Procedures/Rendering First
                                                    Aid
Security Forces                                     Emergency Rescue Procedures/Rendering First
                                                    Aid
Office of Special Investigations                    Crime Scene Investigations
Housekeepers                                        Sorting Laundry/Trash
Other Clinic Employees/Volunteers                   Potential Contact with Infectious
                                                    Patients/Equipment
Designated First Aid Responders                     First Aid Response in the Workplace
Other Maintenance, Repair Personnel                 Plumbing, Filter Changes
Veterinary Section Personnel                        Handling Infectious Wastes
DoDDS Nurses                                        Potential Exposure from Injured Students
Child Development Center Employees                  Potential Contact with Infectious Child/Products
MWR Lifeguards                                      Potential Contact with Infectious Persons
320th Special Tactics                               Potential Contact with Infectious Persons
Egress                                              Potential Contact with Infectious Persons
Life Support                                        Potential Contact with Infectious
                                                    Persons/Equipment
       3.1.3. Category III: Category III tasks are considered LOW risk. These tasks involve no
       exposure to human blood, body fluids or tissues and Category I tasks are not a condition of
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                                 7


      employment. The normal work routine involves no exposure to human blood, body fluids or
      tissues (although situations may be imagined or hypothesized under which anyone,
      anywhere, might encounter potential exposure to body fluids). Persons who perform these
      duties are not called upon as part of their employment to perform or assist in emergency
      medical care or first aid or to be potentially exposed in some other way. Category III tasks
      and procedures that may result in occupational exposure of almost any person in any job
      classification (e.g., administrative workers, food handlers, routine laborers, etc.):
         3.1.3.1. Disposing of soiled tissues or other debris soiled with visible blood from
         restrooms or offices.
         3.1.3.2. Physical contact with other employees or visitors with exudative lesions or
         weeping dermatitis (cuts or skin trauma with oozing fluids).
         3.1.3.3. Providing emergency first aid or CPR until professional help arrives.
      3.1.4. All Category I personnel and all active duty personnel who work in medical,
      firefighting, security police, and OSI work centers must be immunized against HBV. All
      other personnel in Categories II and III will receive post-exposure prophylaxis to HBV if an
      incident occurs which is related to their occupational tasks. These individuals can be assured
      that with this protocol they are as protected as immunized persons.
4. Procedures.
   4.1. Pre-employment Health Visit.
      4.1.1. All Category I individuals and fire department, security police, OSI and other military
      members with potential for occupational blood or body fluid exposure, will report to PH to
      verify the HBV vaccination status. Volunteers must receive the vaccine prior to working in
      Category I areas. The HBV vaccine will be provided at no cost to the employee.
      4.1.2. Civilian employees are highly encouraged to receive vaccinations. Civilians who
      wish to decline this vaccine must come to PH to be briefed on the possible risks of not
      receiving the HBV vaccine. If the civilian after the briefing still wishes to decline the
      vaccine, they must sign a declination statement that will be filed in their medical record. If
      the employee later wishes to receive the vaccine, they may receive it at no cost.
   4.2. Post exposure Procedures:
      4.2.1. After a worker is exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the course of their
      duties, (e.g., a needle puncture wound; getting cut with a contaminated object such as glass;
      or having blood splash on the skin or mucous membranes of the eyes, nose, or mouth or
      caring for a patient suspected of having active tuberculosis) they will:
         4.2.1.1. Clean the wound thoroughly with soap and water. Do not use soap in eyes, nose,
         or mouth. If splashed in the eyes or mucous membranes, flush the area with clean water.
         4.2.1.2. Record the source person’s name, address, and phone number, if known.
         4.2.1.3. Immediately notify supervisor on duty. The Supervisor must complete 18 WG
         Form 33, include the department/work area where the incident occurred, type, brand, and
         lot number (if available) of device involved in the incident, and an explanation of how the
         incident occurred and the BBP Exposure report form and forward to PH.
8                                                      KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


          4.2.1.4. Report, along with the source individual, to the 18th MDG’s Family Practice
          Clinic, building 626 for evaluation and treatment within 2 hours. If the incident occurs
          after duty hours, report to the Emergency Department, US Naval Hospital, Okinawa on
          Camp Lester.
      4.2.2. The Medical Provider will:
          4.2.2.1. Evaluate the worker’s potential exposure to BBPs, using Centers for Disease
          Control and Prevention (CDC) guidance, based on the type of exposure and source’s risk
          factors.
          4.2.2.2. If indicated, ensure appropriate testing of the source as well as testing, treatment,
          and follow-up care for the exposed worker is accomplished.
          4.2.2.3. Notify worker and their employing organization of the necessity for treatment
          and follow-up of the exposed worker.
          4.2.2.4. Provide a written opinion on the individual’s exposure incident and
          recommended follow-up care. Ensure the written opinion is placed in the individual’s
          medical record.
      4.2.3. PH will ensure appropriate follow-up is accomplished for blood, body fluid, and PIMs
      exposure.
      4.2.4. Unit Decontamination Team will:
          4.2.4.1. Appropriately decontaminate surfaces soiled with blood, body fluids, or other
          PIMs, as soon as possible. If it is determined that use of bleach is not feasible due to its
          caustic nature (i.e. on equipment panels) the unit should consult with the PH/ICO office
          for decontamination methods. The team will also consult with the PH/ICO office on
          spills that may be beyond the scope of the unit to take care of internally (See Attachment
          4).
          4.2.4.2. Place all contaminated articles which are to be disposed of in a biological hazard
          bag. Biological hazard bags will then be double bagged, taped, and labeled. This task
          will be accomplished by appropriately trained organizational personnel wearing the
          proper PPE, including: puncture-resistant waterproof gloves, a protective outer garment,
          and shoe coverings, if there is a potential for contaminating the workers shoes. If
          aerosolization or splattering of blood, body fluids, or other PIMs is expected, individuals
          must wear a mask and goggles or face shield. Contact the 18th MDG, Facility
          Management Office, prior to transporting biohazard bags to building 626, 18th MDG
          (630-4725). The biohazard bags will be disposed of in the medical waste disposal system
          by personnel from the originating organization. If waste contains sharp items, such as
          broken glass, needles, or knives, these must be placed in a sealed puncture resistant
          container which is then placed in the biohazard bag. Bagged waste does not have to be
          transported immediately. It can be containerized and held in a secure manner until
          regular duty hours. Note: A regular plastic garbage bag can be used instead of a
          biohazard bag, if it is clearly marked with a Biohazard Label (See Attachment 5,
          Biohazard Symbol and Turn In Tag) and double bagged.
5. Contracted Operations. The Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO), with assistance from
PH and work area supervisor (if requested), will advise contractors of the need to follow OSHA
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                                 9


guidance provided in 29 CFR 1910.1030. Protection for contract employees and appropriate
disposal of collected waste should be the responsibility of the contractor. Note: For contracted
services, it is the contractor, not the Air Force, who assumes responsibility for compliance with
OSHA standards and for the safety and health of their employees. Air Force contract specifications
for services and materials must stipulate strict adherence to 29 CFR 1910.1030 and specify who
provides PPE and HBV vaccinations, who gives the training, and who investigates and documents
bloodborne or other potentially infectious pathogen exposure incidents.
6. Record Keeping.
   6.1. Supervisors are responsible for maintaining training rosters on an annual basis. Supervisors
   will document training on AF Form 55 for all organizations with Category I and II workers for
   the duration of the worker’s employment.
   6.2. Medical Record. The 18th MDG will:
       6.2.1. Maintain all civilian and military medical records and all documentation pertaining to
       the medical records.
       6.2.2. Maintain the following in the medical record of any individual identified as having a
       reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to BBPs in the course of his or her duties on
       Kadena Air Base.
          6.2.2.1. A copy of the employee’s HBV vaccination status including the dates of
          vaccinations and any medical records relative to the employee’s ability to receive the
          vaccination or the employee’s declination statement.
          6.2.2.2. A copy of all results of examinations, medical testing, and follow-up procedures
          pertaining to an occupational exposure (to include tuberculin skin testing).
          6.2.2.3. Primary Care Manger’s (PCM) 15 day written opinion, if exposure has occurred
          during employment.
       6.2.3. Provide upon request from authorized authority (as required by law) the pertinent
       portions of the employee’s medical record for examination and copying.

7. Prescribed Forms.

18 WG Form 33, Blood and Body Fluid Exposure Incident (PA)

8. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record (PA)
AF Form 765, Medical Treatment Facility Incident Statement (PA)
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            Kenneth S. Wilsbach, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 18th Wing
10                                                  KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


                                         Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR 1910.1030, “Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens”; Final Rule, December 6,
1991, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
29 CFR 1910.1030, “Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens”, Amendments, 18 Apr
2001, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
29 CFR 1910.1030, “Bloodborne Pathogens Standard” Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
MMWR, 29 Jun 2001/50 (RR11): 1-42
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 Sep 1999
AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program, 1 Jul 2000
AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health or
Military Significance, 1 Mar 2005
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communications, 30 Mar 2005
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 2008
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protections, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 Jun 2006
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), “Updated US Public Health Service Guidelines
for the Management of Occupational Exposures to HIV and Recommendations for Post Exposure
Prophylaxis,” MMWR, 2005; 54 (No. RR-09)
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), “A Comprehensive Immunization Strategy to
Eliminate Transmission of Hepatitis B Virus Infection in the United States,” MMWR, 2006; 55 (No.
RR-16)
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), “Updated Information Regarding Antiretroviral
Agents Used as HIV Postexposure Prophylaxis for Occupational HIV Exposures,” MMWR, 2007;
56 (No. 49)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
ABBPT—Annual Bloodborne Pathogen Training
ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BBP—Bloodborne Pathogens
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CDC—Centers for Disease Control
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                                  11


ECP—Exposure Control Program
HBV—Hepatitis B Virus
HCV—Hepatitis C Virus
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Viruse
IBBPT—Initial Bloodborne Pathogen Training
ICO—Infection Control Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCM—Primary Care Manger
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PHO—Public Health Officer
PIM—Potentially Infectious Materials
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment

Terms
Bloodborne Pathogens-—pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood and can
cause disease in humans. Examples include, but are not limited to, Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and the
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
Contaminated-—Refers to the presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other
PIMs on an item or surface.
Contaminated Sharps-—Any contaminated object that can penetrate the skin, including but not
limited to needles, scalpels, broken glass, broken capillary tubes, and exposed ends of dental wires.
Decontamination-—The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy BBPs
on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting infectious particles
and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or disposal.
Employee-—All personnel working in any capacity for the United States Government at Kadena
AB, Japan (e.g., military, hired civilians, civilian/military volunteers, housekeeping personnel, and
students).
Engineering Controls-—Controls (e.g., sharps disposal containers; self-sheathing needles; and safer
medical devices, such as sharps with engineered sharps injury protections and needleless systems)
that isolate or remove the BBP hazards from the workplace.
Exposed Patient-—Individual exposed to blood or other PIMs.
Exposure Incident-—A specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or parenteral
contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that results from the performance of an
employee’s duties.
12                                                     KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


Occupational Exposure-—Reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that may result from the performance of
an employee’s duties.
Parenteral-—Piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such events as needlesticks,
human bites, cuts, and abrasions. NON-INTACT skin includes skin with dermatitis, hang-nails,
chafing, etc.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)-—Specialized clothing or equipment worn by an employee
for protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g., uniforms, pants, shirts, or blouses) not
intended to function as protection against a hazard are not considered PPE.
Potentially Infectious Materials (PIMs)-—The following human body fluids: semen, vaginal
secretions, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid,
amniotic fluid, saliva in dental procedures, any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood,
and all body fluids in situations where it is difficult or impossible to differentiate between body
fluids; any unfixed tissue or organ (other than intact skin) from a human (living or dead); HIV-
containing cell or tissue cultures, organ cultures, and HIV- or HBV-containing culture medium or
other solutions; and blood, organs, or other tissues from experimental animals infected with HIV or
HBV.
Source Individual-—Any individual (living or dead) whose blood or other PIMs may be a source of
occupational exposure to the employee. Examples include, but not limited to: hospital and clinic
patients; clients in institutions for the developmentally disabled; trauma victims; clients of drug and
alcohol treatment facilities; residents of hospices and nursing homes; human remains; and
individuals who donate or sell blood or blood components.
Sterilize-—The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all microbial life including highly
resistant bacterial endospores.
Universal Precautions-—An approach to infection control. According to the concept of Universal
Precautions, all human blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, and other BBPs. Other body fluids, such as feces, nasal secretions, sputum, saliva,
sweat, tears, urine, and vomitus, are not known to carry bloodborne pathogens unless they contain
visible blood but can be infectious with other microorganisms. THEREFORE, the definition of
Standard Precautions at Kadena AFB is expanded to include those methods used to prevent exposure
to any body fluid or body substance.
Work Practice Controls-—Controls that reduce the likelihood of exposure by altering the manner
in which a task is performed (e.g., prohibiting the recapping of needles, avoiding picking up broken
glass with bare hands, and establishing procedures for collecting and disposing of PIMs).
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                                   13


                                            Attachment 2
 KADENA AB BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN/TRAINING
                       PROGRAM TEMPLATE

Table A2.1. SAMPLE PROGRAM WITH DETAILED EXPLANATION.
Unit:
_________________________________________________________________________________

Preparation Date:
_______________________________________________________________________

Certifying Official:
______________________________________________________________________

(This sample program is provided ONLY AS A GUIDE to assist in complying with 29 CFR
1910.1030, the bloodborne pathogens standard of the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA). Organizations will need to add relevant information or change/delete
information non relevant to their particular organization/function in order to develop an effective,
comprehensive exposure control program. Organizations must review the standard for particular
requirements applicable to their specific situation. The exposure control program must be reviewed
annually and updated when necessary.)

In accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1030, the following exposure control program has been developed.

1. Exposure Determination. OSHA requires employers to perform an exposure determination
concerning which employees may incur occupational exposure to blood, body fluids or other
potentially infectious materials. The exposure determination is made without regard to the use of
personal protective equipment. This exposure determination requires a listing of ALL job
classifications in which ALL employees may be expected to be exposed, regardless of frequency.

1.1. List job classifications where ALL employees have been determined to have a reasonably
anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens.

    JOB TITLE                                        JOB SERIES/AFSC

    (List Title and Job Series or AFSC)
    (e.g, Public Health (PH) Technician)             (4EOX1)

In addition, if the organization has job classifications in which SOME employees may have
occupational exposure, a listing of those classifications is required. Since not all the employees in
these categories would be expected to incur exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
infectious materials, a listing of tasks or procedures is required to clearly understand which
employees are considered to have occupational exposure.

1.2. List job classifications where SOME employees have been determined to have a reasonably
14                                                       KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens while performing specific job tasks and
procedures.

     JOB CLASSIFICATION                               TASKS/PROCEDURES

     List Title/Job Series or AFSC                    (List Task/Procedure such as emergency
                                                       rescue/first aid procedures)

1.3. Hepatitis B Vaccine: At no cost to the employee, the Hepatitis B vaccine will be given to all
appropriately designated individuals (e.g., section personnel, fire department personnel, security
police, OSI, and other military members with potential occupational blood or body fluid exposure)
who have been identified as having exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
materials. All other civilian employees will be offered the vaccine at no cost to the employee. The
vaccine will be offered within 10 working days of their initial assignment to work involving the
potential for occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials
unless the employee has previously had the vaccine. Civilian employees who decline must be
briefed by PH on the possible risks of declining the vaccine before they sign the Hepatitis B
declination statement that is placed in their medical record.

2. Implementation Schedule and Methodology. This plan also requires a schedule and method of
implementation for the various requirements of the standard. The following complies with this
requirement:

2.1. Standard Precautions: The mandatory use of standard precautions is in effect. The term
“standard precaution” refers to an infectious disease control system intended to prevent health care
and public safety workers from parenteral, mucous membrane, and non-intact skin exposures to
bloodborne pathogens. Assume all blood and body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, cerebrospinal,
lymph, pericardial, etc.) are potentially infectious and appropriate barriers must be established
between the patient’s blood, body fluids, and other infectious materials and the health care and
public safety worker. Under circumstances where differentiation between body fluid types is
difficult or impossible, consider all body fluids potentially infectious. Consider all blood, body
fluid, or other potentially infectious materials infectious regardless of the perceived status of the
source individual.

2.2. Engineering and Work Practice Controls: Utilize engineering and work practice controls to
eliminate or minimize exposure to employees. Where occupational exposure remains after
institution of these controls, use personal protective equipment.

THE FOLLOWING ENGINEERING CONTROLS WILL BE UTILIZED:

CONTROLS

(List controls, e.g., sharp containers, hand washes, eye washes, etc.)

The above controls will be examined and maintained on a regular schedule. The schedule for
reviewing the effectiveness of the controls is as follows (list schedule such as daily, weekly, etc.).
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                                      15


List who (individual or section) has responsibility to review the effectiveness of the individual
controls.

INSPECTIONS WILL BE CONDUCTED FOR THE FOLLOWING CONTROLS:

CONTROL                                                INSPECTION CONTROL

(Hand Washes)                                           (Weekly/Inspected by SGT XXXX/or list
                                                        Responsible Section)

2.2.1. Hand Washing Facilities: Employees who incur exposure to blood, body fluids or other
infectious materials will wash at a readily accessible area. If hand washing facilities are not feasible,
the organization is required to provide either an appropriate waterless antiseptic hand cleanser or
antiseptic towelettes. If these alternatives are used, wash the hands with soap and running water as
soon as feasible. Also, after removal of protective gloves, employees shall wash hands and any
other potentially contaminated skin area immediately or as soon as feasible with soap and water. If
employees incur exposure to mucous membranes, wash or flush those areas with running water
immediately following contact. Organizations shall list locations of readily accessible hand washing
facilities and alternatives to hand washing facilities. Organizations that must provide alternatives to
readily accessible hand washing facilities must ensure the maintenance and accessibility of these
alternatives.

HAND WASHING STATIONS ARE LOCATED IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS:

PERMANENT STATION LOCATIONS                            PORTABLE STATION LOCATIONS

(List locations, e.g., patient rooms, procedure areas, vehicles, specific areas in hangars, etc.)

2.2.2. Procedures:

2.2.2.1. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).

2.2.2.1.1. All employees will use PPE to minimize or eliminate exposure risks. Consider equipment
appropriate only if it does not permit blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials to
pass through or to reach the employee’s clothing, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes,
under normal condition of use and for the duration of use.

2.2.2.1.2. Providing PPE: It is the responsibility of the individual organization to provide PPE for
their employees at no cost to the employee. PPE includes, but is not limited to, gloves, gowns, coats,
masks, eye protection, and mouthpieces, resuscitation bags or other ventilation devices. Choose PPE
based on the anticipated exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
Make hypoallergenic gloves, latex free or other similar alternatives available for those employees
who are allergic to the gloves normally used. All PPE must be approved by the BEEs.

2.2.2.1.3. Enforcing the Wearing of PPE: The supervisor or section head will enforce the use of PPE
by all employees. Not wearing PPE when exposed to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
16                                                      KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


infectious materials is NOT allowed. When the employee fails to use proper PPE, he/she shall be
investigated by the supervisor and document the incident to determine whether changes need to be
instituted to prevent further incidents where PPE is not worn. A copy of this report will be
forwarded to Public Health.

2.2.2.1.4. Accessibility of PPE: The supervisor or section head will ensure availability and
distribution of PPE in the work place.

2.2.2.1.5. Coordinate with Medical Supply on types of PPE available for purchase.

3. Personal protective equipment is stored.

     PPE TYPE                                                STORAGE LOCATION

     (List equipment type and storage location.)

3.1. Remove all PPE contaminated by blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials
immediately or as soon as feasible. Remove all PPE prior to leaving the work area. (See
Attachment 4)

3.1.1. Place all contaminated PPE in an appropriately designated area or container for storage prior
to decontamination or disposal. Handle contaminated disposable PPE as follows:

3.1.2. The buddy system should be used if more than one individual is involved.

3.1.3. Remove outer protective garment, (i.e. gown, apron, lab coat, etc.) fold garment in on itself as
the garment is being removed and place in the biohazard-hazard bag.

3.1.4. Remove shoe covers and place in the biohazard-hazard bag.

3.1.5. Remove the face shield/goggles and place in designated storage area identified for holding
contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for re-use.

3.1.6. Remove gloves by turning inside out and place in designated storage area identified for
holding contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for re-use, or place gloves in biohazard-hazard
bag for disposal.

4. The following protocol has been developed to facilitate leaving the equipment at the work
area.

     PLACE/ROOM                                              CONTAINER/DISPOSAL SITE

(List where employees are expected to place the PPE upon leaving the work area, and other
protocols, etc.)

4.1. The organization will clean, launder, and dispose of all PPE at no cost to employees. The
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                                     17


organization will make all repairs and replacement at no cost to the employee.

4.2. Employees will wear gloves when it is reasonably anticipated that hands could make contact
with blood, body fluids, other potentially infectious materials, non-intact skin, mucous membranes
and when handling or touching contaminated items or surfaces.

4.3. Gloves will be made available at the following locations:

    GLOVE DISPERSAL SITE                                      RESPONSIBLE PARTY

(State location and person responsible for distribution of gloves.)

4.3.1. Wear heavy duty, industrial grade, utility gloves when any activity such as handling trash,
decontamination of instruments/equipment, or environmental cleaning is performed. Wash utility
gloves when minimal soiling occurs. (See Attachment 3.) Change utility gloves when heavily
soiled or when the integrity of the barrier has been compromised. After removing gloves, employees
will wash their hands with soap and water immediately or as soon as possible. Utility gloves may be
decontaminated for reuse provided the integrity of the gloves is not compromised. Discard utility
gloves when cracked, peeling, torn, punctured, or exhibiting signs of deterioration, or when their
ability to function as a barrier is compromised.

4.3.2. Do not reuse disposable gloves. Do not wash or decontaminate disposable gloves for reuse.
Replace gloves as soon as practical when they become contaminated, torn, punctured, or their ability
to function as a barrier is compromised.

4.3.3. You must wear masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or glasses
with solid side shields, or chin length face shields, whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of
blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials may be generated and if you anticipate
eye, mouth, or nose contamination.

4.3.4. The OSHA standard also requires the use of appropriate protective clothing, such as lab coats,
gowns, aprons, section jackets, or similar outer garments. The type and characteristics will depend
upon the task and degree of exposure anticipated.

5. Handling contaminated needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated articles.
Education programs are to stress proper management of needles, sharp instruments, or other
contaminated articles. Workers are to be aware of the occupational health hazards concerning their
use. Common sense, safety, and environmental concerns are paramount in the workers handling and
disposal of needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated articles. Place emphasis on the
minimal handling of these items.

5.1. Do not use hands to pick up sharp instruments, broken glass, needle/syringe units, or other sharp
objects contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. Pick the
object up using other methods not requiring an individual to come in direct contact with the
contaminated object (e.g., tongs, forceps, a broom and dust pan, cardboard, etc.).
18                                                      KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


5.2. Place the contaminated objects in a puncture resistant, leak proof biohazard container, or other
impervious, puncture resistant container to be placed in a biohazard bag and take to the 18th MDG,
Building 626, Facilities Management for disposal. If the organization does not have a suitable
biohazard container, contact the 18th MDG to pick one up. You must exercise extreme caution
when disposing of needles and sharp instruments/objects.

5.3. Place contaminated non-sharps (e.g., contaminated gauze, towels, clothing, etc.) in a leak proof
biohazard bag.

5.4. Needles: Do not bend, recap, remove, shear or purposely break contaminated needles and other
contaminated sharps. OSHA allows an exception to this if the procedure requires the contaminated
needle be recapped or removed and no alternative is feasible and the medical procedure requires the
action. Use a mechanical device or one-handed technique if recapping or removal is required.

5.5. Sharp containers must be replaced when ¾ full.

5.6. Place contaminated sharps immediately, or as soon as possible, into appropriate sharps
containers. The sharp containers must be puncture resistant, labeled with Biohazard label, and are
leak proof.

     LOCATION OF                              RESPONSIBLE                           INSPECTION
     SHARPS CONTAINERS                        PARTY                                 FREQUENCY


6. The following methods will be used to accomplish work area restrictions.

     PROCEDURE                                               CONTROL METHOD USED

(List the procedures and methods used, e.g., covers on centrifuges, usage of dental dams to control
spraying, splattering, splashing, etc. Also list other appropriate work area restrictions, such as
designated break rooms, no eating, smoking signs, etc.)

6.1. Employees are not to eat, drink, apply cosmetics, lip balm, smoke, or handle contact lenses in
work areas where there is a reasonable likelihood of exposure to blood, body fluids, or other
potentially infectious materials are present.

6.2. Do not keep food and beverages in refrigerators, freezers, shelves, cabinets, on counter tops or
bench tops where blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials are present.

6.2.1. Refrigerators must be labeled for type of use.

6.3. Mouth pipetting/suctioning of blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials is
prohibited.

6.4. Conduct all procedures in a manner which will minimize splashing, spraying, splattering, and
generation of droplets of blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                                       19



7. Contaminated Equipment and Surfaces: (See Attachment 4.)

   PROCEDURE                                                 METHOD OF CONTROL

(List procedures and methods used, e.g., covers on centrifuges, usage of dental dams to control
spraying, splattering, splashing, etc. Also list other appropriate work area restrictions, such as
designated break rooms, no eating, smoking signs, etc.)

8. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow Up: When the employee incurs an exposure incident,
the supervisor will report the exposure to PH and direct the employee to the 18th MDG, Family
Practice Clinic for initial evaluation and treatment within 2 hours. Post exposure evaluation and
follow up will be done in accordance with the OSHA occupational exposure to bloodborne
pathogens standard, 29 CFR 1910.1030 and the 18 MDG Instruction 48-10, Employee Health
Program.

9. Training. Supervisors will be trained by the 18th MDG Infection Control Officer on an annual
basis. Supervisors will ensure training of all employees prior to initial assignment to tasks where
occupational exposure may occur. Conduct the training in the following manner:

9.1. Training for Employees will include the following and an explanation of:

9.1.1. The OSHA standard for bloodborne pathogens.

9.1.2. Epidemiology and symptom of bloodborne diseases, and tuberculosis, if required by
occupation.

9.1.3. Modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens and tuberculosis, if potential for risk of
exposure exists.

9.1.4. This exposure control program will cover all major aspects (i.e. key points of the program,
lines of responsibility, and how the program will be implemented) and also explain how an
individual can obtain a copy of the program.

9.1.5. Procedures which might cause exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
materials.

9.1.6. Personal protective equipment available.

9.1.7. Post exposure evaluation and follow-up.

9.1.8. Signs and labels used.

9.1.9. Hepatitis B Vaccine Program.

9.1.10. All employees will receive annual refresher training. (Note: This training is to be conducted
20                                                      KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


within one year of the employee’s previous training.)

(Employers should list here if training will be conducted using video tapes, written material, etc.
Also the employer is to indicate who is responsible for conduction the training.)

THE OUTLINE FOR THE TRAINING MATERIAL IS LOCATED:

(List where the training materials are located.)

10. Record Keeping. All records required by the OSHA standard will be maintained by (All
records and documents are subject to the Privacy Act of 1974):

10.1. Document all training in the AF Form 55, Employee Health and Training (PA).

10.2. Unit supervisors should maintain copies of training plans and attendance rosters yearly. (Insert
name or department responsible for maintaining and securing records.)

      (All medical records, civilian and military, will be maintained by the 18th MDG Records
Section or 18th AMDS Flight Medicine)

      (Each organization is responsible for maintaining training records.)

11. Dates. All provisions required by the standard will be implemented by:

(Insert date for implementation of the provisions of the OSHA standard.)


Approved/Disapproved



                                              NCOIC/OIC Signature
                                              18th Medical Group Infection Control



                                              Public Health Officer
                                              18th Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Public Health
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                             21


                                          Attachment 3
                  BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN EXPOSURE PROTOCOL

A3.1. Health Care Worker (HCW) Responsibilities:
   A3.1.1. First Aid: Employee will immediately clean wound site with soap and water for 20
   minutes. Eyes and other mucous membranes will be flushed with water for 20 minutes. Notify
   supervisor and seek treatment from PCM. (Note: Patient must report to PCM within 2 hours of
   exposure.)
   A3.1.2. Initiate 18 WG Form 33, Blood and Body Fluid Exposure Incident (PA) and AF Form
   765, Medical Treatment Facility Incident Statement (PA). Provide these forms to the PCM at
   time of initial treatment.
   A3.1.3. Report to Public Health following initial treatment. Bring Forms 33 and 765 with you.
A3.2. Health Care Provider (HCP) Responsibilities:
   A3.2.1. If source patient is known:
       A3.2.1.1. Order the following tests for source patient Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAG),
       Human Immunodeficiency Virus (ensure civilian patients give consent), Anti-HCV.
       A3.2.1.2. If source patient is not infected with a BBP, further follow-up of exposed
       individual is not necessary.
       A3.2.1.3. Order the following tests for exposed individual: HBsAB, HIV, and Anti-HCV.
   A3.2.2. If source is unknown or refuses to be tested, order the following tests for exposed
   individuals: HBsAB (may run hepatitis panel, but at a minimum run the antibody to HBV), HIV
   (Initial, 6 Weeks, 12 Weeks, 6 Months), and Anti-HCV.
   A3.2.3. Follow HIV and HBV Post Exposure Prophylaxis Determination Charts (pages 22-23),
   as needed, to ensure exposed individuals receive proper post exposure treatment.
   A3.2.4. Send exposed individual to Public Health for follow-up.
   A3.2.5. Must provide a written evaluation within 15 days of lab close out.
22                                             KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


Figure A3.1. HIV Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Determination Chart.
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                  23


Figure A3.2. Hepatitis B Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Determination Chart.
24                                                     KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


                                            Attachment 4
DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD AND BODY SUBSTANCES SPILLS

A4.1. For spills containing large amounts of blood or other body substances, workers should first
remove visible organic matter with absorbent material (e.g., disposable paper towels discarded into
leak-proof or properly labeled containment), and then clean and decontaminate that area.
A4.2. Prompt removal and surface disinfection of an area contaminated by either blood or body
substances are sound infection control practices and OSHA requirements. HBV, HIV and HCV are
inactivated with a variety of germicides, which include quarternary ammonium compounds.
Commercially available germicides registered for use as “hospital disinfectants” with a
tuberculocidal claim (registered with the Environment Protection Agency) or intermediate-level
disinfectants, a solution of sodium hypochlorite (household chlorine bleach), prepared daily is an
inexpensive and effective broad-spectrum germicide. A 1:10 or 1:100 dilution of household bleach
is effective depending on the amount of organic matter. Appropriate personal protective equipment
(e.g., gloves and goggles) should be worn when preparing hydrochlorite solutions.
A4.3. Procedure:
     A4.3.1. Person cleaning the spill will wear gloves and personal protective equipment.
     A4.3.2. Remove the majority of residual organic matter and place in a leak-proof, properly
     labeled container.
     A4.3.3. Clean surface to remove residual organic matter.
     A4.3.4. Decontaminate the area with an approved germicidal.
A4.4. Absorb the Spill: Absorb the bulk of spilled material with disposable absorbent material
(paper towels, gauze pads, or if a small spill, sponge) prior to disinfecting. If the spill is large,
granular absorbent material like the one used to absorb caustic chemical spills may be used (e.g.,
kitty litter). Blot (do not wipe) up the spill allowing the fluids to be absorbed by the towels, etc.
After the absorption of the liquid, discard all materials into a biohazard waste bag.
A4.5. Flood the site or wipe down the spill site with disposable towels or sponge soaked in bleach to
make the site “glistening wet.” Allow the bleach solution to remain in contact with the infectious
material for 10 minutes. Absorb the disinfectant with paper towels and dispose of the paper towels
in a biohazard waste bag. Alternatively, the spill site may be permitted to air dry. Rinse the spill
site with water to remove a chemical residue. Dry the site to prevent slipping.
A4.6. Dispose of PIMS: Specimens of blood or other PIMs shall be double-bagged to prevent
leakage during collection, handling, processing, storage, transport, or shipping. The container for
storage, transport or shipping shall be closed prior to being stored, transported, or shipped and
labeled with the following text.

Table A4.1. LABEL.
BIOHAZARD TURN IN TAG
ORGANIZATION/WORK PLACE: ________________________________________________
DATE: ________________ TURNED IN BY: ________________________________________
CONTENTS: ____________________________________________________________________
KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009                                                                25


A4.7. If the contaminated material could puncture the primary container, the primary container shall
be placed within a secondary container which is puncture-resistant in addition to the above
characteristics. The PIMS container shall be transported in a secure manner outside the passenger
area of the transport vehicle (i.e. the closed trunk of the vehicle). Vehicles or equipment which may
become contaminated with blood or other PIMs shall be examined prior and shall be decontaminated
as necessary, unless the employer can demonstrate that decontamination of such equipment or
portions of such equipment is not feasible.
A4.8. The employer shall ensure the information is conveyed to all affected employees, as
appropriate, prior to handling, servicing, or shipping PIMS so that appropriate precautions will be
taken.
A4.9. Decontaminate reusable materials and equipment following above procedures.
A4.10. If clothing becomes contaminated with blood or body fluids, it should be removed as soon as
possible and placed in a biohazard bag, then disposed of or cleaned by a laundry capable of handling
blood contaminated clothing. The exposed skin area should be washed with soap and water.
A4.11. Dispose of the remaining disinfectant by pouring down the sanitary sewer.
A4.12. The above disinfecting solution is approximately a 1:10 dilution of household bleach.
Larger or smaller amounts may be made following this dilution rate.
26                                      KADENAABI44-102 12 AUGUST 2009


                               Attachment 5
                   BIOHAZARD LABEL AND TURN IN TAG

Figure A5.1. BIOHAZARD LABEL AND TURN IN TAG.
