BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        KADENA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 33-106
18TH WING
                                                                              3 AUGUST 2011

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                          CELLULAR TELEPHONE POLICY



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 18 WG/TCO                                                          Certified by: 18 CS/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Jason K. Sutton)
Supersedes:   18WGI33-106,                                                              Pages: 7
              21 October 2004


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resources
Management, AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Land Mobile Radios (LMR),
Cellular Telephone and the Military Affiliate Radio System, and AFI 33-111, Voice Systems
Management.       It provides guidance and implements instructions for individuals and
organizations requesting cellular phones for which usage is limited to official duties, from the
18th Communications Squadron. All personnel controlling these devices will ensure strict
accountability regarding usage and possession to avoid abuse and wasted resources. It applies to
all 18 WG and partner units, and members supported by the 18 WG. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the addition of the roles & responsibilities for the Resource Advisor and the Cell Phone
Liaison (CPL). It also explains the new process for requesting cellular telephone service.
 2                                                      KADENAABI33-106 3 AUGUST 2011


1. Cellular Telephone (CT) Use Policy.
     1.1. Acquisition of new CT devices. The use of cellular phones is restricted to personnel
     who require communications of an immediate nature that cannot be satisfied through the use
     of pagers or LMRs. Cellular phones will not be used for command and control. They may
     be used for administrative purposes only. The 18th Communications Squadron (18 CS)
     coordinates all new cellular phone service with Yokota Air Base (AB) contracting office
     (374 CONS).
     1.2. An occasional personal call on a CT is justified under some circumstances (e.g., call
     home to inform family when delayed by official business or in emergency situations).
     Personal calls on government cell phones must be the exception, not the rule. Morale,
     welfare and recreation calls are not authorized on CTs. Use a regular telephone (land lines)
     as a first priority when and where available. Cellular services are generally more expensive;
     limit their use.
     1.3. Special Telephone Features and Services.
        1.3.1. To manage and control the configuration of CTs, any new requirements (to include
        additions and/or upgrades) to service plans must be processed and approved using 18 CS
        request procedures.
        1.3.2. Global Access. This feature should only be considered if the CT will be used
        outside of Japan and the user fully understands the rates incurred by this service. Global
        Access service incurs higher rate charges for all data transfers, emails, and
        incoming/outgoing calls.
     1.4. Telephone Monitoring and Recording.
        1.4.1. The Air Force uses unsecured telecommunications systems such as telephones,
        cellular phones, radios, facsimile, pagers, computer networks and other wired or wireless
        electronic devices to conduct day-to-day official business. Adversaries can easily
        monitor these unsecured systems that could provide information on military capabilities,
        limitations, intentions and activities. See AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring
        and Assessment Program (TMAP), for further information.
        1.4.2. When issuing the CT, require personnel to sign a form that includes the following
        notice and consent statement: “Do not transmit classified information over unsecured
        telecommunications systems. Official DoD telecommunications systems are subject
        to monitoring. Using this telecommunications system or device constitutes consent
        to monitoring.” (A sample consent statement is provided in Attachment 2.) The signed
        forms will be retained by the CPL.
2. Requesting Cellular Telephone Services.
     2.1. All CT requests must be submitted with appropriate documentation in advance of
     purchase.
     2.2. Cellular telephones are funded by the requesting unit. Initial requests for CTs will be
     made by completing a DD Form 428, Communication Service Authorization, must be filled
     out with the requested information to include the unit’s Miscellaneous
     Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD), along with the Resource Advisor’s
KADENAABI33-106 3 AUGUST 2011                                                                 3


   signature. After being signed the RA will send the DD Form 428 to the 18 CS cell phone
   liaison at kadena.cellphones@kadena.af.mil for processing.
   2.3. 18 CS will forward requests to Yokota AB contracting office (374 CONS) who will
   process the request and forward the order to the appropriate CT vendor. The CT vendor will
   fulfill the order and deliver the product to the CPL, who will then contact the unit RA for
   pick up.
   2.4. CT orders take approximately 7 duty days to process once the CPL forwards your
   request to Yokota AB contracting office (374 CONS).
3. Billing for Unofficial Calls.
   3.1. Unit CTs with global access service are charged for all outgoing/incoming calls and data
   packet transfers when used outside of Japan.
   3.2. Unit TCOs and RAs will be responsible for monitoring CT bills to determine if toll
   charges for excessive usage are being incurred for unofficial business. Identified users will
   be directed to take appropriate action to reimburse the government.
   3.3. AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management, explains how to recover costs for unofficial
   calls. The TCO and RA will review all telephone data and inform the Telephone Operations
   Office (18 CS/SCOS) when abuse has taken place. The 18th CS Telephone Operations
   NCOIC will provide the unit TCO and RA with additional information pertaining to
   collection of funds if required. Unit RAs will be responsible for collection of unauthorized
   CT usage fees via a DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher.
4. Annual Requirements.
   4.1. An annual DD Form 428, Communication Service Authorization, for revalidation will
   be accomplished for each unit each September by the Unit RA to ensure CT service is still
   required by the unit.
   4.2. An annual payment revalidation will be accomplished at the beginning of every fiscal
   year using a DD Form 428. This form, provided by the CPL, must be filled out and signed
   by the unit RA. 18 CS will forward all DD Forms 428 to Yokota AB contracting office (374
   CONS) to ensure proper payment of CT bills. Since 18 CS/SCOS manages billing for CT
   service, it is important that    the Unit RA accomplishes this annual revalidation to avoid
   service termination for all of their squadron’s CTs. RAs must establish a MORD with
   adequate funds to cover their CT bills for the fiscal year. The MORD will be written onto
   the DD Form 428 and the Unit RA will send a copy of the MORD paperwork to
   kadena.cellphones@kadena.af.mil.
4                                                      KADENAABI33-106 3 AUGUST 2011




    4.3. The Unit RA will prepare the MORD by 1 October of each fiscal year and should be
    awaiting certification. If 18 CS/SCOS does not receive a unit’s MORD by close of business
    (COB) 15 October, all phones for that unit will be temporarily suspended. If no MORD is
    received by COB 31 October, all phones for that unit will be terminated. These deadlines are
    necessary to ensure prompt payment to the local CT vendors.




                                            MATTHEW H. MOLLOY
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander, 18th Wing
KADENAABI33-106 3 AUGUST 2011                                                             5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements Guidance and Procedures, 12 July
2010
AFI 10-701, Operations Security(OPSEC), 18 October 2007
AFI 33-104, Base-Level Planning and Implementation, 10 May 2001
AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management, 24 March 2005
AFI 33-201V1, Communications Security (COMSEC), 1 May 2005
AFI 33-201V2, Communications Security (COMSEC) User Requirements, 26 April 2005
AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP), 1 May 2006
AFI 33-230, Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program, 4 August 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May, 2003
Public Law 93-579, Privacy Act of 1974
Public Law 100-235, Computer Security Act of 1987
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 428, Communication Service Authorization
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
COB—Close of Business
CPL—Cell Phone Liaison
CT—Cellular Telephone
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
LMR—Land Mobile Radios
 6                                                   KADENAABI33-106 3 AUGUST 2011


MORD—Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document
RA—Resource Advisor

Terms
Cellular Telephone (CT)—Radio devices that offer telephone-like services through a wireless
commercial infrastructure.
Personal Wireless Communication Systems (PWCS) Custodian—Unit person responsible for
obtaining and managing PWCS equipment.
Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO)—The Communications Squadron
Commander. Ensures telephone service meets installation mission requirements.
Cell Phone Liaison (CPL)—Point of Contact between 18th Communications Squadron and
local CT providers (AU and NTT Docomo).
Resource Advisor (RA)—Unit person responsible for all financial purchases and transactions.
Telephone Control Officer (TCO)—Unit person responsible for ensuring all telephone
activities are monitored for abuse, as well as overseeing inventory for all CTs.
KADENAABI33-106 3 AUGUST 2011                                                                    7


                                          Attachment 2
              CUSTOMER BRIEFING AND ACCOUNTABILITY RECEIPT

A2.1. This briefing is intended to inform those using any government land mobile radio or
cellular telephones of the user responsibilities regarding its use.
A2.2. Cellular Telephone (CT) Costs: The using squadron is billed for each individual
cellular phone number. Locally billable charges include all calls placed from a CT but do not
include all incoming calls to a CT. CALLS PLACED FROM AND RECEIVED BY THE
KADENA CELLULAR PHONES MUST BE GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL IN NATURE. Our
service providers, Docomo and AU, bill Kadena AB at a commercial rate; therefore, personal
calls should not be placed using these phones, even if you are willing to reimburse the
government. Regular telephone (land lines) must be used as a first priority when and where
available. Emergency situations will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. Bills are reviewed
carefully for unofficial or questionable charges and you will be asked to validate that all charges
were official to your unit’s Telephone Control Officer. Be aware that some CTs have Global
Passport access, which allows the phones to be used internationally. This service is highly
expensive, as all calls coming in and going out are double charged. The Global Passport service
should be used very sparingly or preferably not at all.
A2.3. Security. Land mobile radios are not to be used for operational communications, which
may be considered sensitive or For Official Use Only. The weak land mobile radio signal is
susceptible to jamming, intrusion, interference and monitoring.          Although Federal
Communications Commission regulations specifically prohibit monitoring cellular telephone
frequencies within the CONUS, many inexpensive monitoring devices are available on the open
market.
A2.4. Fraud, Waste and Abuse. Using a government land mobile radio or a CT for other than
official government business without reimbursing the government is fraud. Using a CT in lieu of
other available government landlines, where available, is abuse. Using a CT when pagers and
radios will accomplish the mission is waste.
A2.5. Statements of Understanding. By signing below, I certify that I will not discuss
classified or sensitive information on either device. I acknowledge and understand the following
statement in accordance with AFI 33-219. “Do not transmit classified information over
unsecured telecommunications systems. Official DOD telecommunications systems are
subject to monitoring. Using this telecommunications system or device constitutes consent
to monitoring.” I acknowledge receipt of and responsibility for the items described herein. I
certify that all charges incurred on this cellular phone while it is signed out to me will be for
government official calls, unless otherwise noted.


User Name: ______________________________________

User Signature: ___________________________________ Date: _______________________
