BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       KADENA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 36-2502
18TH WING
                                                                            23 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                  SENIOR AIRMAN BELOW-
                                                                  THE-ZONE PROCEDURES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 18 FSS/FSM                                                        Certified by: 18 FSS/CC
                                                                (Col Kathleen E. Weatherspoon)
                                                                                      Pages: 19
Supersedes: 18WGI36-2502, 6 March 2012


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion
Programs, and Military Personnel Flight Memorandum (MPFM) 06-57, Senior Airman (SrA)
Below-the-Zone (BTZ) Promotion Program. This instruction establishes policy and procedure
governing the SrA BTZ process. This instruction applies to all units and staff agencies operating
on Kadena Air Base (AB). It does not apply to the Air National Guard and US Air Force
Reserve units and members. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Paragraph 5.1 Units may send two qualified and exceptional Airmen from their unit to
meet a CBB. Paragraph 5.5 Selectees (according to how many promotions are available) will
be determined by using lowest rank order scoring. Paragraph 5.7. Notify the promotions office
of nominee’s unavailability upon receipt of board schedule. Paragraph 6.6 Forward all AF
Form 1206, Nomination for Award, as prescribed in Paragraph 7.3 to the board president and
board members. Attachment 3: Military Bearing – 1.0 point max, Dress and Appearance – 1.0
 2                                                                         KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013


point max, Communication Skills – 1.0 point max, Thirteen points is the maximum point total a
nominee may receive using .25 increments when a face-to-face board is convened. Ten points is
the maximum point total a nominee may receive using .25 increments when a face-to-face board
is NOT convened. Attachment 7: Send two qualified and exceptional Airmen. Attachment 8:
Selection will be based on a combination of the AF Form 1206 (10 points) and the personal
board interview (3 points). Dress and Appearance: (1 point), Military Bearing: (1 point),
Communication Skills: (1 point), Instruct board members to not discuss results until official
release by the 18th Force Support Squadron (18 FSS).


        1.      Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               2
        2.      Eligibility. ..............................................................................................................    3
        3.      Quotas. ...................................................................................................................    3
        4.      Large Unit Selection Procedure. ............................................................................                   3
        5.      Central Base Board and Face-to-Face Evaluation Procedures. ..............................                                      3
        6.      Military Personnel Section Promotions Responsibilities. ......................................                                 4
        7.      Unit Responsibilities. .............................................................................................           5
        8.      Selection Process. ..................................................................................................          5

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 7

Attachment 2—QUOTA DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                                8

Attachment 3—BOARD MEMBER INSTRUCTIONS                                                                                                         9

Attachment 4—BOARD RECORDER SCORE VERIFICATION SHEET                                                                                          12

Attachment 5—AF FORM 1206 NOMINATION EXAMPLE                                                                                                  13

Attachment 6—LARGE UNIT MEMORANDUM                                                                                                            14

Attachment 7—ETP MEMORANDUM                                                                                                                   15

Attachment 8—GUIDE FOR BTZ PROMOTION BOARDS                                                                                                   16


1. Roles and Responsibilities.
     1.1. The 18th Wing Commander (18 WG/CC) is the convening authority for the Senior
     Airman Below-the-Zone (BTZ) promotion process.            The 18 WG/CC formally
     approves/disapproves selection board recommendations and may elect not to issue the full
     quota of promotions.
     1.2. The 18th Wing Command Chief (18 WG/CCC) provides program direction and
     guidance; to include coordination on all correspondence/information on the program. The 18
     WG/CCC coordinates with the Military Personnel Section on scheduling BTZ board dates
     annually and selects individuals to serve on the selection board no later than (NLT) 2 weeks
     prior to the board date.
KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 3


2. Eligibility.
   2.1. Senior Airmen must meet minimum requirements IAW AFI 36-2502, Table 2.1.
   2.2. The immediate commander must recommend Airmen for promotion that are fully
   qualified for promotion below-the-zone. Qualifications includes having 36 months time in
   service (TIS) and 20 months time in grade (TIG), or 28 months TIG; whichever occurs first.
   Senior Airmen must also possess a 3 skill level. Promotion to SrA BTZ (if selected) is 6
   months prior to the otherwise fully qualified promotion date.
3. Quotas.
   3.1. The Military Personnel Section (MPS) determines the base-wide quota distribution
   based on 15 percent of the total TIG and TIS eligible population listed on Parts I and II of the
   quarterly BTZ roster by means of a 15 percent selection rate each cycle (Attachment 2).
   The MPS Commander (MPS/CC) approves distribution. For supplemental BTZ promotion
   to SrA, the MPS/CC has approval authority for those not previously considered.
4. Large Unit Selection Procedure.
   4.1. Large units (seven or more eligibles) will receive quotas and make selections at unit
   level. Large units will establish procedures to ensure that the SrA BTZ board is fair,
   equitable and provides timely promotion consideration. Consider all individuals meeting TIS
   and TIG requirements; to include Airmen temporary duty (TDY), on leave, or have a
   projected reassignment with a report not later than (RNLTD) subsequent to the first
   processing month. Commanders review qualifications and decide whether to forward the
   member’s name to the SrA BTZ board for consideration.
   4.2. Once selections are made, large unit commanders underline the selectee(s) name and
   signs and date the BTZ eligibility listing. Return the BTZ roster and a signed memorandum
   from the commander (Attachment 6) identifying all selectees, alternates and non-selectees to
   the MPS no later than the given suspense date.
5. Central Base Board and Face-to-Face Evaluation Procedures.
   5.1. Small units (six or less eligible) will nominate to the CBB. Following the Exception to
   Policy Guidelines in Paragraph 5.8, units may send two qualified and exceptional Airmen
   from their unit to meet a CBB. Eligibles from across the installation, regardless of
   MAJCOM or unit affiliation, will compete at the CBB unless the unit they are assigned to
   has seven or more eligibles as stated above.
   5.2. The CBB and Face-to-Face Evaluation will be held the second week of the third month
   (i.e., March, June, September, and December) with coordination through the 18 WG/CCCE.
   5.3. The CBB will use a standard Kadena AB Form 89, Board Member Score Sheet (without
   face-to-face board) or Kadena AB Form 90, Board Member Score Sheet (with face-to-face
   board) (Attachment 3), to evaluate and grade the following categories: Leadership and Job
   Performance in Primary Duty, Significant Self Improvement, Base and Community
   Involvement, Military Bearing, Dress & Appearance, and Communication Skills.
   5.4. The CBB will be comprised of the following: board president (18 WG/CCC or
   designee), and three designated CMSgt or CMSgt select from each group to include a Group
   7 partner unit representative and the 353d Special Operations Group Command Chief (353
 4                                                     KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013


     SOG/CCC). 18 WG/CCC will rotate board membership to not exceed four (including the
     board president) when convening a face-to-face board.
     5.5. Each member of the board will score and rank order each record. The board recorder
     will combine the scores of each nominee. Selectees (according to how many promotions are
     available) will be determined by using lowest rank order scoring. If a tie exists, add the rank
     order score of the board president to determine final selectees.
     5.6. The CBB President will ensure fair and equal consideration of each nominee.
     5.7. All eligible members will meet the face-to-face evaluation unless unavailable due to
     TDY/deployment or scheduled leave. Notify the Promotions office of nominees’
     unavailability upon receipt of the board schedule. All absences must be pre-excused/pre-
     approved by the 18 WG/CCC. Members unable to meet the board will be given the average
     board score tallied from those who met the board. The CBB will include the face-to-face
     board results in the final scoring if at least half of the eligibles are available to meet the face-
     to-face board. See Attachment 8, Guide for Below-the-Zone Promotion Board, for
     preparation of the CBB Face-to-Face Evaluation.
     5.8. On rare occasions, small units may have two extremely deserving airmen, and may
     nominate both airmen to the CBB for consideration. In these cases, the unit commander
     must also submit an exception to policy (ETP) letter (Attachment 7) stating why these
     airmen are so exceptionally qualified to meet the CBB. Units that require ETP
     memorandums must accomplish them in a timely fashion and by the required suspense date.
     All ETP are routed to the 18 WG/CCC for approval. Memorandums must be complete by
     annotated suspense date or request will be denied. Memorandums should include, but not
     limited to the reason for submitting ETP and what makes the Airman extremely deserving.
     Route all ETP letters through your respective Group Chief prior to submission to the
     MPS Promotions Office.
6. Military Personnel Responsibilities.
     6.1. Act as the overall office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the Kadena AB BTZ
     Program and will be designated as the BTZ Recorder.
     6.2. Distribute BTZ unit eligibility rosters and notify squadrons of the number of promotion
     quotas to be considered by the central selection board two months prior to the board
     convening.
     6.3. Collect eligibility rosters and AF Form 1206 from squadrons.
     6.4. Identify date/time and location of board for the BTZ Face-to-Face Evaluation.
     6.5. Suspense small units to forward completed nomination packages on each nominee to the
     MPS no later than the 2 weeks prior to the board date. Submissions beyond the MPS
     suspense date will not be considered for CBB.
     6.6. Forward all AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, as prescribed in Paragraph 7.3 to
     the board president and board members.
     6.7. Prepare Kadena AB Form 90 IAW Attachment 3 for each board member to use to
     score the packages.
KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  5


   6.8. Suspense large units to provide selectee names no later than the day of the CBB or
   within prescribed time set forth.
   6.9. Coordinate changes as necessary with the 18 WG/CCC and nominating units.
   6.10. Prepare a memorandum based on the findings of the CBB. The memorandum should
   contain a list of board members, board recorder and order of merit (identifying
   select/nonselect status). This ensures alternates are identified in the event the selectee(s)
   become ineligible for promotion. The memorandum should be signed by the board president,
   and coordinated through the 18 WG/CC for approval.
   6.11. Project BTZ promotions as soon as possible in the Military Personnel Data System.
   6.12. Brief unit commanders on removal and withhold policies and procedures. If a BTZ
   selectee is removed and the first alternate selectee’s Date of Rank (DOR) is past due, they
   will receive the original BTZ DOR and an effective date of unit commander’s approval. The
   MPS will assist the Airman in applying for a retroactive promotion effective date to HQ
   AFPC/DPPPWM according to AFI 36-2502, Paragraph 1.13.
7. Unit Responsibilities.
   7.1. Units will consider all individuals meeting TIS and TIG requirements, even if they are
   TDY or on leave. For a member who is projected or may have already departed your unit,
   you are still required to consider them for BTZ promotion. If the report not later than date
   (RNLTD) is the first day of the first processing month (January, April, July, or October) or
   later, then they must be considered by the losing unit.
   7.2. All individuals appearing on Parts I and II of the eligibility listing must be “considered.”
   Squadron commanders or designee will use the unit eligibility list to identify nominees for
   BTZ promotion consideration. An appropriate evaluation process should be established to
   determine unit nominees by reviewing the Airmen’s Enlisted Performance Reports (EPR), if
   applicable, Personal Information File (PIF), supervisor or first sergeant recommendation, etc.
   7.3. AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, is prepared for each nominee (Attachment 5).
   The nomination will be 10 lines in length (including sub-bullets), not including headings.
   The AF Form 1206 will have the following headings: Leadership and Job Performance in
   Primary Duty, Significant Self Improvement, and Base and Community Involvement. The
   AF Form 1206 will cover accomplishments that occurred between the entry on active duty
   and the board cutoff date. The board will also consider any decoration citations. No other
   written information can be used for consideration. Submit all documents to the MPS. Note:
   Directed by HAF reports are no longer required or authorized.
   7.4. The unit commander will notify the MPS Promotions office no later than the promotion
   effective date of BTZ selects who possess negative quality indicators, i.e., 2 or less EPR
   rating, current unsatisfactory fitness assessment, possess an unfavorable information file
   (UIF), etc.
8. Selection Process.
   8.1. The board president and board members will administer the BTZ face-to-face evaluation
   (See Attachment 8).
6                                                  KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013


    8.2. Selection is based on the “whole person” concept by scoring the AF Form 1206 using
    (Attachment 3). All scores will be used by board members to provide a rank order of merit;
    1 thru XX to the board president with 1 being the best, 2 being the second best and so forth.
    Individual board members must break their own ties to develop a clear order of merit.
    8.3. The board recorder will complete the Board Recorder Score Verification Sheet
    (Attachment 4) and forward to the 18 WG/CC for approval along with the memorandum and
    the completed and signed Board Members’ Kadena AB Form 90.




                                            JAMES B. HECKER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                  7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, 21 June 1993
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs, 31 December 2009
AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide, 1 October 2013
AFPC MPFM 06-57, Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-Zone (BTZ) Promotion Program, 18
August 2006
Prescribed Forms
Kadena AB Form 89, Board Member Score Sheet (without face-to-face board)
Kadena AB Form 90, Board Member Score Sheet (with face-to-face board)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CBB—Central Base Board
IAW—In accordance with
BTZ—Below-the-Zone
DOR—Date of Rank
EPT—Exception to Policy
MPFM—Military Personnel Flight Memorandum
MPS—Military Personnel Section
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RNLTD—Report not later than date
TDY—Temporary Duty
TIG—Time in Grade
TIS—Time in Service
 8                                                 KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013


                                         Attachment 2
                                  QUOTA DISTRIBUTION

Figure A2.1. Quota Distribution

 QUOTAS: Quotas are based on 15 percent of the total TIG and TIS eligible population listed
 on Parts I and II of the quarterly BTZ roster. Note: Remove students and World Class Athletes
 from the eligible population; and do not include members listed on Part III in the eligible
 population. The MPF/CC determines quotas and obtains host wing commander approval (may
 delegate no lower than MPF/CC) before distribution to units. Quotas are computed and
 distributed as follows:

        Computation: Eligibles multiplied by 15 percent equals the quota
                     Example: 13 eligibles x 0.15 = 1.95, or 2 BTZ quotas
                     (Note: Fractions of 0.5 or higher are rounded up)

        Distribution: Eligibles        Quota         Eligibles      Quota
                       2-6              1            30-36           5
                         7-9             1            37-43           6
                       10-16             2            44-49           7
                       17-23             3            50-56           8
                       24-29             4            57-63           9

 Note: Units may not aggregate at the group level. Example: Medical Groups are divided into
 four units and each unit commander has promotion authority; therefore, they should not be
 considered by the group, but as individual units, and cannot be added together to make a large
 unit.
KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                         9


                                         Attachment 3
                            BOARD MEMBER INSTRUCTIONS

A3.1. Each package will be evaluated in the following areas with point values on the Kadena
AB Form 89 or Kadena AB Form 90 as indicated:
   A3.1.1. LEADERSHIP AND JOB PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY DUTIES – 6.0 point
   max.
   A3.1.2. SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT – 2.0 point max.
   A3.1.3. BASE OR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT – 2.0 point max.
   A3.1.4. MILITARY BEARING – 1.0 point max.
   A3.1.5. DRESS & APPEARANCE – 1.0 point max.
   A3.1.6. COMMUNICATION SKILLS – 1.0 point max.
   A3.1.7. Thirteen points is the maximum point total a nominee may receive using .25
   increments when a face-to-face board is convened.
   A3.1.8. Ten points is the maximum point total a nominee may receive using .25 increments
   when a face-to-face board is NOT convened.
A3.2. Using the criteria above, rank each package with 1 being the highest ranking.
 10                                         KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013


Figure A3.1. Kadena AB Form 89 (without face-to-face board) Example
KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013                                   11



Figure A3.2. Kadena AB Form 90 (with face-to-face board) Example
 12                                           KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013


                                     Attachment 4
                BOARD RECORDER SCORE VERIFICATION SHEET

Figure A4.1. Board Recorder Score Verification sheet
KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013                   13


                            Attachment 5
                 AF FORM 1206 NOMINATION EXAMPLE
 14                                                                 KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013


                                                       Attachment 6
                                        LARGE UNIT MEMORANDUM

Figure A6.1. Large Unit Memorandum
                                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                    DATE
MEMORANDUM FOR 18 FSS/FSMPD
FROM: 123 ABC SQ
SUBJECT: Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-Zone (BTZ) Promotion Board Results

1. The Airman Below-the-Zone Promotion Selection Board for the second quarter convened on 8 Jun 11. For this cycle, 23
Airmen First Class are eligible, and 3 were selected at the SrA BTZ board. The board membership consisted of:
           CMSgt John L. Doe                     123 ABC SQ                  Board President
           SMSgt Mary H. Lamb                    123 ABC SQ                  Board Member
           SMSgt Mick E. Moise                   123 ABC SQ                  Board Member
           MSgt Larry King                       123 ABC SQ                  Board Member

2. Based on the promotion quota, the board’s selectees are as indicated:

                                                                              PROJ PROM
 RANK, NAME                                  LAST 4 SSN           UNIT        DT                 Prim & Alt

 A1C NUMBER I. AIRMAN                        XXXXX1234            123 ABC           1-Aug-11     Selectee

 A1C NUMBER I. AIRMAN II                     XXXXX4321            123 ABC            15-Jul-11   Selectee

 A1C NUMBER I. AIRMAN III                    XXXXX5678            123 ABC          23-Aug-11     Selectee

 A1C NUMBER A. AIRMAN IV                     XXXXX8765            123 ABC             1-Jul-11   Alternate #1

 A1C NUMBER A. AIRMAN V                      XXXXX8900            123 ABC           23-Sep-11    Alternate #2

 A1C NUMBER A. AIRMAN VI                     XXXXX0098            123 ABC            25-Jul-11   Alternate #3

3. Request your approval of the above board proceedings.


                                                                     JAMES L. DOE, CMSgt, USAF
                                                                     Superintendent, 123 ABC Sq

Attachments:
BTZ Roster

1st Ind, 123 ABC/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR 18 FSS/FSMPD

Approved/Disapproved.
                                                                      JANE L. DOE, Col, USAF
                                                                      Commander, 123 ABC Sq

The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected under the Freedom of Information Act of 1966
 and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this PERSONAL INFORMATION may result in
                                                 criminal and/or civil penalties.
KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                          15


                                         Attachment 7
                                    ETP MEMORANDUM

Figure A7.1. ETP Memorandum

                                                                                      DATE
MEMORANDUM FOR 18 WG/CCC
FROM: 123 ABC/CC
SUBJECT: Exception to Policy (ETP) Guidelines for SrA BTZ nomination
1. On rare occasions, small units may have two qualified and exceptional Airmen, and may
nominate both Airmen to the CBB for consideration. In these cases, the unit commander must
also submit an exception to policy (ETP) letter stating why these Airmen are so exceptionally
qualified to meet the CBB. Units that require ETP memorandums must be accomplished in a
timely fashion and by the required suspense date.

2. All ETP are routed to the 18 WG/CCC for approval. Please complete by annotated suspense
date or request will be denied.

3.   Memorandums should include the reason for submitting ETP memorandums:

     a.) Unit would like to submit more than 1 eligible.
     b.) What makes the Airman extremely deserving

4. Route all ETP letters through your respective Group Chief prior to submission to the
promotions office.

5.   If you have any questions please call 123 ABS Sq at DSN: 634-1234

     Concur/Non-Concur

                                                    JAMES L. DOE, CMSgt, USAF
                                                    Group Superintendent

1st Ind, 123 ABC/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR 18 FSS/FSMPD
Approved/Disapproved

                                                    JANE L. DOE, Col, USAF
                                                    Commander, 123 ABC Sq
 16                                                KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013


                                         Attachment 8
                        GUIDE FOR BTZ PROMOTION BOARDS

Figure A8.1. Guide for BTZ Promotion Boards

Selection:
Selection will be based on a combination of the AF Form 1206 (10 points) and the personal
board interview (3 points).

a. Written Evaluation, AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award

Effective evaluation of the AF Form 1206 requires a detailed thought process; it’s challenging to
review nomination packages and determine who are the “Best of the Best.” Each board member
must remember it’s not the writer; it’s the accomplishment of the nominee which makes the
difference. Strong emphasis must be on initiative, achievement, and impact, not writing style.
When evaluating an AF Form 1206, the individual’s write-up cannot exceed                10 lines.
Attachment 5 contains the recommended distribution of lines. The total possible points that can
be awarded are 16 (10 points for the written package and 6 points for the board). There are only
three approved categories (listed below) that will be scored. Additionally, nomination
submissions in excess of the 10-line limit will not be scored beyond the 10 lines. Each line will
be evaluated on its own merit as it relates within the respective category. Board members have
the opportunity to award maximum points to each section and can score each category using
whole or half point increments. Board members must break all ties (normally accomplished by
Board President scoring) and cannot award points beyond the maximum points allocated for each
category.

Nomination Headings:
Leadership and Job Performance: (Maximum points - 6)
The individual’s primary duty accomplishments are the most important element of the
nomination package. This is the most difficult section to score because everyone does an
outstanding job in his or her area of expertise. Below are guidelines to assist board members in
differentiating the impact on the mission and leadership role.

       Innovative methods/programs developed, designed, implemented, and impact
       Process Improvement – cost savings, percentage improved or reduced
       Superior leadership or training skills
       Quantification and qualification of results
       Key additional duties with significant impact
       Wing working group or committee chair/member
       Higher HQ, service unique, or DoD involvement
       Unit/Wing/Group/command-level and higher awards (both individual and unit; deployed
       or homestation)
KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                             17


Significant Self Improvement: (Maximum points - 2)
The primary focus of this section is the individual’s professional and personal development and
how it benefits the respective service. The key factors to this category are: Individual
commitment level and personal sacrifice. You can judge this by answering the following
questions. How much time was expended? How much effort was involved? Was the
achievement done on duty or during off-duty time?
       Off-duty Education College (in-residence, on-line, correspondence classes, etc.)
       Upgrade Training (5-level completion, CDC progress, formal training courses, etc.)
       Advanced career field or Military Occupational Specialty training
       Readiness training
       Conference or symposiums related to job or career field/specialty (how nominee used
       information to improve process, mission impact, etc.)

Base and Community Involvement: (Maximum points -2)
This section rounds out the whole person concept. Unit and base activities/support should be
weighed more heavily on community involvement because they directly impact Team Kadena
and the surrounding community. Again, the individual’s commitment level and personal
sacrifice are the key factors in evaluating this section. How much time and effort was involved?
What was the amount of time committed to the achievement and the frequency? Did the member
participate or lead the effort?

       Involvement in professional organizations
       Key leadership position on executive council coupled by the achievement or results
       Color/Honor Guard and sustained participation
       Leadership position or role in community
       Special Olympics, Boy Scouts, Big Brother/Sister, etc. (Number of hours and frequency)
       Coaching sporting teams (squadron intramural teams, adult or youth programs, etc.)
       Participating in major community ceremonies such as unit member retirement,
       POW/MIA vigil, retreat, marched in community parade while in uniform (i.e., Veteran’s
       Day, Fourth of July, and Liberation Day)
       Base Sponsored Programs
       Quarterly/Annual Awards Committee

Dress and Appearance: (1 point)
Uniform: cleaned, pressed, and proper fitting.
Accouterments: properly placed on the uniform.
Jewelry: not more than three rings, correct earrings, no visible necklace, etc.
Decorations: ribbons in proper order, clean/serviceable condition.
Hair: appropriate style, length, color, approved ornamentation.

Military Bearing: (1 point)
Room entry: appropriate facing movements
Reporting: appropriate introduction.
Posture
 18                                                 KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013


Communication Skills: (1 point)
Pronunciation/Annunciation
Eye contact: Direct and impartial.
Demonstrates ability to organize thoughts
Speech: Appropriate rate, pitch, and volume
Non-verbals: Appropriate use of facial expressions, gestures

Note: The board president is responsible for contacting the board members to provide
instructions in regards to preparing board questions. The board president will task each of the
board members with a specific category (see below for categories). Board members are to
prepare three questions (two primary and one alternate) for their respective tasked board
category.

Board Guidelines: Questions will be opinionated, thought provoking, and designed to assess
the nominee’s ability to organize thoughts and articulate a response. Questions will come from
some or all of the following areas below:

AF News/Current National/World Events
General knowledge of current AF news or world events and their opinions regarding them (for
example: Operation IRAQI FREEDOM, Overseas Contingency Operations, Iran, Korea, CSAFs
5 priorities, CMSAF Viewpoints, etc.). Current Events will only cover the time period within
three days of the scheduled board date.

Unit/Individual Accomplishments and/or Leadership Challenges
Prepare questions to evaluate the nominee’s knowledge, involvement and impact on his or her
personal and/or unit's success and accomplishments--how his or her accomplishments/leadership
impacted the successes of their unit (this is an excellent opportunity to gather background
information on the nominee). The AF Form 1206 is a great resource for this.

Leadership Challenges
Scenario based questions on how the nominee would react/respond in handling specific
leadership situations (prepare scenarios based on the nominee’s rank and level of responsibility).

Military Customs, Courtesies, and Service/Enlisted Heritage/Airman’s Creed
Reference Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 36-2241, Professional Development Guide, Current
Edition, chapters that covers Enlisted History and Military Customs, Courtesies, and Protocol for
Special Events (applicable to SrA through TSgt). Ask opinionated questions based on customs
and courtesies, enlisted heritage, culture (i.e. “What does the Airman’s Creed mean to you?”)

Note: When required, the board president will facilitate open discussion to resolve any
disparities that could skew the scoring process. Resolution is required when the ranking order is
inconsistent with a winner based on total points (i.e., Warrior Jones has the most total points but
two of the three board members have another nominee ranked as their number 1).
KADENAABI36-2502 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                          19


Figure A8.2. Board President/Recorder Checklist

Pre-Board                                                                          Yes   No
Check room set up
Ensure greeter/board recorder are present
Introduce yourself to the board members and each other
Discuss board procedures and review questions

Conducting the Board
Welcome, congratulate, and put nominee at ease
Explain proceedings to nominee, define questions (1 each/opinionated)
Introduce yourself as board president, then your fellow board members by
rank, name, and unit
Encourage nominee to start by telling the board about themselves (career,
family, short/long-term goals, etc.)

Begin board questions

Completing the Board
Ask the nominee if they have any questions they would like to re-address or
closing comments they wish to make to the board members
Instruct the nominee not to discuss the questions or board process with anyone
as it may compromise the process and give others an unfair advantage
Offer closing congratulations
Dismiss nominee

Post-Board
Score nominees
Gather all Kadena AB form 90 and surplus documents
Instruct board members to not discuss results until official release by 18th FSS
Ensure room is left in neat and orderly manner
Provide final Kadena AB Form 89 or Kadena AB Form 90 to 18th Wing
Command Chief
