BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           KADENA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 32-9003
KADENA AIR BASE
                                                                                                                       4 MARCH 2013

                                                                                                                     Civil Engineering

                                                                                                 TENANT FARMING ON
                                                                                            18TH WING INSTALLATIONS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 718 CES/CEA                                                                                        Certified by: 718 CES/CC
                                                                                                           (Lt Col Ann Birchard)
                                                                                                                         Pages: 18




This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-90, Real Property Asset
Management. It is established to: (1) define procedures for granting access to property within
18th Wing (18 WG) installations for tenant farming; (2) assist tenant farmers in gaining access;
(3) outline the requirements that tenant farmers must adhere to in order to maintain access; and,
(4) establish tenant farming oversight processes. The guidelines within this instruction are
developed to comply with military mission requirements, installation security, environmental and
safety requirements. This instruction is applicable to all 18 WG and partner units, and all tenant
farmers requiring access to private property within 18 WG installations. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the
Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847
from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).




       1.      Background. ...........................................................................................................   2
       2.      Tenant Farmer Access Approval Process. .............................................................                      2
       3.      Tenant Farmer Requirements and Restrictions. .....................................................                        4
 2                                                               KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013


        4.      Access of Tenant Farming Plots by 18 WG Personnel. .........................................    5

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                  6

Attachment 2—TENANT FARMER ACCESS APPROVAL PROCESS                                                              7

Attachment 3—TENANT FARMING ACCESS AGREEMENT                                                                    8

Attachment 4—GUIDE FOR REQUESTING FOR TENANT FARMING BASE PASS                                                 14

Attachment 5—SAMPLE REQUEST LETTER FOR TENANT FARMING BASE PASS                                                17


1. Background.
     1.1. Kadena Air Base and other installations operated by the 18 WG on Okinawa, Japan,
     reside on property owned, occupied, and farmed by individual landowners prior to the
     establishment of military installations by American military forces during World War II. As
     mission requirements allow and when requested by the local city offices with jurisdiction
     over the land parcels, access has historically been granted by the 18 WG to tenants for the
     purpose of crop farming. For the purposes of this instruction, a tenant farmer is defined as a
     farmer sponsored by the applicable city office and approved by the 18 WG who engages in or
     desires to engage in crop farming within installations on Okinawa, Japan, that are
     administered by the 18 WG.
     1.2. There are various security, fire, environmental, and safety concerns associated with
     granting tenant farmers access to 18 WG installations. Lack of past oversight of the tenant
     farming operations has led to issues such as fires, illegal dumping, construction of
     unauthorized structures, and expansion of farming plots. The purpose of this instruction is to
     resolve past issues associated with tenant farming by clearly defining the roles and
     responsibilities of a tenant farmer and 18 WG organizations involved in the oversight of
     tenant farming.
2. Tenant Farmer Access Approval Process.
     2.1. The process for approving tenant farmer access to private property on 18 WG
     installations is depicted graphically on Attachment 2 of this instruction and detailed in the
     text of the following sections.
     2.2. The process to request tenant farmer access to private property on 18 WG installations
     may only be initiated by the local city with appropriate jurisdiction over the land parcel to be
     farmed. The local city office serves as the sponsor and liaison for the tenant farmer.
     Requests for tenant farmer access that are not channeled through the local city office will be
     denied. The local city office with support of the Government of Japan (i.e, Okinawa Defense
     Bureau) is responsible for obtaining appropriate documentation from the tenant farmer and
     for verifying the tenant farmer’s basis for access to any specific plot of land.
     2.3. The tenant farmer must provide the local city office with the following:
        2.3.1. A signed tenant farming access agreement (see Attachment 3).
        2.3.2. A completed 5th Air Force (5 AF) Form 98EJ, Standard Pass, Request Packet (see
        Attachments 4 and 5).
KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013                                                                    3


     2.3.3. The tenant farmer’s vehicle identification information.
  2.4. The local city must submit a map of the property showing the boundaries of the parcel
  to be farmed. The local city office must route the property map and all the information
  specified in paragraph 2.3. to the 718th Civil Engineer Squadron, Asset Management Flight
  (718 CES/CEA).
  2.5. Upon receipt of the tenant farmer base access submittal from the local city office, the
  18 WG will review the access request sequentially among the following three units: (1)
  718 CES/CEA; (2) 18th Munitions Squadron, Systems Flight (18 MUNS/MXWKC) (if the
  request is within the munitions storage area); and (3) 18th Security Forces Squadron, Pass
  and Registration (18 SFS/S5B).
     2.5.1. The 718 CES/CEA will ensure that current and planned land use at the site is
     compatible with farming, that current operations at the farming parcel are in accordance
     with real estate and environmental quality requirements, and update the 18 WG’s
     geographic information system to ensure tracking of parcel boundaries. The 718
     CES/CEA will maintain the signed access agreements and all documentation of parcel
     boundaries provided by local city offices.
     2.5.2. For tenant farmer access to the Kadena Munitions Storage Area, the appropriate
     local city office will submit an entry authorization list (EAL) request to 718 CES/CEA
     fifteen (15) business days prior to expiration as per the process described in paragraphs
     2.2. through 2.4. If the tenant farmer has a current base pass, only the EAL request is
     required. The EALs expire every year and tenant farmers requiring continued access to
     the munitions storage area will need to undertake the EAL renewal process every year.
     2.5.3. The 18 SFS/S5B will verify that the tenant farmer requesting access is not
     prohibited from entering 18 WG installations, enter the individual into Defense Biometric
     Identification System (DBIDS), and will approve an access pass for a period of no more
     than one (1) year. The 18 SFS must receive an approved 5 AF Form 98EJ request packet
     from the applicable city office to issue access passes.
  2.6. If at any point in the review process an organization denies the access request, they will
  inform 718 CES/CEA and other units that have previously approved the request of why the
  request is being denied. For disapproval, the 718 CES/CEA will provide advanced notice to
  the 18th Mission Support Group Commander (18 MSG/CC) and the 18th Wing Public
  Affairs Office (18 WG/PA) and then notify the appropriate local city office. Otherwise, upon
  being informed of approval, 718 CES/CEA will notify the local city office that the request
  has been approved and a base pass will be issued at the Gate 1 Pass and Registration Office.
  2.7. If a tenant farmer is found to be in violation of the requirements of this agreement,
  718 CES/CEA will provide written notification detailing the items that must be corrected.
  The farmer will be granted ten (10) days to correct the deficiencies. Under certain
  circumstances and on a case-by-case basis, 718 CES/CEA may grant the tenant farmer more
  than ten (10) days to correct the deficiencies. If a violation is not corrected within the 10-day
  period, the farmer will be notified that all items must be removed from the property within 5
  days. At the end of that 5-day period, the farmer’s pass will be revoked. Nothing in this
  paragraph limits 18 WG personnel from immediately revoking a tenant farmer’s access if
  security or safety warrants such revocation.
 4                                                           KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013


3. Tenant Farmer Requirements and Restrictions.
     3.1. The requirements that all tenant farmers must comply with in order to maintain access to
     18 WG installations are detailed within this section. Additionally, these requirements are
     provided in English and Japanese on Attachment 3 of this instruction. Attachment 3 is a
     “Tenant Farming Access Agreement” that must be signed by all tenant farmers desiring
     access to 18 WG installations. The procedures for submitting Attachment 3 are detailed in
     Section 2. Periodic inspections of tenant farming operations by security forces, real property,
     fire, safety and environmental personnel may occur. Failure to comply with the provisions of
     the “Tenant Farming Access Agreement” will result in revoking access for any tenant
     farmer(s) found in violation of the agreement as detailed in paragraph 2.7
     3.2. General Requirements and Restrictions. The following requirements and restrictions
     apply to all tenant farming operations on 18 WG installations:
        3.2.1. The 18 WG reserves the right to temporarily or permanently terminate the tenant
        farmer’s use of the parcel when necessary for official purposes.
        3.2.2. Farmers will not expand their allocated parcel in any direction.
        3.2.3. Permanent construction of any type will not be allowed. The only structures
        permitted are temporary structures that serve only for shade and protection from rain.
        3.2.4. Farmers will not remain on the parcel overnight.
        3.2.5. Nothing will be planted within 10 meters of perimeter fences and major roadways.
        3.2.6. Each tenant farmer will post a bilingual sign at the entrance to his or her planted
        area stating name and telephone number, if available.
        3.2.7. Vehicles will not be left on site when the farmer leaves the parcel.
        3.2.8. Flammable liquids will not be stored in glass or plastic containers; only metal cans
        designed for such storage will be used and the quantity will be limited to 40 liters.
        3.2.9. All farm vehicles and equipment will be maintained in a serviceable condition
        (lights, safety devices, etc.). All inoperative vehicles and equipment will be removed
        from the area.
        3.2.10. All litter and decaying or dead vegetation will be removed daily and disposed of
        off the installation.
        3.2.11. Fires of any kind are strictly prohibited.
        3.2.12. Animals are not permitted unattended overnight.
        3.2.13. Farmers will remove or secure any loose objects from their plot whenever
        Tropical Cyclone Condition of Readiness (TCCOR) 3 is announced.
        3.2.14. All persons are prohibited from entering areas determined to be dangerous or
        hazardous during typhoons or other peacetime emergencies.
        3.2.15. In case of increased security requirements because of terrorist or local threat
        conditions, personnel may be denied entry until the threat has diminished.
        3.2.16. Farmers are expected to cooperate fully with the Air Force in investigating and
        addressing violations of this instruction. The Air Force reserves the right to take action
KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013                                                                 5


      against any person who violates the terms and conditions of this instruction or other
      Department of Defense (DoD), Air Force, or installation instructions.
      3.2.17. Farmers should immediately report incidents of unauthorized access, illegal
      dumping of trash, or other violations of these requirements to the 18 SFS/S5B at 098-
      961-1033, by calling 718 CES/CEA at 098-961-2461, or by calling the local city office.
   3.3. Munitions Storage Area Requirements and Restrictions. In addition to the general
   requirements and restrictions listed above, the following requirements and restrictions apply
   to all tenant farming operations within or adjacent to the munitions storage area:
      3.3.1. Notification of Risk. Tenant farmers are continuously exposed to various hazards
      at less than the required separation distance for public exposure to a potential explosive
      site. These risks shall include, but not be limited to, injury or damage to property or
      persons resulting from blast, overpressure, airborne fragmentation and burning, and the
      condition of the premises in their natural state or as they are used by the government in
      the course of its activities.
      3.3.2. All farmers requiring access to the munitions storage area are responsible for
      directly adhering to the security and safety policies of the 18th Munitions Squadron (18
      MUNS).
      3.3.3. Persons entitled access must use Gate 26 (Farmers’ Gate) to enter the munitions
      storage area. This gate will be manned by security forces personnel, and opened daily
      from 0600-1800. All personnel will be required to sign in and out on the visitor's log and
      receive a farmer’s pass.
      3.3.4. Personnel will depart the munitions storage area before 1800 hours (1900 during
      February – March and October – November harvest seasons). If Farmers’ Gate has
      closed, proceed to Gate 19 to exit the area. Under no conditions will overnight stays
      occur.
      3.3.5. All farmers will have a class 5 BC-type fire extinguisher while working in the
      munitions storage area.
      3.3.6. When Tropical Cyclone Condition of Readiness 2 (TCCOR 2) has been declared,
      or at the installation commander's discretion, the Farmers’ Gate will be closed. This gate
      will remain closed until the "ALL CLEAR" has been given and the damage assessment
      (if any) is completed.
4. Access of Tenant Farming Plots by 18 WG Personnel.
   4.1. The 18 WG personnel in the performance of their official duties may access tenant
   farming plots at any time as required by those official duties.




                                           MATTHEW H. MOLLOY
                                           Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                    KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-90, Real Property Asset Management, 6 August 2007
AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property, 19 August 1997
JEGS, Japanese Environmental Governing Standards, November 2010
USFJI 32-7, United States Forces, Japan Real Estate, 15 March 2000
Adopted Forms
5 AF Form 98EJ, Standard Pass
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
USFJ Form 196bEJ, Personal History Statement (Part B - Personal Security Information)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
18MSG/CC—18th Mission Support Group Commander
18MUNS—18th Munitions Squadron
18MUNS/MXWKC—18th Munitions Squadron, Systems Flight
18SFS/S5B—18th Security Forces Squadron, Pass and Registration
18WG—18th Wing
18WG/PA—18th Wing Public Affairs Office
5AF—5th Air Force
718CES/CEA—718th Civil Engineer Squadron, Asset Management Flight
AF—Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DBIDS—Defense Biometric Identification System
EAL—Entry Authorization List
TCCOR—Tropical Cyclone Condition of Readiness

Terms
Tenant Farmer— For the purposes of this instruction a tenant farmer is defined as a farmer
sponsored by the applicable city office and approved by the 18 WG who engages in or desires to
engage in crop farming within installations on Okinawa, Japan, that are administered the 18 WG.
Attachment 2

TENANT FARMER ACCESS APPROVAL PROCESS

Figure A2.1. Tenant Farmer Access Approval Process
                                             Attachment 3
                        TENANT FARMING ACCESS AGREEMENT

Figure A3.1. Tenant Farming Access Agreement
                        TENANT FARMING ACCESS AGREEMENT

This agreement must be signed in order to obtain access to 18 WG installations. Periodic
inspections of tenant farming operations by 18 WG security forces, real property, fire, safety and
environmental personnel may occur.

General Requirements and Restrictions. The following requirements and restrictions apply to
all tenant farming operations on 18 WG installations:

The 18 WG reserves the right to temporarily or permanently terminate the tenant farmer’s use of
the parcel when necessary for official purposes. Tenant farmers must comply with the 18 WG
needs and cannot claim any right for continued land use.

Farmers will not expand their allocated parcel in any direction.

Permanent construction of any type will not be allowed. The only structures permitted are
temporary structures that serve only for shade and protection from rain.

Farmers will not remain on the parcel overnight.

Nothing will be planted within 10 meters of perimeter fences and major roadways.

Each tenant farmer will post a bilingual sign at the entrance to his or her planted area stating
name and telephone number, if available.

Vehicles will not be left on site when the farmer leaves the parcel.

Flammable liquids will not be stored in glass or plastic containers; only metal cans designed for
such storage will be used and the quantity will be limited to 40 liters.

All farm vehicles and equipment will be maintained in a serviceable condition (lights, safety
devices, etc.). All inoperative vehicles and equipment will be removed from the area.

All litter and decaying or dead vegetation will be removed from the area and disposed of off the
installation.

Fires of any kind are strictly prohibited.

Animals are not permitted unattended overnight.

Farmers will remove or secure any loose objects from their plot whenever Tropical Cyclone
KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013                                                                         9


Condition of Readiness 3 (TCCOR 3) is announced.

All persons are prohibited from entering areas determined to be dangerous or hazardous during

typhoons or other peacetime emergencies.

In case of increased security requirements because of terrorist or local threat conditions,
personnel may be denied entry until the threat has diminished.

Farmers are expected to cooperate fully with the Air Force in investigating and addressing
violations of this instruction. The Air Force reserves the right to take action against any person
who violates the terms and conditions of this instruction or other Department of Defense (DoD),
Air Force, or installation instructions.

Farmers should immediately report incidents of unauthorized access, illegal dumping of trash, or
other violations of these requirements to the 18th Security Forces (18 SFS/S5B) at 098-961-
1033, by calling the Asset Management Flight (718 CES/CEA) at 098-961-2461, or by calling
the local city office.

Munitions Storage Area Requirements and Restrictions. In addition to the general
requirements and restrictions listed above, the following requirements and restrictions apply to
all tenant farming operations within or adjacent to the Munitions Storage Area:

Notification of Risk. Tenant Farmers are continuously exposed to various hazards at less than
the required separation distance for public exposure to a potential explosive site. These risks
shall include, but not be limited to, injury or damage to property or persons resulting from blast,
overpressure, airborne fragmentation and burning, and the condition of the premises in their
natural state or as they are used by the government in the course of its activities.

All farmers requiring access to the munitions storage area are responsible for directly adhering to
the security and safety policies of the 18th Munitions Squadron.

Persons entitled access must use Gate 26 (Farmers’ Gate) to enter the munitions storage area.
This gate will be manned by security forces personnel, and opened daily from 0600-1800. All
personnel will be required to sign in and out on the visitor's log and receive a farmer’s pass.

Personnel will depart the munitions storage area before 1800 hours (1900 during February –
March and October – November harvest seasons). If Farmers’ Gate has closed, proceed to Gate
19 to exit the area. Under no conditions will overnight stays occur.

All farmers will have a class 5 BC-type fire extinguisher while working in the munitions
storage area.

When Tropical Cyclone Condition of Readiness 2 (TCCOR 2) has been declared, or at the
installation commander's discretion, the Farmers’ Gate will be closed. This gate will remain
closed until the "ALL CLEAR" has been given and the damage assessment (if any) is completed.
 10                                                  KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013



Failure to comply with the provisions of this agreement will result in revoking access for
any tenant farmer(s) found in violation of the agreement.

Tenant Farmer’s Name: ______________________________________

Tenant Farmer’s Signature/Inkan: ____________________________ Date: ______________
KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013               11



                                別紙 3

                        借用農地への入域同意書



第十八航空団施設への入域にはこの同意書への署名が求められる。 借用農地において
は第十八憲兵中隊、不動産管理課、消防隊,安全部及び環境保全課による定期検査の可
能性がある。



一般的要件及び制約 以下の要件及び制約が、第十八航空団施設内の全ての借用農地に
おける農作業に対して適用される。

第 18 航空団は、公用のため必要があると認める場合は、借用農地農耕者による農地使
用を一時的または永久に差し止める権限を留保する。借用農地農耕者は、第 18 航空団
の要求に常に従うものとし、土地の継続使用に関して、第 18 航空団に対し如何なる権
利も主張することができない。

農耕者は割り当てられた土地を、いかなる方向にも拡張してはならない。


永久的工作物については、いかなるものも建築することはできない。但し、雨、日光をさえぎる目
的の仮設工作物に限っては許可することができる。


農耕者は割り当てられた土地に夜通し留まってはならない。



フェンスや車道から１０メートル以内に、いかなる物も植えてはならない。


農耕者は各人の農地の入口に、氏名及び電話番号(所有する場合)を記載した日英両文の標識を設置
すること。


農耕者が農地を離れる場合には車両を放置してはならない。



可燃性液体をガラスやプラスティック容器に保管してはならない。 可燃性液体を保管
する目的で設計された金属製の容器のみを用いる事とし、その容量は４０リットルを上
12                                KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013


限とする。



全ての農耕用車両及び装備類(電灯、安全装置等)は、使用可能な状態に維持されなけれ
ばならない。 使用出来ない車両及び装備類は全て農地から撤去しなければならない。



ゴミや腐敗物又は枯れた農作物は農地から撤去され、処分しなければならない。



あらゆる類の火気を厳禁とする。


夜間、動物のみを無人で放置することを禁ずる。


TC-3 （熱帯性低気圧状態のレベル３）が発令された場合、農耕者は農地における飛
ばされそうな物を固定若しくは撤去しなければならない。



何人たりとも台風来襲時あるいは平時の緊急時に危険又は有害とされる地域へ立ち入っ
てはならない。



テロリスト又はその他の脅威に対する治安維持要件が強化された場合、その状態が解除
されるまで入域が許可されない可能性がある。



農耕者は、この規則に対する違反の調査や違反の発生報告に関し、空軍へ全面的に協力
する事を期待される。本規則、あるいは国防省、空軍、または施設の規則に反したいか
なる個人に対し、空軍は措置を取る権利を有するものとする。



農耕者は不法侵入、ゴミの不法投棄やその他の規則違反を, 第十八憲兵中隊（18
SFS/S5B）
電話番号 098-961-1033、又は資産管理部（718 CES/CEA） 電話番号 098-961-2461 へと
速やかに報告しなければならない。



弾薬庫における要件及び制約 上記の一般的要件及び制約に加え、以下の要件と制約が
KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013                   13


弾薬庫近接地における借用農耕地における農作業へと適用される。



危険性の告知 (弾薬庫内にある)潜在的に爆発の可能性のある箇所から一定の距離を置
くことを求められている範囲内に借用農耕者が立ち入っている場合、借用農耕者は継続
的に様々な危機性にさらされている。この場合の危険性とは爆風、強い風圧、破裂片の
飛散、火傷などがあるが、これだけに限定されない。また、土地が自然の状態で、ある
いは米国政府の運用活動のため使用されている状況下においての危険性を借用農耕者は
受け入れている。

弾薬庫に入域する必要のある全ての農耕者は,           第十八弾薬中隊の治安と安全に関する
方針を遵守する責任を負う。

許可された者が弾薬庫へと入域する際には、第 26 ゲート(農耕者用ゲート)を利用しな
ければならない。このゲートは憲兵隊により人員が配置され、毎日午前 6 時から午後 6
時まで開門される。全ての者は入域者リストに出入域を記録し、農耕者パスを受領す
る。

農耕者は弾薬庫から午後６時までに出域しなければならない。収穫期（2 月から 3 月及
び 10 月から 11 月）は午後 7 時までとする。もし農耕者用ゲートが閉門している場合に
は、第 19 ゲートから出域しなければならない。いかなる場合にも夜通し留まる事は認
められない。

弾薬庫内で農作業を行う際、すべての農耕者は 5BC 型消火器（油・ガソリン・電気火災
用の小型消火器）を携帯しなければならない。

TC-２（熱帯性低気圧状態のレベル２）が発令された場合や施設司令官の裁量により、
農耕者用ゲートは閉門される。 このゲートは「オール・クリヤー（全面解除）」が宣
言され、被害の査定が終了するまで開門されない。



この合意書に記載される事柄の遵守違反が発覚し、その事実が明らかになった場合いか
なる借用農耕者もその入域許可が取り消される。



借用農地農耕者氏名：

借用農地農耕者署名／印鑑                            日付：
 14                                                     KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013


                                          Attachment 4
           GUIDE FOR REQUESTING FOR TENANT FARMING BASE PASS

Figure A4.1. Guide for Requesting Tenant Farming Base Pass
FIRST TIME REQUEST:
(2) Letters of Request (one original and one copy)
        Must be typed in the proper format. See Attachment 4 for a sample letter.
        Must be signed by authorized local city official.

(1) Copy of driver’s license (List)

(1) Koseki-Shohon
       Requester is required to obtain a certified copy of family register.
       Similar to birth certificate.

(1) USFJ Form 196bEJ, Personal History Statement (Part B - Personal Security Information)
       May be hand written or typed. Must be legible and complete.
       Local nationals required to complete one side in Kanji and the other in English.
       US Citizens and Third Country Nationals are required to complete only in English.
       Paper copies are available at the Kadena Gate 1 Pass and Registration office.

(1) Resume

All first time requesters must have in their possession some form of identification.
        (i.e., health card, driver’s license, passport)

RENEWING A PASS:
To renew, submit a new letter of request with all pertinent information (See Above)

LOST PASSES:
(2) Letters of Request (one original and one copy)
        Must state circumstances regarding the loss of the pass.
        Must be signed by authorized local city official.

(1) Original Copy of Police Report

All requesters for re-issued passes must have in their possession some form of identification.
       (i.e., health card, driver’s license, passport)

HELPFUL NUMBERS:
18 SFS/S5B – Japanese Pass Section            098-961-2604
18 SFS/S5B – NCOIC                            098-961-1033
KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013                           15




                                別紙 4

                      借用農耕地パス申請の手引き



初回申請時

申請書２部（原本とその写し）

     適切な書式にて作成される事とする。                 見本については別紙４を参照。

     認可された地方自治体当局により調印される事とする。

運転免許証の写し１部          （リスト）

戸籍抄本１部

     申請者は戸籍謄本１部を入手する事が求められる。

     出生証明に類似する。

USFJ 書式   196ｂEJ   （個人経歴書）１部

     手書き或いはタイプライターにより記載。読みやす文字で必要事項を全て記入。

     地元住民は日英両文（表裏の別）で記入する。

     米国民及び第三国国民は英語でのみ記入する。

     用紙は第一ゲートのパス登録事務所にて入手可能。



履歴書１部



全ての初回申請者は何らかの身分証明を持参する事。（例                   健康保険証、運転免許証、
パスポート）



パスの更新

更新に際し、新たに申請書と上記の全ての関連情報を添えて提出する。
16                            KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013



パスの紛失

申請書２部 （原本と写し）

     パス紛失のいきさつを記述。

     認可された地方自治体当局により調印される事とする。



警察報告書の原本（１部）

全てのパス再発行申請者は何らかの身分証明書を持参する事。             （例   健康保険証、運
転免許証、パスポート）



（憲兵隊）電話番号

18 SFS／S5B 日本人パス発行所   098-961-2604

18 SFS／S5B 先任下士官      098-961-1033
KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013                                                                                     17


                                                 Attachment 5
            SAMPLE REQUEST LETTER FOR TENANT FARMING BASE PASS

Figure A5.1. Sample Request Letter for Tenant Farming Base Pass

MEMORANDUM FOR 718 CES/CEA                                                                  DATE

FROM: (Name of Authorized Sponsoring City Office)

SUBJECT: 5 AF Form 98EJ, Standard Pass

1. On behalf of the (Name of Authorized Sponsoring City Office), I request a 5 AF Form 98EJ, Standard
Pass, for NAME. Below I have provided all required information and enclosed all supporting documents.

2. Required Information:

   a. Reason for installation access: Tenant Farming

    b. Installations needing access: Kadena AB
   (If required access is needed to other installations, this letter must justify the need and the letter must routed
through that installation’s pass & ID office)

  c. Specific days and times needing access: Daily, 0600 - 1800 hours. (1900 during February – March and
October – November harvest seasons).

   d. Escort authority: None

   e. Additional information:

      (1) Name: LAST NAME, First name

      (2) Date of Birth: Day Month Year

      (3) Current Address: City, Street

      (4) Permanent Address: City, Street

      (5) Disclosure of any previous violations of the law:

3. The individual has signed a tenant farming access agreement.

4. If further information is required, please contact me at (Phone number of Authorized Sponsoring City
Office).




                                                               (NAME)
                                                               (Title of City Official)
 18                                                        KADENAABI32-9003 4 MARCH 2013



1st Ind, 718 CES/CEA

MEMORANDUM FOR 18 MUNS

Approved/Disapproved.


                                                        NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                        Real Property Specialist, 718 CES/CEA

2nd Ind, 18 MUNS

MEMORANDUM FOR 18 SFS/S5

Approved/Disapproved.


                                                        NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                        Duty Title, 18 MUNS

3rd Ind, 18 SFS/S5

MEMORANDUM FOR 18 SFS/S5B

The attached personnel/list of personnel was checked against the Kadena AB Barment Roster and SFMIS,
there is / there is no derogatory information on file.


                                                        NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                        Pass and Registration Clerk


4th Ind, 18 SFS/S5B

MEMORANDUM FOR 18 MSG/CD

Approved/Disapproved.


                                                        NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                        NCOIC, Pass and Registration

5th Ind, 18 MSG/CD

MEMORANDUM FOR Name of Authorized Sponsoring City Office

Approved/Disapproved.


                                                        NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                        Deputy Commander, 18th Mission Support Group
