BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER             KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 90-102
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING (AETC)               6 FEBRUARY 2007

                                                                           Specialty Management

                                         MANAGEMENT OF DISTINGUISHED VISITORS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the Keesler AFB WWW site,
                Forms and Publications at:
                https://wwwmil.keesler.af.mil/pubs/index.html.
RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 81 TRW/CCP                                Certified by: 81 TRW/XP (Maj Greg Kendrick)
Supersedes Keesler AFB Instruction 90-102, 8 Feb 99.                              Pages: 7

This instruction implements AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, and establishes areas of
responsibility and procedures for hosting distinguished visitors to Keesler Air Force Base and
provides guidance for planning such visits. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will
convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
Attachment 1 is a glossary of references and supporting information. This instruction applies to
all organizations on Keesler Air Force Base.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes were made to
delete the requirement for Keesler AFB Form 78, Request or Notification of Official Visitor, and
to incorporate electronic processing for notification of official visitors to Keesler AFB.

1. General Instructions for Reporting:

1.1. For self-invited visits, or those visits resulting when a DV (as defined in Attachment 1,
Terms) expresses a desire to visit Keesler, the activity first notified of the visit will coordinate
approval through their chain of command. At a minimum, this will include the squadron and
group commanders, as well as Wing Protocol (for informational purposes). Visits that impact the
entire wing, involve general officers or civilian equivalents, or require wing commander or vice
commander involvement will be coordinated up to the wing commander or vice commander.

1.2. For Keesler-initiated visits, or those visits occurring as a result of a Keesler organization’s
invitation to a DV (other than those for the 81 TRG Guest Speaker Program), the organization
issuing the invitation will complete approval coordination prior to extending the invitation to the
DV.
2                                          Keesler AFB Instruction 90-102         6 February 2007



1.3. The office of primary responsibility (OPR) will complete a suggested visit itinerary and
forward it through their chain of command as part of the approval process. The Protocol Office
will prepare itineraries for wing-level visitors, with assistance from group executive officers and
their appointed project officers.

1.4. OPRs will contact 81 TRW/CCP to arrange lodging on DV visits.

1.5. When a visit involves a wing-level event, the OPR will contact 81 TRW/XP to ensure the
event is entered on the wing calendar.

2. Responsibilities and Procedures for Management of Announced Distinguished Visitors:

2.1. The Protocol Office will:

2.1.1. Advise project officers on their responsibilities for all general officers and equivalents
visiting AETC units on Keesler AFB.

2.1.2. Review itineraries of DVs visiting tenant units on Keesler AFB.

2.1.3. Reserve quarters for all DVs visiting Keesler AFB and, if applicable, arrange for the
pickup of room keys.

2.1.4. When appropriate, obtain color guard, honor flight, band, or security police protective
services in accordance with AFR 900-6, Honors and Ceremonies Accorded Distinguished
Persons, and AFI 71-101, Vol 2, Protective Service Matters.

2.1.5. Advise project officers on options for entertainment and amenities.

2.1.6. Advise Headquarters Air Education and Training Command (HQ AETC/CCP) of visits
for general officers or equivalent civilians per AETC guidance.

2.1.7. Notify AFOSI and the International Military Student Office (81 TRSS/TSOI) of
international visits.

2.1.8. Publish a daily DV Report, showing expected DV visits over the next two-week period.
Email to selected base offices and provide a printed copy to the wing commander.

2.2. The OPR will:

2.2.1. Appoint a project officer and have the project officer contact the Wing Protocol Office
(81 TRW/CCP).

2.2.2. Appoint an escort officer of appropriate grade and experience. Select escort officers with
an eye toward compatibility with the DV. For example, factors such as similar backgrounds,
Keesler AFB Instruction 90-102        6 February 2007                                          3


previous assignments, or language ability can provide a bond of common interest between the
DV and the escort officer and can aid the success of the visit.

2.3. The project officer will:

2.3.1. Contact the 81 TRW/CCP office to schedule a meeting and pick up the project officer
package.

2.3.2. Prepare an itinerary showing places to be visited, briefings, briefing officers, and time
allocated for each stop. Be sure to consider "off-duty" time and make necessary arrangements.
Forward the complete itinerary through the OPR chain of command to arrive at the 81 TRW/CCP
office for coordination NLT 10 duty days prior to the DV's arrival. After coordination, the
81 TRW/CCP will distribute finalized itineraries to all agencies concerned prior to DV's visit.
Sample itineraries will be provided.

2.3.3. Ensure a greeting officer and escort officer have been identified and prepared, as
necessary.

2.3.4. Make necessary briefing arrangements to include identification of organizational staff
members to attend briefings and reservations of conference rooms or auditoriums.

2.3.5. Make necessary arrangements for photographic coverage of the visit by contacting the
Public Affairs Office (81 TRW/PA). PA will provide guidance to ensure appropriate coverage of
the visit.

2.3.6. If the visiting party includes spouses, coordinate necessary arrangements with the Unit
Commander/greeting officer's spouse. Itineraries for visiting spouses are handled as in paragraph
2.3.2.

2.3.7. Determine the security clearance required for the visit and maintain that security.

2.3.8. Make arrangements for transportation and baggage. If visitors arrive via commercial
means, arrange for transportation from the airport. Complete Vehicle Operations Transportation
Worksheet/Request for any vehicle support required, and forward the worksheet to 81 TRW/CCP
for coordination with 81 TRNS.

2.3.9. Coordinate lodging requirements of DVs with 81 TRW/CCP. Project officers should
provide the name, rank, duty title, duty address and phone number, SSN and GTC for each visitor
in order to properly secure lodging.

2.3.10. Arrange for a welcome message on base marquees for general officer or equivalent
visitors. This request is made in writing to 81 TRW/PA at least five days before the visit. These
messages, in addition to welcoming DVs, inform the base population of high-level visitors.
4                                            Keesler AFB Instruction 90-102        6 February 2007


2.3.11. Determine if welcome notes/items will be provided by the visited unit. If so, coordinate
with 81 TRW/CCP to have items pre-positioned in DV quarters.

2.4. Especially in the case of general officers, the greeting officer will:

2.4.1. Be 81 TRW/CC or 81 TRW/CV unless an appropriate O-6 Greeting Officer (see
Attachment 1, Terms) is identified.

2.4.2. With the escort officer, greet the DV upon arrival at Base Operations, or appropriate
commercial transportation terminal, and accompany the DV to the first stop on the published
itinerary.

2.4.3. Introduce the DV to the escort officer and offer assistance as required.

2.4.4. Be present at the point of departure when the DV departs.

2.5. The escort officer will:

2.5.1. Contact the 81 TRW/CCP office to schedule a meeting and pick up an escort officer
package.

2.5.2. Become fully acquainted with information available to the wing concerning the DV being
escorted. Air Force general officer biographies are available online through Air Force Link.
Determine special requirements prior to the visit and coordinate those requirements with the
appropriate base agency.

2.5.3. Meet the DV along with the Greeting Officer.

2.5.4. Escort the DV throughout the visit as required.

2.5.5. Notify the Protocol Office immediately of any significant changes to or deviations from
the published itinerary of a visiting general officer, such as location of a meal or departure time.
After normal duty hours, inform the Protocol Office through the Command Post.

2.5.6. Arrange for payment of transient facilities fees and checkout with the Inns of Keesler front
desk, located at Tyer House, Bldg 470.

2.5.7. Ensure flight lunches are provided when required.

2.5.8. When the visitor is a foreign national escorted by a USAF escort officer, obtain all
itemized bills incident to the visit for payment by the USAF escort officer, prior to departure.

2.6. The Public Affairs Office (81 TRW/PA) will provide publicity as appropriate.
Keesler AFB Instruction 90-102         6 February 2007                                           5


2.6.1. 81 TRW/PA will place welcome messages, as provided by the project officer, on base
marquees for general officer or equivalent visitors.

2.6.2. 81 TRW/PA will provide guidance to the project officer concerning photographic
coverage of the visit.

2.7. When foreign personnel are involved, the International Military Student Office
(81 TRSS/TSOI) will:

2.7.1. Arrange visits with international students as scheduled in the itinerary.

2.7.2. Coordinate on planned itineraries before publication.

2.8. Base Operations will:

2.8.1. Notify applicable agencies, including 2 AF/CC, 81 TRW/CC, 81 TRW/CCP,
81 TRW/CP, and other applicable agencies, of anticipated flight arrival time when in receipt of
departure information from departure base.

2.8.2. Coordinate changes or last-minute arrival data with 81 TRW/CCP, 81 TRW/CP, and other
applicable agencies using the most accurate and timely information.

2.8.3. Arrange welcome message on the airfield marquee. Base Operations will use their best
judgment on how to word the sign unless Protocol gives specific guidance.

2.8.4. Remove security bollards for entrance to the flight line when requested by 81 TRW/CCP
for any DV visit.

2.9. Air Traffic Control will give Base Operations a 15-minute-to-landing call for inbound
aircraft carrying a general officer or general officer equivalent (DV codes 1 through 6).

2.10. The 81st Communications Squadron will:

2.10.1. Provide photographic support for visitor arrivals and departures when appropriate.
Additional requests beyond those coordinated with 81 CS/SCSV (para 2.3.3.) require submission
of AF Form 833, Multimedia Work Order.

2.10.2. Provide photographic services where applicable during the DV's tour.

2.10.3. Provide computer internet support as needed to those DVs staying overnight in lodging.

3. Responsibilities and Procedures for Management of Unannounced Visitors:
6                                            Keesler AFB Instruction 90-102   6 February 2007


3.1. Duty Hours. Base Operations will advise the Protocol Office and Command Post
(81 TRW/CP) of the name, grade, and expected arrival time of unannounced DVs as soon as the
information is received. The Protocol Office will:

3.1.1. For general officers or equivalent visitors, notify the Wing Commander or Wing Vice
Commander.

3.1.2. Arrange for a greeting officer, if necessary.

3.1.3. Arrange for billeting, transportation, etc., if needed.

3.2. Nonduty Hours. Base Operations will notify the Command Post with the above
information. Command Post will notify the Wing Vice Commander and the on-call Protocol
Officer.

3.3. Other. In the event that, during duty or nonduty hours, someone from the Protocol Office
cannot be notified, Base Operations will contact the Wing Executive Officer or the Wing Vice
Commander as alternates, in turn. If the Wing Executive Officer or Wing Vice Commander
cannot be reached, the Support Group Commander will determine if notification of the Wing
Commander and other agencies is warranted. During nonduty hours, the Command Post will
accomplish these notifications.

4. Forms Adopted. AF Form 833, Multimedia Work Order.




                                                RICHARD P. PIERCE, Colonel, USAF
                                                Vice Commander, 81st Training Wing

Attachments
1. Glossary of References and Supporting
Information
Keesler AFB Instruction 90-102        6 February 2007                                             7


                                          Attachment 1

          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 8 August 2003
AFR 900-6, Honors and Ceremonies Accorded Distinguished Persons, 20 November 1973
AFI 71-101, Vol 2, Protective Service Matters, 18 November 2002
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (https://afrims.amc.af.mil/)

Acronyms

AFOSI – Air Force Office of Special Investigations
DV – distinguished visitor
NLT – no later than
OPR – Office of Primary Responsibility

Terms

Distinguished Visitors (DV) - Officers, O-6 and above; Federal civilians, GM-15 and above; or
distinguished civilians, O-6 equivalent and above, and E-9s who are visiting Keesler AFB.
Visiting inspection teams are accorded DV status for reporting purposes. Occasionally, visitors
of other ranks, because of their positions, will also be afforded DV status. These will be
determined on a case-by-case basis.

Escort Officer - The person who, with the greeting officer, meets the DV(s) upon arrival, escorts
the DV(s) from point to point, and remains with the DV(s) when appropriate (may also be the
project officer).

Greeting Officer - The greeting officer will normally either be equal in grade to the DV or be
the senior officer in the activity to be visited (for example, a general officer visiting a training
group activity should be greeted by a Group Commander or higher). When necessary, the on-call
colonel will be used as the greeting officer.

Itinerary - A schedule of the planned activities while at Keesler.

Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) – The unit who is responsible for the visit. The unit
will appoint a project officer and ensure project officer duties are fulfilled as defined by Wing
Protocol.

Project Officer - The person responsible for overall planning and coordination of the visit/tour
(may also be the escort officer).
