                     THE PATIENT’S BILL OF RIGHTS
 Reasonable and impartial access to care regardless of race, creed, gender, national origin,
  religion, physical handicap, rank, or sources of payment.
 Care that is considerate, appropriate and respectful of your individual dignity, your age, your
  cultural values and beliefs, as long as these do not harm others or interfere with treatment.
 Be cared for by staff knowledgeable about their role in supporting patient rights.
 Know the identity and professional status of individuals providing services to you and which
  physician or other practitioner is primarily responsible for your care.
 Complete and current information concerning your diagnosis, to include risks, benefits, and
  alternatives, so that you can assist in developing your plan of care. This information should
  be communicated in terms that are reasonably understood.
 Participate, with family members, in care decisions and any dilemmas or ethical issues that
  may arise in the course of your care, to include formulating advance directives, withholding
  resuscitative services, or forgoing or withdrawing life sustaining treatment, and care at the
  end of life.
 Be informed, and when appropriate, inform your family about outcomes of care, including
  unanticipated outcomes.
 To know if medical treatment is for the purpose of experimental research, investigation, or
  clinical trials, and to consent or refuse without compromising your access to care.
 Designate a decision maker if you are incapable of understanding a proposed treatment or
  procedure, or are unable to communicate your wishes regarding your care.
 Prompt and reasonable response to questions and requests.
 Appropriate assessment and management of pain.
 Security, personal safety, and confidentiality of information.
 Expect safe hospital practices and an environment that encourages reduction of medical
  health care errors and prevents patient harm.
 Refuse treatment to the extent permitted by law. However, if it prevents the provision of
  appropriate care in accordance with professional standards, the relationship with you may be
  terminated upon reasonable notice.
 Know what patient support services are available; i.e. pastoral care, translators, etc.
 Access to protective services.
 Be informed of hospital rules and regulations applicable to patient comfort.
 Receive information about the hospital’s mechanism for the initiation, review and resolution
  of patient complaints (See Customer Service Representative)
 The patient has the right to contact The Joint Commission for concerns, complaints and
  issues @ http://www.jointcommission.org/GeneralPublic/Complaint/ or by calling 1-800-
  994-6610.




                                              KEESLERAFBVA40-2 (Per 81 MDGI 44-146) 14 Sept 10 OPR - 81 MDG/SGH
                                              Certified Current, 18 September 2012
                                              RELEASABILITY : There are no releasability restrictions on this publications.
                                              SUPERSEDES: KEESLERAFBVA40-2, 1 Jun 10
