BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 33-114
KEESLER AFB DEPARTMENT OF THE
AIR FORCE 81ST COMMUNICATIONS
SQUADRON (AETC) KEESLER AFB MS
39534                                                                               17 MAY 2012



                                                               Communications and Information

                                                                  SOFTWARE MANAGEMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 81 CS/SCOS                                              Certified by: 81 CS/CL (Mr. John R.
                                                                                     McKinley)
                                                                                      Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-114, Software Management; Air
Force Technical Order (AFTO) 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management
Procedures and Practice Requirements; AFPD 33-3, Information Management and Air Force
Policy Directive 33-1, Information Resources Management. It explains the management and
accountability of computer software not included in the Standard Desktop Configuration (SDC).
It mandates specific roles, responsibilities, and processes for software license accountability to
meet requirements of Section 1(c) of Executive Order (EO) 13103, Computer Software Piracy.
It incorporates enterprise license considerations and specific requirements for installing software
on computer systems active on the Air Force Network (AFNet) and stand-alone Air Force
computer systems throughout Keesler Air Force Base (KAFB). This publication applies to all
KAFB personnel and applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) but does not apply to Air
National Guard (ANG) personnel. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Attachment 1 is a glossary of
references and supporting information. Refer recommended changes to this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.
 2                                                        KEESLERAFBI33-114 17 May 2012


The use of the name or trademark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force or
KAFB.

General

This instruction outlines the roles and responsibilities of each person/group that participates in
the KAFB software management program. Adherence to the instruction will ensure the program
is administered efficiently and accurate accountability of software is achieved. This will prevent
illegal/unauthorized software on the base network. Cooperation from all parties will result in a
successful software management program. NOTE: Software contained in the Standard Desktop
Configuration (SDC) is not subject to this instruction.


1. Software Management Program Roles and Responsibilities:
     1.1. Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO).
        1.1.1. Appoint, in writing, a minimum of one primary and one alternate Base Software
        License Manager (BSLM) to manage the KAFB software management program and
        forward the approved appointment memorandum to the HQ AETC Software License
        Manager.
        1.1.2. Annually review the BSLM appointment memorandum to ensure currency and
        update as necessary.
        1.1.3. Coordinate action to ensure secure, climate controlled, and easily accessible
        facilities are provided to the BSLM for receiving, storing and distributing software.
        1.1.4. Chair the 81 CS Configuration Control Board (CCB) to review and approve or
        disapprove all software purchase requests for AFNet and/or stand-alone system use.
     1.2. Base Software License Manager.
        1.2.1. Maintain a current list of all Unit Software License Managers (USLM).
        1.2.2. Provide software management training for USLMs and track current training
        dates.
        1.2.3. Perform periodic compliance or Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) on host and tenant
        units. Inspect at least 50 percent of the unit accounts annually, and inspect each unit at
        least once every two years.
        1.2.4. Conduct semi-annual audits by performing system scans on computer systems
        across the base network to identify unauthorized software.
           1.2.4.1. Assist USLMs with the removal of unauthorized software. If software is
           required, ensure correct approval process is initiated.
           1.2.4.2. Report failures to comply with removal/approval of unauthorized software to
           the unit’s commander/director for action.
        1.2.5. Direct units to ensure all purchased software is delivered to the BSLM office.
        Upon receipt, the BSLM will download the software to the software repository located on
KEESLERAFBI33-114 17 May 2012                                                               3


     the base network and update the respective unit’s software inventory. Software to be
     installed on stand-alone systems will be checked out to the USLMs for installation and
     returned within three duty days. If found responsible, the 81st Communications
     Squadron (81 CS) shall replace any lost software. Hard copy manuals will be forwarded
     to the USLM for distribution to users.
     1.2.6. Store all original physical media and evidence of license agreements in a secure,
     climate controlled, and easily accessible facility. Organizations granted an exception by
     the 81 CS commander/director will store their own software and related documentation.
     1.2.7. Assist USLMs with updating license agreements as necessary.
     1.2.8. Coordinate with USLMs for utilization or redistribution of available software
     licenses to avoid waste.
     1.2.9. Dispose of software IAW AFI 33-114, Software Management.
     1.2.10. Participate in the 81 CS CCB. Review all software purchase requests and
     recommend approval/disapproval through the CCB.
  1.3. Unit Commander/Director.
     1.3.1. Appoint, in writing, a primary and alternate USLM utilizing the sample in
     Attachment 2, and annually review the letter to ensure currency.
     1.3.2. Review and endorse all official software inventories as provided by the BSLM and
     conducted by the USLM.
     1.3.3. Ensure all software acquisitions are coordinated prior to purchase IAW paragraph
     2.
     1.3.4. Support and enforce compliance with all software management guidance.
  1.4. Unit Software License Manager.
     1.4.1. Complete initial and annual software management training provided by the BSLM.
     1.4.2. Be familiar with AFI 33-114 and this instruction.
     1.4.3. Review and ensure compliance with all unit software license agreements.
     1.4.4. Ensure all software acquisitions are coordinated prior to purchase IAW paragraph
     2.
     1.4.5. Ensure all original physical media and license agreements are provided to the
     BSLM and that the delivery location for all requisitioned software is the BSLM office.
     Organizations granted an exception by the 81 CS commander/director will store their
     own software and related documentation.
     1.4.6. Upon software delivery notification by the BSLM, coordinate software
     installation.
        1.4.6.1. For AFNet systems, submit a software installation trouble ticket to the
        Enterprise Service Desk (ESD) providing the location and computer name(s) of the
        system(s) where the software will be installed.
4                                                         KEESLERAFBI33-114 17 May 2012


           1.4.6.2. For stand-alone systems, coordinate with the BSLM for retrieval of software
           to be installed. Stand-alone system software will be checked out to the USLMs and
           returned within three duty days.
       1.4.7. Coordinate all software transfers/uninstalls with the BSLM office.
       1.4.8. Complete official software inventories as directed by the BSLM and forward to
       the unit commander/director for endorsement. Submit endorsed official inventories to the
       BSLM.
           1.4.8.1. Review inventory scans provided by BSLM.
           1.4.8.2. Perform joint inventory of software before transferring responsibility to
           another appointed USLM.
       1.4.9. Identify software that does not have required license agreements.
           1.4.9.1. Request replacement       licenses   from    publishers   utilizing   purchase
           documentation, as needed.
           1.4.9.2. Coordinate the removal of unauthorized or suspected pirated software with
           BSLM.
       1.4.10. Notify BSLM when software is no longer required by the unit. This includes
       software supported under a license agreement.
       1.4.11. Support and enforce compliance with all software management guidance.
    1.5. Client Systems Technician (CST).
       1.5.1. Coordinate with the BSLM to validate available license(s) prior to installation.
       1.5.2. Install software from the approved sources only.
       1.5.3. Notify the appropriate USLM when performing any actions that change the
       number of licensed software products installed on AFNet or stand-alone systems.
    1.6. Functional System Administrator (FSA).
       1.6.1. Notify the BSLM (via the USLM) of the quantity of authorized licenses for
       functional systems.
       1.6.2. If, during any audit, the number of licenses for the functional systems exceeds that
       which was reported to the BSLM, the FSA (via the USLM) will be notified to validate or
       remove the additional software.
    1.7. User.
       1.7.1. Assist USLM, as required, with software inventories on unit systems.
       1.7.2. Will not install or remove any software without first coordinating with the USLM.
       1.7.3. Will not make any illegal copies of software.
       1.7.4. Will not install freeware or shareware or personally owned software on
       government owned systems.
       1.7.5. Will not install and use copies of government owned software on a home computer
       unless the software license explicitly allows users to do so.
KEESLERAFBI33-114 17 May 2012                                                                  5


      1.7.6. Will report all unauthorized or illegal software on their system to their USLM.
      1.7.7. Will submit all new software requirements to the USLM.
2. Software Request Submission and Approval Process.
   2.1. In accordance with AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation (C&A)
   Program (AFCAP), chapter 3, the following is the established request and approval process
   for all software requests/submissions from all organizations and users on KAFB.
      2.1.1. All software application requests will be submitted via the Project, Workflow,
      Requirements, and Resources (PWRR) Manager or Work Order Management System
      (WOMS).
          2.1.1.1. Software requests will be submitted using the Air Force Network Integration
          Center (AFNIC) Application Request Worksheet prepared by the requestor and
          forwarded to the requirements office (81 CS/SCXP) by the unit USLM. The
          worksheet can be found on the PWRR website.
          2.1.1.2. If the requested software will be used across the network boundary and
          requires any non-standard ports to be opened (any other than 80 and 443), a change
          management request must be submitted in writing to the Base Change Sponsor via e-
          mail to the Keesler Change Sponsor organizational box.
      2.1.2. All software submissions must flow through the Configuration Control Board
      (CCB) as the single focal point to ensure a current and comprehensive baseline inventory
      of all software on the network.
          2.1.2.1. The CCB determines requirement suitability. A suitable requirement
          includes a substantiated mission need, the requesting unit has available funding, and
          core functionality is not already available in currently certified products or in the
          SDC.
          2.1.2.2. The CCB will determine if the requested software is already on the Air Force
          Evaluated/Approved Products List (AF E/APL). If listed, the CCB can approve the
          request and the BSLM can add the software to the software/hardware baseline. The
          requestor will then be allowed to acquire and use the new software.
          2.1.2.3. If not already on the AF E/APL, the CCB will defer the request and package
          (AFNIC Application Request Worksheet), through the BSLM, to the AFNIC for
          review and certification.
             2.1.2.3.1. The BSLM forwards all deferred requests to AFNIC for processing and
             routinely monitors the status of each submission. NOTE: AFNIC may require
             the requestor to provide one copy of the software for testing purposes (all
             products will be returned to the requestor after completion of testing).
          2.1.2.3.2. The BSLM will update the CCB on the status of all pending deferrals at
          each meeting.
          2.1.2.3.3. If AFNIC approves the request, the CCB will add the software to the
          software/hardware baseline and notify the BSLM.
6                                          KEESLERAFBI33-114 17 May 2012


    2.1.2.3.4. All disapproved software requests will be accompanied with an
    explanation of the reason(s) the request was disapproved.




                                ANDREW M. MUELLER
                                Brigadier General, USAF
                                Commander, 81st Training Wing
KEESLERAFBI33-114 17 May 2012                                                          7


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011
TO 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice
Requirements, 1 October 2011
Section 1(c) of Executive Order 13103, Computer Software Piracy, 30 September 1998
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AFTO Form 265, AF-GIG Operational Request for Change/Authorization, 30 March 2011

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF E/APL—Air Force Evaluated/Approved Products List
AF—GIG – Air Force Global Information Grid
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFNet—Air Force (Enterprise) Network
AFNIC—Air Force Network Integration Center
AFPD—Air Force Publishing Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
ANG—Air National Guard
BSLM—Base Software License Manager
CCB—Configuration Control Board
COTS—Commercial Off-the-Shelf
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
CST—Client Systems Technician
 8                                                      KEESLERAFBI33-114 17 May 2012


DoD—Department of Defense
EO—Executive Order
ESD—Enterprise Service Desk
FSA—Functional System Administrator
HQ AETC—Headquarters, Air Education and Training Command
IAW—In Accordance With
KAFB—Keesler Air Force Base
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PWRR—Project, Workflow, Requirements and Resources
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SCR—System Change Request
SDC—Standard Desktop Configuration
USLM—Unit Software License Manager
WOMS—Work Order Management System

Terms
Approved Software— Software listed on the Air Force Evaluated/Approved Products List.
Authorized Software— Approved software that is licensed.
Enterprise License— Allows the purchasing organization to use multiple copies of a specific
commercial off-the-shelf software program, usually up to a specified number, across the
organization for a set price. This is typically a more cost-effective acquisition strategy than
purchase of individual copies. The DoD Enterprise Software Initiative should be considered for
commonly used software.
License Agreements— Contract between the software publisher and the user that instructs and
limits the software use. When purchasing software, the buyer only acquires a license to use it.
The publisher retains the full rights to the software and has the sole right to its further
distribution and reproduction.
Licensed Software— Software having a purchased usage license.
Software— A set of computer programs, procedures, and associated documentation concerned
with the operation of a data processing system.
Unauthorized Software— Software that is either unlicensed or not approved.
User— The individual who operates the computer or uses application software.
KEESLERAFBI33-114 17 May 2012                      9


                            ATTACHMENT 2
                 USLM APPOINTMENT LETTER EXAMPLE
10   KEESLERAFBI33-114 17 May 2012
