BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      KEESLER AIR FORCE BASE
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING                                    INSTRUCTION 36-6001

                                                                        20 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                  SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND
                                               RESPONSE PROGRAM (SAPR) TEAL ROPE
                                                                        PROGRAM

     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS OPERATING INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 81 TRW/CVK                                                      Certified by: 81 TRW/CC
                                                                            (Col Rene Romero)
                                                                                       Pages: 7




This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and
Response Program (SAPR,) Section 2A by increasing effective access of SAPR services to
students and by establishing a standardized policy and procedure for the Teal Rope Program at
Keesler Air Force base. This instruction applies to all technical training courses located at
Keesler Air Force Base. It also applies to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) members attending training at Keesler Air Force Base. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Attachment 1 is a glossary of references and supporting information.


Section A—. Overview.

1. Purpose: Teal Aiguillettes: AETC installations use of aiguillettes to differentiate various
leaders within the student population as outlined in AETCI36-2216, Administration of Military
Standards and Discipline Training. The introduction of the teal aiguillette/rope at Keesler AFB
will identify students who have completed additional training with regard to the Sexual Assault
 2                                              KEESLERAFBI36-6001 20 NOVEMBER 2012


Prevention and Response (SAPR) program and can provide information and connect the student
with installation SAPR services. The teal aiguillette will be a visible reminder of the availability
of the program to all students in training when at Keesler AFB.
2. Introduction: The Keesler AFB Teal Rope Program is a commander’s program. The
commander’s emphasis on the importance in the prevention and reporting of sexual assaults,
both at the wing and unit level, drives the level of effort dedicated to a successful SAPR
program. The Teal Rope Program is managed by the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
Program Office (SAPRO), specifically, the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) or
Deputy.
3. Assignment Requirements:
     3.1. All Teal Rope members participate in two-hour training and report to the SARC when
     performing the duties of a Teal Rope. The SAPRO staff works closely with the 81st Training
     Group (81 TRG) to provide oversight as advisors and leadership in the Teal Rope program.
     Students must be recommended by their Military Training Leader and maintain and 80
     percent grade point average to be accepted into the program. A student must also have two
     months remaining in training to be in the Teal Rope Program. Any Teal Rope member who
     completes the required training and maintains academic and disciplinary standards outlined
     above will wear the teal aiguillette/rope in accordance with AETCI36-2216.
     3.2. The Teal Rope program is open to Air Force Airmen in Training at Keesler AFB.
     3.3. The teal aiguillette indicates students who are active in the program.

Section B—. Roles and Responsibilities.

4. Installation Commander: The installation Wing Commander (WG/CC) will support the
Teal Rope Program as part of the overall implementation of local sexual assault prevention and
response program in accordance with the AFI36-6001, in that, Teal Rope members provide
information to students and then refer the student to SAPRO if additional information is needed.
Teal Rope members are trained to provide clear, accurate information on the avenues for
reporting.
5. Training Group Commander
     5.1. The Training Group Commander (TRG/CC) will support the Teal Rope Program as part
     of the overall implementation of local sexual assault prevention and response program in
     accordance with the AFI36-6001.
     5.2. Designate a Military Training Leader (MTL) as the 81 TRG Teal Rope Program
     Liaison.
6. Teal Rope Program Liaison
     6.1. Assist the SAPRO in coordinating meetings, trainings and interviews with potential Teal
     Rope members.
     6.2. Review Teal Rope applications for completion and submit to SAPRO with
     recommendation or justification for non recommend.
KEESLERAFBI36-6001 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                             3


   6.3. Advertise program to Airmen and distribute applications to squadron/unit MTLs for
   delivery to interested students.
   6.4. Inform SAPRO of academic and disciplinary issues affecting students’ participation as
   defined by 81TRG policy regarding the wearing of a rope.
   6.5. Inform SAPRO of Teal Rope members’ graduation date.
7. Unit Commander
   7.1. Unit/Squadron Commanders (CC) will support the Teal Rope Program as part of the
   overall implementation of local Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program in
   accordance with the AFI36-6001.
   7.2. Each unit/squadron will have access to a minimum of one Teal Rope member.
   7.3. As part of In-Processing, all students and permanent party personnel in-processing on
   Keesler Air Force Base will receive awareness information regarding individuals who wear
   the teal rope, its designation and purpose.
   7.4. All students assigned to Keesler AFB will have full access to individuals wearing teal
   ropes.
8. Sexual Assault Prevention & Response Office (SAPRO)
   8.1. Manages the installation Teal Rope program and is responsible for program operations.
   8.2. Has responsibility for coordinating with 81 TRG on the monitoring of Teal Rope
   members with regard to academic and disciplinary standing.
   8.3. The Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) or designated Deputy/Alternate will
   manage the Teal Rope Program.
      8.3.1. Conducts initial trainings, coordinates meetings, provides applications, interviews
      applicants and provides information regarding the program to individuals who may be
      interested in the application process to become a Teal Rope member.
      8.3.2. SAPRO will complete an interview with students who apply and are endorsed by
      Military Training Leaders. If it is determined that the student is a favorable candidate for
      the Teal Rope program, they will be invited to the next monthly meeting and be provided
      the Teal aiguillette upon completion of training.
      8.3.3. The SAPRO is responsible for issuing and collecting teal aiguillettes.
9. Program Requirements
   9.1. Teal Rope members cannot hold a leadership position within the unit since those
   individuals are considered part of the chain of command and would not be able to assist
   someone in making a confidential restricted report to SAPRO.
   9.2. Teal Rope members are expected to model the Air Force Core Values: Integrity, Service
   and Excellence. As representatives of the SAPRO staff, they should uphold the highest
   standards of professionalism as outlined in this instruction, and the “Expectations and
   Guidelines” in Attachment 2.
 4                                              KEESLERAFBI36-6001 20 NOVEMBER 2012


     9.3. If the SAPRO or 81 TRG staff is made aware of conduct unbecoming of a Teal Rope
     member, the individual will be counseled by the SARC, in coordination with the Teal Rope
     Liaison, and appropriate action will be taken, which may include removal from the program.
     9.4. Teal Rope members serve as a conduit between the student population and the SAPRO
     Staff and are a visible and positive presence of the SAPR program base-wide.
     9.5. Teal Rope members may assist the SAPR staff with various SAPRO sponsored
     activities on a voluntary basis.
     9.6. To become a Teal Rope member an applicant must have a minimum of two months
     remaining in their technical training upon acceptance into the program.

Section C—. Training.

10. Teal Rope Members
     10.1. All Teal Rope members are required to attend regularly scheduled monthly meetings
     where additional training will occur.
     10.2. All participants are required to complete a minimum of one (1 ) hour per month
     (includes monthly meeting).
11. Newcomers. All newly arriving personnel (Non-Prior Service (NPS), First Term Airmen’s
Center (FTAC), incoming active duty, and civilian personnel) will be made aware of the program
purpose as part of initial orientation to the installation.

Section D—. Conduct of Students Wearing the Teal Aiguillette.

12. Duties and Conduct of Teal Rope Members
     12.1. Teal Rope members serve as an example of good ethics/morals in words and actions.
     They should, at all times, conduct themselves in a manner which would maintain a positive
     perception and program integrity.
     12.2. Teal Rope members are not trained or certified counselors. Teal Rope members will
     provide information and referral services only, including having the hotline number on-hand
     to obtain further guidance regarding any situation. Teal Rope members act as a conduit
     between the student population and the SARC.
     12.3. Teal Rope members will be supervised by the SAPRO and will assist as needed in
     various program areas and will follow the guidelines delineated in Attachment 2.
13. Other Responsibilities
     13.1. Teal Rope members are responsible for returning the teal aiguillette to their MTL prior
     to departing technical training. All aiguillettes will be collected by the Teal Rope Liaison and
     returned to SAPRO.
     13.2. When volunteering in other capacities as a Teal Rope, professional decorum will be
     maintained.

Section E—. Opportunities for Recognition.
KEESLERAFBI36-6001 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                           5


14. Letter of Appreciation. After successful completion of the minimum requirements of the
program all Airmen will be eligible to receive a Letter of Appreciation (LOA). The LOA can be
revoked for substandard duty performance and/or infractions of duty responsibilities while on or
off duty. If requested the SARC or designee can provide a recommendation to the gaining
command’s SAPRO for application to the Victim Advocate program.
15. Humanitarian – Volunteer Projects. When opportunities are available, the SAPRO will
plan and execute various SAPRO and/or Integrated Delivery System events. Teal Rope members
volunteering for projects/events will be eligible to receive a Letter of Appreciation (LOA).

Section F—. Evaluation.

16. Program Efficiency: Efficient communication is vital to the overall success or failure of
the program. The success of the Teal Rope Program is dependent on timely two-way
communication and successful interaction between the Teal Rope members and Non-Prior
Service students. Tracking the number of referrals from the Teal Rope Program and the number
of days between the incident and the report to SAPRO will assist in determining program
efficiency.
17. Program Effectiveness
   17.1. Measurement. The measurement will consist of data tracking on a monthly basis of:
   the number of total contacts and the number of contacts that resulted in a report.
   Measurements compiled will provide leaders with timely data on the number of student
   population needing this service and trend information for program improvement.
   17.2. Individual questions may be added to identify areas needing closer analysis.




                                            BRADLEY D. SPACY
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander, 81st Training Wing
 6                                         KEESLERAFBI36-6001 20 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AETCI 36-2216, Administration of Military Standards and Discipline Training, 6 December
2010
AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office (SAPR),29 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force, Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education Training Command
AETCI—Air Education Training Command Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
FTAC—First Term Airmen’s Center
LOA—Letter of Appreciation
MTL—Military Training Leader
NPS—Non-prior Service
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSI—Office of Special Investigation
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SAPRO—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office
TRG—Training Group
TRW—Training Wing
KEESLERAFBI36-6001 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                            7


                                        Attachment 2
            TEAL ROPE PROGRAM EXPECTATIONS AND GUIDELINES

A2.1. Be A Good Example In Word And Deed.
   A2.1.1. A Teal Rope member is a representative of the SAPRO staff within the Military
   Training Flight. Students and Military Training Leaders must be able to trust their squadron's
   Teal Rope member as a link to the SAPRO, which expects a higher level of maturity.
   Remaining a good example means examining your actions and speech and making sure your
   behaviors fit your role as a Teal Rope member.
A2.2. Attend All Regularly Scheduled Meetings.
   A2.2.1. This program requires a certain amount of training to be able to aid the SAPRO
   staff. Meetings are held regularly and advance notice will be provided ether via e-mail or by
   class/MTL announcement. Meetings are mandatory, if not previously excused from
   meetings, a warning will be issued. Any further infraction will result in the suspension
   of their rope.
A2.3. . Be A Contact For SAPRO Concerns.
   A2.3.1. Teal Rope members are designated by the rope they wear. Whenever an individual
   approaches you with a question or concern regarding sexual assault, follow the guidelines set
   forth in your training.
A2.4. . Find A Place To Volunteer Your Time.
   A2.4.1. Service is a keystone of the Teal Rope program. Teal Rope members actively serve
   base personnel and the community by donating the minimum of 1 hour per month
   participating in various activities. Teal Rope members can volunteer their time by aiding the
   SAPRO staff and participating/assisting in other base or community activities. All
   participants are required to complete a minimum of 1 hour per month (includes
   monthly meeting).
A2.5. Know The Rules And Follow Them.
   A2.5.1. If someone is making remarks that are sexually offensive, call them out. If someone
   is attempting to isolate someone for a potential assault, intervene as a bystander.
A2.6. Practice The Air Force Core Values And The Four Pillars Of Comprehensive
Airmen Fitness.
      A2.6.1.1. Display at all times the Air Force Core Values; “Integrity first, Service Before
      Self, and Excellence In All We Do”, while promoting resiliency through the Four Pillars
      of Comprehensive Airmen Fitness; Mental, Physical, Social, Spiritual.
A2.7. Wear Of Issued Teal Rope.
   A2.7.1. While in uniform Teal Rope members must wear their Teal Rope. All Teal Ropes
   will be in uniform or wear an approved SAPRO t-shirt when performing volunteer service.
