BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        KEESLER AIR FORCE BASE
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING                                       INSTRUCTION 48-103
(AETC)
                                                                                   30 JULY 2008



                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                   RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 81 AMDS/SGPB                                                  Certified by: 81 AMDS/SGPB
                                                                            (Maj David M. Hunt)
Supersedes:    KEESLERAFBI 48-103,                                                     Pages: 5
               25 May 00


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, and prescribes policies
and procedures as directed by 29 CFR 1910.134, Respiratory Protection, and AFOSH Standard
48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, at Keesler AFB. This instruction is required to be
maintained by all organizations in which personnel wear respirators for protection against
inhalation of harmful atmospheres or for emergency escape or rescue. This supplement applies
to all assigned, attached and/or associate units supported by the 81st Training Wing at Keesler
AFB MS, including Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted
otherwise. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims. Attachment 1 is a glossary of references and
supporting information. This instruction applies to all assigned personnel that wear respirators
for protection against inhalation of harmful atmospheres or for emergency escape or rescue.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Attachment 1 is a glossary of references and supporting information.

Note: Throughout this instruction, all references are to Air Force Occupational Safety and
Health (AFOSH) Standard 48-137 unless otherwise noted.
 2                                                          KEESLERAFI48-103 30 July 2008


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Paragraphs 2.4.1 and 5.1 have updated phone numbers. Throughout this instruction,
Tuberculosis (TB) monitors have been included where supervisor responsibilities are stated for
clarification on title. An asterisk (*) indicates changes since last revision.
1. Definition of Approved Respirator. Use only respirators approved by the National Institute
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). Filtering face piece respirators shall not be used
when respiratory protection is required or recommended, even if the respirators have NIOSH
certification. EXCEPTION: HQ USAF SG has approved this type of respirator for use in
medical facilities to control occupational exposure to droplet nuclei containing M. Tuberculosis
(TB).
2. Responsibilities. Responsibilities are described in AFOSH STD 48-137, Respiratory
Protection Program. Additional local responsibilities regarding implementation of the base
Respiratory Protection Program are described below:
     2.1. The Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight Commander (SGPB) will:
        2.1.1. Conduct the respiratory protection program on Keesler AFB.
        2.1.2. Conduct initial and annual respirator fit-testing after completion of the annual
        worker occupational physical examination.
     2.2. The Chief, Fire Department will:
        2.2.1. Assist SGPB in providing training on the use of the Self-Contained Breathing
        Apparatus (SCBA) to identified industrial shops.
        2.2.2. Provide breathing air sample results to SGPB no later than 2 weeks after the
        results are received.
     2.3. Base Supply will:
        2.3.1. Control the issue of respirators and replacement parts with an Issue Exception
        Code (IEX) "T."
        2.3.2. Forward monthly a list of potential adds to SGPB. SGPB will annotate this listing
        and return to the Inspection Element for IEX "T" adds.
        2.3.3. Ensure SGPB has approved respirator requests before issuing respirators.
        2.3.4. Ensure a ―suitable substitute‖ for a particular respirator or respirator part is not
        issued.
     2.4. Workplace Supervisors and TB Monitors will:
        2.4.1. Contact SGPB, at 376-0590, as needed for information and guidance regarding
        respiratory protection matters. In case of emergency after duty hours, a SGPB
        representative may be reached through the 81st Medical Group Information Desk, 376-
        2550 or through the 81 TRW Command Post at 377-4384.
        2.4.2. Give guidance to supervisors on proper procedures for initial and annual employee
        medical evaluations through PCM.
KEESLERAFI48-103 30 July 2008                                                                         3


       2.4.3. Prior to purchasing respiratory protection, ensure SGPB has the capability to
       qualitatively or quantitatively fit-test individuals on the particular respirator of interest. If
       SGPB is unable to qualitatively or quantitatively fit-test on the requested respirator, the
       supervisor will purchase the required items needed for fit-testing.
3. Selection and Use:
   3.1. Selection. SGPB is the base level authority on the selection of respirators.
   3.2. Use. Confined space entries, fuel cell entries, immediately dangerous to life and health
   (IDLH) atmospheres, oxygen deficient (less than 19.5 percent oxygen by volume), and
   polyurethane painting operations (containing isocyanates) have specific respiratory
   protection requirements that must be met prior to any operations being conducted.
4. Training:
   4.1. Supervisors. SGPB will provide the initial training of supervisors and TB monitors who
   have the responsibility of overseeing work activities of one or more persons who must wear
   respirators.
   4.2. Respirator Wearer. SGPB will provide initial and annual training for respirator wearers.
   Initial training shall be repeated when the individual is assigned to a new duty section.
5. Fit-Testing:
   5.1. After completion of the medical evaluation, the workplace supervisor or TB monitor
   shall contact SGPB at 376-0590 to schedule fit-testing. The supervisor or TB monitor is
   responsible for identifying personnel who need initial and periodic fit-testing.
   5.2. All fit-testing, quantitative and qualitative, shall be performed by SGPB unless approval
   from the base Aerospace Medicine Council has been obtained to permit designated work area
   representatives to conduct fit-testing.
   5.3. A respirator fit-test shall be carried out for each wearer of a tight-fitting respirator at
   least once every 12 months unless required more frequently by an OSHA/AFOSH specific
   standard (i.e., asbestos and lead).
6. Medical Surveillance:
   6.1. Potential respirator wearers will not be fit-tested for a respirator unless they are
   medically cleared for fit-testing following a medical evaluation.
   6.2. All respirator users shall receive a baseline and annual medical evaluation. All users
   will complete an OSHA Respiratory Medical Evaluation which is taken from the OSHA
   Standard (29 CFR 1910-134, para (e), and Appendix C). The questionnaire addresses
   cardiovascular, respiratory, and physiological risk factors and should be worded so that any
   positive response will be reviewed by a provider and scheduled for further medical
   evaluation as appropriate. Specifics for further medical evaluation are professional decisions
   by the evaluating physician.
   6.3. Unless otherwise directed by Flight Medicine, annual medical evaluations will be
   conducted using the medical evaluation questionnaire.
 4                                                           KEESLERAFI48-103 30 July 2008


7. Environmental Consideration. Used respirator cartridges, canisters, or filters shall be
disposed of according to the recommendations from 81st Civil Engineer Squadron,
Environmental Flight. Additionally, paint booth filters are sometimes considered hazardous
waste; if this is the case, used respirator cartridges, canisters, or filters may be disposed of with
this waste.
8. Program Evaluation. The annual SGPB respiratory protection program evaluation will be
presented at one of the quarterly meetings of the 81 TRW ESOH Council and the July meeting of
the 81 AMDS Aerospace Medicine Council. SGPB will review shop level respiratory protection
workplace-specific written plans during the annual industrial hygiene surveys IAW AFPD 48-1,
Aerospace Medicine Program. Supervisors and TB Monitors will provide SGPB with changes
and updates of workers who use respiratory protection.
9. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     9.1. Prescribed Forms.
No prescribed Forms.
     9.2. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                              CHRISTOPHER R. VALLE, Col, USAF
                                              Vice Commander, 81st Training Wing
KEESLERAFI48-103 30 July 2008                                                       5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 23-110, V2, Pt 2, Ch 11, KAFB Sup 1, Customer Requirements, 9 February 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 3 October 2005
AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, 10 Feb 2005
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
OSHA Standard, 29 CFR 1910.134, Respiratory Protection
Abbreviaitons and Acronyms
AFOSH – Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
IDLH – Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health
IEX – Issue Exception Code
NIOSH – National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
OSHA- Occupational Safety and Health Association
PCM – Primary Care Manager
RDS – Records Disposition Schedule
SCBA- Self- contained Breathing Apparatus

Terms
IEX Code T— Respirator/Requires Medical Certification by BE per AFMAN 23-110, V2, Part
2, Chapter 11, Keesler AFB Supplement 1, 9 Feb 2006.
