  DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                     KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 36-3001
  Headquarters 81st Training Wing (AETC)
  Keesler Air Force Base, Mississippi 39534-5000                                                6 April 1998
                                                                           Certified Current 24 March 2009

                                                                                                    Personnel

                                                                                 CASUALTY ASSISTANCE


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
  NOTICE: This publication is available electronically. Contact the Master Reference
  Library, 81 CS/SCSP, for assistance.
  OPR: 81 MSS/DPMPS                                               Certified by: 81 MSS/CC (Lt Col Weaver)
        (Murlene B. Jones)                                                                         Pages: 6
  Supersedes Keesler AFB Instruction 36-3001, 23 Dec 94.                                Distribution: F; X:
                                                                                         HQ AETC/DPAP
                                                                                            AFPC/DPWCS
                                                                                            AFPC/DPSFM


  This instruction implements AFPD 36-30, Military Entitlements, and defines local operating procedures
  and responsibilities for casualty reporting and notification in accordance with AFI 36-3002. This
  instruction applies to all Keesler activities and associate units and applies to active duty casualties only.

  SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

  This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes normal duty
  hours (para 2.2). Changes message precedence (para 3.1.3). Changes Air Force Military Personnel
  Center to Air Force Personnel Center (para 3.2.3). Security Police changed to Security Forces (para 3.4).
  Additional guidance added at para 3.11.2. Includes instructions for OSI (para 3.13). Changes procedures
  for Multiple Reportable Casualties (para 4.1 through 4.5). Extends procedures on Invitational Travel
  Order (ITO) Program (para 5). A  indicates changes from last revision.

  1. Policy. The Casualty Services Program is a function requiring prompt and accurate reporting,
  dignified and humane notification, and thorough assistance to next of kin (NOK). Full support in
  functional areas is required by the Casualty Services Program to achieve these goals. The Customer
  Service Workcenter (DPMPS) of the Military Personnel Flight (MPF) administers the program.

  2. Definitions:

  2.1. Casualty. A person who is lost to his/her organization because of being declared dead, wounded,
  injured, deceased, interned, captured, retained, missing, missing in action, beleaguered, besieged, or
  detained. Also, a person whose duty status or whereabouts is unknown.

 2.2. Normal Duty Hours. 0700-1700, Monday through Thursday, and 0700-1600 on non-Compressed
   Work Schedule Fridays.
  2                                                      Keesler AFB Instruction 36-3001     6 April 1998


  3. Responsibilities:

  3.1. 81 Communications Squadron/SCMT/SCBL

  3.1.1. Telephone Switchboard:

  3.1.2. During normal duty hours, direct all casualty related phone calls to Casualty Assistance
  Office/DPMPS, extension 2348.

  3.1.2.1.   After normal duty hours, direct caller to Command Post (extension 4330).

  3.1.2.2.   Provide assistance as required for emergency telephone communication.

 3.1.3. Communications Center: Initiate tracer action if report of delivery on Action Addressees is not
   received within two hours after dispatch. Advise the Casualty Assistance Office or standby
   representative of any casualty messages received via IMMEDIATE (or higher) precedence.

  3.2. Command Post:

  3.2.1. When information is received concerning a casualty, obtain as much information as possible
  including the name and telephone number of the caller.

  3.2.2. Immediately contact the Casualty standby representative when information is received concerning
  an active duty, reserve, or ANG casualty.

 3.2.3. Immediately contact the Casualty standby representative when the Air Force Casualty Branch, Air
   Force Personnel Center, directs casualty notification.

  3.2.4. Do not answer questions or provide casualty information to NOK, military members, public at
  large, news media, or other interested government agencies. Refer the inquiry to the proper agency (unit
  commander, Public Affairs, Casualty Assistance, etc.).

  3.2.5. Immediately notify 81 TRSS/CC, CCF, or TTOI (International Training Office) if casualty
  involves an international student.

  3.3. 81st Medical Group Commander:

  3.3.1. Immediately notify Keesler Command Post of casualties occurring at the Medical Center.

  3.3.2. Ensure NOK is notified under the following conditions:

  3.3.2.1. By attending physician when death occurs at the Medical Center and NOK is present.

  3.3.2.2. When NOK has established a line communication with the attending physician, another
  physician fully familiar with the case, or other appropriate medical personnel (commissioned officers
  only) and immediate notification is essential under the organ donor program.

  3.3.2.3. When NOK calls attending physician, another physician fully familiar with the case, or
  appropriate medical personnel (commissioned officers only) before completion of official notification,
  Keesler AFB Instruction 36-3001      6 April 1998                                                       3


  medical center personnel will not withhold information from the NOK and will advise NOK that official
  notification and/or confirmation of the death will follow.

  3.3.3. Notify NOK of patients who are very seriously ill (VSI), seriously ill (SI), or have incapacitating
  illness or injury (III).

  3.3.4. Provide NOK with medical progress reports. Use commercial telephones or telegrams to relay
  reports to NOK who reside outside of immediate area. Give progress reports directly to NOK residing in
  immediate area.

  3.3.5. Provide a standby list of medical officers or credentialed health care providers to accompany
  notification officer on death, missing, and Duty Status Whereabouts Unknown (DUSTWUN)
  notifications.

 3.4.   Security Forces will:

  3.4.1. Immediately notify the Command Post when information is received concerning a casualty.

  3.4.2. Provide maximum assistance to Casualty Assistance representative in determining facts and
  circumstances surrounding death of personnel.

  3.5. Squadron Commanders will:

  3.5.1. Immediately notify the Command Post when information is received concerning a casualty.

  3.5.2. (Field grade officers only) Serve as notification officer to NOK of casualties assigned to their
  squadron when NOK reside in Keesler's assigned area of responsibility. Initial contact with NOK must
  first be coordinated with the Casualty Assistance Office who will provide guidance and assistance.

  3.5.3. Extend condolences as appropriate to the circumstances.

  3.5.4. Assist Casualty Assistance representative in determining facts and circumstances.

  3.5.5. Assist NOK of VSI/SI patients who have been authorized Invitational Travel. This may include
  arranging for their transportation in local area/airport and billeting.

  3.6. The Wing Chaplain Section will provide a chaplain to accompany the notification officer on initial
  death notifications. The chaplain must be of the same faith group as the deceased, if known, and
  chaplain manning permits.

  3.7. Financial Services Office will provide Casualty Assistance Office with support as necessary to
  effect payment of death gratuity to NOK. During non-duty hours, contact Command Post for support.

  3.8. Tenant units will immediately notify Casualty Assistance when information concerning a casualty
  is received. After normal duty hours, notify the Command Post.

  3.9. Other agencies which become involved with casualty services will not release information or
  render assistance without first coordinating with Casualty standby representative.
  4                                                       Keesler AFB Instruction 36-3001      6 April 1998


  3.10. 81st Support Group Commander will publish an appointment letter designating those officers
  assigned the additional duty of Casualty Notification Officer. Officers will serve for one year from the
  effective date of the order.

  3.11. Wing Public Affairs Office:

  3.11.1. Is the only agency authorized to release casualty information to agencies outside of the casualty
  related channels of the Air Force.

 3.11.2. Will not release any information about the casualty until Casualty Representative confirms that
   the NOK has been officially notified by the Air Force or in accordance with AFI 35-102, para 6.7.

  3.11.3. Newsworthy events which may generate inquiries from the public and AF officials will be
  provided to the Casualty Assistance Office/standby representative.

  3.12. Transportation Squadron:

  3.12.1. Vehicle Operations will provide a sedan/station wagon (and driver if needed) for the notification
  team.

  3.12.2. TMO will assist the Summary Courts Officer and Primary NOK (PNOK) with the processing of
  shipment of household goods and personal property.

 3.13. OSI will:

 3.13.1. Immediately notify the Command Post when information is received concerning a casualty.

 3.13.2. Provide maximum assistance to Casualty Assistance representative in determining facts and
   circumstances surrounding death of personnel.

  4. Special Procedures for Multiple Reportable Casualties. In the event of a natural disaster, hostile
  action, or exercise in the Keesler AFB area which results in multiple reportable casualties, accomplish
  the following actions:

 4.1. When the Battle Staff (BS) is in session, the medical representative immediately provides all
   known casualty information to the Mission Support Squadron Representative. Only the information on
   deceased personnel in the field should be reported by the Mortuary Affairs Representative, who in turn
   reports the deceased personnel in the field to the Mission Support Squadron Representative at Battle
   Staff.

  4.2. 81st Medical Group:

 4.2.1. The Patient Administration Team will notify the medical representative at Battle Staff, by any
   means, of casualties who are Very Seriously Ill/Injured (VSI), Seriously Ill/Injured (SI), or
   Incapacitatingly Ill/Injured (III), and any deaths which are subsequent to transporting the casualty from
   the field to the medical center.

 4.2.2. The medical authority declaring an individual dead in the field will have the deceased member
   tagged with the time of death and name of person declaring member dead.
  Keesler AFB Instruction 36-3001      6 April 1998                                                      5



 4.3. Mortuary Affairs Office will identify deceased member, if funeral viewable, and report name,
   grade, and SSN to Mission Support Squadron representative on the Battle Staff by means other than
   radio.

4.3.1. The Mission Support Squadron representative will report all casualty information to Casualty
  Assistance Representative (CAR).

 4.4. Unit commanders and/or shelter commanders will notify the Mission Support Squadron
   representative at Battle Staff, by any means available, of personnel who are missing.

 4.5. Casualty Assistance will submit casualty reports to AFPC and MAJCOMs as required by AFI 36-
   3002. Appropriate notification officials will notify NOK as soon as possible.

 5. Invitational Travel Order Program (ITO). The Air Force will provide round-trip transportation of
   NOK to the bedside of very seriously ill (VSI) and seriously ill (SI) members hospitalized when their
   presence is considered necessary by competent medical authority (attending physician).

 5.1.   81st Medical Group:

 5.1.1. Attending physician initiates the request for ITO's when NOK's presence is warranted.

 5.1.2. Medical Group Commander concurs/nonconcurs with the request.

 5.1.3. If Medical Group Commander concurs, he/she notifies the Casualty Assistance Representative
   (CAR) for completion of the appropriate casualty report to HQ AFPC/DPWCS.

 5.2.   Unit Commander of VSI/SI:

 5.2.1. Coordinates notifying the NOK of member's condition with the Medical Group Commander.

 5.2.2. When notified by the CAR that ITO has been approved and itinerary established, assigns a Unit
   Representative as a personal escort to arrange for reception, quarters, and messing of NOK, and provides
   whatever assistance is necessary.

 5.2.3. Ensures the personal escort remains in contact with NOK during their stay and informs the CAR
   when NOK desire to return home is known so that transportation can be arranged.

 5.3.   Casualty Assistance Office:

 5.3.1. Administers the ITO Program as the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).

 5.3.2. Coordinates with base agencies to ensure the Casualty Assistance Office is notified of all VSI/SI
   cases.

 5.3.3. Contacts HQ AFPC/DPWCS immediately by phone, followed by message, when an ITO request
   has been received to obtain approval of the request.

 5.3.4. CAR notifies the personal escort on receipt of the travel itinerary from HQ AFPC.
  6                                                     Keesler AFB Instruction 36-3001    6 April 1998



 5.3.5. CAR established contact with the NOK, when at bedside, through the personal escort to determine
   when NOK desires to return home. When known, advises HQ AFPC/DPWCS by phone or message.

  Note: In some cases, NOK travels at their own expense immediately after being notified of VSI/SI of
  member before ITO has been offered. In these cases, reimbursements are still dependent upon the
  criteria for the ITO Program and the procedures for requesting and obtaining ITO approval must be
  followed to facilitate reimbursements. NOK should be informed that they may be entitled to
  reimbursement of certain transportation expenses. In such cases, reimbursement will not be made until
  the NOK returns home. Inadvertent travel arrangements made with other Air Force funds, such as Unit
  O&M Funds, will not be reimbursed.



                                                 JAMES C. SIMPSON, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                                 Vice Commander, 81st Training Wing
