BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 32-2001
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING
(AETC)                                                                                 30 MAY 2013

                                                                                   Civil Engineering

                                                      FIRE PREVENTION, FIRE REPORTING,
                                                                    AND FIREFIGHTING



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 81 ID/IDF                                                              Certified by: 81 MSG/ID
                                                                              (Mr. Mark S. Malone)
Supersedes:    Keesler AFB Instruction 32-                                                  Pages: 41
               2001, 1 June 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services,
and establishes policies, procedures, and prohibitions concerning the fire protection program.
Objectives are to prevent fires and reduce fire loss. Effective fire prevention serves a dual
purpose: reduces the number of fires and enables safer and more effective fire suppression.
Prevention of fire incidents is a never-ending task, and it is incumbent upon every member of
this installation to apply positive thinking and actions. This instruction forms the blueprint for
the structure of the installation fire prevention program. This instruction applies to all personnel
(military, civilian, and tenants) assigned, attached or working at this installation as well as
vendors and contractor personnel. It provides a definite field of activity for every individual
within the installation. Vigorous support at all levels will effect a substantial reduction in the fire
incident rate. This directive sets forth policies and procedures regarding turning in false
alarms, tampering with or misuse of fire protection systems or devices by Air Force
military or civilian personnel, including the Air Force Reserve it does not apply to the Air
National Guard. Failure to observe the provisions of this directive in paragraph 3.7 by
military personnel is a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
Violations by civilian employees may result in administrative disciplinary action without
regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws.
Attachment 1 is a glossary of references and supporting information. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of a
name or any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
 2                                                                            KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


instruction does not imply endorsement by the USAF. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Revised to include
specific instructions for commanders to designate smoking areas around their facilities. Revised
to ensure supervisors familiarize personnel with the primary and secondary exits of facility.
Revised to ensure facility managers have personnel trained on fire extinguishers annually.
Revised to instruct facility managers on how to dispose of smoking material properly. Revised to
instruct personnel on the proper use of electrical extension cords. Revised to instruct facility
managers of places of public assembly how to inspect the fire suppression hood and duct system
(s) in their facility. Revised to instruct MFH occupants on the danger of using flour to extinguish
a grease fire.

       1.      OBJECTIVE. .........................................................................................................    3
       2.      RESPONSIBILITIES. ...........................................................................................           3
       3.      CSC ENGINEERING RESPONSES. ....................................................................                         6
       4.      FIREFIGHTING. ...................................................................................................       7
       5.      FIRST AID FIREFIGHTING. ...............................................................................                 7
       6.      FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT. ...........................................................................                     7
       7.      UNIT SUPERVISORS AND FACILITY MANAGERS. .....................................                                           7
       8.      FIRE EXIT DRILLS. .............................................................................................         8
       9.      FIRE SAFETY INSPECTIONS AND UNIT REVIEWS. ....................................                                          8
       10.     WORKPLACE/JOB SAFETY AND FIRE PREVENTION TRAINING
               REQUIRE-MENTS. ..............................................................................................           8
TABLE 10.1.    Training Guides. ....................................................................................................   9
       11.     FIRE ESCAPE LADDERS, STAIRWAYS, AND FENCED-IN AREAS. ...........                                                        9
       12.     FIRE PREVENTION – GENERAL. .....................................................................                        9
       13.     INSPECTIONS. .....................................................................................................      15
       14.     FIRE PREVENTION LECTURES AND DEMONSTRATIONS. .......................                                                    16
       15.     GROUND/TRAFFIC CONTROL - FIRE/CRASH EMERGENCIES. .................                                                      16
       16.     PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. ....................................................................                         16
       17.     DECORATIONS AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR SPECIAL SOCIAL EVENTS
               AND GATHERINGS. ...........................................................................................             18
       18.     GENERAL PRACTICES – KEESLER FAMILY HOUSING (KFH). .................                                                     19
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                                                    3


       19.    FIRE PREVENTION – HOSPITAL. ....................................................................                    22
       20.    CONTRACTORS/CONCESSIONAIRES. ...........................................................                            24
       21.    FIRE PREVENTION – FLIGHT LINE, HANGARS, MAINTENANCE SHOPS,
              AND SIMILAR TECHNICAL FACILITIES – RESPONSIBILITIES. ................                                               26
       22.    FIRE PREVENTION - SUPPLY FUNCTION. ....................................................                             27
       23.    FIRE PREVENTION - UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING (DORMITORIES). ....                                                         28
       24.    Self-Help, Construction, Renovations, and Modifications. ...................................                        28
       25.    Project Management. .............................................................................................   28
       26.    Fuel Dispensing Facilities. .....................................................................................   29
       27.    ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS. ........................................................................                    30

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                    31

Attachment 2—UNIT FIRE PROTECTION MANAGEMENT BOOK INDEX                                                                           34


1. OBJECTIVE. The objectives of the fire prevention and protection programs are to eliminate
the cause of fires and reduce the loss of life, injury, and property damage if a fire occurs.
Achievement of these objectives requires commanders' support at all levels and the participation
of all base personnel (military, civilian, and contractors/concessionaires), thus ensuring
accomplishment of our assigned Air Force Mission.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
   2.1. The 81st Mission Support Group (81st MSG) Commander. The 81st MSG Commander
   exercises primary responsibilities through the Computer Science Corporation Engineering
   Section (CSC). The 81st MSG Commander will be notified when a hazard creating any
   dangerous situation cannot be resolved by concerned parties to determine if it should be
   eliminated, or an operation should be discontinued, or implementation of interim controls
   will be necessary to reduce the risk posed by the situation.
   2.2. Unit Commanders. Unit commanders will ensure compliance with of fire safety
   requirements in their area of responsibility.
       2.2.1. Forward a copy of building manager and alternate appointment memorandum to
       81 ID/IDF.
       2.2.2. Develop an operating instruction describing general and specialized fire safety
       requirements for operation within their unit.
       2.2.3. Periodically review unit fire safety program.
       2.2.4. Ensure fire drills are conducted for personnel occupying their facilities.
       2.2.5. Ensure all newly assigned personnel, both military and civilian, receive fire
       prevention training within 30 days of assignment.
       2.2.6. Ensure and provide emergency 911 telephone stickers for each instrument in the
       organization.
4                                                       KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


       2.2.7. Designates smoking areas for all facilities. Submit letter to the base fire
       department for approval of designated smoking area. Approving authority is base fire
       chief.
    2.3. Supervisors. Supervisors at all levels are responsible for fire safety in the work areas.
    This includes briefing personnel on the fire reporting procedures and enforcing safe smoking
    practices (from a fire hazard standpoint). Conduct a daily fire inspection to ensure area of
    responsibility is fire safe. Ensures all personnel are familiar with the primary and secondary
    escape routes for every area of their facility. The supervisor is also responsible for providing
    training in accordance with AFI 91-302 Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety,
    Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program.
    2.4. Facility Manager.
       2.4.1. Facility managers will develop fire protection and prevention procedures for their
       unit.
       2.4.2. Facility managers will conduct a visual inspection of facilities and note any fire
       hazards in their area of responsibility. Extinguisher contract personnel will conduct a
       yearly assessment of all extinguishers in the facility. The facility manager will
       visually inspect all extinguishers on a monthly basis to ensure they are operational
       and document inspection on the extinguisher. This inspection includes:
           2.4.2.1. Extinguisher located in designated place. Extinguisher cabinets in good
           repair.
           2.4.2.2. No obstruction to access or visibility.
           2.4.2.3. Operating instructions on name plate legible and facing outward.
           2.4.2.4. Safety seals and/or tamper indicators not broken or missing.
           2.4.2.5. No obvious physical damage, corrosion, leakage, or clogged nozzle.
           2.4.2.6. Pressure gauge reading or indicator in the operable range or position.
           2.4.2.7. Extinguishers must be replaced one-for-one when taken out of service by the
           contractor. All unserviceable extinguishers will be noted and replaced with spare
           and presented to the contractor for servicing. All new fire extinguishers will be
           approved by the Base Fire Department, Fire Prevention section IAW AFI 91-203, Air
           Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction.
       2.4.3. Facility managers will conduct a visual inspection of standpipe systems (if
       applicable) to ensure there is no obvious damage to the system and nozzles are in the off
       position. Installed fire suppression systems (if applicable) to include wet and dry pipe
       sprinkler systems, dry chemical systems and ducts, etc., must also be visually inspected at
       least monthly to ensure devices are not damaged, obstructed, or blocked (such as grease
       buildup on nozzles in hood and duct systems), and manual activation switches are
       accessible and properly secured. Visually inspect pressure gauges to ensure indicators
       are in the green and systems with two pressure gauges; pressures are equal.
           2.4.3.1. Check fire doors to ensure they are not blocked and in good working order.
           Ensures mesh safety glass on these doors are not covered/obscured by paper/tape or
           any other type of covering materials. Ensure all exits are accessible and doors are
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                               5


        operative. Ensure doors are not propped open with any type door stop. Doors must be
        closed at all times.
        2.4.3.2. Ensure all exits are properly marked. Exit signs shall not be obstructed and
        the self-illuminated type must be kept operational.
        2.4.3.3. Emergency lights shall be tested at least monthly for administrative, storage,
        and industrial occupancies, and at least every two (2) weeks for mercantile, health
        care, educational, and public assembly occupancies. Emergency lights must not be
        obstructed and shall be adjusted so as to illuminate paths of egress. Emergency lights
        will be tested annually by CSC IAW NFPA 101, Code for Safety to Life From Fire in
        Building and Structures.
        2.4.3.4. Visual inspections of all installed fire alarm and detection systems, manual
        pull boxes, and detectors must be accomplished at least monthly. These inspections
        shall be limited to:
           2.4.3.4.1. Checking for visual damage of devices.
           2.4.3.4.2. Eliminating obstructions or blocking devices.
           2.4.3.4.3. Ensuring devices are secured in place (including all pull boxes).
           2.4.3.4.4. Smoke/Heat detectors equipped with power indicator lights are
           checked for flashing light. Note: All sleeping areas will have hard-wired smoke
           detectors installed. Heat/smoke detectors will be mounted securely in place.
           Disconnection of these detectors by occupants is prohibited and subject to
           disciplinary action.
           2.4.3.4.5. Ensure detectors with activation lights are checked. Note: When lit,
           the Civil Engineer customer service and the Fire Department must be notified of
           the activated detector.
           2.4.3.4.6. Facility managers are responsible for ensuring all AF Forms 332, Base
           Civil Engineer Work Request, are coordinated through the base fire department.
           The base fire department will have a minimum of seven (7) business days to
           review and coordinate AF Forms 332.
        2.4.3.5. See Section A1B, Unit Fire Safety Program Inspection Checklist, Unit Fire
        Protection Management book, for additional requirements.
        2.4.3.6. Ensure personnel fire extinguisher training is conducted annually. Contact
        base Fire Prevention section at 377-3333/8440.
        2.4.3.7. Provide an adequate number of smoking material receptacles (non-
        combustible type) for every designated authorized smoking area. These containers
        must be emptied on a weekly basis or more frequently as needed.
        2.4.3.8. Smoking is not allowed inside Air Force facilities IAW AFI 91-203. Provide
        smoking material receptacles at the entrance to all NO SMOKING areas.
        2.4.3.9. Saturate with water and completely extinguish smoking material prior to
        disposal into outside waste dumpsters.
 6                                                          KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


            2.4.3.10. Smoking is prohibited at gas stations, petroleum, oil, lubricants (POL)
            facilities, liquid oxygen plants, and flight line areas (including in vehicles) except in
            areas designated by the commander, with fire chief’s approval.
3. CSC ENGINEERING RESPONSES. The CSC Engineering Section will establish
procedures for personnel at all utility shops to respond to emergencies and correct emergency
conditions within 24 hours of notification during and after duty hours to comply with AFPAM
32-1004, Vol 3, Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance.
     3.1. Fire Reporting Procedures.
        3.1.1. Upon discovery of a potential or actual fire situation, initiate fire alarm by
        activating pull station located at exits to the facility. If a local fire alarm is not available,
        alert occupants by the best means possible. Upon activating manual fire alarm pull box,
        immediately notify the fire department by telephone.
        3.1.2. Report fires using on-base government telephones by dialing 911. If you dial from
        a cell phone you will reach Biloxi 911 operator. Inform the operator that you are on
        Keesler property and they will transfer you to the Keesler 911 operator. Talk slowly and
        clearly, remain calm and provide the following information:
        3.1.3. Building number/housing number and housing area.
        3.1.4. Location of fire within facility or in relation to the facility.
        3.1.5. Nature of the fire or suspected fire.
        3.1.6. Status of personnel (evacuated or trapped).
        3.1.7. Any other information you feel may be helpful.
        3.1.8. Do not hang up until told to by dispatcher. Note: Evacuate building immediately
        closing all doors and windows if possible on the way out. Turn off mission related
        electrical equipment in none fire areas. Do not re-enter until cleared by the senior fire
        official (SFO) on-scene. Evacuation shall be 75 feet from facility. **Post someone
        outside of the facility to direct the responding firefighters to the fire scene.**
     3.2. Report all fires to the fire department immediately, regardless of size, nature or extent of
     damage, whether extinguished by individual or group effort, citing all pertinent details. Also,
     report as an emergency, any smell of burning that is detected or when any situation that may
     indicate a potential fire is discovered. If the building fire alarm has been activated, reporting
     by phone is still required.
     3.3. When reporting a fire from a commercial telephone or from any base housing area, dial
     911. Give the same information as above. Base commercial phones will have a 911 sticker
     affixed on each phone in the facility. Facility managers are responsible to ensure phone
     stickers are in place on all phones.
     3.4. DO NOT report actual or potential fires on fire department administrative phone lines
     as delays may result.
     3.5. Attempts to extinguish small fires with portable fire extinguishers should be made
     ONLY after evacuation and calling the fire department is accomplished. Abandon attempts
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                  7


  to use a fire extinguisher when it becomes obvious the fire is gaining headway, or you begin
  to succumb to heat or smoke.
  3.6. False Alarms. Willful misconduct or negligence involving fire prevention policies,
  turning in false alarms, tampering with or the misuse of fire protection systems or
  devices, is subject to punishment under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)
  and appropriate civilian punishment. A violation of this paragraph may result in
  disciplinary action. See paragraph 27.
4. FIREFIGHTING.
  4.1. Class "A" Fires. Extinguish wood, paper, rags, and similar materials with water-type
  extinguishers. Garden hoses, buckets or cans of water, and dirt can also be used effectively.
  4.2. Class "B" Fires. Extinguish lubricants, gasoline, paint thinner, cooking oil, and other
  flammables with dry chemical type extinguishers, directed at the base of the fire.
  4.3. Class "C" Fires. Extinguish electrical fires with chemical type extinguishers designed
  specifically for all these type fires. Caution: Do not use water on electrical fires.
  4.4. Class "D" Fires. Extinguish burnable metals such as magnesium, titanium, etc., with
  extinguishers designed specifically for these type fires. Do not attempt extinguishment with
  any form of liquid or vaporizing agent.
  4.5. Class “K” Fires. Extinguish cooking appliance fires that involve combustible cooking
  media (vegetable or animal oils and fats).
5. FIRST AID FIREFIGHTING.
  5.1. Personnel will attempt to extinguish a fire when discovered. Do not man all
  extinguishers in a facility, as this may subject personnel to undue danger. Leave the fire area
  when the extinguisher is depleted or fire is advancing, closing all doors.
  5.2. Personnel will immediately evacuate the building after all other occupants have been
  evacuated if it is apparent efforts are futile or life is endangered by continued effort to
  combat the fire.
6. FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
  6.1. Fire extinguishers and installed firefighting equipment:
     6.1.1. Do not tamper with or remove firefighting equipment from installed locations, or
     use equipment for other than the purpose of combating fires, i.e., fire extinguishers, fire
     detection, and alarm systems.
     6.1.2. Do not block or obscure fire extinguishers, fire detection or fire alarm systems, fire
     suppression systems or system test valves. Maintain a three (3) feet clearance around all
     fire equipment.
7. UNIT SUPERVISORS AND FACILITY MANAGERS.
  7.1. Will not occupy any building prior to the installation of fire extinguishers. The civil
  engineer real property officer and project monitor will ensure fire extinguishers are included
  in the design of new facilities and supplied by the contractor per contract specifications.
 8                                                         KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


     7.2. Facility manager will notify the Fire Prevention office, 377-3333/8440, when moving
     fire extinguishers from a deactivated facility to another facility.
     7.3. When fire extinguishers are not purchased by contractor, the using organization is
     responsible for extinguisher purchase. The fire department must approve all fire extinguisher
     purchases prior to purchase IAW AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety
     Instruction. Organization must have at least one spare fire extinguisher on hand to
     replace an extinguisher when placed out of service for six year maintenance,
     hydrostatic testing, discharged, leaking or any other purpose.
8. FIRE EXIT DRILLS. Fire exit drills are required to be conducted at least annually in ALL
occupied facilities. Facility managers are responsible for ensuring fire drills are conducted and
coordinated with the Base Fire Department, Fire Prevention section 377-3333/8440. Fire
Prevention personnel will observe and evaluate the drill. Fire drills may be announced to give
personnel time to review fire plans and procedures or they may be unannounced. Fire drills must
encompass the entire facility. When more than one unit occupies one facility, fire exit drills
must be coordinated. In some occupancies, such as dormitories and places of public assembly
(theater, base exchange, medical, billeting, etc.), special training is required for employees only
and practice drills are required separately from fire exit drills.
     8.1. The following frequencies are to be used for conducting fire drills for specific facilities:
        8.1.1. Monthly – Child Development Center, Youth Center, Home Day Care Homes.
        8.1.2. One per shift per quarter – Keesler Medical Center.
        8.1.3. Semi-Annually – Munitions Storage facilities (with Fire Department response).
        8.1.4. Annually – All remaining base facilities.
9. FIRE SAFETY INSPECTIONS AND UNIT REVIEWS.
     9.1. Fire Inspections. Commanders will develop a monthly “Fire Prevention Walk-Thru
     Program” to evaluate facilities and operations (see section A1B, Tab D, Unit Inspection Log
     Sheet, Unit Fire Protection Management Book.) These walk-thrus are to be conducted by
     facility managers.
     9.2. Unit Fire Safety Review. The Fire Department will conduct a review of all unit fire
     safety programs IAW applicable directives, federal statutes, and laws. The Fire Department
     representative will in-brief and out-brief unit commanders or designated representatives prior
     to/after conducting unit fire safety visit. Fire inspections will be conducted annually,
     unscheduled and/or special occasions.
10. WORKPLACE/JOB SAFETY AND FIRE PREVENTION TRAINING REQUIRE-
MENTS.
     10.1. Fire Prevention Training. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring this training is
     provided. In all cases, the training shall be provided to new personnel upon assignment
     during new employee training programs, but within 30 days of arrival at Keesler Air Force
     Base. The training will be given when there is a change in equipment, procedures, processes,
     safety, or fire prevention requirements. The training shall be given as required to ensure all
     employees remain familiar with fire safety and prevention requirements, but shall be given
     no less than annually in all cases.
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                9


   10.2. Documentation. Document the training on the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
   Health Record, Sections I and IV.
   10.3. Training Guides. Supervisors shall develop training guides for their employees, to
   cover the subjects listed below.

TABLE 10.1. Training Guides.
            * USE/OPERATION                       PROCEDURES                 LOCATION
    Fire Reporting                                        X
    Emergency Evacuation                                  X
    First Aid Firefighting                                X
    Fire Extinguishers                                    X                       X
    Fire Suppression Systems (each type)                  X                       X
    Fire Alarm Systems                                    X                       X
    Fire Hazards (identifying/reporting)                  X
    Hazardous Areas                                                               X
    Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)              X                       X
       *Note: All fire fighters are exempt from above areas due to continuous recurring
       training.

11. FIRE ESCAPE LADDERS, STAIRWAYS, AND FENCED-IN AREAS. The facility
manager will ensure:
   11.1. Fire escape ladders and stairways are unobstructed and maintained in a good state of
   repair.
   11.2. Storage in stairwells and under stairwells is prohibited at all times.
   11.3. Adequate means of escape is provided for all fenced-in areas. Local procedures for
   such areas will include provisions for opening a secondary gate in case of fire, for the
   evacuation of personnel and for entrance of fire department personnel and equipment.
12. FIRE PREVENTION – GENERAL.
   12.1. Principal Causes of Fire. Air Force experience, as to the principal cause of fire,
   compares generally with civilian experience as recorded by the National Fire Protection
   Association (NFPA). The following list indicates fire causes fall into two classes: Unsafe
   conditions and unsafe acts. Fires resulting from several of these causes actually represent a
   combination of both classes. To be completely effective, a fire prevention program must
   consider the human element in all situations as well as elimination of unsafe physical
   conditions. Leading causes vary in relative position from year-to-year, but can generally be
   assumed to rank as follows:
      12.1.1. Unattended cooking.
      12.1.2. Smoking material and matches.
      12.1.3. Heating appliances.
10                                                     KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


     12.1.4. Electrical appliances.
     12.1.5. Flammable liquids.
     12.1.6. Electrical wiring.
     12.1.7. Internal combustion engine.
     12.1.8. Ignition of greases.
     12.1.9. Open flames, ashes, etc.
     12.1.10. Spontaneous ignition.
     12.1.11. Sparks and flying brands.
 12.2. Building Conditions. Give particular attention to the conditions of walls, ceilings and
 false ceilings, and breeches in floors, ceilings and fire walls, all doors with door closure
 assembly attached. If maintenance is required, submit AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer
 Work Request, to CSC Facility Maintenance Section.
 12.3. Electrical. Use of electrical equipment that is not explosion-proof in areas containing
 flammable vapors or an explosive atmosphere is prohibited.
     12.3.1. Portable heaters must be UL or FM approved and must automatically shut off
     when tipped over. Heaters will be kept a minimum of 18 inches from any combustibles.
     Plug space heaters directly into the wall receptacle. Do not plug space heaters into
     multiple outlet strips. An extension cord with a space heater must be avoided. Space
     heaters must be grounded with a three pronged plug. Do not leave space heaters
     unattended when in use and unplug them at the end of the day or shift. Keep in good
     working condition. Replace missing guards and controls at once. Have the heater checked
     periodically and have all necessary repairs done by a certified electrician.
     12.3.2. The use of heat element cooking appliances, i.e., toasters, toaster ovens, skillets,
     electrical frying pans, hot plates, crock pots, and electric/gas grills are strictly prohibited
     for use in dormitories and base facilities, (with exception of quad unaccompanied
     dormitories and Temporary Lodging Facilities; these units have approved kitchens and
     fire sprinkler systems.)
     12.3.3. The use of single and multiple outlet extension cords and the use of extension
     cords in lieu of permanent wiring are prohibited. Use fused 15 amps six appliance surge
     protectors only. Appliances must bear the “UL” or “FM” seal. The two-outlet box with
     trip proof extension cord is prohibited. Multiple plug adapters will not be used solely as
     wiring to provide additional or more convenient outlets. Use only UPS with six outlets.
     Do not plug surge protectors in UPS, UPS into surge protectors, and surge protectors into
     surge protectors causing “daisy chaining.”
     12.3.4. Electrical cords shall not be subjected to electrical currents or voltages greater
     than their rated capacity. Electrical extension cords will not be used as a substitute for
     fixed wiring. Do not run them through holes in walls, ceilings, floors, doorways,
     windows, or similar openings. Do not run extension cords where concealed behind walls,
     dropped ceilings, or floors. Do not tape, staple, or tack extension cords to building
     surfaces. Extension cords shall not be spliced, coiled, or placed where they may be
     damaged or create a hazard. Cords will not be walked on nor will equipment be allowed
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                              11


     to run over them. If cords must be placed in travel lanes for short periods, they will be
     protected by molded housing or bridges. Cords will not be kinked, stretched, or bent
     excessively. Practices of this nature will damage internal wire strands.
     12.3.5. Storage of combustible material under ceiling lights, sprinkler heads, joists,
     rafters, beams, roof trusses and electrical appliances must have an 18-inch clearance
     12.3.6. Do not use portable appliances unless they bear the label of a national testing
     laboratory. UL – listed or FM approved.
     12.3.7. Dirty and oily motors. Maintenance shall be conducted on motors, such as
     lubrication of bearings and replacing of brushes before use. Keep motor in well
     ventilated location.
     12.3.8. All uncovered electrical panels, outlets and junction boxes, shall have cover
     plates securely installed before use.
     12.3.9. All temporary and inadequate wiring shall be removed immediately upon
     completion of construction or purpose for which the wiring was installed. Temporary and
     inadequate wiring is prohibited.
     12.3.10. Discontinue use of outlets, switches, and appliances when damaged. Damaged
     outlets, switches and appliance must be repaired or replaced before use.
     12.3.11. Coffee pots will only be placed on noncombustible surfaces. Unplug coffee
     pots at end of the day. Keep coffee pots and the area around them free of combustibles.
     Do not use timers on coffee pots unless the coffee pot comes with an integral timer.
     12.3.12. Refrigerators, microwaves, coffee pots shall be plugged directly into wall
     outlets.
  12.4. Heating. Install all stoves, boilers, furnaces and other heaters according to
  specifications. Only American Gas Association (AGA) or other recognized agency devices
  are permitted. Proper temperature controls and venting, as well as maintenance, are essential
  to the elimination and prevention of fire hazard conditions. The following hazards are
  typical:
     12.4.1. The use of open flames or heaters with exposed electrical heating elements, i.e.,
     electric space/portable heaters, in areas where flammable vapors, dust, liquids, or
     combustible materials are present.
     12.4.2. Air conditioning and ventilating systems involve unique fire hazards because of
     the use of motors and ducting in such systems. Install these systems in accordance with
     established standards. Correct defects in installation or use of air conditioning
     immediately.
     12.4.3. Sparking, overheating of fan bearings, and friction of the moving fan in contact
     with surrounding metal.
     12.4.4. The use of motors without "over temperature" device in unit type air
     conditioners.
     12.4.5. The use of ferrous metal for blower fans or housing.
12                                                   KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


     12.4.6. The use of ducts made of combustible material or with combustible filters or
     linings.
     12.4.7. Inadequate clearance between metal ducts and combustible materials, including
     ceilings and roofs.
     12.4.8. Ducts inadequately secured by metal hangers, straps, lugs, or brackets.
     12.4.9. Inadequate insulation of ducts enclosed in combustible walls, partitions, or
     concealed ceiling spaces.
     12.4.10. Ducts without ports for frequent cleaning and without compartment dampers for
     isolation of fire to a single section.
     12.4.11. Improper clearances between combustible walls and heating and cooking
     equipment (should have overhead clearance of 48 inches, side clearance of 18 inches, and
     back clearance of 18 inches) unless otherwise specified by manufacturer.
 12.5. Flammable Liquids and Gases. The following precautions will reduce and control
 vapors.
     12.5.1. Store flammable liquids in excess of working stock in outside designated storage
     buildings or cabinets marked "FLAMMABLE - KEEP FIRE AWAY." Storage of
     flammable liquids must be in an approved locker or area intended for that purpose.
     Submit floor plan and letter to fire department indicating location of all lockers. Provide
     a 20 lb BC fire within 10 feet of flammable lockers.
     12.5.2. Where occupancy of a building requires the storage of small quantities of
     flammable liquids such as type cleaner, ditto fluid, and liquids required for laboratory
     work, store containers in an approved metal cabinet. Plainly label the cabinet
     "Flammables." Desk or table containers will not exceed 8 fluid ounces in volume.
     12.5.3. A working stock (5-day supply) of paints, oils, and necessary thinners and
     cleaning solvents is permitted in paint shops, hobby shops, maintenance shops, and other
     like facilities. No individual container will exceed five (5) gallons in capacity, except
     safety vats. Secure lids firmly when containers are not in use and store in proper type
     storage cabinets. Keep cabinet doors closed at all times except when removing and
     replacing flammables.        Label storage cabinets conspicuously in red letters
     "FLAMMABLE - KEEP FIRE AWAY."
     12.5.4. Stencil the identity of the contents clearly or similarly mark on exterior of all
     flammable liquid containers.
     12.5.5. Do not use gasoline, naphtha, lacquer, paint thinner, alcohol, turpentine, tolulene,
     JP8, or acetone as cleaning solvents.
     12.5.6. The use of any solvent with a flash point of less than 200 degrees is prohibited
     for cleaning hot engines.
     12.5.7. Provide vats with fusible links to melt and close the lids in all activities where
     parts or units are cleaned inside buildings.
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                              13


     12.5.8. Store compressed gas cylinders in accordance with NFPA 55, Standard for the
     Storage, Use and Handling of Compressed Gases and Cryogenic Fluids in Portable and
     Stationary Containers.
     12.5.9. Use approved gasoline safety cans for the transportation and storage of gasoline.
     12.5.10. When fuel spills occur, contact the fire department immediately, dial 911.
     12.5.11. Dispose of gasoline or oil soaked rags or waste immediately by placing them in
     approved closed non-combustible containers.
     12.5.12. DO NOT dispose of flammable liquids in drains or sewers. Follow directions
     contained in AF Pamphlet 32-7043, Hazardous Waste Management Guide, for disposal.
  12.6. Welding, Cutting, and Brazing.
     12.6.1. Contractor personnel will obtain an AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and
     Brazing Permit, from the fire department before conducting any welding, cutting, brazing
     or open flame operations. Contractors will provide a minimum of three workdays prior
     notice for permits.
     12.6.2. Base personnel must obtain AF Form 592 prior to commencement of work. This
     permit can be obtained from CSC civil engineer shop personnel who have been trained
     and certified by 81 ID/IDF to issue the permit. Permits will not exceed a 24 hour period.
     Obtain control number from Base Fire Department, 377-3333/8440
         12.6.2.1. Personnel performing the operation must notify the fire department prior to
         starting the operation.
     12.6.3. Protect combustible material during welding, cutting, or brazing operations by
     placing non-combustible material between the operation and adjacent combustible
     material. Upon completion of the operation, wet down the area with water.
     12.6.4. Ensure an operational portable fire extinguisher is near all such operations and
     the extinguisher is rated for the type of operation being performed.
     12.6.5. At the conclusion of the operation, an inspection is made to ensure the area is
     clean and fire safe. Personnel will notify the fire department to confirm operation is
     completed and the area is fire safe, 377-3333.
     12.6.6. Contractors will return the original AF Form 592 to the Fire Prevention section in
     Bldg 4225 on the day after the expiration date.
  12.7. Good Housekeeping Standards Relative to Fire Safety. A high state of cleanliness and
  complete elimination of accumulation of waste and rubbish are primary factors in fire
  prevention.
     12.7.1. Commanders, facility managers, and supervisors will ensure all buildings and
     grounds under their jurisdiction are policed and maintained in a fire safe condition.
     12.7.2. The facility manager will ensure all trash and waste containers are emptied into
     outside fire resistant trash receptacles as often as necessary to maintain a fire-safe
     workplace.
14                                                    KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


     12.7.3. Keep rags, steel wool, floor sweeping compound, and combustible waste in
     tightly covered metal containers. Mark containers to indicate contents.
     12.7.4. Do not allow dried grass, brush or foliage to accumulate near, on, or under
     buildings, equipment, or supplies. Give special attention to removing pine needles from
     rooftops. Burning of trash or waste is prohibited.
     12.7.5. Clean lint, grease and dust from motors, louvers, screens, stoves, walls, vents,
     and hoods on a regular basis.
  12.8. Storage.  Reference AFI 91-203,Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety
  Instruction AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Services Manual (JSM) for Storage and Materials
  Handling.
     12.8.1. Storage in attics, heating, air conditioner, electrical, generator, mechanical, and
     power rooms, exit corridors, and in or under stairwells in buildings is prohibited. All
     enclosures shall be kept free of material that would create a hazard.
     12.8.2. Keep stored material orderly at all times, maintain aisles, and do not block or
     obscure fire alarm pull stations and electrical controls. Aisles will be maintained in
     accordance with applicable publications.
     12.8.3. Keep all materials and supplies 18 inches from light fixtures, fire sprinkler
     systems, and building material components. If material is stacked more than 15ft high,
     clearance will be 36 inches. Clearances between stock and walls will be 24 inches.
     Materials will not be stored within 36 inches of a fire door opening.
     12.8.4. Inspect bulk storage of clothing, parachutes, or baled material daily.
     12.8.5. Store lawn mowers and other gasoline operated equipment only in buildings
     designated for this purpose.
     12.8.6. Do not store wooden pallets within 25 feet of any structure.
     12.8.7. Packaging material will be stored in self-closing noncombustible containers.
     12.8.8. A 36 inch clearance is required around all flammable and hazardous chemical
     area.
  12.9. Open Flame or Fires. No open fires or flames, such as campfires, bonfires, trash fires,
  vegetation fires, and so forth, regardless of size, are authorized on this installation unless
  inspected by the fire department and approved in writing by the fire chief, or designated
  representative.
  12.10. Candles and Other Type of Flame Producing Devices. The use of open flame devices
  such as candles, liquid, or solid fuel burner, incense, and so forth, are prohibited in
  Unaccompanied Officer Quarters (UOQ), Unaccompanied Enlisted Personnel Housing
  (UEPH), Visiting Officer Quarters (VOQ), Visiting Airman Quarters (VAQ), and Temporary
  Lodging Facilities (TLF).
  12.11. Barbecue Grills. Barbecue grills/grease cooking devices with propane will not be
  used inside or within 15 feet of any Air Force facility to include gazebos. Special events will
  require inspection by the fire department prior to the event and approved, in writing, by the
  fire chief or his designated representative.
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                   15


  12.12. Cooking in Air Force Facilities. The use of cooking appliances in base facilities for
  special events or activities will be coordinated with the Base Fire Department, Fire
  Prevention section, 377-3333/8440 by the facility manager at least 48 hours in advance of
  activity or event. Cooking is strictly prohibited in facilities or areas not specifically approved
  for that purpose, with the exception of special events and activities approved by the fire chief
  or designated representative.
  12.13. Dumpsters. Dumpsters used for trash and other waste shall be located at least 25 feet
  from facilities unless written approval by the fire chief or designated representative.
  12.14. Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants are inspected, tested, and maintained by CSC per UFC
  3-600-2, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire
  Protection Systems and NFPA Stds. A copy of the hydrant test results shall be given to the
  base Fire Department, Fire Prevention section annually.
     12.14.1. When fire hydrants are out of service, the utility shop will identify them with a
     metal placard no smaller that 12 inches in diameter with weatherproof white letters on a
     red background reading "OUT OF SERVICE." The placards shall be placed in a way
     that identifies hydrants out of service from approaching directions.
     12.14.2. The fire alarm communications center shall immediately be notified of out of
     service hydrants and post them on the system outage board. The alarm communication
     center shall also be immediately notified when fire hydrants are returned to service by the
     CSC shop repairing the fire hydrant.
     12.14.3. Out of service hydrants shall be treated as an emergency work order until
     returned to service.
     12.14.4. Base fire hydrants will not be used for any other purpose other than firefighting
     without prior written approval from 81 ID/IDF, 377-3333/8440. Note: Out of service
     includes water outages, fire hydrants (closing of valves), as well as inoperative fire
     hydrants.
     12.14.5. A clearance of 15 feet shall be maintained around all base fire hydrants.
13. INSPECTIONS.
  13.1. Fire Inspection Responsibilities. Base fire inspectors will inspect each assigned
  facility IAW AFI 32-2001, The Fire Emergency Program annually, unscheduled and/or
  special occasions. The Facility Manager or alternate Facility Manager will accompany the
  fire inspector and make on-the-spot corrections of minor irregularities. The facility manager
  will possess keys/ combinations or have access to all locked doors in their facility during
  facility fire prevention inspections. The fire inspector will record deficiencies and corrective
  actions required on AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report addressed to the functional
  manager. It is the responsibility of the functional manager, working through the facility
  manager, to ensure all corrective actions are accomplished and the AF Form 1487 is returned
  to 81 ID/IDF by the indicated suspense date on the form in block 5. Only the functional
  manager or unit commander shall sign the back of the AF Form 1487 certifying corrective
  action has taken place.
16                                                      KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


  13.2. All heating, boiler, air conditioning, air handling, and mechanical rooms should be
  secured. Only fire protection, Civil Engineer, or authorized personnel will have access to
  these areas.
14. FIRE PREVENTION LECTURES AND DEMONSTRATIONS.
  14.1. Responsibilities. The Fire Prevention Section will conduct fire prevention lectures and
  give demonstrations at the request of functional managers or social groups.
  14.2. Requests. Direct requests for lectures and demonstrations to Fire Prevention
  (81 ID/IDF) @ 377-3333/8440 at least 15 days prior to scheduled date and include the
  approximate number of personnel to attend. Requestors should obtain the largest possible
  audience. Furnish the Fire Prevention Section an actual attendance figure not later than five
  (5) workdays after the lecture or demonstration.
15. GROUND/TRAFFIC CONTROL - FIRE/CRASH EMERGENCIES.
     15.1. Traffic Control. The Defense Force Commander will establish procedures for traffic
     control, security, and restriction of personnel from emergency areas, as requested by the
     Incident Commander (IC).
     15.2. Operational Control. The senior fire officer will control firefighting and rescue
     operations of the accident/incident site. Personnel not assigned to the fire protection
     organization will not interfere and will remain a safe distance from the area unless requested
     by the senior fire officer in charge.
     15.3. Authority to Commandeer. The senior fire officer, acting for the installation
     commander, may commandeer military vehicles, equipment, materials, and personnel
     (military or civilian) as necessary.
     15.4. Safety at the Scene. Security Forces, Office of Special Investigations (OSI) agents,
     supervisors of flying ground/flight safety specialists and other disaster response force (DRF)
     teams who are expected to respond to a fire, crash or other disaster scene will remain well
     clear of firefighting apparatus and personnel and will not enter an emergency site or location
     without the express permission of the senior fire officer on the scene.
     15.5. Emergency Vehicle Right-of-Way. Firefighting equipment has the right of way when
     responding to an emergency. At the sound of a siren or sight of a flashing red light,
     motorized equipment will move to the street curb, stop, and remain stationary until
     emergency vehicles have passed.
     15.6. Obstructing Firefighting Resources. Do not obstruct fire lanes, fire hydrants, fire
     department sprinkler connections, and standpipe connections within a radius of 15 feet. Do
     not use fire hydrants for any other purpose than intended without written permission of the
     fire department.
        15.6.1. Facilities must be provided with a clear access (fire lane) of 30 feet for
        firefighting around the facility.
16. PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
     16.1. Training. Public assembly managers will establish a training program complying with
     AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction and NFPA 101, Life
     Safety Code to ensure each employee understands their duties and responsibilities toward fire
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                 17


  prevention, including the use of fire extinguishers, installed fire protection equipment and
  duties in case of fire. Managers will ensure employees are proficient in aiding in the orderly
  evacuation of occupants from facilities in the event the fire alarm system is activated or there
  is a fire. This training program must be developed to cover each functional area including
  kitchen workers, office workers, waitresses, and bartenders. All newly hired employees must
  be trained within seven (7) days of hire. All training must be documented.
  16.2. Procedures for Conducting Closing Inspection.
     16.2.1. Specialized Training. Specialized training for managers or assistant managers
     who perform closing inspection must be conducted. This training must be geared to each
     individual occupant. Personnel who have been trained to close these facilities will be
     designated in writing and a copy will be maintained in the facilities fire prevention book.
     Public assembly managers are responsible for ensuring this training is conducted.
     16.2.2. Performing Daily Closing Inspection. Public assembly managers or their
     assistants, designated in writing, shall perform daily closing inspections and document
     the results of the inspection in the facility fire prevention folder.
     16.2.3. Checklist. The closing inspection will consist of a thorough inspection of the
     entire work area or area of operation. A checklist will be used to ensure a completed and
     uniform type inspection.
  16.3. Kitchens. Kitchen managers shall ensure all kitchens comply with requirements listed
  below as well as the requirements in AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational
  Safety Instruction, and NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation, Control, and Fire Protection of
  Commercial Cooking Operations, NFPA 17A, Standard for Wet Chemical Extinguishing
  Systems.
     16.3.1. Food preparation or cooking that emits grease-laden vapors will be protected
     with hood and duct system equipped with an installed fire suppression system. These
     systems shall be operational at all times except for scheduled inspection, test, and
     routine maintenance. If any one of the systems is out of service for any reason,
     equipment protected by that system will not be used.
     16.3.2. Openings in hood leading to the duct will be protected with grease filters that fit
     tightly. Cooking shall not be accomplished when grease filters are not in place. A spare
     set of filters will be maintained by each user.
     16.3.3. Kitchen ranges, hoods, filters, and surroundings will be cleaned at least daily
     (end of operation) or more often if needed and document daily. A spare set of filters will
     be maintained by each user.
     16.3.4. Ensure cooking appliances are completely under exhaust hoods (hoods must
     overhang appliances at least six (6) inches on all sides) at all times when in operation.
     Provide a metal or metal clad cover for each deep fat fryer for immediate use in case
     of grease fire. The cover is adjacent to the deep fat fryer.
     16.3.5. A class K fire extinguisher with a 40 BC rating shall be provided in the kitchen
     with deep fat fryer and grills.
     16.3.6. Facility/public assembly managers will ensure that all hoods, canopy motors,
     ductwork are not allowed to accumulate grease to unsafe levels IAW AFI 91-203, Air
18                                                        KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


        Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction. A copy of the inspection will be
        forwarded to the fire department.
            16.3.6.1. At a minimum a “quick check” or inspection shall be performed monthly
            and recorded:
            16.3.6.2. The extinguishing system is in its proper location.
            16.3.6.3. The manual actuators are unobstructed.
            16.3.6.4. The tamper indicators and seals are intact.
            16.3.6.5. The maintenance tag or certificate is in place.
            16.3.6.6. No obvious physical damage or condition exists that might prevent
            operation.
            16.3.6.7. The pressure gauge (s), if provided, shall be inspected physically to ensure
            it is in the operable range.
            16.3.6.8. The nozzle blowoff caps, where provided, are intact and undamaged.
            16.3.6.9. Neither the protected equipment nor the hazard has not been replaced,
            modified, or relocated.
            16.3.6.10. If any deficiencies are found, appropriate corrective action shall be taken
            immediately. Report deficiencies to CSC service desk or submit AF Form 332 to
            correct deficiencies.
            16.3.6.11. Facility managers of public assembly facilities which house fire
            suppression systems in kitchens will schedule kitchen training for employees annually
            by contacting the base Fire Department, Fire Prevention section at 377-3333/8440.
        16.3.7. Public assembly managers will ensure thermostats on deep fat fryers are tested
        annually and permanently metal tagged indicating the inspection results and date of
        inspection IAW AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction.
        Facility managers should keep a copy of the certification on file and forward a copy to
        the Base Fire Department.
        16.3.8. Flammable and combustible liquids will be stored, displayed and handled as
        outlined in AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, NFPA
        30, Flammable and Combustible Codes, and 30A, Code for Motor Fuel Dispensing and
        Repair Garages.
17. DECORATIONS AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR SPECIAL SOCIAL EVENTS AND
GATHERINGS.
     17.1. Notification of Special Events. The Fire Department, Fire Prevention Section, must be
     notified at ext 377-3333/8440 of all special events held in base facilities, so a fire inspection
     can be performed no less than two (2) days prior to the event.
        17.1.1. Decorations and Furnishings. All decorations and furnishings must be non-
        combustible and fire retardant, to include Christmas trees. The use of live or metallic
        trees are prohibited. Decorations will not obstruct installed fire protection devices nor
        will they block or obstruct egress routes and exits. Decorations will not cover fire doors,
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                               19


     fire windows in doors. Turn off all decorations at the end of the duty day. Do not leave
     decorations on overnight in unoccupied facilities. Do not hang decorations from ceilings
     nor from fire detection sprinkler system heads in the facility.
     17.1.2. Occupant Load. Functional and facility managers are responsible for enforcing
     facility occupant loads. The fire department shall be informed of the expected number of
     personnel to attend any special function.
     17.1.3. Managers and Supervisors. Managers and supervisors of these special functions
     will ensure that employees are trained in fire reporting procedures, helping personnel
     egress from the building, and prevention of panic. They must also be trained on the
     location of fire extinguishers and in their use.
     17.1.4. Temporary Wire.       Temporary wiring must conform to NFPA 70, National
     Electric Code.
  17.2. Fireworks and Hobby Supplies.
     17.2.1. The possession or use of fireworks is prohibited in all base areas including family
     housing.
     17.2.2. Keep model airplane fuels, dopes, paints, and other flammable liquids, as listed
     below in the original containers and tightly sealed when not in use. Possession within
     dormitories is limited to the following, per individual.
         17.2.2.1. One pint of model aircraft fuel.
         17.2.2.2. One small container of any combustible substance used in the construction
         of model aircraft, cars, boats, etc.
         17.2.2.3. One can of cigarette lighter fluid.
         17.2.2.4. One can of brass polish.
  17.3. Firearms Munitions. No firearms reloading powder or primers are allowed in bachelor
  quarters, dormitories, or Keesler Family housing at any time.
  17.4. Flammable Floor Cleaners, Waxes, And Polishes.
     17.4.1. Do not use any flammable product for floor cleaning or polishing.
     17.4.2. Do not melt floor wax to facilitate spreading or applying.
18. GENERAL PRACTICES – KEESLER FAMILY HOUSING (KFH).
  18.1. Family Sponsors. Family sponsors are responsible for fire prevention in their quarters.
  They must ensure dependents are familiar with the fire prevention instructions outlined in
  this instruction. All family housing occupants will receive a fire prevention orientation
  within 30 days after signing for quarters. This orientation will be conducted at bldg 0701,
  Sablich Center auditorium room 222. Appointment for this orientation is scheduled by the
  Housing Office and is mandatory.
     18.1.1. Means of egress (exits) in base housing must be cleared of all obstructions for
     exiting housing during emergencies.
20                                                    KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


  18.2. Garages. Garages and carports should not be used for major repairs on vehicles. This
  includes painting, overhauling engines, and repairing transmissions. Any type of welding,
  cutting, and brazing is prohibited.
  18.3. Electric/Gas Dryers. Dryer hoses will be disconnected and lint traps cleaned.
  Cleaning must be performed monthly (hose), lint trap (after each use) to prevent
  accumulation of lint and other debris that could cause the dryer to overheat and catch fire. All
  dryers must be vented to the outside of the facility.
  18.4. Control of Flame Producing Devices. Flame producing devices such as lighters and
  matches will be kept out of children's reach.
 18.5. Cooking Safety. Cooking appliances will not be unattended when in use. Lids will be
 readily available for the control of grease fires when cooking. Do not attempt to remove a
 burning pan from the stove. Place lid on the pan and turn off the heat, then call the fire
 department at 911 by landline or cell phone.
 18.6. Conventional and Gas Grills. Barbecue grills must be lit and supervised by an adult.
 They will not be operated in garages or under overhangs of any building, nor within 15 feet
 of a facility. Grills will be thoroughly cooled prior to being placed in storage. Do not discard
 hot coals in trash cans or dumpsters, saturate thoroughly in water prior to disposal.
 18.7. Handicapped Family Members. It is the responsibility of the military sponsor to
 inform the fire department when an occupant is handicapped and needs assistance in exiting
 the quarters. This may be accomplished by calling the Fire Alarm Communication Center at
 ext 377-3333.
 18.8. Self-Help Projects. All self-help projects performed in KFH must be submitted
 on an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to the CSC Service Call Desk
 for approval and coordinated through fire department. The base fire department will
 have a minimum of seven (7) business days to review and coordinate on AF Form 332
 requests. Unauthorized projects will be removed or corrected at the occupant's
 expense.
 18.9. Extension Cords. Extension cords will not be used as fixed wiring. Therefore, they
 cannot be attached to structure surfaces, run through doors, doorways, windows, holes in
 walls, ceilings, etc. Cords shall not be arranged to run under rugs, carpets, or other items that
 will conceal damage and insulate conductors causing wires to overheat. Extension cords will
 be in good condition, UL, FM approved and used for temporary use only. Frayed,
 deteriorated, spliced, or otherwise degraded cords will not be used. Multi-outlet assemblies
 must have a built-in surge protector, SIX OUTLETS ONLY.
 18.10. Keesler Family Housing Firefighting Procedures.
     18.10.1. First-aid firefighting efforts may be employed by using the fire extinguisher.
     18.10.2. Cooking appliances will not be left unattended when in use. For grease fires,
     turn off the stove and place a lid over the pot or pan. Do not attempt to move a burning
     cooking container. Do not use flour to extinguisher the fire, flour explodes. In case of
     fire in the oven: turn off, crack oven door, use fire extinguisher then close door. Do not
     fully open oven door. Then dial 911 for fire department response.
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                   21


     18.10.3. In the event of an electrical fire, turn the electricity off by unplugging the device
     or turning off the wall switch or circuit breaker.
     18.10.4. Do not use water on grease or electrical fires, regardless of the circumstances.
     18.10.5. When babysitters are used, the sponsor will brief them on fire safe practices, fire
     reporting procedures and location of fire extinguisher.
     18.10.6. Fire emergency reporting is 911. When using cell phone 911 will ring into
     Biloxi 911 center. Inform operator that you are calling from Keesler property, give name,
     housing number, phone number, and Biloxi 911 operator will transfer the call to
     Keesler’s 911 operator.
  18.11. Fire Prevention Reporting Labels. Affix an AETC VA 32-1, Grease Fire, neatly and
  visibly on the exhaust hood above the kitchen range.
     18.11.1. Reflective emergency telephone number labels will be placed on telephones in
     each housing unit.
  18.12. Storage Practices.
     18.12.1. Family housing members must follow safe storage practices. A minimum
     distance of five (5) feet must be maintained between stored materials and hot water
     heaters and air conditioning equipment.
     18.12.2. Store highly flammable products, such as gasoline, fuels for camp stoves,
     charcoal lighter, or cleaning solvents as follows:
         18.12.2.1. Store flammable liquids/combustibles in exterior shed, approved by Forest
         City Housing , and procured by occupant; or in garage in manner specified below.
         Gasoline and other combustibles of flammable liquids may be stored in the garage, a
         minimum of five (5) feet away from hot water heater. These hazardous liquids will
         not be stored in quarters, including basements.
         18.12.2.2. Keep storage of flammable liquids to the minimum amount.
         18.12.2.3. Store all highly flammable liquids away from any source of ignition and in
         properly marked containers.
         18.12.2.4. Store gasoline in approved safety cans properly and do not exceed two (2)
         gallons total for lawn mowers.
     18.12.3. Family housing members will follow safe smoking practices by proper disposal
     of smoking materials and will not smoke around flammable storage areas.
     18.12.4. The storage, possession, or use of firearms reloading supplies and equipment in
     military family housing units is prohibited at any time.
     18.12.5. Store all wood, fire wood, wood chips at least 10 feet away from military family
     housing.
  18.13. Installed Smoke Detectors and Fire Extinguishers
     18.13.1. Each military family housing occupant is responsible for periodic cleaning and
     testing of smoke detectors installed in their quarters. Use the following procedures:
22                                                      KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


        18.13.2. Activation of the reset button alone does not ensure the smoke detector is
        operating properly. It only indicates the warning buzzer is functional. To properly test
        the unit, introduce smoke into the chamber from an extinguished match or candle.
        Automatic activation of smoke detectors installed in military family housing units will
        not transmit an alarm to the Base Fire Department. The occupant should immediately
        call the fire department using 911 and report alarm activation if a fire is evident or
        suspected.
        18.13.3. To reset, fan detector with paper or hat to clear smoke from around it.
        18.13.4. Clean the detector by brushing the unit’s exterior with a soft brush while
        holding a vacuum cleaner hose near the unit to collect dust particles.
        18.13.5. Smoke detectors which activate for no apparent reason can normally be reset by
        cleaning and resetting the unit as described above. If cleaning and resetting procedures
        fail to accomplish the resetting of the unit, contact Forest City Housing Maintenance
        office, for repair or replacement of the unit.
        18.13.6. Do not remove the smoke detector from its mounting.
        18.13.7. Installed Fire Extiguishers:
            18.13.7.1. Inspect extinguisher monthly.
            18.13.7.2. Check for signs of loss in pressure, damage to cylinder, and blocked
            discharge hose.
            18.13.7.3. Take the fire extinguisher to the Forest City Housing Maintenance office
            to get extinguisher exchanged.
     18.14. Decorations:
        18.14.1. All decorations must be nonflammable or flame retardant and do not place near
        heat vents and heat sources.
        18.14.2. Do not block egress path, exits with any decorations. All exits must be cleared
        of all obstructions for exiting the home during an emergency.
        18.14.3. Inspect all seasonal lights before use. Use only lighting listed by an approved
        testing laboratory, such as Underwriters Laboratory (UL) or Factory Mutual (FM). When
        using lights outdoors, check the label to be sure they have been certified for outdoor use
        and only plug them into a ground fault circuit interrupter (GFI).
        18.14.4. Use only 15 amps fused six appliance surge protectors with six foot cord
        maximum to plug in lights. Plug lights into surge protector first before plugging into wall
        outlet. The use of extension cords with lights is highly discouraged, not recommended.
        18.14.5. Do not place electrical lights on a metallic tree. The tree can become charged
        with electricity from faulty lights, and touching could cause electrocution.
        18.14.6. The use of lighted candles for decorations is highly discouraged and not
        recommended in base housing.
        18.14.7. Turn off all decorations before leaving the home.
19. FIRE PREVENTION – HOSPITAL.
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                 23


  19.1. Fire Prevention and Protection. Persons who are physically or mentally disabled
  must receive the highest degree of fire protection practical. Fire prevention programs in
  health care facilities will receive appropriate emphasis. The following items are required by
  appropriate fire protection standards.
  19.2. Medical Material.
     19.2.1. The Medical Group Safety Officer will notify the Fire Protection Flight of any
     hazardous material relocation.
     19.2.2. Clearly label all medical supplies.
     19.2.3. Store flammable/combustible liquids and gases in approved flammable storage
     rooms or cabinets.
     19.2.4. Store all compressed gas cylinders IAW NFPA 55, Standard for the Storage,
     Use, and Handling of Compressed Gases and Cryogenic Fluids in Portable and
     Stationary Containers, Cylinders, and Tanks
         19.2.4.1. Store flammable gases (ethylene, ether) and fuel gases (acetylene, propane)
         separate from oxidizing gases (oxygen, nitrous oxide). Separate gases at least 20 feet
         apart or by a noncombustible barrier at least five (5) feet high having a fire resistance
         rating of at least 30 minutes (1/2 hour).
         19.2.4.2. Chain or secure cylinders in a vertical position with safety caps in place.
         This prevents cylinders from toppling over.
         19.2.4.3. Color code cylinders and stencil contents on the cylinder in accordance
         with MIL STD 101B. Post color codes for commonly used gases in the area.
         19.2.4.4. Identify empty cylinders and store apart from full containers.
         19.2.4.5. Do not subject cylinders to temperature extremes, especially heat.
         19.2.4.6. Keep oil, grease, and other petroleum products away from cylinders,
         regulators, etc.
  19.3. Open Flame Lighting Devices. Do not use open flame lighting devices or candles in
  base facilities, except in base chapels for religious services and tables for food. Ensure
  hurricane candles are securely supported by a substantial noncombustible base.
  19.4. Burning Incense. The burning of incense is prohibited in base facilities, except in base
  chapels for established religious ceremonial purposes.
  19.5. Fire Prevention Training. Thoroughly train all hospital personnel in fire reporting, fire
  reaction, defending in place, use of fire extinguishers and evacuation procedures contained in
  81st Medical Group Instruction 32-2001, Fire Protection, Prevention, and Evacuation, which
  establishes procedures for evacuation of patients and personnel. Fire drills will comply with
  NFPA 101 Life Safety Code requirements, one per shift per quarter. Fire Prevention
  personnel will be on hand to evaluate, score, and document the drill.
  19.6. Blocking of Fire Exits. Do not lock, block, obscure, or obstruct exits during hours of
  operation. Keep aisles, foyers, lobbies, corridors, and areas leading to exits clean and free of
  obstructions. When movable chairs or tables are used, arrange to maintain aisles to exit
  ways.
24                                                    KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


  19.7. Space Heaters. The use of space heaters is prohibited in Keesler Medical Center.
  19.8. Seasonal Decorations. All seasonal decorations in the hospital must be nonflammable
  or flame retardant. Do not cover doors with seasonal decorations. Do not hang any
  decorations from the ceiling nor from fire sprinkler heads in the facility.
     19.8.1. Candles can only be lit and used for religious services in the hospital chapel only.
20. CONTRACTORS/CONCESSIONAIRES.
  20.1. General Information. This chapter is designed to assist civilian contractors in
  establishing their own fire prevention program at Keesler Air Force Base. The fire
  department solicits your help in preventing fires. We stand ready to assist you in any matter
  pertinent to fire prevention or fire safety. Feel free to call on us any time you have a problem
  or in any situation that might lead to a problem. Our telephone number is 377-3330/8440.
  20.2. Responsibilities. The contractor (general, subs, laborers, etc.) is responsible for
  establishing a fire protection and prevention program, that includes the compliance with an
  enforcement of established fire safety criteria set forth in specifications, manufacturers’
  instructions, the NFPA, the Uniform Fire Code, Air Force Directives (including AFI) and all
  applicable data detailed in contract specifications or drawings.
  20.3. Firefighting Access. Every building shall be accessible to fire department apparatus,
  by way of access roadways with all-weather driving surface (if possible) of not less than 25
  feet of unobstructed width, to withstand the line loads of fire apparatus and having a
  minimum of 13 feet, six (6) inches of vertical clearance. All dead-end fire department access
  roads in excess of 150 feet in length shall be provided with approved turnaround for fire
  department apparatus.
  20.4. Welding, Cutting, Brazing, Torch, or Open Flame. Prior to performing “hot work”
  (welding, burning, lead melting, blow torches, tar pots, and so forth), or operating other
  flame-producing devices, the area must be inspected and approved by the fire department.
  When work is approved by a fire department official, an AF Form 592, USAF Welding,
  Cutting and Brazing Permit will be issued for a period not to exceed 30 days. Beyond the 30
  days, permits will have to be re-approved.
  20.5. Fire Reporting. The fire reporting number is 911 for the Base Fire Department. The
  general information number of the fire department is 377-3333. ALL FIRES, NO
  MATTER HOW SMALL, OR IF THE FIRE HAS BEEN EXTINGUISHED, OR
  BURNED OUT, MUST BE REPORTED IMMEDIATELY TO THE FIRE
  DEPARTMENT. All personnel shall be trained in reporting fires and fire prevention
  responsibilities. Cell phones can be used to report a fire on Keesler by dialing 911. Biloxi
  exchange 911 will answer, say you are on Keesler and you will be transferred to Keesler’s
  911 dispatcher.
  20.6. Utilities, Installed Fire Protection Systems, and Blocked Roads or Streets. The
  contractor shall notify the fire department, 377-3333/8440 whenever an existing fire
  detection, alarm, or fire suppression system must be disconnected, relocated, or extended,
  and prior to their being returned to service. Fire protection system components will be
  handled carefully to ensure reliability when systems are restored to service. System
  reliability checks will be performed by civil engineer shop technicians, a fire department
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                   25


  representative, and the contractor. The fire department will be notified prior to any roads or
  streets being blocked or partially blocked.
  20.7. Flammable or Combustible Liquids. All painting materials (paint, brushes, empty
  cans, rags, clothing, drop cloths) and flammable or combustible liquids shall be removed
  from the building at the end of the workday. Such painting materials and flammable liquids
  shall be stored in an approved locker or location.
  20.8. Fire Extinguishers and Fire Hydrants. Fire hose or extinguishers in buildings will not
  be removed from their locations or used for any purpose other than firefighting. Fire
  hydrants will not be used without permission from the fire department. Free access from the
  street to fire hydrants and to fire department connections, whether permanent or temporary,
  shall be provided and maintained at all times. A clear zone of at least 15 feet must be
  maintained around the fire hydrant to allow access for fire department vehicles.
  20.9. Smoking. Smoking shall only be permitted in designated areas. Where smoking is
  permitted, safe receptacles shall be provided for the proper disposal of smoking materials.
  Smoking materials will not be discarded in wastepaper baskets or other containers used for
  trash. Smoking shall be prohibited throughout demolition areas. Smoking is strictly
  prohibited in or near areas (within 50 feet) where flammable liquids, highly combustible
  material, or explosives are stored, handled, or processed. “NO SMOKING” signs will be
  posted.
  20.10. Electrical Appliances or Temporary Wiring. All portable electrical devices shall be
  disconnected at the close of each working day. Temporary wiring, including branch circuits
  and lighting shall be installed to meet requirements of the NFPA 70 National Electric Code
  and NFPA 241 Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alterations, and Demolition
  Operations. Temporary wiring shall be removed immediately upon completion of
  construction or purpose for which the wiring was installed. Temporary heating equipment
  shall be UL listed or FM approved and shall be installed, used, and maintained according to
  the manufacturer’s instructions and applicable fire codes. When temporary heating
  equipment is utilized, it shall be monitored and maintained by properly trained personnel.
  20.11. Trash Disposal. Accumulation of trash, paper, shavings, sawdust, excelsior, boxes,
  and other packing materials will be removed from the building at the close of the workday
  and disposed of in proper containers located away from the buildings. The area outside of
  buildings undergoing work shall be kept free of trash, paper, or discarded combustibles.
  Prior to quitting time, a reliable person delegated by the contractor will make a check of the
  building or area to ensure compliance with these procedures and that the building and area
  are left in a fire safe condition.
  20.12. Tar Kettles
     20.12.1. Operating kettles shall not be located inside of or on the roof of any building.
     20.12.2. Tar kettles shall have an approved working visible temperature gauge that
     indicates the temperature of the material being heated.
     20.12.3. Tar kettles must be in good working condition and shall be maintained free of
     excessive residue.
     20.12.4. All kettles shall have doors permanently attached.
 26                                                     KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


       20.12.5. No roofing kettle shall have a capacity in excess of five (5) barrels.
       20.12.6. Fuel tanks for kettle operation shall be at least 50 feet from the kettle and at
       least 10 feet from any exit or points of facility egress. LP Gas containers shall be secured
       to prevent accidental tipover. LP Gas containers for roofing kettles shall not be used in
       any building. Regulators shall be required on any cylinders.
       20.12.7. Provide a minimum of two (2) 4-A:40-B:C rated Dry Chemical fire
       extinguishers maintained within 25 feet of the kettle operation. Kettle operator must be
       trained in the use of fire extinguishers and be within 25 feet of the kettle and shall have
       the kettle within sight. One (1) approved 4-A:40-B:C fire extinguisher shall be provided
       and maintained on the roof in close proximity to the roofing operation while the roofing
       material is being applied.
       20.12.8. Contractor must obtain an AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit from the base
       Fire Department, Fire Prevention section bldg 4225, 377-3333/8440 before work can be
       accomplished.
       20.12.9. Compatibility Standard and Contracting Guide. Contractors must comply with
       Keesler’s Compatibility Standard and Keesler’s Contracting Guide at the time of award
       of any contract on Keesler.
21. FIRE PREVENTION – FLIGHT LINE, HANGARS, MAINTENANCE SHOPS, AND
SIMILAR TECHNICAL FACILITIES – RESPONSIBILITIES. It is the responsibility of
each activity supervisor involved to ensure compliance with the contents of this instruction.
   21.1. DO NOT obstruct fire lanes around hangars, maintenance shops, and aircraft parking
   areas. Do not double park, stage, or maintain privately owned vehicles (POVs), government
   owned vehicles (GOVs), motorcycles, bicycles, Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE), etc.,
   in fire lanes. Vehicles will not park within 10 feet of any building or structure except in
   designated parking areas or while loading or unloading.
   21.2. Control parking around aircraft maintenance areas as necessary to provide evacuations
   of aircraft, equipment, personnel, and for maneuverability of firefighting equipment.
   21.3. Accomplish fuel cell repairs in accordance with applicable technical orders. Do these
   repairs in specified fuel cell areas.
   21.4. Do not park aircraft so as to interfere with the movement of emergency vehicles.
   21.5. During fuel transfers, ground and bond the refueling units and aircraft in accordance
   with applicable technical orders.
   21.6. Accomplish aircraft refueling and defueling operations in strict compliance with
   applicable technical orders, manuals, and other directives.
   21.7. Use explosion proof electrical fixtures and appliances in hangars and other shops
   where explosive or flammable vapors may be present.
   21.8. Partition off shops having equipment or appliances capable of producing ignition
   temperature, in areas where gasoline or other flammables are likely to be present from areas
   where such vapors could be encountered and install self-closing doors. These partitions and
   doors must be reasonably airtight.
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                 27


  21.9. DO NOT place or park POVs, GOVs, motorcycles, forklifts, “Loaders" or electric
  carts in aircraft hangars or maintenance shops without written permission from the fire chief
  or designated representative.
  21.10. No painting, other than touch painting, defined by NFPA Std 410, Standard on
  Aircraft Maintenance will be allowed without prior written approval by the fire chief or
  designated representative on a case-by-case basis.
  21.11. Smoking, striking matches, operation of lighters, and any other open flame device is
  prohibited on the flight line and aircraft hangars.
22. FIRE PREVENTION - SUPPLY FUNCTION. Store stock supplies DOD 4145.19R-1,
Storage and Materials Handling.
  22.1. Mandatory Fire Alarm Clearance. Do not stack or place supplies closer than 36 inches
  in all directions to any fire alarm system device (master transmitter or manual/automatic
  break station) or electrical switch box. When the stock height is above the level of the
  transmitter, break station, or electrical switch box, provide additional clearance to prevent
  items from falling onto the unit. In addition to the clearances, provide aisles to the unit and
  keep open at all times.
  22.2. Wall Storage Clearances. Fire aisles are not necessary between stored supplies and
  outer walls, regardless of their type of construction, except in the case of supplies presenting
  special hazards and requiring special precautions. Leave a clear space of 24 inches between
  stored combustibles (including supplies packed in combustible containers) and substandard
  interior firewalls and partitions. A clear space is not mandatory between stored supplies and
  standard fire walls.
  22.3. Fire Doors. Take extreme caution to ensure all fire doors are closed when warehouses
  are not occupied by personnel and doors are never blocked and completely functional.
  22.4. Aerosol Storage. Store aerosol dispensing containers, or other sealed pressure type
  containers which could possibly explode, in one area only and away from heat or direct rays
  of the sun.
  22.5. Outside (Open) Storage. Select outside storage areas for their suitability for drainage,
  firefighting facilities (i.e., sprinkler connections), clearance of buildings, and automotive
  parking. Stockpiles will not exceed 5,000 square feet in area and no higher than within two
  (2) feet of the eaves of buildings. Allow 20 feet from streets and buildings, with a clearance
  of 12 feet between stockpiles to reduce the spread of fire and allow adequate space for
  firefighting procedures. Post "NO SMOKING" signs throughout the area. Do not allow
  vehicles, except those used to transport supplies, within 20 feet of storage areas. Keep the
  entire storage area free from unnecessary accumulation of combustible material. Keep weeds
  and grass down, and provide a regular procedure for cleanup of the entire area.
  22.6. Ammunition Storage. Maintain ammunition storage areas in accordance with AFMAN
  91-201, Explosives Safety Standards.
  22.7. Petroleum Oil Lubrication (POL) Facilities. Operate and maintain POL facilities in
  accordance with applicable technical orders and safety manuals.
     22.7.1. Open flame is prohibited in POL area at all times.
 28                                                     KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


23. FIRE PREVENTION - UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING (DORMITORIES).
   23.1. Responsibilities.    Unaccompanied housing occupants are responsible for fire
   prevention in their quarters. Occupants must be familiar with fire prevention instructions
   Keesler AFB 32-6003, Dormitory Security and Living Standards for Non-Prior Service
   Airmen, how to report fires, and how to evacuate their quarters.
   23.2. Prohibitions.
      23.2.1. Do not use open flame lighting devices or candles in unaccompanied housing.
      Candles may be used for decoration; however, they may not be lighted.
      23.2.2. Burning incense is strictly prohibited.
      23.2.3. Smoking is prohibited in unaccompanied housing (dormitories) IAW 81
      TRW/CC Memorandum For All Keesler AFB Unaccompanied Housing Residents, 31
      October 2011; AFI 40-102 Tobacco Use in the Air Force.
      23.2.4. Cut live Christmas trees/metallic trees are prohibited. Artificial trees must be
      nonflammable or fire retardant, to include all other seasonal decorations. Do not cover
      doors with seasonal decorations.
      23.2.5. Any type of automotive or motorcycle equipment, including internal combustion
      engines, batteries, or major sub-assemblies such as bumpers, removable tops, hoods and
      fenders is prohibited.
      23.2.6. Use of multiple socket adapters, single and multiple outlet extension cords, the
      use of extension cords in lieu of permanent wiring is prohibited. Use fused 15 amps, six
      appliances surge protectors only. Appliances must bear the "UL" or "FM" seal. The two
      outlet box with trip proof extension cord is prohibited.
      23.2.7. Use of receptacles, switches, and appliances when damaged is prohibited. Report
      discrepancies to CSC Service Desk or submit AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
      Request
      23.2.8. Use of electrical cords that are frayed, spliced, stapled, nailed, or cords that run
      through walls, ceilings, or floors is prohibited.
      23.2.9. Use of heat element cooking appliances, i.e., toasters, toaster ovens, skillets,
      electrical frying pans, hot plates, crock pots, and hibachi grills is strictly prohibited from
      use in dormitories and base facilities with the exception of dining facilities. (Exception
      new quad dormitories.)
24. Self-Help, Construction, Renovations, and Modifications.
   24.1. Non-appropriated funded and EXCHANGE projects must be reviewed by the base Fire
   Department, Fire Prevention section for the inclusion of fire protection requirements.
   24.2. All construction, renovations, and modifications projects will have formal plans for
   review and must be approved prior to the start of any project. All plans must be IAW UFC
   and all applicable fire codes.
25. Project Management.
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                   29


   25.1. Ensure the Assistant Chief, Fire Prevention, or designated representative, is notified to
   attend all pre-construction performance meetings with the engineering project manager to
   coordinate fire prevention requirements.
   25.2. Project manager will contact the Assistant Chief, Fire Prevention, or designated
   representative, prior to bid of contracts to ensure all fire prevention requirements have been
   included.
   25.3. The Assistant Chief, Fire Prevention, or designated representative, will review all
   project designs; including those from Naval facilities Engineering Command (NAVFAC),
   defense Commissary Agency (DeCA), and Army Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES), at
   the pre-design, 35, 65, 95, and 100 percent levels of completion prior to contract bid.
   25.4. Simplified Acquisition of Installation Engineer Requirements (SABER), small
   business, and self-help projects will also be reviewed. The review will consist of verifying
   that designs (plans and specifications) comply with applicable codes and standards and
   identify areas of noncompliance to the design agency with recommendations for corrections.
26. Fuel Dispensing Facilities.
   26.1. Class 1 or Class II liquids shall not be dispensed into portable containers unless the
   container is constructed of metal or is approved by the authority having jurisdiction, has a
   tight closure, and is fitted with a spout or so designed that the contents can be poured without
   spilling. The nozzle valve shall be manually held open during the dispensing operation.
   26.2. No sale or purchase of any Class I, or Class II, or Class III liquids shall be made in
   containers unless such containers are clearly marked with the name of the product contained
   therein.
   26.3. Portable containers of 45 L (12 gal) capacity or less shall not be filled while they are in
   or on a motor vehicle or marine craft. Warning signs shall be conspicuously posted.
   26.4. Smoking materials, including matches and lighters, shall not be used within six (6) m
   (20 ft) of areas used for fueling, servicing fuel systems of internal combustion engines, or
   receiving or dispensing of Class I and Class II liquids. The motors of all equipment being
   fueled shall be shut off during the fueling operation except for emergency generators, pumps,
   and so forth, where continuing operation is essential. Warning signs will be posted with the
   following “NO SMOKING,” “STOP MOTOR or TURN OFF ENGINE.”
   26.5. Each motor fuel dispensing facility or repair garage shall be provided with fire
   extinguishers installed, inspected, and maintained as required by NFPA 10, Standard for
   Portable Fire Extinguishers. Extinguishers for outside motor fuel dispensing areas shall be
   provided according to the extra (high) hazard requirements for Class B hazards, except that
   the maximum travel distance to an 80 BC extinguisher shall be permitted to be 30.48 m (100
   ft).
   26.6. Fuel dispensing systems shall be provided with one or more clearly identified
   emergency shutoff devices or electrical disconnects. At attended motor fuel dispensing
   facilities, the device or disconnects shall be readily accessible to the attendant. At unattended
   the device or disconnects shall be readily accessible to patrons and at least one additional
   device or disconnect readily accessible to each group of dispensing devices on the individual
   island.
 30                                                    KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


   26.7. The delivery vehicle shall be separated from any above ground tank by at least 7.6 m
   (25 ft).
   26.8. The delivery vehicle shall be located so that all parts of the vehicle are on the premises
   when delivery is made.
   26.9. Tank filling shall not begin until the delivery operator has determined that the tank has
   sufficient available capacity (ullage).
   26.10. Tanks shall be filled through a liquid tight connection.
27. ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS. Failure to comply with the provisions of para 3.6 are
punitive and military personnel who violate these provisions are also subject to prosecution
under Article 92, UCMJ. Violations by civilian personnel may result in administrative
disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for
violations of related laws.




                                             BRADLEY D. SPACY
                                             Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander, 81st Training Wing
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                 31


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 21 June 2012
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Program, 9 September 2008
(Certified current 10 November 2010) AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 26 March
2012
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
AFJMAN 23-209, Storage and Handling of Hazardous Materials, 13 January 1999
AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Services Manual (JSM) for Storage and Materials Handling, 12 April
1994
AFPAM 32-1004, Vol 3, Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance, 1 September
1998
AFPAM 32-7043, Hazardous Waste Management Guide, 1 November 1995
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
DoD 4145.19R-1, Storage and Materials Handling, 15 September 1979
Keesler AFB Instruction 32-6003, Dormitory Security and Living Standards for Non-Prior
Service Airmen, 14 June 2012
81st Medical Group Instruction 32-2001, Fire Protection, Prevention, and Evacuation, 2 April
2004 (being revised August 2012)
NFPA 17A, Wet Chemical Extinguishing Systems, Edition 2009
NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquid Codes, Edition 2008
NFPA 30A, Code for Motor Fuel Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages, Edition 2008
NFPA 55, Compressed Gases and Cryogenic Fluids Code 2012
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, Edition 2008
NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking
Operations, Edition 2010
NFPA 99, Standard for Health Care Facilities, Edition 2012
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, Edition 2012
29 CFR 1910.304, Wiring Design and Protection Code, 01 July 2010
 32                                                 KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


NFPA 241, Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alterations, and Demolition Operations,
Edition 2009
NFPA 410, Standard on Aircraft Maintenance, Edition 2010
UFC 3-600-2, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire
Protection Systems, 8 September 2010
NFPA 30A, Motor Fuel Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages, Edition 2008
NFPA 1, Fire Code, Edition 2009
Prescribed Forms.
No Forms prescribed.
Adopted Forms.
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJMAN—Air Force Joint Manual
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFIOSH—Air Force Instruction Occupational Safety and Health
AGA—American Gas Association
CSC—Computer Science Corporation
DoD—Department of Defense
DRF—Disaster Response Force
FM—Factory Mutual
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Incident Commander
ID—Infrastructural Division
IDF—Infrastructural Division Fire
KFH—Keesler Family Housing
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OSI—Office of Special Investigations
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013            33


POL—Petroleum Oil Lubrication
RAC—Risk Assessment Codes
SFO—Senior Fire Official
UCMJ—Uniformed Code of Military Justice
UL—Underwriter’s Laboratories
 34                                                     KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


                                          Attachment 2
               UNIT FIRE PROTECTION MANAGEMENT BOOK INDEX

Tab A    Letters of Appointment
Tab B    Unit Fire Safety Instruction
Tab C    Unit Workplace Locator
Tab D    Unit Inspection Log Sheet
Tab E    Annual/Semiannual Inspection Reports
Tab F    Hazard Abatement Program
Tab G    Applicable Publications
Tab H    Unit Commanders
Tab I    Miscellaneous Fire Safety Information
Tab J    Workplace Floor Plans
Tab K    Fire Drill Schedule
Tab L    Work Place Fire Safety and Prevention Training Requirements
Tab M    Unit Fire Safety Program Inspection Checklist
TAB A
LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT
REFERENCE: AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
PURPOSE: The unit commander appoints, in writing, a primary and alternate Facility Manager
to assist them in implementing a viable fire safety program. Appointments should be to
individuals who have a minimum of one (1) year retainability and are knowledgeable of unit
mission and activities.
REQUIRED ACTION:
1. Provide a copy of the appointment letter to the Fire Prevention Section: Name, Rank, Office
Symbol, and Phone.
2. Place a copy of the appointment letter in Tab A of the Unit Fire Protection Management Book.
3. Contact the Fire Prevention Section to schedule initial training.
TAB B
UNIT FIRE PROTECTION PROGRAM INSTRUCTION
REFERENCE: AFOSH Std 91-12, Machinery, and AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection
Operations and Fire Prevention Program
PURPOSE: Each unit will develop an instruction describing general and specialized fire safety
requirements for operations included in their mission.        The instruction should direct
responsibilities and methods for implementing the unit program. Some operations may require
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                35


detailed instructions; others simple ones. Fire prevention guidance is most effective when it is
incorporated into unit level instructions.
REQUIRED ACTIONS:
1. Commander will establish a written instruction implementing the unit fire safety program.
The policy must include actions to take in case of fire and address general and specialized fire
safety requirements pertaining to the unit mission.
2. Due to the wide spectrum of operations in some squadrons, the unit level instruction may
direct separate instructions be written at flight level to cover unique or specialized operations
when those operations do not apply to the rest of the squadron. The bottom line is that
instructions must be written to include all employees and unit operations.
3. The effectiveness of the instruction must be reevaluated when changes in mission or
operations are made.
4. Current copies must be provided to the Fire Prevention Section and maintained in Tab B of
the Unit Fire Protection Management Book.
TAB C
UNIT WORKPLACE LOCATOR
REFERENCE: AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
PURPOSE: This listing is used to facilitate inspectors, base level and unit, conducting
inspections.
REQUIRED ACTIONS:
Commander will maintain and provide the Fire Prevention Section with a current listing of unit
facilities and unit work centers located in the facility. Update as changes are made.
Offices/shops work centers located in a facility belonging to another unit must be listed.
TAB D
UNIT INSPECTION LOG SHEET
REFERENCE: AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
PURPOSE: Fire safety inspections will stimulate action to reduce fire hazards, inspire an
improved attitude toward fire prevention by management and employees and provide a tool to
evaluate compliance.
REQUIRED ACTION:
1. The commander will determine, in writing, the responsibility for and frequency of unit
conducted fire safety inspections.
2. Inspections shall be documented and maintained in Tab D of the Unit Fire Protection
Management Book.
3. Checklists used during inspections will be maintained in Tab D.
4. Fire Safety inspections conducted by outside agencies shall be documented in Tab D.
TAB E
 36                                                    KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


ANNUAL INSPECTION REPORTS
REFERENCE: AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental, Safety, Fire Protection,
and Health Program.
PURPOSE: Managers and supervisors are responsible for providing safe work places and for
ensuring their employees know and comply with safety standards. Through inspections, the Fire
Prevention Section informs the commander of the effectiveness of the unit's programs and
evaluates compliance with other fire safety and prevention program requirements.
REQUIRED ACTION:
1. File the last two fire inspection reports that have open action items. Implement a system to
follow up on any open item.
2. Monitor and take corrective actions on noted problems/deficiencies.
3. Transfer open items to the Hazard Abatement Tab F and follow up until closed.
TAB F
HAZARD ABATEMENT PROGRAM
REFERENCE: AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental, Safety, Fire Protection,
and Health Program.
PURPOSE: When fire hazards cannot be immediately corrected, interim control measures must
be placed into effect and permanent corrective actions programmed. Risk assessment codes
(RAC) are assigned to all fire hazards to assess the likelihood that the hazard will result in a
mishap and the impact if it does. The log is an administrative requirement to consolidate and
control unit hazards.
REQUIRED ACTIONS:
1. Use the appropriate Tab of the Unit Ground Safety Management Book to log hazards not
corrected.
TAB G
APPLICABLE PUBLICATIONS
REFERENCE: AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental, Safety, Fire
Protection, and Health Program.
PURPOSE: Many publications provide guidance on fire safety matters. Knowledge of an
accessibility to the publications is key in providing a comprehensive safety program.
REQUIRED ACTION:
1. Maintain or cross-reference pertinent publications in Tab G.
2. Place AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program, and
Keesler AFB Instruction 32-2001, Fire Prevention, Fire Reporting and Firefighting, in Tab G.
TAB H
UNIT COMMANDER'S REVIEW
REFERENCE: AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                 37


PURPOSE: The primary responsibility for providing a safe working environment rests with the
unit commander. Periodic review of the Fire Safety Program will ensure the commander is kept
aware of deficiencies and hazards within the unit and that program requirements are being
carried out.
REQUIRED ACTION:
1. Establish a log to include date of review, comments, and signature.
2. A quarterly review is required by the unit commander; monthly reviews are recommended.
TAB I
MISCELLANEOUS
REFERENCE: AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
PURPOSE: To provide a location to consolidate fire safety information that does not have a
specified location.
REQUIRED ACTION:
Maintain appropriate fire safety information in Tab 1.
TAB J
WORKPLACE FLOOR PLANS
REFERENCE: AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
PURPOSE: An accurate floor plan of a facility can provide valuable information about a
structure that can improve the ability of emergency crews to respond effectively to a fire in that
structure.
REQUIRED ACTION:
1. A straight line drawing will be made for each unit facility. Maintain one copy in this Tab and
provide an original copy to the Fire Prevention Section. When changes occur, provide an
updated original copy to the Fire Prevention Section. Drawings must show interior layout,
rooms must be numbered or named. Large flexible floor plan room containing multiple work
stations do not require details of each work station. Show all interior and attached exterior
compartments of the facility.
2. When facilities are more than one story, or have basements, each level shall be on a separate
page. Ground level drawing will have a north indication and show exterior dimensions of length
and width. Paper used for drawing shall be plain white bond and shall be no smaller than 8 1/2 x
11 inches or larger than 8 1/2 x 14 inches. Provide a cover sheet for each facility showing
parking lots, adjacent structures, streets, etc.
3. Use sample available at Keesler Fire Department as a guide and checklist to complete your
drawings.
4. Drawings are not required for work centers located in other unit owned facilities.
TAB K
FIRE EXIT DRILL SCHEDULE
 38                                                      KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


REFERENCE: AFI 32-2001
PURPOSE: The purpose of the fire exit is to ensure the efficient and safe use of the exit
facilities available. Proper drills ensure orderly exit under control and prevent the panic that has
been responsible for the greater part of the loss of life in the major fire disasters of history.
Order and control are the primary purpose of the drill. Speed in emptying buildings, while
desirable, is not in itself an object, and should be made secondary to the maintenance of proper
order and discipline.
REQUIRED ACTION:
1. Every facility is required to conduct fire drills for each shift of employees at least annually,
some quarterly and others monthly. Drills shall include suitable procedures to ensure that all
persons in the building actually participate. Develop a log sheet that indicates facility, fire drills
frequency, date of last drill, comments and individual supervising the drill. Drills should be
initiated utilizing the building fire alarm system. A scenario should be developed to add some
sort of realism to the drill. Always coordinate the use of fire protection systems with fire alarm
shop from Civil Engineer and the Base Fire Department.
2. Help in planning, conducting or evaluating fire drills is always available through the Fire
Prevention Section.
TAB L
WORKPLACE FIRE SAFETY AND PREVENTION TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
REFERENCE: AFI 32-2001
PURPOSE: A successful fire prevention training program creates an attitude of safety in the
workplace and recognition on the part of employees that protecting the workplace from fire also
protects their lives and livelihood.
REQUIRED ACTION:
1. Supervisors shall develop training guides and train each employee on the listed subjects (these
are minimum requirements). The training is required for all personnel and shall be provided to
new personnel upon assignment, during new employee training programs, but within 30 days in
all cases. Training will be given when there is a change in equipment, procedures, safety or fire
prevention requirements. Training will be given as required to ensure employees remain familiar
with fire safety and prevention requirements, but no less than annually in all cases.
2. Document the training on the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health.
3. Place copies of training guides in Tab L.
             SUBJECT                   PROCEDURES            LOCATION          USE/OPERATION
   Fire Reporting                              X
   Emergency Evacuation                        X
   First Aid Firefighting                      X
   Fire Extinguishers                                              X                     X
   Fire Suppression Systems                    X                   X
   (each type)
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013                                                                      39


   Fire Alarm Systems                                               X                    X
   Fire                                        X
   Hazards(identifying/reporting)
   Hazardous Areas                             X
   Material Safety Data                                             X
   Sheets (MSDS)                                                    X                    X


TAB M
                 UNIT FIRE SAFETY PROGRAM INSPECTION CHECKLIST
1. General:
   a. Unit Fire Safety Program Instruction
   b. Fire Safety Training Program
       (1) Plans
       (2) Effectiveness
   c. Hazard Abatement Program
2. Individual knowledge and awareness of fire and life safety:
   a. Fire reporting procedures
   b. First aid firefighting procedures
       (1) Extinguisher
       (2) Standpipe and hose lines
       (3) Monitor nozzles
   c. Evacuation procedures
   d. Reporting fire hazards
   e. Use of fire detection and suppression systems
3. Facilities:
   a. Adequacy and serviceability of fire detection and suppression systems
   b. Fire protection and life safety features, i.e., emergency lighting exit lights, fire doors, etc.
   c. Electrical and heat producing devices and systems
   d. Self-help projects
   e. Housekeeping
   f. Floor plans
   g. Fire drills
   h. Observable fire safety practices
 40                                                  KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013


4. Fire Extinguishers:

      a. Adequacy
      b. Serviceability
      c. Inspection Program (unit)
      d. Installation (all required to be mounted)
5. Special Programs:
      a. Flammable storage practices
      b. Fuel handling
      c. Explosives
      d. Flight line operations and activities
      e. Welding operations
      f. Public places of assembly
      g. Commercial cooking operations


TAB M
                           INSPECTION CHECKLIST REFERENCES
1a. AFI 32-2001, Keesler AFB Instruction 32-2001
1b. AFI 91-203
1c. AFI 91-203
2a. AFI 32-2001, Keesler AFB Instruction 32-2001
2b. AFI 91-203
2c. Unit Instruction
2d. AFI 91-302, AFI 91-203, AFI 32-2001, Keesler AFB Instruction 32-2001
2e. AFI 91-203
3a. AFI 91-203
3b. AFI 91-203
3c. Various
3d. AFI 32-2001, Keesler AFB Instruction 32-2001
3e. AFI 91-203, Keesler AFB Instruction 32-2001
3f. AFI 32-2001, Keesler AFB Instruction 32-2001
3g. AFI 32-2001, Keesler AFB Instruction 32-2001
3h. AFI 91-203, Keesler AFB Instruction 32-2001, NFPA 101
KEESLERAFBI32-2001 30 MAY 2013      41


4a. AFI 91-203
4b. AFI 91-203
4c. AFI 91-203
4d. AFI 91-203
5a. AFI 91-203, NFPA 10, NFPA 101
5b. AFI 91-203
5c. AFMAN 91-201
5d. AFI 91-203
5e. AFI 91-203, NFPA 101
5f. AFI 91-203, NFPA 96
