BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER             KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 48-102
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING (AETC)                 23 October 2001

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                   OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RADIATION
                                                         PROTECTION PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the Keesler AFB WWW site, Forms and
Publications at: https://wwwmil.keesler.af.mil/pubs/. If you lack access, contact the Base
Publications Manager (81 CS/SCPI).
OPR: 81 AMDS/SGPB                                                    Certified by: 81 AMDS/CC
(MSgt Douglas M. Durn)                                              (Lt Col Stephen G. Reinhart)
Supersedes Keesler AFB Instruction 48-102, 16 Jun 97.                   Pages: 9/Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, and gives guidance for all
commanders, Unit Radiation Safety Officers, and all personnel whose duties may involve
exposure to radiation. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes
in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule (will become AFMAN 33-
322, Vol. 4). This instruction applies to all units assigned or attached to Keesler AFB. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
updates requirements for contractor use of radioactive material (RAM) on Keesler AFB. It
ensures compliance with the newly published AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in
the US Air Force, 1 Sep 00. Additionally, it updates references used in its construction and
various administrative changes. AFI 40-201 has superseded several technical orders previously
referenced. The specific technical orders have been deleted from this revision. A  indicates
changes from the last revision.

1. General.

1.1. Responsibilities.

1.1.1. Base RSO.

1.1.1.1. Evaluate each Unit RSO's radiation protection program annually.

1.1.1.2. Maintain a master inventory for the following types of radiation emitters:         radio
frequency (RF), laser, radioactive material (RAM), and x-ray.
2                                              Keesler AFB Instruction 48-102      23 October 2001



1.1.1.3. Provide initial and annual ALARA training to personnel potentially exposed to ionizing
radiation. (Except medical center personnel - see para 1.1.6.2. below.)

1.1.1.4. Maintain a master list of all Unit RSOs.

1.1.1.5. Conduct investigations of incidents of alleged or actual overexposures to radiation.

1.1.1.6. Brief the 81st Wing Commander, Fire Chief, and CE Readiness Flight Commander of
all authorized contractors and/or non-Air Force organizations using radiation emitters on base.

1.1.2. Unit Commanders.

1.1.2.1. Unit Commanders will appoint a Unit RSO and alternate if any radiation producing
equipment/material (i.e., x-ray, RAM, RF, laser) is used or maintained by the unit. The
appointment will be in writing and will include each individual's name, duty phone, and office
symbol. A copy of the appointment letter must be sent to the Base RSO (81 AMDS/SGPB).

1.1.2.2. Ensure shop supervisors responsible for the operation of potentially hazardous RFR
emitters develop a unit radiation safety awareness training plan to aide in the implementation of
the unit training program.

1.1.3. Unit RSOs.

1.1.3.1. Immediately notify the Base RSO of all accidents or incidents involving radiation. Aid
the Base RSO in evaluating such exposures to include reenactment, if necessary.

1.1.3.2. Post a copy of this directive in all work areas involved in radiation duties.

1.1.3.3. Collect data concerning new radiation equipment installation and relay all data to the
Base RSO.

1.1.3.4. Maintain reference materials necessary to evaluate procedures concerning radiation
protection for personnel.

1.1.3.5. Maintain an inventory of all radiation emitters used by their unit.

1.1.3.6. Establish a unit instruction for the radiation protection program.

1.1.4. Work Area Supervisors.

1.1.4.1. Ensure all personnel who work with radiation emitters receive initial training in any
potential hazards and document the training on the individual's AF Form 55.
Keesler AFB Instruction 48-102     23 October 2001                                               3


1.1.4.2. Establish a work area supplement to the unit radiation protection program instruction.
The supplement must include as a minimum an inventory of emitters, location of emitters,
potential hazards, safety training requirements, and personal protective equipment requirements.

1.1.4.3. Ensure the Base RSO and Unit RSO names and telephone numbers are posted in the
work area as well as emergency notification procedures in the event of an accident.

1.1.4.4. Ensure all ionizing radiation workers receive annual ALARA training.

1.1.4.5. Immediately notify the Unit RSO following a radiation accident/incident. Do not
change the set-up of anything involved. Corridor off and control/restrict access to the
accident/incident scene. Collect all pertinent information concerning the incident and draft a
detailed sketch of what happened.

1.1.4.6. Ensure a copy of this instruction is maintained in each work area where radiation
producing equipment is used, tested, or repaired and a copy of AFI 48-201 if RAM is used.

1.1.5. All Organizations. Organizations requiring work to be performed on Keesler Air Force
Base by contractors and/or Non-Air Force organizations which may involve use of RAM and/or
ionizing or non-ionizing radiation equipment must ensure that the Statement of Work (SOW),
Specification, and/or other description of the requirement include:

1.1.5.1. For RAM, the following: Prior to bringing RAM onto or conducting operations on
Keesler Air Force Base involving RAM, submit a written application for approval to the Base
RSO (Bioenvironmental Engineer, 81 AMDS/SGPB) at least 30 days before commencement of
activities. This request for approval will include all requirements listed in paragraph 3.4.4.10 of
AFI 40-201, 1 Sep 00, and paragraph 8.6.4.1 of NRC Enforcement Manual (NUREGBR-0195,
Rev. 2).

1.1.5.2. For ionizing or non-ionizing radiation equipment, the following: Prior to bringing
ionizing or non-ionizing radiation equipment onto Keesler Air Force Base, coordinate in writing
with the Base RSO (Bioenvironmental Engineer, 81 AMDS/SGPB) at least 30 days prior to using
the equipment on base.

1.1.5.3. Contractors working in the Keesler Medical Center must be cleared by the Medical
Center RSO to ensure that their qualifications are met. Contractors working within the Medical
Center must also coordinate with the unit RSO to ensure compliance with unit operating
instructions.

1.1.6. Medical Center RSO.

1.1.6.1. Manage the medical center radiation protection program.

1.1.6.2. Provide initial and annual ALARA training to all medical center personnel potentially
exposed to ionizing radiation.
4                                             Keesler AFB Instruction 48-102     23 October 2001



1.2. Requirements.

1.2.1. ALARA Program. The ALARA program requirements contained herein apply to all
functional areas where RAM or ionizing radiation producing devices are used and to each
respective RSO.

1.2.2. ALARA Program Requirements for the personnel dosimetry program:

1.2.2.1. The Base RSO or Medical Center RSO provides dosimeters to the appropriate
functional areas using the guidance established in the Air Force Institute for Environment, Safety,
and Occupational Health Risk Analysis (IERA) Personnel Dosimetry Program Instruction
Manual.

1.2.3. Overexposure Action Level. A personnel dosimetry result which exceeds the maximum
permissible whole body dose, not to exceed 5 rem/Per Calendar Year. Formal investigation and
documentation of the incident are required in accordance with AFI 48-125.

1.2.4. Abnormal Exposure Action Level. Personnel dosimetry result which, if continued on an
annual basis, would result in an overexposure. This equates to a whole body dose of 417 mrem
on a monthly badge or 1250 millirem on a quarterly badge. A formal investigation to determine
the cause of the exposure is made in accordance with AFI 48-125.

1.2.5. Investigation Action Level. Action levels will be determined by the Base RSO and/or
Medical Center RSO through the Radiation Safety Committee.

1.2.6. Pregnant Female Action Level. Personnel dosimetry results (whole body deep close)
which, if continued for the term of pregnancy, would exceed 500 mrem exposure limit for the
fetus. This equates to approximately 50 mrem on a monthly badge. Personnel dosimetry results
approaching this level are investigated and the results of investigation reported to the Radiation
Safety Committee or the Base RSO, as applicable. The Base RSO will ensure the IERA/SDRD
section at Brooks AFB TX is notified when there is a pregnant worker in an ionizing radiation
work area. IERA/SDRD will flag this individual in their computerized system and will provide
the personal dosimetry results to the Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) office. The BE office
notifies the Unit RSO only if the results require investigation.

1.2.7. Unit RSOs involvement with the personnel dosimetry program:

1.2.7.1. Will ensure the AF Forms 1499 are accessible to personnel in the section. The AF
Forms 1499 are maintained by the Medical Group RSO, and by the BEE office for those areas
not belonging to the Medical Group. Unit RSOs are responsible for ensuring the enrollment of
new personnel into the dosimetry program. Unit RSOs must also ensure Thermoluminescent
Dosimeters (TLDs) are stored in a designated storage area near, but outside the radiation area.
Keesler AFB Instruction 48-102    23 October 2001                                             5


1.2.7.2. Responsible for ensuring the TLDs are available for exchange on the day designated.
Any lost, damaged, or suspected overexposed TLDs are reported to the Base RSO as soon as
possible.

1.2.7.3. Responsible for ensuring temporary duty (TDY) personnel are indoctrinated on the
Keesler AFB TLD program and are issued temporary TLDs if needed. If personnel from Keesler
AFB go TDY to another installation, the Unit RSO reminds his/her personnel to carry their own
TLDs on the TDY mission.

1.3. Radiation Surveys.

1.3.1. Base RSO/Medical Center RSO will conduct surveillance of all radioactive materials and
radiation producing devices. The survey is conducted with the Unit or License/Permit RSO as
required.

1.4. Leak Testing Procedures.

1.4.1 Base RSO:

1.4.1.1. Reviews the swipe tests results performed by the Unit RSOs on the radioactive sources
at Keesler (as required).

1.4.1.2. Trains Bioenvironmental Engineering technicians to conduct leak tests and swipes as
appropriate.

1.4.2. Unit RSO:

1.4.2.1. Ensures swipe samples are collected on the radioactive sources located in his/her area,
if applicable.

1.4.2.2. Maintains documentation of swipe samples as required by current federal and AF
directives.

1.5. Receiving and Shipping Radioactive Materials.

1.5.1. Base RSO monitors all radioactive shipments and receipts as required. Base RSO may
designate fully qualified technicians to do the monitoring.

1.5.2. Medical RSO monitors all medical radioactive shipments and receipts as required.
Medical Group RSO may designate fully qualified technicians to do the monitoring.

1.5.3. Unit RSO immediately contacts Base RSO upon receipt of or notification that a RAM
shipment has arrived on base.

1.6. Permit and License Procedures.
6                                            Keesler AFB Instruction 48-102     23 October 2001



1.6.1. The Air Force has one Broad Scope NRC License and has authorized use under this
license to Keesler Air Force Base.

1.6.2. Applications for initial issue and renewal of existing permits and license are directed to
the Base RSO (in triplicate) in accordance with procedures outlined AFI 40-201. The renewal of
existing USAF radioactive permits is forwarded to the Base RSO at least 50 days prior to the
expiration date of the permit. The Unit or Permit RSO reviews the permit application prior to
forwarding it to the Base RSO.

1.6.3. It is the RSO's responsibility to update the users and supervisors, as needed, of the
radioactive materials as listed on the permits. Changes are directed to the Base RSO as stated in
AFI 40-201.

1.7. Review of Plans of Existing or New Facilities in which Ionizing Radiation Producing
Devices or RAM are Used.

1.7.1. All plans for modification or design of new facilities which involve the use of ionizing
radiation are reviewed by the Base RSO to ensure that the ALARA concept is considered.



                                        ROOSEVELT MERCER, JR., Brigadier General, USAF
                                        Commander
                                        81st Training Wing
Keesler AFB Instruction 48-102   23 October 2001                                        7


                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFOSH Standards
 91-8, Medical Facilities
 48-9, Exposure to Radio Frequency Radiation
 48-139, Health Hazards Control for Laser Radiation

Air Force Publications
 AFI 48-125, The US Air Force Personnel Dosimetry Program
 AFJI 23-504, Radioactive Items in the DOD Supply Systems
 AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials In the USAF
 AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual

Title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (10CFR), Energy

Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 6055.11, Occupational Radiation.

National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements, Report 116, Limitations of
Exposure to Ionizing Radiation, 31 Mar 93

Technical Orders
 00-110N-10, Requisitioning, Use, and Disposition of Lensatic Compass
 00-110N-13, Requisitioning, Use, and Disposition of Night Vision Adaptometer
 00-110N14, Radioactive Test Sample, Krypton 85, Gamma, MX 7338/PDR-27R
 00-110N-15, Requisition, Use, and Disposition of Lensatic Compass
 31Z-10-4, Electromagnetic Radiation Hazards
 33B-1-1, Nondestructive Inspection Methods

Radiation Policy Letters

 USAF Adoption of New American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Personnel Radio
 Frequency Standard, HQ AETC/SGPB, 5 May 95
 Radio Frequency Radiation Hazard Warning Signs, HQ AETC/SGPB, 26 Apr 95
 Base Radiation Protection Program Guidance, HQ ATC/SGPB, 4 Oct 90
8                                            Keesler AFB Instruction 48-102     23 October 2001


    Implementation of the As Low as Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) Concept in the Air Force
    Radiation Protection Program, HQ AFMSC/SGPA, 17 Oct 84

Acronyms

ALARA – As Low As Reasonably Achievable
BE – Bioenvironmental Engineering
RAM – Radioactive Material
RF – Radio Frequency
RSO – Radiation Safety Officer
TLD – Thermoluminescent Dosimeter

Definitions

ALARA Policy – The Air Force policy for exposures to ionizing radiation is to maintain
exposures within the As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) concept. This means there
are no exposures to ionizing radiation without an expected benefit and any dose received is the
lowest possible, consistent with the state of technology, costs, and operational requirements.
Radiation exposures are kept as far below existing standards as possible.

Base Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) – An individual designated by the 81st Wing Commander
to manage the base Radiation Protection Program. The RSO provides consultation advice on the
hazards associated with radiation and effectiveness of measures to control these hazards. This
individual is normally the base Bioenvironmental Engineer. He/She conducts the base-wide
Radiation Protection Program which includes surveillance of all radioactive materials and
radiation producing devices. The Base RSO coordinates with and assists the Unit, Permit, and
medical center RSOs as necessary to ensure a comprehensive, coordinated Radiation Protection
Program.

Ionizing Radiation – Radiation capable of producing ionization such as alpha, beta, gamma, and
x-ray radiation.

Laser (Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation) – An assembly of
electrical, mechanical, and optical components which includes a source of coherent radiation
produced by stimulated emission.

Medical Center RSO – An individual designated by the Medical Group Commander to manage
the medical center's radiation protection program. This individual normally is a health physicist
or medical physicist who has specialized training and experience in medical Radiation Protection
Programs.
NOTE: When the generic term of RSO is used in this guidance, it refers to any or all of the
categories of RSO defined above. It is the intent of this guidance that each RSO perform the
required tasks for his/her specific area of responsibility.
Keesler AFB Instruction 48-102     23 October 2001                                              9


Non-Ionizing Radiation – Radiation not capable of producing ionization such as radio
frequency and laser radiation.

Permit RSO – An individual designated by the unit commander and approved by the USAF
Radioisotope Committee to manage the radiation protection aspects associated with the use of
radioactive materials for which a specific USAF Radioactive Material permit has been issued.

Radiation – When used alone in this directive applies to both ionizing and non-ionizing
radiation.

Radioactive Material (RAM) – Radioactive substances which are sources of ionizing radiation.
These materials undergo a disintegration process which is accompanied by the emission of
radiation. Alpha, Beta, and Gamma radiation are typical by-products of this radioactive
disintegration.

Radiation Protection Program – This guidance applies to all Air Force military and civilian
personnel at Keesler AFB whose duties require them to work with sources of ionizing or non-
ionizing radiation or who work in areas where exposure to ionizing or non-ionizing radiation
may occur, or who supervise personnel working in these areas. This applies to persons not
occupationally exposed (general public), in that it addresses control measures used to protect all
personnel from potentially hazardous sources of ionizing or non-ionizing radiation owned or
operated by the Air Force. This guidance does not apply to the exposure of patients by the
Medical Services for diagnostic or therapeutic procedures, nor does it apply to exposures of
personnel to radiation resulting from the employment of nuclear or thermonuclear weapons in
combat.

Unit RSO – An individual designated by the unit commander serving as the single focal point
for radiation protection matters. This individual is the most technically qualified person
available with specific education, training, and professional experience to assure a capability
commensurate with the assignment. The term "Radiation Safety Officer" is a functional title and
is not intended to denote any rank or job classification in the Air Force. Each operational unit
using radiation producing devices or radioactive materials will appoint an RSO. This individual
coordinates radiation surveys with the Base RSO, assists in investigations of suspected or actual
overexposures, and performs those radiation protection duties at the unit level which are
commensurate with their training and experience. If personnel in the unit are enrolled in the
Personnel Dosimetry Program, this individual is responsible for managing the program within
his/her section and assists the Base or Medical Group RSO, as applicable, with issuing and
exchanging of dosimeters. Other duties are listed below.
