BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       KEESLER AIR FORCE BASE
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING                                      INSTRUCTION 34-401
(AETC)
                                                                         23 JUNE 2005
                                                   CERTIFIED CURRENT, 13 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                        Services

                                                            DINING FACILITY OPERATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 81 MSG/SVMF                                       Certified by: 81 MSG/SV (Mr. Donald L.
                                                                                       Cook)
Supersedes:   KEESLERAFBI34-401, 7                                                   Pages: 3
              July 1998


This instruction implements AFPD 34-4, Food Service, and establishes policy and procedures for
the operation of enlisted appropriated fund (APF) dining facilities. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This
directive applies to personnel authorized to subsist in these facilities. This directive does not
apply to the Medical Center dining facility. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Attachment 1 is a glossary of references and
supporting information. Attachment 1 is a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes were made to clarify the policy of authorized personnel eating in Keesler AFB
Appropriated Fund Dining Facilities. Keesler IMT 39, Commander’s Meal Pass, prescribed. An
asterisk (*) indicates changes from the last revision.
1. Personnel Authorized to Subsist:
   1.1. Permanent party enlisted personnel receiving BAS are authorized to subsist in enlisted
   APF dining facilities. They will pay standard rate (basic rate plus surcharge).
 2                                                        KEESLERAFBI34-401 23 JUNE 2005


        *1.1.1. Commanders or their representatives, Chaplains, Combat Support Flight Chief,
        Food Service Officers, Social Action Officers, Military Public Health Representatives,
        The Contract Officer, and The Food Service Contract Administrator are authorized to
        subsist in all base-dining facilities to determine the quality and quantity of food served
        when they are in duty status. 81 MSG/SVMF will issue Keesler IMT 39, Commander’s
        Meal Pass. Each organization is responsible for reporting changes and requesting
        Keesler IMT 39. Commander’s representatives are only authorized to subsist in the
        absence of the commander, and must possess a Keesler IMT 39 and complete an AF
        Form 27, Food Service Customer Survey for each meal eaten. They will pay standard
        meal rate (basic rate plus surcharge).
        1.1.2. Fire Department Personnel on duty (military and civilian) are permitted to subsist
        in crash kitchen facility. They will pay standard meal rate (basic rate plus surcharge).
        *1.1.3. Military personnel working night shifts may eat the midnight meal when served
        (Monday-Friday).
        *1.1.4. Enlisted members of other services (Navy, Army, Marine Corps, and Coast
        Guard) visiting Keesler may subsist in APF dining facilities. They will pay standard meal
        rate (basic rate plus surcharge) unless proper documentation is provided stating member
        is on a meal card.
        *1.1.5. Security Force personnel and augmentees on duty have head of the line
        privileges.
     *1.2. Officers and civilians on Temporary Duty (TDY) are authorized to subsist in APF
     dining facilities. They will show a copy of their orders to the cashier and pay standard meal
     rate (basic rate plus surcharge).
        1.2.1. Other officers and civilians are not authorized to subsist in APF dining facilities.
     1.3. Dependents, Relatives, and Guests:
        1.3.1. Dependents, relatives and guests of enlisted personnel are only authorized to
        subsist in the dining facilities for the lunch meal on Sundays and special holiday meals
        when accompanied by their sponsor. Exceptions are directed to the Base Food Service
        Officer at extension 72946 or 73787. They will pay standard meal rate (basic rate plus
        surcharge). Spouse and dependent children of E-1 through E-4 will pay discount rate
        (cost of food).
        *1.3.2. Other guests, including groups sponsored by base agencies require specific
        approval through base Public Affairs. Submit requests to the Food Service Officer, 81
        MSG/SVMF, with the following information: group (or individual) identification, total
        number of persons, meal period desired, and sponsor.
        1.3.3. Military retirees and family members may eat the APF dining facilities at
        Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Air Force Birthday. They will pay standard rate (basic rate
        plus surcharge).
2. Policy on Dress and Conduct in Dining Facilities:
     *2.1. All customers are responsible to enforce the standards of dress and conduct in dining
     facilities. Customers will be in accordance with AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal
KEESLERAFBI34-401 23 JUNE 2005                                                                   3


   Appearance of Air Force Personnel, as supplemented when in uniform, or the standards of
   personal appearance and dress (civilian attire) posted in dining facilities when not in uniform.
   Cell phone use is not authorized while in the serving line. Radios/tape players are not
   authorized.
   *2.2. Reserve seating is not authorized. Individuals will not place hats, coats, or other
   personal items on the tables to reserve seats.
   2.3. All personnel in civilian attire will show identification cards.
   2.4. Individuals in line when facility closes will be served.




                                              DOUGLAS C. HAYNER, Colonel, USAF
                                              Vice Commander, 81st Training Wing
                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-4, Food Service, 27 December 1993
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
Prescribed Forms
Keesler IMT 39, Commander’s Meal Pass (Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, Table 37-
15, Rule 19).
Adopted Forms
AF Form 27, Food Service Customer Survey

Abbreviations and Acronyms
APF—Appropriated Fund
TDY—Temporary Duty
