BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 21-103
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING
(AETC)                                                                   17 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                  FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD) AND
                                                     DROPPED OBJECT (DO) PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 81 TRW/SEF                                                        Certified by: 81 OSF/CC
                                                                         (Capt. Troy Kirkbride)
                                                                                       Pages: 10
Supersedes:   KEESLERAFBI21-103,
              7 January 2009


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. It establishes
responsibilities and outlines procedures for the Foreign Object Damage (FOD) prevention
Program and the Dropped Object Program (DOP). It expands on the procedures in AFI 21-101,
Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, and AETC Supplement 1, AFI 91-204,
Safety Investigations and Reports, and AFOSH Standard 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line-Ground
Operations and Activities. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned to Keesler AFB
(KAFB), including maintenance/supply/transportation and contractors. All procedures contained
in the aforementioned publications must also be adhered to. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. Attachment 1 is a glossary
of reference and supporting information. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C 8013, AFI 21-101, and
AFI 36-2232, Maintenance Training.
 2                                              KEESLERAFBI21-103 17 DECEMBER 2012


1. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.
     1.1. The 81 TRW/CV serves chairperson of all FOD prevention committee meetings. The
     chairperson monitors all phases of the FOD prevention program implemented within the 81st
     Training Wing and 403d Wing and ensures all FOD incidents are investigated thoroughly
     and corrective action is taken. In the absence of the 81 TRW/CV, the 81 OSF/CC will chair
     the meeting. The 81 TRW FOD Prevention Manager will present the meeting agenda.
     1.2. The 81 TRW Flight Safety is the OPR for all changes/waivers for this instruction and
     FOD/DOP program tasks required by AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
     Management and AFI 21-101 AETC Supplement 1.
2. FOD/DOP PROGRAM OBJECTIVES. The objective of the FOD Prevention Program is
to prevent foreign object damage to aircraft, aircraft systems, engines, tires, and Air Force
support equipment/assets through the use of proper procedures, training, and reporting. The
objective of the DOP is to prevent the inadvertent loss of aircraft items during flying operations
through proper training and procedures.
3. FOD PREVENTION MANAGER RESPONSIBILITIES. The 81 TRW FOD Prevention
Manager will:
     3.1. Maintain a Wing FOD continuity book and/or database to record all FOD incidents.
     3.2. Conduct annual FOD meetings with 81 OSF Airfield Management and Airfield
     Operations, maintenance and support commanders to discuss trends and related issues
     (including but not limited to FOD incidents and investigations, dropped objects, and lost
     tools/objects). Quarterly briefings are informational tools and feedback is encouraged.
     Additional meetings and/or briefings may be convened at the discretion of the 403 MXG
     CC/CV. Meetings will be conducted with unit/squadron FOD managers when deemed
     necessary to discuss trends/problems at unit level.
     3.3. Squadrons / Contractors will conduct FOD prevention briefings for newly assigned
     personnel.
     3.4. All units may maintain and administer the FOD awards/incentive program.
     3.5. Monitor the 81 TRW’s Dropped Object Program IAW AFI 21-101 and AETC
     Supplement 1, and this instruction.
     3.6. Maintain a Lost Tool/Object continuity book and/or database to record all lost
     tools/objects.
4. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
     4.1. Each organization/contractor will designate, in writing, a primary and alternate FOD
     Prevention Manager to be a member of the FOD committee. A copy of the appointment
     letter will be sent to the 81 TRW FOD Prevention Manager (81 Flight Safety). Appointment
     letters will be updated when changes occur. The designated manager or a designated
     representative will attend all FOD meetings.
     4.2. Each organizations/contractors will be responsible for implementation of organizational
     procedures to ensure an effective FOD prevention program is established:
KEESLERAFBI21-103 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                               3


   4.3. FOD prevention managers will develop, manage, and maintain the overall responsibility
   for their organization’s FOD prevention program. Managers may be appointed for individual
   work centers. A copy of appointment letters will be sent to the 81 TRW FOD Prevention
   Manager. The designated unit FOD Manager will also maintain a copy.
   4.4. All units with assigned aircraft will implement their own policies and procedures for
   their particular FOD inspections prior to engine maintenance runs or prior to aircraft engine
   starts IAW 21-101.
5. FOD REPORTING AND NOTIFICATION.
   5.1. The technician or supervisor who determines that a FOD or foreign object (FO) related
   incident has occurred will immediately notify the Production Superintendent or Maintenance
   Contractor Lead Supervisor who will notify the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) and
   their respective squadron/unit FOD manager. FOD is not confined to engines only. Damage
   from foreign objects to tires and other aircraft systems are also classified as FOD incidents.
   5.2. Air field Management will immediately notify the 81 TRW Command Post and 81
   TRW Flight Safety (if applicable) of all aircraft/engine FOD incidents occurring on transient
   aircraft.
   5.3. Unit Prevention Managers will report all FOD incidents to the 81 TRW Program
   Manager and 81 TRW/SE and/or 403 WG/SE as soon as damage is discovered, but no later
   than 24 hours after occurrence. AETC Form 199, Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Incident
   Investigation final reports will be completed and sent to AETC/LGMTP in a timely manner
   (no later than 60 days) after the incident.
   5.4. All units deployed to Keesler with a FOD/DO incident will notify Airfield Management
   who will then notify the 81 TRW FOD Monitor.
6. FOD INVESTIGATIONS. All FOD incidents according to this instruction fall into two
categories, major and minor, based on the severity of damage. If a minor FOD incident has the
potential to become a major FOD incident, the FOD will be investigated as a major FOD
incident until it is determined that damage severity and costs remain in the minor FOD category.
A FOD-walk will be performed immediately following discovery of any engine FOD. An area
25 feet forward and 100 feet aft of the damaged engine should be thoroughly inspected for the
presence of foreign objects or debris. Any objects or debris recovered will be turned over to the
81 TRW FOD Prevention Manager.
   6.1. Minor FOD Investigations. A minor FOD incident is defined as, (FOD) to aircraft,
   aircraft systems, engines, tires, and Air Force support equipment/assets where the extent of
   damage is minor and cost to repair or replace parts (including labor cost) is less than $20,000.
   The 81 TRW FOD Prevention Manager will be the focal point for all minor FOD
   investigations.
   6.2. If minor engine FOD requires impoundment of the aircraft/engine, the 81 TRW FOD
   Prevention Manager will complete an initial FOD investigation checklist to gather as much
   information as possible that may have contributed to the FOD. The Aircraft Maintenance
   Unit (AMU) FOD monitor or designated representative will collect aircraft information,
   secure all aircraft and engine historical data and furnish it to the Unit FOD Prevention
4                                                KEESLERAFBI21-103 17 DECEMBER 2012


    Manager, FOD investigating officer/NCO, or designated MXG QA representative upon
    request. Every attempt will be made to determine the cause of the damage.
    6.3. Major FOD Investigations. A major FOD incident is defined as, ―Foreign Object
    Damage‖ (FOD) to aircraft, aircraft systems, engines, tires, and Air Force support
    equipment/assets where the extent of damage is extensive and cost to repair or replace parts
    (including labor cost) exceeds or has the potential to exceed $20,000.‖
    6.4. Major FOD investigations will be conducted IAW AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations
    and Reports.
7. OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
    7.1. All restricted area badges will be restrained by either a nylon cord, with break-away clip
    if worn around the neck, or an approved armband (ID badge holder) when worn in the
    restricted area of the airfield IAW AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program.
    7.2. Safety headgear will be allowed when required by safety directives, technical data, or
    contract. The 81 TRW FOD Prevention Manager will be notified of projects that require
    safety headgear to be worn on the airfield.
    7.3. Head gear not required for aircraft ground or maintenance operations will not be worn
    on the flight line. Head covering may be worn for protection from extreme weather elements
    such as sun protection or for warmth during winter months as long as they observe specific
    aircraft Technical Order (TO) requirements for operating engines. Head gear worn on the
    flight line must be secured to the head using a chin strap or lanyard for safety.
    7.4. Flight line personnel will not wear head gear with chin straps or lanyards while
    performing maintenance task.
    7.5. The only exception to wearing hats on the flight line is for military protocol ( arrivals &
    departures of DV’s) or Security Forces working on flight line. Security Forces or
    maintenance personnel will not wear head covering within 25 ft. of operating engines.
    7.6. Personnel performing flight line entry control point (ECP) duties may wear this hat as
    necessary IAW Keesler Instruction 13-201, Airfield Operations and Local Flying
    Procedures.
    7.7. After severe thunderstorms, high winds, or flooding, all units/squadrons, contractors and
    associate units will police their respective areas for loose debris and recover any missing
    aircraft covers and equipment.
8. FOD WALKS, FACILITIES, AND VEHICLES.
    8.1. As a minimum, a Supervisor or QAE (SNCO or civilian equivalent) from each unit or
    contractor and flying associate units assigned or deployed to KAFB will supervise FOD
    walks.
    8.2. All maintenance units/contractors will conduct a FOD walk of their assigned aircraft
    parking or maintenance area at the beginning of each flying day, to include the area beyond
    the restricted area boundary to the start of the grass infield. Any FOD walks involving the
    controlled movement (CMA) area must require an individual obtaining two-way radio
    communication from the Control Tower prior to entering the CMA and maintain
    communication with the Control Tower IAW Keesler Instruction 13-201.
KEESLERAFBI21-103 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                              5


  8.3. Vehicle, shop or hanger FOD collection containers will have two-inch minimum height
  letters ―FOD‖ in contrasting colors. Vehicles containers will be lidded, with the lid secured
  to the container. Containers must be secured to the vehicle so as not to tip over.
  8.4. All FOD collection containers will be emptied daily.
  8.5. Vehicle operators are responsible for inspecting the interior, cargo bed area, and tires
  prior to use. Remove or secure all foreign material that could cause a potential FOD hazard.
  8.6. A tire FOD check will be accomplished prior to all vehicles entering the airfield or
  returning to a paved surface from an unpaved surface IAW Keesler Instruction 13-202,
  Airfield Vehicular Traffic.      Exception: Emergency vehicles responding to actual
  emergencies. Once the actual emergency is over, a tire FOD check will be accomplished
  prior to continuing on. Note: Vehicles drivers shall stop and perform a visual inspection of
  tires. Remove foreign materials (e.g., rocks, gravel, etc.) as applicable. Vehicle drivers shall
  not make a casual ―glance‖ at the tires.
  8.7. Tenant and associate flying units will establish FOD walk procedures. Special attention
  will be given to the aircraft grounding/mooring points to ensure they are clean and free of
  FOD and dirt.
  8.8. Parking areas will be checked for FO prior to aircraft arrival and departures.
  8.9. The Fire Department ramp will be FOD walked daily and/or after vehicle wash down.
  In addition, Fire Department vehicles will be inspected before entering the ramp, taxiway or
  runway from any FOD potential area except in emergency situations (i.e. ground
  emergencies or in-flight emergencies).
  8.10. Building custodians will ensure adequate trash containers are available for FOD
  disposal within maintenance facilities.
  8.11. Airfield vehicle operators will monitor the airfield/taxiways for presence of FOD or
  broken concrete and will remove all items immediately. Notify Airfield Management at 377-
  2120 if excessive debris is discovered. All vehicles returning to the airfield, runway,
  taxiways and aprons from unpaved surfaces will perform a FOD check IAW Keesler
  Instruction 13-202.
  8.12. The Airfield Manager ensures all taxiways and runways are inspected daily and
  sweeping equipment is controlled. If an aircraft returns from flight with missing items,
  damaged or blown tires, Airfield Management will conduct an immediate special inspection
  of the runway and/or taxiways involved.
  8.13. Unit vehicle control officers and noncommissioned officers (VCO/VCNCO) will
  periodically spot-check assigned vehicles to ensure operators are complying with the intent
  of the FOD prevention program.
  8.14. At a minimum a FOD walk of the ramp and parking areas will be accomplished
  weekly. Unusual circumstances (i.e., hurricanes, air shows, weather etc.) may require an
  airfield FOD walk prior to resuming flight operations. Note: The airfield opens at 0800L
  Mon – Friday, including Compressed Work Schedule Fridays.
  8.15. Each organization will have a POC assigned to coordinate with the 81 Security Forces
  and Airfield Management at 377-2120 prior to their scheduled FOD walk.
6                                               KEESLERAFBI21-103 17 DECEMBER 2012


       8.15.1. The FOD Walk POC will obtain Control Tower approval and stay in constant
       contact with the Control Tower IAW Keesler Instruction 13-201 if the FOD walk
       involves the CMA.
       8.15.2. FOD Walk Supervisors, POCs and or representatives will stay in constant
       communication with all personnel to maintain safety until they have exited the airfield.
       8.15.3. As a, incentive, the Golden Bolt may be used for FOD Walks and shall be labeled
       ―Golden Bolt.‖ The Golden Bolt will be in place on the airfield ramp prior to each FOD
       walk. Prior to existing the FOD Walk area, the POC will assure the bolt has been found
       or removed.
9. SPECIAL INTEREST ITEMS.
    9.1. Unit/squadron commanders, superintendents, flight chiefs, supervisors and contract
    managers/supervisors are responsible for FOD prevention within their areas of responsibility.
    The areas listed below will be given extra attention:
    9.2. Vehicles (clean and free of trash/hardware).
    9.3. FOD walks.
    9.4. Condition of Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE).
    9.5. Tool control.
10. DROPPED OBJECT PROGRAM (DOP) MONITOR RESPONSIBILITIES. The
dropped object program monitors will:
    10.1. Maintain a current database and Wing DOP continuity book.
    10.2. Assign control numbers to dropped object reporting worksheets.
    10.3. Investigate each dropped object incident to determine the cause.
    10.4. Conduct dropped object briefings for all airfield personnel annually.
    10.5. Follow the DO Program Self Assessment Guide (see attachment 2).
11. AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE UNIT DOP RESPONSIBILITIES.
    11.1. Conduct annual training and briefings in all areas of the DO Program.
    11.2. Designate by letter a primary and an alternate DO monitor and forward to 81 TRW
    Dropped Object Program Monitor.
    11.3. Investigate each DO incident to determine the cause.
12. UNIT DOP MONITOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
    12.1. Maintain a DO continuity book containing the following:
    12.2. A current copy of this instruction.
    12.3. Copies of blank DO reporting checklists.
    12.4. Reference copies of completed DO checklists for the past 24 months.
    12.5. An appointment letter designating them as a DO monitor.
KEESLERAFBI21-103 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                          7


  12.6. Ensure information concerning DOs provided by Unit MXG/MXQ DO monitor are
  distributed and briefed to appropriate personnel.
13. FOREIGN OBJECT PREVENTION INCENTIVE PROGRAMS.
  13.1. Each Maintenance Organization/Contractors should have the intent of the FOD
  Incentive Program. This is to reward FOD conscious organizations, military members, or
  civilian personnel who take the extra steps to identify and correct potential FOD hazards by
  accounting for tools and personal articles, picking up loose debris and hardware, and
  performing FOD-conscious inspections. Promoting positive action to eliminate airfield and
  work area FOD can reduce the potential for FOD related incidents.




                                          RENE F. ROMERO
                                          Colonel, USAF
                                          Vice Commander, 81st Training Wing
 8                                           KEESLERAFBI21-103 17 DECEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101/AETC Sup 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 21 October 2010
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 8 October 2009
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
KAFBI 13-201, Airfield Operations and Local Flying Procedures, 23 April 2008(Under
Revision)
KAFBI 13-213, Airfield Vehicular Traffic, 28 October 2008(Under Revision)
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
Form 199, Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Incident Investigation
AFRC Form 42, Foreign Object Damage(FOD) Mishap Investigation
AF Form 422, Notice of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status.

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSHSTD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Unit
CV—Vice Commander
DOP—Dropped Object Program
ECP—Entry Control Point
FO—Foreign Object
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
IAW—In Accordance With
KEESLERAFBI21-103 17 DECEMBER 2012                9


KAFB—Keesler Air Force Base
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SNCO—Senior Non-commissioned Officer
VCO—Vehicle Control Officers
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Non-commissioned Officers
 10                                             KEESLERAFBI21-103 17 DECEMBER 2012


                                           Attachment 2
              DROPPED OBJECT PROGRAM SELF ASSESSMENT GUIDE

A2.1. Is the wing/unit monitor designated by letter?
A2.2. Is the appointment letter current?
A2.3. Is the wing/unit DO monitor maintaining a current continuity book?
A2.4. Are DO investigation worksheets being turned in to MXG/QA within 24 hours of each
incident?
A2.5. Are one-time inspections being initiated as required?
A2.6. Is information relevant to the dropped object program being distributed to appropriate
organizations and is this information being briefed to personnel at all levels?
A2.7. Are individuals reporting dropped objects in a timely manner to the expeditor and dropped
object monitor?
A2.8. Are Product Quality Deficiency Reports being initiated when material failure is the
expected cause of a dropped object incident?
