BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         KEESLER AIR FORCE BASE
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING                                       INSTRUCTION 36-3002
(AETC)
                                                                               20 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                    FAMILY MEMBER SUPPORT PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 81 FSS/FSFR                                                          Certified by: 81 FSS/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col Sharon Nickelberry)
Supersedes:    KEESLERAFBI36-3002,                                                         Pages: 4
               23 September 2008


This instruction implements AFPD 36-30, Military Entitlements, and establishes policies and
procedures to provide assistance to waiting spouses and/or family members of active duty
members on temporary duty (TDY), deployments or remote tours. This instruction applies to the
81st TRW and all associate units assigned, attached and/or associate units supported by the 81st
Training Wing at Keesler AFB MS, including Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG)
units, except where noted otherwise. It describes sponsorship responsibilities for waiting
spouses, defines responsibilities for monitoring the Family Member Support Program, and
provides a means of support to family members awaiting return of their military spouse. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
Attachment 1 contains a glossary of references and supporting information used in this
publication. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised. Changed: All references to Family Support Center (FSC) to
read Airman and Family Readiness Center (AFRC). Added: para. 2.2.5. Offers events for
deployed member's families in order to keep in touch and network support groups. Para. 4.5.6.
 2                                                 KEESLERAFBI36-3002 20 AUGUST 2014


Deployed Family Event- special events catered to families of deployed members such as:
Fishing, Pillow Case making, Mardi Gras Day Parades, Dinner and a Movie Night and Operation
Hero.
1. Policy. All military members will have a point of contact (POC) designated. The member's
commander will ensure a designated POC is assigned prior to the member’s departure. If needed,
the Readiness Noncommissioned Officer (NCO) will contact the losing squadron's First Sergeant
for assistance. In instances where the active duty member is not assigned to Keesler AFB prior
to departure on an extended TDY or unaccompanied remote tour, the Airman and Family
Readiness Center and Readiness NCO will be the family member’s POC.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Squadron Commanders:
        2.1.1. Ensure First Sergeant designates a POC in writing for affected family members.
        The POC, preferably, will be the active duty member’s supervisor.
        2.1.2. Maintain a consolidated and accurate listing of all personnel who are on extended
        TDY or deployed. This listing may be maintained by the First Sergeant and will contain
        the following minimum information:
           2.1.2.1. Name, rank of military member and their gaining Unit’s address (forward
           location).
           2.1.2.2. Projected return date.
           2.1.2.3. Name, address and telephone number of the spouse/family member.
           2.1.2.4. Name, address and telephone number of POC assigned.
     2.2. Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC):
        2.2.1. Acts as sponsor for families when active duty member was not assigned to Keesler
        AFB and waiting spouse/family member resides in the local area.
        2.2.2. Provides either one-on-one or mass pre-deployment briefing for active duty and
        families (families are encouraged to attend). AFI 36-3009 para. 2.1.5.6. States, except for
        extremely short notice deployments, (less than two (2) day notification) mobility line
        “just in time” briefings do not meet the requirements for pre-deployment
        briefing/preparation of members and their families.
        2.2.3. Provides assistance to sponsors and families as needed.
        2.2.4. Administers programs which facilitate communication between the deployed
        member and the family, such as the "Hearts Apart Program". The A&FRC will also
        provide services to ease the burden on the spouse remaining in the local area, such as
        "Give Parents a Break," and "Car Care Because We Care." Members and their families
        should contact the A&FRC for a current list of available services.
        2.2.5. Offers events for deployed member's families in order to keep in touch and
        network support groups.
     2.3. Squadron First Sergeant:
KEESLERAFBI36-3002 20 AUGUST 2014                                                            3


      2.3.1. Ensures military members attend a one-on-one or mass pre-deployment briefing
      from the Airman and Family Readiness Center.
      2.3.2. Appoints a POC to contact the waiting spouse/family member within the first
      seven (7) days of the family separation.
      2.3.3. Encourages spouse attendance at pre-deployment counseling. If necessary, will
      ensure information and workshop materials are provided.
   2.4. Point of Contact:
      2.4.1. Contacts the family member, or designated caregiver of minor dependents, by
      telephone every two weeks unless the spouse or family member directs otherwise.
      2.4.2. Maintains written records that family members have been contacted every two
      weeks and annotates if the family needs any assistance. Keeps the First Sergeant abreast
      of contact/assistance given.
3. Family Member Support Program Objectives.
   3.1. Ensures assistance is available for families with temporary separation issues or
   concerns.
   3.2. Ensures military members and spouses are aware of service agencies available to aid in
   emergencies or assist with other concerns.
   3.3. Provides family members with an opportunity to prepare for separation.
   3.4. Establishes guidelines and responsibilities for squadron POCs and personnel who
   monitor the program.
4. A&FRC Programs:
   4.1. Hearts Apart – Daily free one hour calls allowed from home to the member’s forward
   location or from the forward location back home provided they have a local telephone
   number.
   4.2. Give Parents A Break – Six hours of free childcare per month at the KAFB Child
   Development Center or Youth Center. Military member must be TDY or deployed for at
   least 30 consecutive days, or on a remote tour, to qualify.
   4.3. Car Care Because We Care – One free oil change for spouse. Military member must
   be TDY or deployed for at least 30 consecutive days, or on a remote tour, to qualify.
   4.4. Deployed Family Event - Special events catered to families of deployed members such
   as: fishing, pillow case making, Mardi Gras Day at the parades, dinner and a movie night and
   Operation Hero.




                                           PATRICK C. HIGBY, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander, 81st Training Wing
 4                                             KEESLERAFBI36-3002 20 AUGUST 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-30, Military Entitlements, 2 August 1993
AFI 36-3009, Airman and Family Readiness Centers, 7 May 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
81 TRW Plan 10-216, Evacuating and Repatriating Air Force Members and Other US
Noncombatants, 15 November 2003
81 TRW Plan 36-30, Family Readiness Plan, 1 June 2007 Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule
PrescribedForms
No prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms
A&FRC—Airman and Family Readiness Center
NCO—noncommissioned officer
POC—point of contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—temporary duty

Terms
Point of Contact (POC)—The individual or agency responsible for assisting w a i t i n g
spouse/family member while active duty member is on an extended TDY or remote tour. A POC
can be a unit key spouse.
Remote tour—Twelve to fifteen months unaccompanied overseas tour.
Waiting Spouse/Family Member— A spouse or a family member waiting the return of their
military member from a TDY, deployment or remote tour.
