                                 Keesler Air Force Base
                           Environmental Management System
                                         Policy
                                As the host wing for all units assigned to Keesler AFB, the 81st Training Wing is committed to
                                protecting the natural environment while providing a safe and healthy work environment that
                                supports the mission of every unit assigned to Keesler AFB. To support this commitment, every
                                military member, civilian and contract employee should actively implement the Environmental
                                Management System (EMS). Proper management of EMS aspects in our daily operations,
                                facilities and personal actions is essential. Our vision is to reduce Environmental concerns at
                                Keesler AFB for its personnel and surrounding communities by implementing an effective EMS.
                                The 81st Training Wing will be a leader in executing a model EMS within the Air Force.

                                The installation will comply with all federal, state, local, and Air Force Environmental regulations.

                                Units will strive to minimize and eliminate the creation of wastes and the release of pollutants;
                                conserve natural resources by reusing, recycling, and purchasing recycled materials; and ensure
                                responsible use of energy, improving energy efficiency, and using renewable energy sources.

                                A cross-functional team (created from installation organizations) will periodically review, audit,
                                and update Keesler’s EMS to ensure its continual improvement and appropriateness. This review
                                includes Environmental objectives and targets identified in the EMS and other policies.

                                This policy will be communicated to all Keesler AFB personnel and be made available to the
PATRICK C. HIGBY                public.
Brigadier General, USAF
Commander, 81st Training Wing

                                                                            KEESLERAFB VA 32-1, 6 November 2013, (Per AFI 32-7001)
                                                                            OPR: 81 ID/IDPE      Supersedes : KEESLERAFBVA 90-3, 13 September 2012
                                                                            Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
