BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 31-206
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING
(AETC)                                                                 22 JANUARY 2008
                                                         CERTIFIED CURRENT 1 JUNE 2012

                                                                                          Security

                                                                         CURFEW OF MINORS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 81 SFS/S3                                                          Certified by: 81 SFS/CC
Supersedes: Keesler AFB Instruction 31-                             (Major Joseph A. Musacchia)
            206, 9 Apr 01                                                                Pages: 6


This publication implements AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, and prescribes procedures
governing the conduct of minors on streets at night, effectively and consistently enforced, for the
protection of the younger children in the military community during the nighttime hours, the
enforcement of parental responsibility and control of their children, the protection of the public
from nocturnal mischief by minors, and reduction in incidents of juvenile criminal activity for
the safety and welfare of Keesler residents. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013; 18 U.S.C. 1382;
44 U.S.C. 3103; and E.O. 9397. Systems of Records Notices F031 AF SP C, Complaint/Incident
Reports, and F031 AF SP D, Field Interview Card, apply Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

This instruction sets the hours of curfew and applies to all Keesler personnel, and minors with or
without military affiliation including the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units but does
not include the Air National Guard (ANG). Attachment 1 is a glossary of references and
supporting information.
 2                                                      KEESLERAFBI31-206 22 January 2008


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Support Group
Commander has been changed to 81st Mission Support Group Commander. Added specific
times for “during the summer” and “during the school year”. Dates have been changed for
curfew dates in para 2.1. and 2.2.. New procedures have been put in place for curfew violations
in 2.7.1..
1. Terms.
     1.1. Facilities - Refers to any and all areas of Keesler AFB designed for the conduct of
     military business, recreation, or training, other than that designed for vehicular/pedestrian
     traffic. Facilities will include, parks, playgrounds, and houses and yards other than those
     where the minor resides.
     1.2. Keesler AFB - Refers to Keesler Air Force Base and the Federal jurisdiction of Keesler
     AFB and its assigned military housing areas.
     1.3. Minor - Any person under the age of 17 or, in equivalent phrasing often employed in
     this policy, any person 16 or less years of age. Minors (ages 10 and older) of DOD personnel
     will possess their ID cards at all times.
     1.4. Parent - Any person having legal custody of a minor as a:
        1.4.1. Natural or adoptive parent;
        1.4.2. Legal guardian;
        1.4.3. A person who stands in loco parentis; or
        1.4.4. A person to whom legal custody has been given by court order.
     1.5. Remain - To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets. To
     implement this curfew with additional precision and precaution, numerous exceptions are
     expressly defined in para 2.4.
     1.6. Special Designated Area - An area on Keesler and its housing areas in which there
     exists the presence of special aggravating circumstances, such as theft or vandalism, high
     crime rates, a greater than average drug or alcohol arrest rate, or a greater than average
     number of crimes committed by minors necessitating hours of curfew that are more strict in
     character than those warranted in other areas. On recommendation of the Chief, Security
     Forces, the 81st Mission Support Group Commander may designate such areas and a stricter
     curfew may be imposed for whatever period is necessary to ensure good order and discipline
     has returned to the area.
     1.7. Street - A way or place, of whatever nature, open to the use of the public as a matter of
     right for purposes of recreation, vehicular travel, or in the case of a sidewalk, for pedestrian
     travel. The term “street” includes the legal right-of-way, including but not limited to the
     traffic lanes, the curb, the sidewalks whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
     grounds found within the legal right-of-way of the street. The term “street” applies
     irrespective of what the street is called or formerly named, whether alley, avenue, court, road
     or other name.
KEESLERAFBI31-206 22 January 2008                                                                3


   1.8. Time of Night - Based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether Central Standard
   Time or Central Daylight Savings Time, generally observed at that hour by the public.
   1.9. Year of Age - Continues from one birthday, such as the 16th, to but not including the
   day of the next, such as the 17th birthday, making it clear that the phrase “16 or less years of
   age” is treated for purposes of this section as equivalent to the phrase “prior to 17th
   birthday.”
2. General Curfew.
   2.1. During the Summer. For the period of 1 June through 31 August of each year, it shall
   be unlawful for any person 16 or less years of age (prior to 17th birthday) to be or remain in
   or upon the streets of Keesler AFB, or other base facilities, during the period of 2300 hrs to
   0500 hrs.
   2.2. During the School Year. For the period of 1 September through 31 May, the following
   curfew regulations shall apply:
      2.2.1. It shall be unlawful for any person 16 or less years of age (prior to 17th birthday)
      to be or remain in or upon the streets, or facilities of Keesler AFB, on Sunday through
      Thursday nights during the period beginning at 2200 and ending at 0500 the following
      morning and,
      2.2.2. It shall be unlawful for any person 16 or less years of age (prior to 17th birthday)
      to be or remain in or upon the streets or facilities on Keesler AFB on Friday and Saturday
      nights from 2300 to 0500 the following morning.
   2.3. Special Designated Areas. It shall be unlawful for any person 16 years of age or less
   (prior to 17th birthday) to be in a special designated area as defined in para 1.6. during the
   period beginning at 2200 hrs and ending at 0500 hrs.
   2.4. Exceptions. A minor may be allowed on Keesler streets during the curfew when:
      2.4.1. Accompanied by a parent of such minor.
      2.4.2. Accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor to take the parent’s
      place in accompanying the minor for a designated period of time and purpose within a
      specified area.
      2.4.3. The minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor resides, or on the
      sidewalk of either next door neighbor if that neighbor does not communicate an objection
      to Security Forces personnel.
      2.4.4. Returning home by a direct route from and within 30 minutes of the termination of
      the day’s employment, a school activity, an MWR activity, or an activity of a religious or
      other voluntary association, or other activities in which prior notice, indicating the place,
      time and description of event and probable time of termination, has been given in writing
      to and approved by the Chief, Security Forces.
      2.4.5. With parental consent, in a motor vehicle.
   2.5. Parental Responsibility. It is unacceptable behavior for a parent having legal custody of
   a minor normally to permit or by inefficient control to allow such minor to be or remain upon
   any Keesler street under circumstances not constituting an exception to these curfew policies.
 4                                                    KEESLERAFBI31-206 22 January 2008


     For purposes of this paragraph, the term “knowingly” includes: knowledge which a parent
     should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
     parent’s legal custody. Parents not exercising appropriate control of their children will be
     reported to Family Advocacy for an assessment of the family’s needs.
     2.6. Police Procedures.
        2.6.1. Any member of the Security Forces, upon finding or having attention called to any
        minor on Keesler AFB, shall take appropriate action to detain, identify, and verify
        authenticity of a minor’s presence during the hours of curfew. All measures will be
        adhered to regarding laws and regulations that afford the parent and the minor due
        process under the law.
        2.6.2. Upon contact with a minor violating curfew regulations, immediate efforts will be
        made by Security Forces to contact the minor’s sponsor, or other responsible adult who is
        authorized to exercise supervision over the minor. Depending upon the circumstances of
        the encounter with the minor, the Security Forces personnel may detain the minor and
        transport the minor to the Security Forces Control Center, or to the minor’s place of
        residence if the parent is present to accept responsibility for the minor.
        2.6.3. All curfew violations verified by Security Forces will be reported in the daily
        blotter in accordance with other regulations regarding such entries.
     2.7. Results of Curfew Violations.
        2.7.1. Security Forces will prepare an AF IMT 3907, Security Forces Field Interview
        Data, and accomplish a blotter entry. The sponsor’s First Sergeant and Family Advocacy
        will also be notified. Per agreement with Harrison County Family Court, the minor’s
        record will be forwarded for a hearing to determine alternatives and assessment of a trend
        when a third curfew violation, or a curfew violation in conjunction with a crime, occurs.
        2.7.2. A genuine attempt will be made to contact the parents of a minor not identified as
        a dependent of military/civilian personnel assigned to, and residing on, Keesler AFB. As
        a last resort, the juvenile will be transported to the Security Forces Control Center and
        charged with curfew violation in the presence of at least two Security Forces members.
        An AF IMT 3545, Incident Report, will be completed. The juvenile will be transported
        to the Harrison County Detention Facility.
        2.7.3. Contingent with other family issues, and/or continued curfew violations,
        commanders may determine the necessity to cause the member to vacate military
        housing.
     2.8. Commander Directed Exceptions. The Wing Commander will be the authority to
     approve/disapprove these curfew policies, and allow exceptions for extenuating
     circumstances when deemed appropriate with maintaining good order and discipline.
3. Forms Adopted. AF IMT 3545, Incident Report; AF IMT 3907, Security Forces Field
Interview Data.
KEESLERAFBI31-206 22 January 2008                                              5


                                    PAUL F. CAPASSO, Brigadier General, USAF
                                    Commander
                                    81st Training Wing
 6                                                  KEESLERAFBI31-206 22 January 2008


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 Oct 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation to Change Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DoD—Department of Defense

Terms
Loco parentis— in the place of a parent
