BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER            KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 10-2501
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING (AETC)                         4 March 2008
                                           Certified Current on 30 May 2013
                                                         Operations Policy

                                                   HURRICANE DATABASE INFORMATION
                                                           RETRIEVAL SYSTEM (HDIRS)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:         This publication is available digitally on the Air Force Portal,
https://www.my.af.mil, Keesler home page, publications section. If you lack access, contact the
Base Publications Manager (81 CS/SCPI).
OPR: 81 TRW/XPO                                                         Certified by: 81 TRW/XP
                                                                               (Mr. Larry J. Tabor)
Supersedes KAFBI 10-2501, 28 Feb 2004.                                                    Pages: 7

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-25, Emergency Management,
and establishes accountability reporting procedures for the wing using the HURCON Sheltering
Database. This database pertains to all military and civilian personnel assigned/attached to
Keesler AFB and tenant units. HDIRS will serve as the basis of automated information
gathering for shelter and/or evacuation intentions, expedite shelter in-processing, and provide
real-time information to the Installation Control Center (ICC). This instruction requires
collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974 authorized by
Title 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force. System of records notice F033 AF C, “Locator,
Registration and Postal Directory Files” applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will
convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Attachment
1 is a glossary of references and supporting information. This instruction applies to all personnel
assigned to Keesler Air Force Base. The use of a name or any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this instruction does not imply endorsement by
the USAF.


SUMMARY OF CHANGES:

This document has been revised and an  indicates changes from the last revision. Establishes
requirement to manage personnel information by correct, verify or update conflicting
information in MILPDS/CIVPDS. Establishes actions to comply with unit personnel
accountability. Includes and establishes actions for 81 MSS Personnel Accountability Team
(PAT). Establishes requirement for monthly reviews/updates of the Keesler Form 21. Deletes
requirement for Keesler Form 27. Deleted attachment 3, HURCON Database Execution
Procedures.

1. RESPONSIBILITIES.
  2                                            Keesler AFB Instruction 10-2501        4 March 2008



  1.1. 81 TRW Vice Wing Commander. Appoints an overall HDIRS Program Administrator
  and a Database Administrator. Provides command support for program implementation.

  1.2. HDIRS Program Manager. 81 TRW/XPO has been appointed as the program manager
  and is responsible for managing the overall development of technical and data system support
  necessary to implement and maintain the data system in of support of the hurricane preparedness
  information system. Proper coordination and collaboration with other functional managers
  throughout the wing is essential to ensure the program‟s success. Provides overall management
  and administrative guidance for the hurricane database.

  1.3. Database Administrator. 81 TRSS/TSUI determines the access level for all authorized
  personnel. Ensures database is maintained as current as possible. Creates, changes, or deletes
  default reports and queries. Purges database as needed.

  1.4. Group Control Centers. Ensure Unit Commanders‟ Support Staff and Unit Control
  Centers update the master database on a regular basis. Training Group Control Center updates
  information during tropical storm advisory conditions.

  1.5. Shelter Managers. Maintain database as shelterees in-process. Provide reports as
  requested by the Shelter Manager, Group Control Center, or ICC. Ensure a Privacy Act briefing
  is provided to all personnel accessing personal data.

1.6. Unit Control Centers. Monitor the status and currency of Keesler AFB Form 21,
 Hurricane Sheltering Intentions, input by all unit personnel. Brief personnel on their
 responsibility to update their Keesler AFB Form 21 as soon as practical as part of their in-
 processing requirement. Take action to update the appropriate military or civilian personnel
 system (MILPDS or CIVPDS) as necessary, to resolve any conflicting information. Conduct
 audits as necessary to ensure all assigned personnel have Keesler Form 21 information on file
 and delete records for individuals who are no longer assigned to the unit.

  1.6.1. Provide unit commander with Keesler AFB Form 21 statistics as requested. Run
  necessary reports to determine personnel who have not updated their Form 21 as required. Take
  appropriate action to resolve issues with military, civilian, and student information identified in
  the Conflicting Records Report.

1.7. All Assigned Military, Civilian Personnel, and Designated Contractor Personnel.
 Introduce, change, or update requested information contained on the Keesler AFB Form 21 by
 accessing the web-based option on Keesler‟s Portal web page. All personnel are required to
 review and update their Form 21 by the 7th workday of each month. Upon review of the
 individual‟s Keesler AFB Form 21, and if and no changes are required, click on “No Changes
 Required”. This action will automatically update the “date last reviewed” or “as of date” of the
 individuals Keesler AFB Form 21 to current date. If an individual does not have an active
 Keesler Network Account, they must contact their unit‟s Commanders‟ Support Staff (CSS) to
 have their information updated.
  Keesler AFB Instruction 10-2501        4 March 2008                                           3


1.8. Unit Commanders. Refer to AFI 10-218, Personnel Accountability In Conjunction With
 Natural Disasters Or National Emergencies, for detailed personnel accountability procedures.

1.8.1. Will ensure Unit Control Centers (UCC) and CSS personnel maintain the HURCON
 database and ensure all unit personnel maintain accurate and current KAFB Form 21
 information. Ensure all Conflicting Records are researched and then updated/deleted as required.

1.8.2. Will ensure family members of deployed personnel are contacted to confirm military
 member‟s KAFB Form 21 information is current. Provide sheltering or evacuation information
 as required. Provide comments as necessary in the Remarks section of the Personnel
 Review/Update screen.

  2. AUTHORIZED ACCESS. Commanders will appoint/designate individuals who are
  authorized access to the hurricane sheltering information database. Forward the original copy of
  the appointment memorandum to the HDIRS Program Manager (81 TRW/XPO) with
  information copies to 81 CS/SCB and 81 TRSS/TSUI. A sample appointment memorandum is
  provided in Attachment 2. End-user training will be conducted prior to the beginning of the
  official hurricane season which starts 1 June each year.

  2.1. Memoranda must be updated annually during the month of April, as a minimum. If and
  when names are added or deleted to the unit‟s list, memoranda must be completely
  reaccomplished with a new set of names, with the annotation “this supercedes all previous
  memos.”

  3. HDIRS ADMINISTRATION.

  3.1. Purpose. Manage and store official electronic records used to in-process, track, and locate
  base personnel during sheltering or evacuation operations. Use existing computer software and
  follow current Air Force procedures outlined in AFI 33-322, Records Management Program;
  AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records; AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program; and DoDR
  5400.7-R/AF Sup 1, DOD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program.

  4. PROCEDURES.

  4.1. Unit Preparatory Actions. Develop procedures for the completion, review, or update of
  the Sheltering Database for all military and civilian personnel.

  4.1.1. HURCON 4. Units ensure all personnel data are updated in the HURCON Sheltering
  Database (this will be accomplished by having individuals review/update their electronic Keesler
  AFB Form 21). Group Control Centers will extract unit data from HURCON Sheltering
  Database as necessary.

  4.1.2. HURCON 3. The Shelter managers and CEX Readiness Control Center will extract
  sheltering data from database to estimate shelter populations and shelter stocking requirements.
  4                                           Keesler AFB Instruction 10-2501         4 March 2008


  4.1.3. HURCON 2. The ICC central collection point (81 TRW/XP) will extract wing sheltering
  data from database.

  4.1.4. Recovery Actions.

  4.1.4.1. ICC will determine time frames for duty status/strength accountability reporting.

  4.1.4.2. Group Control Centers will:

  4.1.4.2.1. Monitor unit actions to account for personnel utilizing MILPDS or CIVPDS,
  spreadsheets, or by other means necessary to determine strength accountability.

  4.1.4.2.2. Provide Mission Support Squadron, Personnel Readiness Function, (228) 377-2153 or
  377-7107, updates to unit accountability.

  4.1.4.3. Unit Control Centers: Establish accountability of unit personnel. Provide updates to
  respective Group Control Centers based on established time frames for accountability reporting.

  4.1.4.4. Mission Support Squadron: Provide feedback to the ICC Director on wing strength
  accountability.

  5. The Mission Support Squadron Personnel Accountability Team (PAT) will: Be tasked
  with ensuring positive accountability for the approximately 15,000 personnel and dependents
  who evacuate Keesler Air Force Base under direction of the 81 TRW Commander, to include
  most associate units. Accountability Team members, upon direction of the CAT, will be
  deployed to Maxwell AFB. Twenty-four team members total, including Team Lead, HURCON
  Functional System Administrator, Communications Specialist, three Element Leads, six
  Members per Element.

5.1. The PAT will remain in place until directed by the ICC Director to return. When a potential
 for storm impact exists, all personnel will be directed to update current contact information and
 will be provided information how to contact the accountability team. In the event an evacuation
 is ordered, all personnel will be directed to contact the Accountability Team at Maxwell AFB at
 1-800 673-9356 upon arrival at their safe haven. All safe haven information will be updated in
 the HURCON database by an Accountability Team member. Accountability status will be
 available to Wing Leadership via HURCON Database reports or as requested by the ICC.

  5.2. The 47 ABW/XP, Maxwell AFB AL, has agreed to provide a large conference room
  located in the Wing HQ Bldg 804 Room SW101. Keesler will provide all necessary equipment.
  Representatives from Keesler‟s Accountability Team will setup the conference room each year
  NLT Jun 1 and return NET Nov 30 to locally store all equipment. All communications for the
  team will be locally provided by Maxwell AFB. Communication support will include phone,
  data access, user account access and email. This will ensure continued operations in the event
  of a catastrophic communications failure at Keesler AFB.
  Keesler AFB Instruction 10-2501          4 March 2008                                               5


5.3. Evacuees will be able to contact the Accountability Team by either Toll-free, Commercial or
 DSN access. These numbers are supported by 13 phone lines and a voice message in the event all
 lines are busy. Separate management lines and fax numbers will be available for direct Wing
 leadership communications. Replication of the HURCON Database from Keesler will run full
 time to Maxwell AFB. Data will be available at both locations as long as communications
 remain available. Keesler UCC/GCC will have access to the data on the SQL server at Keesler.
 The Accountability Team will have local Maxwell user accounts and will access the data on the
 SQL server at Maxwell. User accounts will be hosted on the Maxwell Enterprise Network and
 will not be affected by outages at Keesler. Since data is fully replicated, if a catastrophic
 communications failure at Keesler were to occur, all data and reporting capabilities at Maxwell
 will be uninterrupted.

  6. EXECUTION. Step-by-step procedures to implement and operate the HURCON database is
  located within the program by accessing the Help option in Menu Bar and selecting „Users
  Manual‟.

  7. DESTRUCTION PROCEDURES.

  7.1. Front End Users.

  7.1.1. Delete the application database (since this is a split database and the tables that contain the
  actual PA information reside in a secure area of the LAN, no additional precautions are
  necessary)

  7.2. Electronic Copies Of Reports.

  7.2.1. Delete copies of electronic reports when no longer needed.

  7.3. Hard Copies of Reports

  7.3.1. When records have met the disposition schedule identified in Air Force Records
  Disposition Schedule (RDS), tear into pieces to prevent reconstructing and place in trash
  containers or shred IAW DoD 5200.1-R paragraph AP3.2.4.3. Do not recycle FOUO data.

  8. Form Prescribed. Keesler AFB Form 21, Hurricane Sheltering Intentions (RDS Table 37-
  15, Rule 27).



                                                        GREGORY J. TOUHILL
                                                        Colonel, Commander
                                                        81st Training Wing

  2 Attachments
  1. Glossary of References and Supporting Information
  2. HURCON Database Access Memorandum, Sample
6                                         Keesler AFB Instruction 10-2501      4 March 2008


                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Air Force Policy Directive 10-25, Emergency Management, 26 September 2007
AFI 10-218, Personnel Accountability In Conjunction With Natural Disasters Or National
Emergencies, 31 October 2006
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 October 2003
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
Title 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force, 29 May 2007
81 TRW Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2, 15 July 2007

Acronyms

ICC – Installation Control Center
FOUO – For Official Use Only
GCC – Group Control Center
HDIRS – Hurricane Database Information Retrieval System
LAN – Local Area Network
PA – Privacy Act
PAT – Personnel Accountability Team
SSN – social security number
UCC – Unit Control Center
Keesler AFB Instruction 10-2501        4 March 2008                                              7


                                         Attachment 2

                  HURCON DATABASE ACCESS MEMORANDUM, Sample

                                                                                           Date

MEMORANDUM FOR 81 TRW/XPO

FROM: Your organization

SUBJECT: Access to Keesler HURCON Database

         (Provide information that applies only - Omit paragraphs that do not apply)

1. The following personnel are required to have access to the HURCON database to include
privileges to update Keesler AFB Form 21 in order to perform their duties in the Unit Control
Center.

       Rank, Name, Organization

2. The following personnel are required to have access to the HURCON database to include
privileges to update Keesler AFB Forms 21 to perform their duties in the Group Control Center.
       Rank, Name, Organization
3. The following personnel are required to have access to the HURCON database to include
privileges to update Keesler AFB Forms 21 to perform their duties on the Shelter Team.
       Rank, Name, Organization
4. The following personnel are required to have access to the HURCON database to include
privileges to update Keesler AFB Form21 to perform their duties accounting for unit personnel.

       Rank, Name, Organization

5. This memo supersedes previous memo, same subject, dated date. Any questions regarding
this memo can be addressed to contact number.


                                                    Commander’s Signature Block
cc:
Each Individual
81 CS/SCB
81 TRSS/TSUI

When filled out this document will be For Official Use Only, as it contains information
exempt from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). Title 5
