DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 32-1004
Headquarters 81st Training Wing (AETC)
Keesler Air Force Base, Mississippi 39534-5000                                                                11 April 1997
                                                                                             Certified Current 16 June 2008
                                                                                                          Civil Engineering

                                                                               WORK ORDER ALLOCATION SYSTEM



                         COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY.
NO TICE:      T his p ub licatio n is availab le electro nically. Co ntact the Master Reference Lib rary,
              8 1 CS/SCSP , fo r assistance.

This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, and explains the Keesler Work Order Allocation
System, a procedure for prioritizing base work requirements for Civil Engineers. It applies to all organizations that require
support from Civil Engineers.

Summary of Revisions

This publication has been completely rewritten and updated to implement AFPD 32-10.

1. Purpose. The Keesler Work Order Allocation System balances Civil Engineering service and resources to base
organization requirements. It provides the means by which Civil Engineers can manage its backlog of work, remain
responsive to customer needs, and provide better visibility of ongoing work. This system relies on a quota and prioritization
process to ensure a commander's mission requirements are met within a reasonable time frame. It does not include Priority 1 -
mission breakdown requirements, Priority 2 - safety requirements, classified as RAC I or II, work accomplished by Direct
Schedule Work, projects accomplished by contract, or work accomplished by self-help (requiring less than 40 work hours of
Civil Engineering workforce support).

2.   Responsibilities:

2.1. Designated commanders:
2.1.1. Prioritize work requests, within quota, to meet their mission needs.
2.1.2. Annotate by indorsement and signature of the priority in Block 27 of AF Form 332.
2.1.3. Submit the prioritized, signed work requests when openings occur within their quota.
2.1.4. Appoint a group representative to be the single point of contact with Civil Engineers to manage priorities, receive
information and obtain information as required to process work with civil engineers and to meet with the group
commanders/facility managers to prioritize unit requirements.

2.2. Base organization and tenant commanders:
2.2.1. Review work requirements within their organization to meet their mission.
2.2.2. Submit inquiries and inputs to their respective group Keesler Work Order Allocation Program (KWOAP) monitor for
assignment of priority within the group quotas.

2.3. Chief, Operations Flight (CEO), Civil Engineers Squadron, is responsible for execution of procedures supporting the
Keesler Work Order Allocation Program (KWOAP).
2.3.1. Operations Flight, Facility Maintenance Element, is responsible for receiving customer requests and forwarding to the
Heavy Repair Element all work requests for review and assignment to KWOAP.
2.3.2. Heavy Repair personnel will provide expedient cost estimates, review of potential KWOAP requests and obtain
approval for insertion.
2.3.3. Heavy Repair will process approved KWOAP requests to base group monitors for assignment to open quotas as they
become available.
2.3.4. Provide monthly status to commanders and appointed KWOAP monitors on start/completion dates and
reprogramming changes.

Supersedes Cen Reg 85-2, 27 Mar 92.                                               Certified by: 81 CES/CC (Lt Col A. Earle)
OPR: 81 CES/CEOH (Ms Rena McGraw)                                                               Pages: 2/Distribution: F; X:
                                                                                                           HQ AETC/CEO
2                                                                     Keesler AFB Instruction 32-1004   11 April 1997


3.   Procedures, Work Requests:

3.1. Requesters/Building managers prepare AF Form 332, BCE Work Request, and ensure proper completion including
detailed description of work, supporting justification, and sketches.

3.2. The Keesler Air Force Base designated commanders who have quotas assigned are as follows:
3.2.1. TRW/CC.
3.2.2. TRG/CC.
3.2.3. MDG/CC.
3.2.4. SPTG/CC (represents tenant units except 403 WG).
3.2.5. LG/CC.
3.2.6. CES/CC.
3.2.7. 403 WG/CC.

3.3. Designated commanders or KWOAP monitor prioritize work requests according to mission requirements and quota.
When an opening becomes available, the designated commander or KWOAP monitor annotates a priority in Block 27 on AF
Form 332, initiating it, and submits it to Civil Engineers for approval and accomplishment.

3.4. Once materials have been ordered (funds obligated), work cannot be reprioritized in lieu of a new request by the
designated commanders, with the exception of emergency work that does not qualify as Priority 1 or Priority 2 work,
referenced in paragraph 1.

4.   Review:

4.1. On a yearly basis, Civil Engineers reviews the number of completed work orders and the organizations involved to
ensure quotas are realistic and the system is responding accordingly.

4.2. Any changes to quotas must be approved by the Base Civil Engineer on a semiannual basis, after a one year minimum
history has been developed.

5. Coordination and Control. Point of contact within Civil Engineers concerning the Keesler Work Order Allocation
System is the Heavy Repair Manager.




                                                                   JAMES C. SIMPSON, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                                                   Vice Commander, 81st Training Wing
