BY ORDER OF THE                                                   KEESLER AIR FORCE BASE
THE COMMANDER HEADQUARTERS                                             INSTRUCTION 31-201
81ST TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                             31 OCTOBER 2006
                                                             Certified Current on 25 January 2013

                                                                                           Security

                                                       LOST, ABANDONED, OR UNCLAIMED
                                                                   PERSONAL PROPERTY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 81 SFS/SFOI                                                          Certified by: 81 SFS/CC
                                                                          (Maj Alexis Sotomayor)
Supersedes:    KEESLERAFBI31-201,                                                          Pages: 8
               27 October 1998


This instruction implements AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement, and prescribes procedures and
responsibilities for reporting, safekeeping, and disposing of lost, abandoned, or unclaimed
personal property, including vehicles. It applies to all assigned, attached and/or associate units
supported by the 81st Training Wing at Keesler AFB MS, including Air Force Reserve and Air
National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted otherwise. Security Forces Investigation
(SFOI) Section is the point of contact for any questions pertaining to this instruction. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changed the time regarding towing of abandoned vehicles. Corrected minor administrative
errors. A asterisk (*) indicates changes from previous edition.
1. General:
   1.1. Security Forces Investigations is the holding activity for lost, abandoned or unclaimed
   property:
 2                                                 KEESLERAFBI31-201 31 OCTOBER 2006


        1.1.1. Acquired by Security Forces,
        1.1.2. When the owner is identifiable,
        1.1.3. Consisting of funds when there is US currency over $25.00, or
        1.1.4. Valued at or above $300.00.
     1.2. Civilian towing companies which have been designated through a no-cost contract
     agreement maintain storage areas for vehicles which are lost, abandoned, unclaimed, or
     impounded.
     1.3. The Transportation Division (81 TRNS/LGTTC) monitors the disposition of lost,
     abandoned, or unclaimed property in the hands of commercial carriers. When storage at
     government expense expires, 81 TRNS notifies the appropriate carrier. The carrier is
     responsible for disposition of the property.
     1.4. All unit dormitory managers are responsible for disposing of lost, abandoned or
     unclaimed property that does not fall within those categories listed in paragraph 1.1 found
     within their dormitory.
     1.5. Personal property lost, abandoned, or left unclaimed at any VOQ/VAQ/TLF facility is
     disposed of by 81 SVS/SVMZ. 81 SVS/CC designates a holding activity for any lost,
     abandoned or unclaimed property that does not fall within those categories listed in
     paragraph 1.1 found at all other SVS facilities.
     1.6. The Keesler Medical Center Information Desk is the holding activity for lost,
     abandoned or unclaimed personal property that does not fall within those categories listed in
     paragraph 1.1 found within the medical facility.
     1.7. Property lost, abandoned or left unclaimed within AAFES facilities is maintained and
     disposed of by the AAFES Security Manager.
     1.8. The Commissary Officer designates a holding activity for lost, abandoned or unclaimed
     property found within the Commissary.
2. Procedures:
     2.1. Property Disposal Board:
        2.1.1. The 81st Mission Support Group Commander, upon request of the Chief, Security
        Forces, appoints a board of one or more NCOs, officers or civilians to discharge the
        responsibilities outlined in DOD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual,
        Chapter 8. Base Property Disposal Office and Security Forces personnel cannot serve on
        the board.
        2.1.2. Property Disposal Board Members will:
            2.1.2.1. Become familiar with applicable directives and operating instructions.
            2.1.2.2. Act as the Mission Support Group Commander's representative and liaison
            with the various holding activities and base legal office.
            2.1.2.3. Ensure required actions are completed to safeguard property, return
            identifiable property, and dispose of other property in the possession of the holding
            activities.
KEESLERAFBI31-201 31 OCTOBER 2006                                                            3


        2.1.2.4. Review logs and inventories maintained by the various holding activities.
        2.1.2.5. Provide written disposition instructions, estimate the current fair market
        value of the property, and sign the property inventories.
        2.1.2.6. Notify and coordinate the appointment of replacement board member with
        the Security Forces prior to PCS of any board member.
     2.1.3. Disposition Instructions:
        2.1.3.1. Identifiable Property - Holding activities receiving identifiable property (ID
        cards, drivers licenses, checkbooks, credit cards, etc.) with either full name, social
        security number or address, must attempt to contact the owner. If the owner can be
        contacted, the property will be returned in person or by certified mail. Annotate the
        inventory with the name or certified mail number when the property is returned to
        owner. Do not dispose of identifiable property for at least 45 days, unless released to
        the owner.
        2.1.3.2. High Value Property - Items which the board values at $300.00 or more are
        immediately transferred to Security Forces and the activity’s log annotated. Security
        Forces holds property for 45 days from receipt, unless released to the owner.
        2.1.3.3. Funds - Release currency and negotiable instruments, including stocks,
        bonds, and government checks to the Security Forces and annotate the property
        inventory.
            2.1.3.3.1. The Security Forces will release the items to the Base Finance Officer
            or designated representative via AF Form 52, Evidence Tag (restricted to SFS,
            OSI and ANG SF activities only).
            2.1.3.3.2. Security Forces will prepare DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher,
            and file one copy with AF Form 52.
        2.1.3.4. Contraband - Narcotics, weapons, hazardous items and other contraband
        should be released to Security Forces immediately.
            2.1.3.4.1. Security Forces maintains property tagged with AF Form 52. Destroy
            the property by the most effective means available (flushing, burning,
            demilitarization, etc.). Annotate the method of destruction on AF Form 52.
            2.1.3.4.2. A Property Disposal Board member or other disinterested officer or
            Senior NCO (E-7 and above) witnesses and certifies the destruction of contraband
            (drugs) on the AF Form 52.
        2.1.3.5. Discarded Items - Toilet articles, cosmetics, used/soiled personal items,
        undergarments, perishable food items, hazardous materials, or items having a value
        less than $25.00 as determined by the board of officers shall be disposed of (thrown
        away) by the holding activity. Include the items on the inventory and action
        annotated in disposition column.
        2.1.3.6. Items of Value - Make a reasonable effort to return property which is not
        discarded, returned or transferred to Security Forces:
            2.1.3.6.1. The holding activity enters a general description and location of the
4                                                KEESLERAFBI31-201 31 OCTOBER 2006


               property in the Keesler Bulletin and KAFB Newspaper, Lost and Found section.
               Maintain the property for at least one week after publication.
               2.1.3.6.2. If the owner(s) contact the activity and can reasonably describe the
               property, it shall be returned and inventory annotated with the owner's name.
               2.1.3.6.3. Property valued at more than $25.00 is released after at least 45 days
               and after all attempts to locate the owner. It may be released to any of the
               following agencies: Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO), Base
               Chaplains, authorized charities, NAFI (Thrift Shop, Auto Hobby, Recreation
               Supply, etc.). Bicycles must be released to DRMO, NAFI, or to a squadron for
               official use if the Property Disposal Board authorizes it by letter.
               2.1.3.6.4. Property released to DRMO must include a copy of the inventory, a
               DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document, and Disposition Letter
               signed by the Property Disposal Board. The holding activity maintains a copy of
               all documents. Refer to DOD 4160.21M for further instructions.
    2.2. Holding Activities:
       2.2.1. The unit commander or designee appoints a property custodian to safeguard,
       control, and dispose of found property within their activities and implement procedures
       as required. SFOI will train custodians and provide guidance on preparing documents
       upon request.
       2.2.2. Designate a drawer, closet/locker, or room(s), which can be secured with a lock,
       for temporarily storing abandoned property.
       2.2.3. Personnel will deliver property found, abandoned or unclaimed to the custodian
       for the activity where it was found. Notify Security Forces immediately in the case of
       contraband.
       2.2.4. The property custodian conducts a preliminary inquiry for a maximum of three
       days in an attempt to locate the owner of the property.
           2.2.4.1. Where the owner has been identified, the property should be returned in
           person or by certified mail.
           2.2.4.2. Where the owner has not been identified within three days, inventory the
           property and notify the Property Disposal Board.
       2.2.5. Complete a typed and dated inventory listing the number and general description
       of all property held by the holding activity.
       2.2.6. The Property Disposal Board member annotates the disposition instructions and
       value for each item (may be handwritten). Sign the inventory, disposition letter, and/or
       other documents.
           2.2.6.1. Identifiable, high-value property and funds which were not returned to the
           owner after three days are transported to the Security Forces Investigations Section.
           2.2.6.2. Inventory discardable items, and maintain them for at least three days.
           Destroy the property after the Property Disposal Board determines an item is
           discardable.
KEESLERAFBI31-201 31 OCTOBER 2006                                                               5


         2.2.6.3. Dispose of remaining items of value per instructions of the Property Disposal
         Board as annotated on the inventory sheet.
     2.2.7. The holding activity publicizes the remaining items of value in their possession for
     one week in the Keesler Bulletin and KAFB Newspaper prior to final disposition.
         2.2.7.1. Return identifiable property to the owner and annotate inventory sheet with
         owner's name.
         2.2.7.2. Dispose of remaining property IAW Property Disposal Board instructions as
         annotated on the inventory sheet.
     2.2.8. When property is transferred to salvage (DRMO), prepare DD Form 1348-1A,
     Issue Release/Receipt Document, a copy of the inventory, and a Disposition Letter signed
     by the Property Disposal Board.
  2.3. Privately Owned Vehicles:
     2.3.1. The Chief, Security Forces, appoints a primary property custodian.
     2.3.2. Security Forces periodically survey the installation to identify abandoned vehicles.
     2.3.3. The Chief, Security Forces; Operations Officer/Superintendent, or the
     Noncommissioned Officer in Charge, Security Forces Investigations, on behalf of the
     81st Mission Support Group Commander, may order the impoundment of an abandoned
     vehicle.
     2.3.4. Procedures for impoundment of vehicles: Upon the issuance of an abandoned
     vehicle notice, the following procedures apply:
         2.3.4.1. Allow three working days for the owner to respond to the reporting
         instructions on the back of the abandoned vehicle notice.
         2.3.4.2. After the allotted time has expired, the Security Forces attempts to identify
         the owner or lien holder through the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) and
         DD Form 2220, DOD Registered Vehicle.
         2.3.4.3. If the owner can not be identified or located, Security Forces Investigations
         contacts the appropriate civilian towing company to arrange for the vehicle to be
         towed to their impoundment area.
         2.3.4.4. Once the vehicle has been impounded, an entry is made in the SF Blotter
         stating the make, model, and location from which impounded. Complete a Vehicle
         Impoundment Report to document the circumstances and condition of the vehicle.
         2.3.4.5. In the event the owner/lien holder has been identified, a Notice of Vehicle
         Impoundment is forwarded to him/her stating their vehicle has been impounded by
         the Security Forces Investigation Section, Keesler AFB, Mississippi (in accordance
         with AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision) via registered mail.
         This form will also indicate the towing service storing the vehicle. Advise the owner
         if no reply is received by the appropriate date (45 days from the date letter is mailed),
         the vehicle becomes the property of the towing service storing the vehicle. The
         owner/lien holder may claim the vehicle or release it to the towing service by
         completing the release on the back of the Notice of Vehicle Impoundment.
 6                                             KEESLERAFBI31-201 31 OCTOBER 2006


          2.3.4.6. If the owner cannot be identified, the vehicle becomes the property of the
          towing service responsible for removing the vehicle 45 days after notification was
          mailed. Note: If the vehicle owner comes forward and wishes to claim the vehicle,
          he/she must pay towing and storage fees. Do not bring the vehicle onto Keesler AFB
          if mechanical deficiencies exist. State registration and inspection must also be
          current.

3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

3.1. Prescribed Forms.

No prescribed forms.

3.2. Adopted Forms.

DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document
DD Form 2220, DOD Registered Vehicle
AF Form 52, Evidence Tag (restricted to SFS, OSI and ANG SF activities only).




                                           PAUL F. CAPASSO
                                           Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander, 81st Training Wing
KEESLERAFBI31-201 31 OCTOBER 2006                                                          7


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DOD Manual 4160.21M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual, August 1997
AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement, 6 May 1994
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigations Program, 1 August 2001
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
Abreviations and Acronyms
AAFES – Army & Air Force Exchange Service
ANG – Air National Guard
DRMO – Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
IAW – In Accordance With
ID – identification
NCIC – National Crime Information Center
NCOIC – noncommissioned officer in charge
OSI – office of special investigation
PCS – permanent change of station
POV – privately owned vehicle
RDS – Records Disposition Schedule
TLF – Temporary Lodging Facility
TRNS – Transportation Squadron
VAQ – Visiting Airmen Quarters
VOQ – Visiting Officer Quarters

Terms
Abandoned or Unclaimed Privately Owned Vehicles (POVs)— POVs in the custody or
control of a civilian towing service. Vehicles temporarily impounded as abandoned are those
identified by Security Forces for one or more of the following: Improper Base/State
Registration, inoperable, missing parts/equipment and a reasonable belief that the vehicle is
abandoned, along with the failure to respond within 72 hours to an abandoned vehicle notice
placed on the vehicle.
Holding Activity— The organization which stores and safeguards lost, abandoned, or unclaimed
property.
 8                                             KEESLERAFBI31-201 31 OCTOBER 2006


Inventory— Any holding activity identified in paragraph 1 holding lost, abandoned, or
unclaimed property maintains a log which includes the date the property was received, a
description, the date the property is released and to whom it is released. The inventory must
consist of a complete accounting of the property on hand as compared to the log.
Lost, Abandoned, or Unclaimed Personal Property— Personal property in the possession,
custody, or control of a government agency which is unclaimed by the owner. Property is
considered abandoned after efforts to locate its owners, their heirs, next of kin, or legal
representative are unsuccessful.
Property Disposition Board— A board of one or more noncommissioned officers,
commissioned officers, and/or civilians appointed to conduct inquiries to determine ownership
and disposition of lost, abandoned, or unclaimed property.
