BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            KEESLER AFB INSTRUCTION 41-101
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING
(AETC)                                                                 23 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                               Health Services

                                                      PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION
                                                                          PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 81 MDOS/SGOE                                               Certified by: 81 MDOS/SGOE
                                                                       (Col Joseph A. Pocreva)
Supersedes:   KEESLERAFBI41-101,                                                     Pages: 18
              26 March 2008


This instruction implements AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, and establishes
Keesler Air Force Base’s Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Program. It gives guidance for the
deployment and use of Automated External Defibrillators (AED) while identifying
responsibilities, maintenance, quality assurance and documentation requirements for
implementation IAW Federal Register Vol 74 No. 156. The PAD program employs an AED to
be used in an emergency response to Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) as a means to decrease
premature mortality. This publication is applicable to all personnel on Keesler AFB. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate chain of command. See attachment 1
for a glossary of references and supporting information. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the United States Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include: Existing paragraphs have been renumbered and titles significantly revised and
additional paragraphs have been added to address scope, responsibilities, model selection,
 2                                               KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


location and installation. Attachments 1-8 have been added to provide further detailed
information, clarification, participation and compliance.
1. Scope: Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) is a leading cause of death in the United States,
accounting for an estimated 325,000 deaths each year. Most arrests are due to underlying heart
disease or other health problems which result in irregular rhythms called ventricular tachycardia
or ventricular fibrillation. These types of rhythms cause the heart to stop abruptly resulting in a
loss of consciousness, pulse and breath. Without emergency help, SCA leads to death within
minutes. SCA victims can be saved if a defibrillator device is immediately available to deliver an
electric shock to restore the heart to its normal rhythm. To be effective, defibrillation must be
administered within minutes of a cardiac arrest, for every minute that passes without
defibrillation, a victim’s chance of survival decreases seven (7) to 10 percent. After as little as 10
minutes, very few resuscitation attempts are found to be successful. In the past, the ability to
defibrillate was solely in the hands of trained emergency medical personnel, which may have
exceedingly long response times. With the advent of the Automated External Defibrillator
(AED), a trained rescuer can quickly and easily defibrillate a cardiac arrest victim and saves
lives. New generation AEDs are safe, effective, lightweight, low maintenance, and relatively
inexpensive. In August 2003, the Secretary of Defense mandated that military installations
establish PAD programs with consideration for potential placement of AEDs in federal facilities.
This publication describes AETC guidance on roles and responsibilities deemed necessary to
ensure the broadest training and appropriate first response AED utilization.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. Installation Commander (81 TRW/CC):
        2.1.1. Has overall responsibility for the PAD program.
        2.1.2. Appoints a Director of Base Medical Services/Medical Group Commander who
        reviews the program and ensures current medical guidelines are maintained.
        2.1.3. Ensures each organization with an AED appoints a unit individual as the AED
        point of contact (POC) to meet guidelines set forth in this document.
     2.2. Medical Group Commander (MDG/CC):
        2.2.1. Is responsible to the installation commander to ensure all AED medical objectives
        are maintained and provide professional guidance on PAD program administration.
        2.2.2. Appoints, in writing, a physician Medical Director, who will be proficient in
        emergency medical protocols, cardio-pulmonary resuscitation, and the use of AEDs IAW
        Mississippi laws, Immunity from Civil Liability, and Cardiac Arrest Survival Act H.R.
        2498 (42 USC 238p/238q).
        2.2.3. Appoints, in writing, an Installation PAD Coordinator, who will as a minimum be
        a Military Training Network (MTN) basic life support (BLS) instructor.
KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                           3


  2.3. PAD Medical Director:
     2.3.1. Has direct medical oversight over the PAD program and its participants.
     2.3.2. Is responsible for approving/prescribing AED purchases through the Defense
     Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS) system and providing oversight for
     training, Emergency Medical Services (EMS) coordination, protocols, and
     recommendations of AED deployment strategies.
     2.3.3. Has general responsibilities that include the review of the "AED-Chain of
     Survival" and "Post-Use Procedure" guidelines included in this document (Attachment
     2, Attachment 3).
     2.3.4. Will be available to organizations for consultation on unit compliance with this
     guidance. Continuation of CPR/AED training is the responsibility of the purchasing
     organization.
     2.3.5. Critically reviews all recorded data from all AED usage events and provides
     feedback to the impacted organization and unit commander, as needed.
     2.3.6. Develops guidelines for quality assurance documentation and processes for AED
     utilization. The Medical Director or designee will review all event summary
     sheets/electronic data within 2 duty days of receipt. This review is part of a Quality
     Assurance Program and reports and/or feedback should be treated IAW existing Quality
     Assurance processes.
  2.4. Installation PAD Coordinator:
     2.4.1. Will maintain a log of all installation AEDs and their specific location. Provides
     recommendations to unit commanders for individuals to serve as Unit Site Coordinators,
     while also maintaining a list of those coordinators and targeted responders. AED
     locations, site coordinator and targeted responder list will be update annually or as
     required by the PAD coordinator.
     2.4.2. Serves as the primary liaison between the medical group and the Unit Site
     Coordinator regarding ancillary purchases, recalls, and other notifications.
     2.4.3. Coordinates with the PAD Medical Director and Medical Logistics and
     Maintenance on all installation AED purchases.
     2.4.4. Conducts annual inspection of unit AED operational and exercise logs to ensure
     compliance to this instruction.
     2.4.5. Assists the Unit Site Coordinator with all post-use activities.
     2.4.6. Notifies base emergency response dispatch center and security forces of AED
     locations (Attachment 9, Attachment 10).
  2.5. Logistics and Maintenance:
     2.5.1. Procurement and receipt of AEDs will be coordinated by the purchasing unit with
     the nearest medical logistics office. Each unit’s Unit Site Coordinator will be responsible
     for daily visual checks and operational checks using the respective manufacturer’s AED
     functional operations checklist.
4                                             KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


       2.5.2. Medical Logistics will approve purchase of AEDs with an approval letter from the
       Medical Director.
       2.5.3. The nearest medical equipment repair center (MERC) will provide limited
       maintenance such as battery replacement (which must be provided by the owning unit), if
       indicated. Should an AED require further servicing, the Unit Site Coordinator will
       arrange this maintenance or service with the manufacturer. The local MERC is
       responsible for certifying new AEDs, periodic accountability, monitoring safety
       recall/health device alert notification, and ensuring subsequent recall remedies are
       completed. Accountability and management of safety recalls and health device alert
       notifications will be accomplished utilizing the Defense Medical Logistics Standards
       Support System (DLMSS). AED units will be placed in this system to monitor the
       locations and points of contact, in the event of any recall or notification. The cost of
       routine and periodic maintenance (and immediate replacement of a failed AED) will be
       funded by the owning unit.
    2.6. Unit Commander:
       2.6.1. The Unit Commander of the purchasing organization will appoint an AED Unit
       Site Coordinator who will serve as the primary liaison between the local organization’s
       AED program, the Installation PAD Coordinator, Base Medical Director and medical
       logistics.
       2.6.2. The PAD program is not a “medical” program. It is a “user” program. Therefore,
       each unit commander funds the purchase, reuse supplies, and long-term training for unit
       personnel in the facility where the AED is located.
    2.7. Unit Site Coordinator:
       2.7.1. Is a member of the local organization where the AED is posted and deployed.
       2.7.2. Is responsible for the maintenance (daily visual unit check IAW manufacturer’s
       guidance and minimal monthly check expiration dates of all supplies) of the AED to
       ensure its readiness for use and follows manufacturer's suggested maintenance protocol
       for the particular AED model.
       2.7.3. Re-stocks AED supplies after use in an emergency situation (Attachment 6).
       2.7.4. Ensures validation of annual American Red Cross or biannual American Heart
       Association CPR/AED of targeted responders to ensure they are properly trained,
       certified, and/or recertified in CPR and AED procedures. The Unit Site Coordinator will
       maintain a list of certified personnel.
       2.7.5. Conducts and documents quarterly CPR/AED exercise scenarios to ensure
       certified, trained staff knows AED locations, all equipment is operational, and that staff
       respond appropriately. If the AED POC needs additional guidance, contact the
       installation PAD coordinator or Base Medical Director as the local resource. (Attachment
       8)
       2.7.6. Ensures AEDs and supplies are centrally located to ensure quick, easy access.
KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               5


      2.7.7. Installs AED location signage at all AED locations and posts information signs,
      along with an AED photo, within the facility to readily identify location of all AEDs
      (Attachment 7).
      2.7.8. Ensures a core group of the organization's members are trained in CPR/AED use
      and can respond to an event. Certified training is available through the American Heart
      Association, American Red Cross and the MTN.
      2.7.9. After an AED is used in an emergency situation, the AED POC or the responder
      will immediately complete the AED Coordination Report for Medical Director
      (Attachment 5), and forward it to the Medical Director for review. The Medical Director
      should receive the completed report within one duty day of the AED use event.
      2.7.10. Coordinates all concerns with AED use, training and new purchases, with PAD
      medical director and/or medical logistics as needed.
   2.8. Targeted Responders:
      2.8.1. Are currently certified in CPR/AED use and will respond to an emergency.
      Keesler AFB recommends the AHA Heartsaver AED course given through the MTN;
      however other nationally recognized AED/CPR certifications may be accepted.
      2.8.2. Follow the protocol in an emergency situation as depicted in the AED Treatment
      Algorithm (Attachment 4).
3. AED Model Selection:
   3.1. AED model selection will be determined by the PAD Medical Director, based on
   simplicity of use, durability, battery life, internal memory, warranty, cost, and available
   training packages. For standardization, only one model will be used throughout the
   installation.
   3.2. AEDs are considered prescription medical devices; therefore, procurement of all AEDs
   must be coordinated and approved by the Medical Director.
4. AED Location and Installation:
   4.1. The essential key to surviving a heart attack is early CPR and defibrillation, when
   indicated. Therefore, AEDs should be strategically placed throughout a unit facility to reduce
   time between victim collapse and ability to provide initial shock when indicated to a heart
   attack victim.
      4.1.1. Factors to consider in determining AED placement include the following:
          4.1.1.1. Facility size and or accessibility.
          4.1.1.2. Number of employees in the facility.
          4.1.1.3. Identified high risk environments.
          4.1.1.4. Number of people that may have public access to the facility on a daily basis.
          4.1.1.5. Average age of the facility occupants; older populations are at higher risk.
          4.1.1.6. Security levels that may hinder access to the facility by emergency response
          crews.
 6                                               KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


            4.1.1.7. Increase risk of incidence of heart disease given the communication
            population as reported by local, state and national health departments.
            4.1.1.8. Use of high voltage electrical equipment.
            4.1.1.9. Emergency response protocol that may already be in place for your facility,
            keeping in mind that early initial shock when indicated increases potential for
            survival.
     4.2. To achieve optimal area coverage within a building, an AED should be positioned no
     more than one minute's travel time (one way) from any given point within the building.
     4.3. AEDs should be easily accessible in a well-marked and publicized location. Optimally,
     signs should be placed above or around each AED that can be easily viewed from two
     separate directions (both direct view and “down the hall”—90 degrees to the direct view). A
     telephone, a reliable process, a system to activate EMS, or 911 should also be nearby.
     Storage in an alarmed AED housing unit or secure location that minimizes potential
     tampering, theft, damage or inadvertent harm is highly recommended.
     4.4. Optimal response time from the identification of a person "down" to the arrival of AED
     on-scene is three minutes or less.
     4.5. Optimal response time from the identification of a person down to the delivery of a
     shock (i.e. drop-to-shock) should be less than five minutes.
     4.6. AED accessory kits should be packed with the AED so that the responder will not lose
     time deciding what to take to the emergency. These kits should provide items such as gloves,
     scissors, razor, tape, extra electrodes and a barrier mask (Attachment 6).
5. Emergency Response:
     5.1. An event timeline for a responder should ideally be as follows:
        5.1.1. Minute #1.
            5.1.1.1. Discovery of “downed” victim: Initiate Chain of Survival; Activate 9-1-1.
            5.1.1.2. Decision to retrieve AED.
            5.1.1.3. Identify closest AED.
        5.1.2. Minute #2-3.
            5.1.2.1. Retrieval of AED (round trip).
        5.1.3. Minute #4.
            5.1.3.1. Re-familiarization with AED instructions.
            5.1.3.2. Preparation of victim and application of chest pads.
            5.1.3.3. Detection of shockable rhythm.
            5.1.3.4. Delivery of shock.
KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                          7


  5.2. Depending on the population served in the facility, some AED locations will contain
  both adult and child chest leads. AEDs with both adult and child leads will be clearly marked
  by a sign stating “This device is equipped with both Adult and Child chest pads. Please check
  to ensure appropriate pads are utilized.” Specialized child chest leads are labeled CHILD on
  the package to prevent accidental misuse. Users should check to ensure they have the correct
  chest pads prior to application.




                                          PATRICK C. HIGBY, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander, 81st Training Wing
 8                                            KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI33-363, Management of Records, 7 March 2008
American Heart Association Heartsaver AED guidelines, 2010 & certified curriculum
Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities, August 14, 2009,
Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS)
Public Law 106-505, Public Health Improvement Act of 2000, Title IV, Subtitle A, Cardiac
Arrest Survival Act (CASA); (H.R. 2498)
Public Law 106-129, 42 U.S.C. 241 Note, Healthcare Research and Quality Act of 1999, Section
742 D.S.C., Public Health Service Act, Section 238, 247, 248: Title 2, Part B
Marenco J, Wang P, et al: Improving Survival from Sudden Cardiac Arrest; The Role of the
Automated External Defibrillator, Journal of the American Medical Association, 2001, Mar 7; p
1193 – 1200
The Keesler AFB Public Access Defibrillator (PAD) Program COP:
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AED—-Automated External Defibrillator
AHA—-American Heart Association
AETC—-Air Education and Training Center
BLS—-Basic Life Support
CPR—-Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
EMS—-Emergency Medical Services
DMLSS—-Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support
MDG—-Medical Group
MERC—-Medical Equipment Repair Center
MEMO—-Medical Equipment Management Office
MTN—-Military Training Network
PAD—-Public Access Defibrillation
KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                            9


OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
SCD—-Sudden Cardiac Death

Terms
Automated External Defibrillator (AED)—A defibrillator device that is:
Commercially distributed in accordance with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Capable of recognizing the presence or absence of ventricular fibrillation or ventricular
tachycardia, and is capable of determining, without intervention by the device user, whether
defibrillation should be performed.
Able to deliver an electrical shock to a victim upon determining defibrillation should be
performed.
Basic Life Support (BLS)—A training program that teaches basic CPR techniques including
AED use.
Cardio—Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)—The act of providing respiratory ventilation and
heart (cardiac) compression by an external source. This is most commonly provided by someone
capable of performing the required mechanical action.
Defibrillation—The application of an electric shock, via a defibrillator, directly through a
person’s chest.
Emergency Medical Services (EMS)—The term used to describe the rapid response team of
medical personnel to provide emergency medical assistance as necessary.
Federal Building—A building or portion of a building leased or rented by a federal agency,
which includes buildings on military installations of the United States.
Harm—For purposes of this document, this term may include physical, non-physical, economic,
and non-economic losses.
Perceived Medical Emergency—When circumstances exist whereby the behavior of an
individual leads a reasonable person to believe that the individual is experiencing a life
threatening condition that requires an immediate medical response.
Pulseless Ventricular Tachycardia—An abnormal cardiac rhythm that is incompatible with life
if not immediately treated (hereafter referred to as heart attack).
Sudden Cardiac Death (SCD)—The term used to describe an abrupt cessation of normal
cardiac function that typically results from ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular
tachycardia with rapid progression to death if not immediately treated.
Ventricular Fibrillation—An abnormal cardiac rhythm that is incompatible with life if not
immediately treated (hereafter referred to as heart attack).
 10                                                KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                               Attachment 2
                                   AED-CHAIN OF SURVIVAL

A2.1. AED Chain of Survival.

Figure A2.1. AED Chain of Survival.

** In Case of Emergency, Initiate Chain of Survival **
- Activate 9-1-1.
- Assess scene safety.
- Assess responsiveness. Tap shoulder and shout, “Are you OK?”
- Activate emergency response plan.
- Check Airway, Breathing, and Circulation (ABCs).
- Assess Airway. Perform head tilt, chin lift to open airway.
- Assess Breathing. Look, listen, and feel. If breathing absent, use protective airway mask and
deliver two rescue breaths.
- Assess Circulation. Scan for life signs (Check carotid pulse). If life signs and pulse are absent
begin CPR.
Early CPR (for one rescuer).
- Perform CPR until an AED arrives.
- Compress and release chest 30 times (Rate: 100 compressions/minute).
- Ventilate. Give 2 rescue breaths.
- Continue CPR; 30 compressions/2 rescue breaths. Check pulse after 5 cycles or every two
minutes thereafter.
Early Defibrillation.
- When AED arrives:
- Place the AED near the head of the patient on the same side as the rescuer.
- Turn on the AED.
- Prepare the “bare” chest.
- Cut or tear away clothing.
- If chest hair is excessive, shave or clip.
- If chest wall is wet, dry it before placing electrode pads.
- Follow the AED’s verbal and visual prompts.
- Apply electrodes.
- Allow the AED to analyze.
KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                          11


- If indicated, deliver shock by pressing the illuminated shock button.
- Continue care per the AED prompts.
Early Advanced Care Life Support.
- Have a designated person wait for EMS providers at a designated area of the building and help
guide them to the patient.
- Individuals working on a victim should communicate information to the EMS providers:
- Victim name.
- Any known medical problems or allergies.
- Time victim was found.
- Initial and current condition of the victim.
- Information from the AED, such as number of shocks delivered.
- Assist EMS personnel as necessary.
All steps for Early CPR, Defibrillation and Advanced Care Life Support are subject to
change to satisfy advancing national guidelines. (American Heart Association or The
American Red Cross).
 12                                            KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                          Attachment 3
              POST-USE PROCEDURE AND REGULAR MAINTENANCE

A3.1. The AED POC will do the following after any AED use:
   A3.1.1. Notify Medical Director via the written “AED Coordinated Report for Medical
   Director.”
   A3.1.2. If applicable, remove used PC data card and replace it with a spare PC card. Label
   used PC data card with patient identification information and deliver it to the Medical
   Director with the report listed above.
   A3.1.3. Conduct employee debriefing, as deemed necessary.
   A3.1.4. Restock any used electrode pads, batteries, razors or gloves. Inspect unused supplies
   for any damage or expiration dates.
   A3.1.5. Remove and replace battery in the AED and perform a Battery Insertion Test (BIT)
   prior to replacing the AED back into service.
   A3.1.6. Clean the AED. Review specific User’s Guide for list of appropriate cleaning
   agents.
A3.2. Regular Maintenance. See User’s Guide for the complete maintenance schedule.
A3.3. Monthly:
   A3.3.1. Check the Status Indicator. Verify the light settings that indicate the unit is ready for
   use and consult the unit’s User’s Guide for the specifics regarding the meaning of your
   lighting configuration.
   A3.3.2. Ensure all supplies, accessories and spare parts are present and are in operating
   condition.
A3.4. After Each Use:
   A3.4.1. Inspect the exterior and pad connectors for dirt or contamination.
   A3.4.2. Check status indicator, perform a BIT to confirm the power source is ready to be put
   back in service.
   A3.4.3. Ensure all supplies, accessories and spare parts are present and are in operating
   condition.
   A3.4.4. Check all expiration dates and any obvious signs of damage to the unit.
KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014               13


                                  Attachment 4
                        AED TREATMENT ALGORITHM

Figure A4.1. AED Treatment Algorithm.
 14                                     KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                   Attachment 5
                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

AED COORDINATED REPORT FOR MEDICAL DIRECTOR
A5.1. AED Coordinated Report For Medical Director.

Figure A5.1. AED Coordinated Report For Medical Director.
KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                        15


                                            Attachment 6
                   AED MANUFACTURER INFORMATION (SAMPLE)

(Based on: Physio Control LifePak CR Plus)
A6.1. AED MANUFACTURER INFORMATION (SAMPLE) (Based on: Physio Control
LifePak CR Plus).
A6.2. Adult (AED) Electrodes.
A6.2.1. Two (2) sets of electrodes with (2) year shelf life, and charger.
A6.3. Battery.
   A6.3.1. 2-year shelf life with no use.
   A6.3.2. 30 shocks or 210 min of “on” time.
   A6.3.3. Imbedded in unit, not removable. Charge-Pak must be replaced after each event or
   every two years.
   A6.3.4. Data card imbedded within unit.
6.4. Rescue Pack restock kit (Each item priced separately).
       6.4.1. CPR Mask.
       6.4.2. Gloves.
       6.4.3. Razor.
       6.4.4. Scissors.
       6.4.5. Biohazard bag.
       6.4.6. Alcohol wipes.
       6.4.7. Wet pads.
       6.4.8. Hand sanitizer.
       6.4.9. Dressing.
6.5. Checks/After Each Use.
       6.5.1. Check the Status Indicator.
       6.5.2. Verify the settings that indicate the unit is ready to use.
       6.5.3. Consult your user's guide for the specifics regarding the meaning of your status
       indicator configuration.
       6.5.4. Ensure all supplies, accessories and spares components are present and are in
       operating condition.
 16                                      KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                     Attachment 7
                            AED SIGNAGE (SAMPLE)

Figure A7.1. AED Signage (Sample).
KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                        17


                                          Attachment 8
                 AETC QUARTERLY UNIT AED EXERCISE CRITERIA

Table A8.1. AETC Quarterly Unit AED Exercise Criteria.
CRITERIA                                                                            YES   NO
1. Discovery of the ‘downed’ victim within one minute. (Critical)
2. Activate EMS. (Responder has someone SIMULATE calling 911 with
location and situation, i.e. victim down, conscious, unconscious, etc) (Critical)
3. Assess victim and describe how to perform CPR. Assess Airway, Breathing,
Circulation. (SIMULATE)
4. Retrieve AED from closest location. (Critical)
5. AED arrives to victim’s side within four minutes. (Critical)
6. AED is functional/AED supplies available/chest pad application described.
(Critical)
7. Turn on AED/Rescuer verbalizes/SIMULATES following AED prompts.

Figure A8.1. Sample Scenarios.
 18                                          KEESLERAFBI41-101 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 9
                           PROPOSED AED PLACEMENT LIST

Figure A9.1. Proposed AED Placement List.
LOCATION                                      Number of Units
Base Exchange                                 1
Satellite Pharmacy                            1
Blake Gymnasium                               1
Dragon Gymnasium                              1
Triangle Gymnasium                            1
Security Forces Vehicles                      6
Sablich Center                                1
Levitow Building                              1
Training Wing Manors                          8
(Holbrook, Smith, Winters, foster, Conner,
Erwin, Alho, Davis, and Avery Manor)
Arnold Hall                                   2
Bay Breeze Events Center                      1
Training Wing Halls                           12
(Bryan, Jones, Garrard, Hewes, Matero,
Thompson, Cody, Dolan, McClelland, Wolfe,
Allee, and Stennis Hall
