                     THE PATIENT’S BILL OF RESPONSIBILITIES

 Providing accurate and complete information about present complaints, past illnesses,
  hospitalizations, medications, including over-the-counter drugs/herbal supplements, and
  other health matters.
 Reporting any unexpected changes in your condition to your health care team.
 Working with your health care team to manage your pain effectively.
 Following the treatment plan recommended by your health care team.
 Telling your health care provider if you understand the plan of treatment and what is
  expected of you, including pain relief options, and asking questions if you do not understand.
 Reporting safety concerns with regards to your care. Remember, everyone is invested in
  your safety while in our facility.
 Keeping appointments, or notifying your health care team at least 24 hours in advance if you
  must cancel.
 Your actions if you refuse treatment or do not follow the health care provider’s instructions.
 Following hospital rules and regulations affecting patient care, conduct, and safety.
 Following Air Force rules regarding medical records. All health care documents provided by
  any medical or dental treatment facility are the property of the U.S. Government.
 Communicating any questions or concerns about your health care and treatment to your
  provider.
 Assuring that the financial obligations for your health care are fulfilled as promptly as
  possible.
 Being considerate of the rights of other patients and hospital personnel.
 Assisting in the control of noise, and the number of visitors.
 Being respectful of the property of other persons and of the hospital.
 Helping the Medical Group provide the best care to all beneficiaries. Patient’s
  recommendations, questions, concerns for complaints, should be reported to a patient
  advocate.
 The patient has the right to contact The Joint Commission for concerns, complaints and
  issues @ http://www.jointcommission.org/GeneralPublic/Complaint/ or by calling 1-800-
  994-6610.




                                             KEESLER AFBVA40-3 (Per 81 MDGI 44-146) 14 Sept 10 OPR - 81 MDG/SGH
                                             RELEASABILITY : There are no releasability restrictions on this publications.
                                             SUPERSEDES: KEESLERAFBVA 40-3, 1 Jun 10            Certified Current 18 September 2012
