                     STANDARDS OF PERSONAL APPEARANCE AND DRESS (CIVILIAN ATTIRE)

The following dress and appearance standards apply in all public areas of Keesler AFB including the hospital,
commissary, dining facilities, exchange facilities, and military work areas.

These standards do not apply to those seriously injured or sick when seeking medical treatment at a Keesler medical
facility.

Visitors may be denied access to the base if their personal appearance violates these standards.

    1. The following standards of dress and appearance are prescribed:

        a. Each individual’s body, clothing, and footwear will be reasonably clean and not present a health hazard.
           Example: Garments which are soiled, perspiration-saturated, or have a strong odor are considered
           unacceptable and a health hazard inside facilities, gymnasiums excluded.

        b. Upper and lower body will be covered with appropriate outer garments.

        c.   Shirts and tops will be of adequate length to cover the waist in dining facilities.

        d. Females will wear appropriate undergarments when wearing see-through or fish-net body garments.

        e. Outer garments will be properly sized, fitted, and fastened to prevent external exposure of undergarments.
           This does not preclude T-shirts showing at the neck.

        f.   The leg openings of shorts will be of adequate fit and coverage to prevent the buttocks, underwear, and
             internal pockets from being exposed.

        g. Men will not wear sleeveless shirts or tank-tops in dining facilities.
           Women may wear sun or strap tops if only the shoulders are exposed.

        h. Footwear will cover the bottom of the feet completely and be in good repair to avoid being a safety hazard.
           Example: Proper fitting shower shoes are acceptable if they cover the bottom of the feet.

    2. The following practices of dress and appearance are prohibited:

        a. Bare feet, except where footwear is inappropriate such as swimming pools, playgrounds, or certain areas of
           gymnasiums.

        b. Clothing with obscene print, profanity, lewd words or drawings.

        c.   Clothing items with styles or accouterments which support a country, organization, or any individual who
             supports or has supported the overthrow of the government of the United States.

        d. Any unsanitary dress or grooming practice.

        e. Appearing in public areas without shirts or blouses. This does not apply to recreational areas where it may be
           appropriate for men to remove their shirts.

        f.   The wear of headgear in dining facilities/snack bars.

        g. The mixing of civilian clothing with distinctive uniform items. Distinctive uniform items are those items unique
           to the uniform such as grade insignia, cap devices, badges and insignia, buttons with the Air Force Coat of
           Arms, and so forth.

NOTE: When an individual is denied use of base facilities, he or she is to be informed of the nature of the violation and
that he or she may discuss the matter with the proper base official.


                                                                                 KEESLERAFBVA 36-2, 6 JULY 2011
                                                                                 OPR: FSS/FSMP Per AFI 36-2903
                                                                                 Supersedes: KAFB VA 36-2 1 Nov 09
                                                                                 Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions
                                                                                 on this publication.
