BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
AIR FORCE KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE                                            INSTRUCTION 33-114
                                                                                       15 MARCH 2004

                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                            SOFTWAQRE LICENSE MANAGEMENT
                                                                                 PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 377 MSG/SCI (MSgt Donald Jenkins)                     Certified by: 377 MSG/SC (Lt. Col Bertholf)
                                                                                             Pages: 8
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 37-1, Information Management and Air
Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems.
It explains how to manage accountability for computer software licenses. mandates specific roles,
responsibilities and processes for software license accountability to meet requirements of Section 1(c) of
Executive Order (EO) 13103, Computer Software Piracy. Incorporates enterprise license and personal
computer-common operating environment (PC-COE) considerations, workgroup manager responsibili-
ties, and specific requirements for placing software on PCs and computer network systems. It applies to
all active duty Air Force organizations on Kirtland Air Force Base.


1. Kirtland AFB Software Licensing Program Roles and Responsibilities:
   1.1. 377 MSG/SC Responsibilities. As the Base Communications and Information Systems Officer
   (Base CSO), 377 MSG/SC will:
       1.1.1. As the Kirtland AFB responsible official for software license management, designate pri-
       mary and alternate Base Software License Managers (BSLM) to manage the wing and base soft-
       ware license programs.
       1.1.2. Forward BSLM appointment memorandums to the command software license manager
       (HQ AFMC).
   1.2. Unit Commander Responsibilities. Each unit commander will:
       1.2.1. Appoint a primary and alternate Unit Software License Manager (USLM) to administer the
       software license program for the unit. (NOTE: Consider appointing separate license managers for
       multiple use, special computing enclaves, site-licensed, or other software maintained on network
       servers). Format the appointment letter using the sample provided (Attachment 1).
       1.2.2. Forward USLM appointment memorandums to the BSLM.
2                                                           KIRTLANDAFBI33-114 15 MARCH 2004


       1.2.3. Ensure outgoing and incoming software license managers conduct a joint physical inven-
       tory of all software and endorse all inventories and include this transfer action as part of unit per-
       sonnel out processing activities.
       1.2.4. Certify and submit an annual inventory of all unit computer software and licenses. Accom-
       plish certification by signing the annual inventory list and completing the self-inspection checklist
       memorandum at Attachment 1. Annual certification will be accomplished by the first Friday in
       September or when a new USLM is assigned.
       1.2.5. Ensure software acquisitions are coordinated through the respective software license man-
       ager prior to purchase and delivered software is routed through the respective software license
       manager.
       1.2.6. Ensure appropriate training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique software pur-
       chased or developed by the unit.
       1.2.7. Ensure unit personnel who buy new personal computers (PC) indicate on AF Form 3215,
       IT/NSS Requirements Document, that promotional software will not be sent with the order.
       NOTE: Almost all computer procurements are done using the Air Force mandated AFWay pur-
       chasing system. This minimizes or eliminates promotional software from vendors. If such soft-
       ware is received from a vendor, the buyer will either return it to the vendor immediately or destroy
       it (AFI 33-112, Computer Systems Management).
       1.2.8. Ensure appropriate enterprise license agreement contracts (that is, personal computer-com-
       mon operating environment [PC-COE]) are used to procure common-user desktop software on
       new PC orders.
    1.3. Base Software License Manager Responsibilities. BSLM will:
       1.3.1. Review host-tenant support agreements to ensure all base units are required to participate in
       the host-base software license program if they use Air Force command, control, communications,
       and computer (C4) systems or are connected to Air Force local area networks.
       1.3.2. Conduct an on-going software license management awareness program. (e.g. Place semi-
       annual reminders of the need for proper software license management in base bulletins and other
       media to increase and reinforce the legal requirement of maintaining software licenses according
       to their stated conditions.)
       1.3.3. Perform periodic compliance visits to base units and KAFB tenant organizations. Inspect at
       least 50 percent of unit accounts annually and inspect each unit at least once every two years.
       1.3.4. Conduct annual software licensing meetings/training for USLMs.
       1.3.5. Maintain a current list of all USLMs.
       1.3.6. Promote the use of automated tools to the maximum extent possible for tracking software
       licenses.
       1.3.7. Ensure a certification of networthiness (CoN) has been issued by the Air Force Communi-
       cations Agency (AFCA) and a certificate to operate (CtO) has been issued by KAFB for all soft-
       ware programs that involve transmitting and receiving information from other computers,
       computer systems, or networks that reside outside of the base network perimeter. NOTE: See the
KIRTLANDAFBI33-114 15 MARCH 2004                                                                      3


     following Web site: https://www.AFMC.af.mil/cio/netassess/index.html for information con-
     cerning the Networthiness Assessment Process.
     1.3.8. Ensure approval is obtained from the designated approval authority (DAA) for any soft-
     ware placed on computers or computer systems on the base network.
     1.3.9. Provide software license training for newly appointed USLMs and crossfeed locally devel-
     oped material between unit managers, functional system administrators, workgroup managers,
     and HQ AFMC. This training will include:
        1.3.9.1. USLM familiarization with AFI 33-114 and KAFBI 33-114.
        1.3.9.2. USLM completion of Air Force Software License Management and Anti-Piracy com-
        puter-based training.
        1.3.9.3. Software license management records maintenance methods.
        1.3.9.4. Basic orientation of software licenses and The Copyright Act.
  1.4. Unit Software License Manager Responsibilities. Each USLM will:
     1.4.1. Become familiar with software license agreements of software used in their organization
     and act as the liaison between PC users and the BSLM.
     1.4.2. Ensure the legal acquisition and use of all software and obtain coordination with the BSLM,
     functional system administrators, workgroup managers, users, and/or purchasers on all software
     acquisitions. The BLSM has the approved listing of AF authorized software.
     1.4.3. Combine software acquisitions, as applicable.
     1.4.4. Receive and inventory all new software and become familiar with license agreements prior
     to releasing software to workgroup managers. Ensure inventory updates are provided to the
     BSLM.
     1.4.5. Perform an annual inventory of all software, licenses, and corresponding documentation of
     unit software. Ensure the unit commander endorses the hard-copy report and is briefed on any
     non-compliance issues.
     1.4.6. Perform a joint inventory of software before transferring responsibility to another software
     license manager. Ensure the unit commander endorses the hard-copy report and is briefed on any
     non-compliance issues.
     1.4.7. Store evidence of license agreements or licenses (user manuals, purchase documentation,
     CD-ROMs, etc.) and physical software media in a secure location (locked drawer, file cabinet,
     room, etc.).
     1.4.8. Identify software that does not have associated licenses, assemble proofs of purchase, and
     request replacement licenses from publishers, as needed.
     1.4.9. Ensure newly assigned personnel receive software license training within 30 days of their
     arrival and annually thereafter. Minimum training will include:
        1.4.9.1. Promoting user awareness of computer software use.
        1.4.9.2. User liability for unauthorized or illegal use of computer software.
        1.4.9.3. Procedures for acquiring new software.
4                                                           KIRTLANDAFBI33-114 15 MARCH 2004


           1.4.9.4. Identification of unauthorized or illegal software on their Air Force computer sys-
           tems.
           1.4.9.5. Orientation of KAFB software license program.
    1.5. Workgroup Manager Responsibilities. Each workgroup manager will:
       1.5.1. Notify USLMs when installing software from shared folders or using installation
       CD-ROMs. Also notify USLMs when uninstalling, upgrading, or performing any actions that
       change the amount or number of licensed software products installed on the base network. Ensure
       software covered by an enterprise license agreement (e.g., PC-COE) is not transferred with hard-
       ware when performing automated data processing equipment (ADPE) transactions.
       1.5.2. Obtain coordination from USLM prior to new software purchases.
    1.6. PC User Responsibilities. Each PC user will:
       1.6.1. Assist USLMs with software inventories on PCs as required.
       1.6.2. Not install or remove any software application without first coordinating with unit level
       FSA, WGM or USLM.
       1.6.3. Not make any illegal copies of copyrighted software.
       1.6.4. Not install personally owned software on his or her government system unless DAA
       approval is obtained and documented in the certification and accreditation (C&A) package or the
       DoD Information and Technology Security Certification Process (DITSCAP). (See DoDI
       5200.40.)
       1.6.5. Identify suspected unauthorized or illegal software on Air Force computer systems to the
       unit level FSA, WGM or USLM for resolution.
       1.6.6. Complete initial software license training within 30 days of arrival and annually thereafter.

2. Enterprise License Management
    2.1. The Base Information Assurance Office (BIAO) is the Base Software License Manager (BSLM)
    for Air Force and AFMC enterprise software licenses.
    2.2. The BSLM will limit access to enterprise software libraries to the USLMs, FSAs, and WGMs as
    required.
    2.3. Installation of the software requires administrative access to the end computer and therefore
    should be limited to the above. The BSLM will provide a ready to use CD for the operating system
    installation due to the required user intervention.
    2.4. The USLM will provide the BSLM with the system name and MAC address of all systems that
    receive enterprise software.
    2.5. The BLSM will provide USLMs access to all appropriate enterprise software installation scripts.
    2.6. Log files produced by the execution of enterprise license installation scripts will provide licens-
    ing information for Microsoft products. If software is installed properly, updates to Microsoft prod-
    ucts will utilize the original installation directory to install themselves automatically.
    2.7. The BSLM will monitor log files and provide management with current usage information.
KIRTLANDAFBI33-114 15 MARCH 2004                                                                 5


  2.8. Enterprise licensed software may not be downloaded for home use. Contact the BSLM for infor-
  mation concerning purchase of software for home use.



                                           HENRY L. ANDREWS, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
6                                                          KIRTLANDAFBI33-114 15 MARCH 2004


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 5200.40, DoD Information and Technology Security Certification Process (DITSCAP)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BSLM—base software license manager
PC—personal computer
PC-COE—personal computer-common operating environment
USLM—unit software license manager

Terms
Accreditation—Formal declaration by the DAA that an information system is approved to operate in a
particular security mode using a prescribed set of safeguards and controls.
Certificate of Networthiness (CoN)—Issued by the Air Force Chief Information Officer (CIO) or
designee as a result of favorable network risk assessment (NetRA) and security policy compliance
assessment (SPCA).
Certificate to Operate (CtO)—Issued by the KAFB CIO or designee as a result of a favorable
assessment that has verified the system is information technology (IT) ready.
Designated Approval Authority (DAA)—An official with the authority to formally assume
responsibility for operating an information system or network within a specified environment.
DoD Information Technology Security Certification and Accreditation Process (DITSCAP)—T h e
DoD standard for certifying and accrediting IT systems that collect, store, transmit, or process
unclassified or classified information. The standard applies to any IT life cycle, including the
development of new IT systems, incorporation of IT systems outside the infrastructure, development of
prototype IT systems, and reconfiguration or upgrade of existing systems and legacy systems.
License Agreement—A contract between the software publisher and the user which instructs and limits
how the software is to be used. When software is purchased, the purchaser acquires a license to use it, but
the publisher retains full rights to the software and can further distribute and reproduce it. License
agreements generally fall into the following categories:
Concurrent License (requires metering)—A license that allows a limited number of users to connect
simultaneously to a software application. Because this license is only used in the network environment, it
is becoming quite popular due to proliferation of networks.
Enterprise License—The DoD Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI) and the Enterprise Software
Agreements (ESA) entered into by DoD components who manage the acquisition of commercially
available software at the DoD Enterprise level to reduce the cost of acquiring and maintaining software
products. By aggregating requirements and leveraging DoD’s buying power together with the buying
power of related communities of interest such as the Intelligence Community, the DoD is able to achieve
the most favorable terms and pricing for commercially available software and software maintenance.
KIRTLANDAFBI33-114 15 MARCH 2004                                                                       7


Individual License—A license for use on a single machine only.
Network License—A license that allows every member of the network to access the software.
Site License—A license defined by a geographic restriction, such as a building, unit, wing, or base.
8                                                       KIRTLANDAFBI33-114 15 MARCH 2004


                                           Attachment 2

                                   SAMPLE MEMORANDUM
MEMORANDUM FOR ALL 377 MSG/SCI (BSLM)


FROM: UNIT CC


SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Software License Manager (USLM)


1. IAW AFI 33-114, the following personnel have been designated as the primary and alternate (Unit
Name) USLM(s)
RANK                                      NAME                          DUTY PHONE
Primary:
Alternate:
Alternate:
2. If you have any questions, please call our Unit USLM (Name) at ext (Duty Phone Number).


                                                             UNIT COMMANDER/DIRECTOR
