BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE                                             INSTRUCTION 24-302

                                                                                  5 JUNE 2014

                                                                                Transportation

                                                   VEHICLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE, OTHER
                                                     GOVERNMENT MOTOR VEHICLE
                                                CONVEYANCES (OGMVC), AND VEHICLE
                                                              IDLING PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication


OPR: 377 LRS/LGRV                                                     Certified by: 377 LRS/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Andre Johnson)
                                                                                       Pages: 13
Supersedes:   AFI24-
              302_KIRTLANDAFBSUP,
              15 October 2012


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 June
2012. It reinforces Headquarters United States Air Force Vehicle Management/Operations
procedures and establishes expanded and/or revised procedures for implementing and managing
the vehicle and vehicular equipment accident and abuse program, reimbursement of funds, Other
Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances (OGMVCs), and vehicle idling instructions. Some of
these objectives and responsibilities are derived from overarching instructions in AFI 24-301,
Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008 and Department of Defense (DOD) 4500.36-R,
Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 11 December 2012. This instruction is
applicable to all Air Force personnel assigned or attached to Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB)
and also applies to the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), the Air Force Research
Laboratory (AFRL) and the 58th Special Operations Wing (58 SOW) except where noted
otherwise. It also applies to all KAFB mission partners that possess a Support Agreement with
the 377 Air Base Wing. This instruction applies to all squadron commanders/directors, Vehicle
Control Officers (VCO), Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officers (VCNCO), and vehicle
operators. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units, Air
National Guard (ANG) units or non-appropriated fund activities. Instructions herein apply to all
government vehicles and vehicular assets, including General Services Administration (GSA)
leased vehicles. This publication is not subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 and does not contain
 2                                                      KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014


copyrighted information. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. This publication
may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
publication supersedes AFI24-302_KIRTLANDAFBSUP dated 15 October 2012. The guidance
concerning OGMVCs and Idling is new and has been added to existing accident/abuse guidance.
Paragraphs 3 to 4.1.4.10 have been added.
1. Vehicle Accident/Abuse Program.
     1.1. General Information.
        1.1.1. The purpose of this program is to establish local procedures for vehicle
        accidents/abuses, and inform all using organizations, whether Air Force Materiel
        Command (AFMC) assigned or KAFB mission partners with an approved Support
        Agreement, on their responsibilities.
        1.1.2. The ultimate goal of this program is to reduce vehicle and vehicular equipment
        accidents and/or abuses at KAFB, protect Air Force personnel from injury and/or death
        and eliminate unnecessary expenditure of monetary resources. The Logistics
        Readiness Squadron (LRS) Commander or equivalent establishes local reporting
        procedures and these procedures must be fully supported by all commanders to be totally
        effective.
     1.2. Definitions.
        1.2.1. Vehicle Abuse. Vehicle abuse is defined as an act or omission that caused, or may
        cause, damage that cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear or accident. Vehicle abuse is
        normally considered damage caused by willful or negligent acts of improper operation or
        care. Vehicle abuse may result in early failure of components or in immediately
        detectable damage. The following examples of vehicle abuse, although not exhaustive
        are typical.
            1.2.1.1. Using a vehicle for other than its designed or intended purpose (i.e., 6K
            forklift used to transport a pallet that weighs 10K pounds).
            1.2.1.2. Tampering with diesel engine governors or electronic controls.
            1.2.1.3. Running vehicles/engines at excessive speeds.
KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014                                                                  3


        1.2.1.4. Operating vehicles with insufficient oil or coolants because of failure to
        check levels, according to established requirements, failure to monitor dash
        instrumentation, or significantly overfilling the engine crankcase, transmission or
        hydraulic reservoirs, as applicable.
        1.2.1.5. Failing to report vehicle malfunctions or damage to Vehicle Management or
        authorized leased serviced provider (as applicable) within required time periods.
        Failing to bring a vehicle to vehicle management by the next duty day when it has a
        known safety discrepancy.
        1.2.1.6. Riding or slipping clutches, except when necessary to maintain control of a
        vehicle during backing operations.
        1.2.1.7. Operating vehicles improperly, such as lugging in high gear and shifting into
        reverse when traveling forward.
        1.2.1.8. Overloading, improperly distributing, or failing to secure loads properly in
        cargo areas of vehicles.
        1.2.1.9. Unauthorized wiring, markings, add-ons, or modifications to vehicles.
        1.2.1.10. Operating a vehicle with known safety discrepancies such as: lights, horn
        inoperative, wind damage, low engine/hydraulic/coolant/brake/transmission fluids,
        excessively worn/improperly inflated tires, etc.
        1.2.1.11. Failures that are not the result of fair wear and tear, or defective material or
        workmanship.
        1.2.1.12. Operating with applied/dragging parking brake.
        1.2.1.13. Intentional destruction or disfigurement.
        1.2.1.14. Failure to protect       painted   surface(s)   from    removable     oxidation
        (washing/waxing) as required.
        1.2.1.15. Servicing fuel tank, hydraulic reservoirs, or other items with the incorrect
        fluid, or failing to add diesel exhaust fluid (DEF) as applicable.
        1.2.1.16. Failure to maintain control of vehicle doors during high winds.
        1.2.1.17. Failure to accomplish organizational or operator maintenance IAW the
        manufacturer's commercial publications or AFIs, AFMANs, and technical orders.
        Failure to turn in a vehicle on time for scheduled or annual maintenance.
     1.2.2. Vehicle Accident. A vehicle accident is an unintended event resulting in injury or
     damage, involving one or more vehicles. Accidents may be attributed to inattentiveness,
     negligence, or careless operation on the part of the operator or other motorists.
     1.2.3. Vehicle Incident. A vehicle incident is an unintended event resulting in damage to
     a vehicle that cannot be classified either as an accident or abuse and is beyond the control
     of the using organization. Typical examples of vehicle incidents include damage to
     earthmoving equipment striking hidden objects and damage resulting from acts of nature,
     such as hailstorms, lightning, wind-blown objects, and vandalism.
 4                                                      KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014


2. Vehicle Accident/Abuse Program Procedures. Repairing vehicles damaged by confirmed
abuse or preventable accidents diverts limited resources from direct mission support. Since
efficient resource utilization is an inherent responsibility of command, commanders at every
level who have assigned government vehicles must not tolerate abusive or negligent vehicle care.
     2.1. Unit Commanders will:
        2.1.1. Implement vehicle care and training programs through their VCO/VCNCO that
        help prevent abuse and minimize accidents.
        2.1.2. Ensure investigation procedures found in AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for
        Air Force Property, are followed. Personally review all vehicle accident and suspected
        abuse investigations involving their assigned vehicles or vehicles used by their personnel.
        2.1.3. Ensure their VCO/VCNCO maintains accident (6 years from case closed) and
        abuse (2 years from case closed) case files for their assigned vehicle fleet and notify
        Logistics Readiness Squadron, Vehicle Management Flight (LGRV) within 24 hours
        when a General Services Agency (GSA) or Government Owned Vehicle (GOV) is
        involved in an accident.
        2.1.4. Coordinate the transfer of their appropriated funds to 377 LRS/LGRV, or provide
        written agreement to process payment via unit Government Purchase Card (GPC) upon
        receipt of the accident/abuse estimate. IAW Financial Improvement Audit Readiness
        (FIAR) requirements, vehicles will not be repaired until the funds/GPC agreement are
        received. Most accident damage repairs will be outsourced to local automotive body
        repair facilities. The preferred method of vendor payment is through the responsible
        units GPC. In the event the repair cost exceeds $3,000 the responsible organization will
        prepare the AF Form 9, Request for purchase, in order to pay for the repairs.
        2.1.5. Ensure organizations signing out U-Drive-It vehicles from Vehicle Operations are
        held accountable for costs to repair any accident/abuse damages that occurred while the
        vehicle was in their custody/care.
     2.2. Vehicle Management (377 LRS/LGRV) will:
        2.2.1. Evaluate each repair action. If accident or abuse is the suspected cause of any
        damage, notify the using organization’s commander to initiate an investigation to
        determine the facts surrounding the case. Initial notification to unit commanders of
        suspected abuse or accident damage will be accomplished via memorandum and signed
        by the Vehicle Management Flight Chief or the Vehicle Management Superintendent.
        Courtesy copies with the estimated repair cost and photographs, if necessary, will be
        forwarded to the Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center Judge Advocate (AFNWC/JA) the
        Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center Safety office (AFNWC/SEG), KAFB comptroller
        squadron (377 CPTS/FMQ), and the KAFB Wing Ground Safety Office (377
        ABW/SEG).
        2.2.2. Notify the organization’s VCO/VCNCO of the accident or suspected abuse. For
        GSA leased vehicles, 377 LRS/LGRV will obtain three written repair estimates. The
        Vehicle Fleet Manager/Vehicle Management Superintendent (VFM/VMS) is the fleet
        management functional expert with the authority to determine what is/is not Classified as
        an incident, accident or abuse.
KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014                                                                5


     2.2.3. Ensure repair work does not begin until written authorization is received from the
     organization’s commander (or his/her appointed investigation official) releasing the
     damaged vehicle from further investigation requirements, and that payment has been
     arranged. GSA vehicles will not be repaired until authorization is received from GSA’s
     Accident Management Center (AMC). LGRV will coordinate with GSA for all accidents
     and will be GSA’s Point of Contact (POC) for vendor award. If a release authorization or
     request for extension is not received within 5 duty days of LGRV’s initial notification,
     LGRV will document the damage, take photographs, and proceed with repairs.
     2.2.4. Provide repair invoices to record estimated or actual (final) repair costs (IAW AFI
     24-302, para 1.13.2). Unit commanders (or their appointed investigating officials) will be
     provided these records for any Report of Survey (ROS) action IAW AFI 23-101, Air
     Force Materiel Management, when there is evidence of gross negligence, willful
     misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use.
     2.2.5. Close accident/abuse cases when all actions have been completed and maintain all
     related documents in LGRV historical records for the required timeframe. LGRV will
     keep related documents for accidents (6 years from case closed) and abuses (2 years from
     case closed) in an independent file.
  2.3. 377 MSG/CC will:
     2.3.1. Resolve all conflicts concerning the vehicle accident and abuse program and serve
     as the final decision authority. If an organizational commander believes the government
     owned vehicle or equipment accident/abuse case is not justified, written justification must
     be forwarded to the 377 LRS/CC. If the 377 LRS/CC agrees, the case will be dropped. If
     not, the case will be forwarded to the 377 MSG/CC for final decision. Exception: Open
     cases involving GSA leased vehicles cannot be contested as they are a “Must Pay Bill”
     borne by the using organization.
  2.4. Vehicle Accident/Abuse Notification and Processing.
     2.4.1. AF Owned/Registered/Other Government Owned Vehicle Procedures: When
     an accident or suspected abuse occurs and the vehicle can be safely operated, the user
     must bring the vehicle to LGRV. If the vehicle is not operable, the unit VCO/VCNCO
     will contact the 377 LRS Vehicle Dispatch section (DSN 246-2297) and request wrecker
     service.
     2.4.2. GSA Vehicle Procedures. When an accident or suspected abuse occurs and the
     vehicle can be safely operated, the user must bring the vehicle to LGRV. If the vehicle is
     not operable, the unit VCO/VCNCO will contact an approved GSA wrecker service and
     request the vehicle be towed to LGRV. LGRV must be notified within 24 hours Monday
     through Friday or the first duty day following an accident on a weekend or holiday when
     a GSA vehicle is involved in an accident. LGRV will initiate abuse or accident repair
     actions by calling the GSA AMC. GSA will make the determination whether repairs are
     required and where the vehicle will be taken for repair work.
     2.4.3. Commanders or designated representatives (VCOs) of organizations responsible
     for a suspected vehicle abuse or accident case must release the vehicle and arrange
     payment, in writing, to LGRV to begin repairs. GSA vehicles will be released for repairs
     by authority of GSA AMC only. In the event repairs for AF-owned vehicles exceed
 6                                                       KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014


        $3,000 the responsible organization will prepare the AF Form 9, in order to pay for the
        repairs.
        2.4.4. Vehicle accidents involving private insurance companies will be processed using
        the following guidelines:
            2.4.4.1. To resolve liability issues that may arise between the government and Private
            insurance companies, AFNWC/JA must be notified immediately by LGRV When
            government vehicles are involved in an accident with privately owned or contractor
            owned vehicles, on or off base. Government vehicles will not be released for repairs
            at commercial shops until approved by AFNWC/JA.
            2.4.4.2. Repair estimates must be accomplished by the company's insurance adjuster
            or by a commercial repair shop recommended by the private insurance company. All
            repairs must then be completed by a commercial repair shop at the insurance
            company’s expense. LGRV will inspect all commercial repair work accomplished on
            government owned or GSA leased vehicles to verify that the repairs satisfactorily
            meet United States Air Force (USAF) standards.
            2.4.4.3. Repair costs associated with the accident will be billed directly to the private
            insurance company by the repair shop.
3. Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances.
     3.1. General information.
        3.1.1. AF OGMVCs and Non-Registered Equipment Management System (Non-REMS)
        reportable Low Speed Vehicles (LSVs) are small utility, slow moving conveyances,
        whose maximum speed is 25 MPH or less (e.g., neighborhood Electric Vehicles (EVs),
        golf carts, scooters and other small low-speed utility vehicles). For Non-REMS
        reportable LSVs, the organizations may continue to manage these assets as equipment
        items until they have reached their life expectancy. Unit’s Equipment Custodians must
        account for Non-REMS reportable LSVs on their Custody Account/Custody Receipt
        Listing (CA/CRL). After items have reached the end of their life cycle, units will no
        longer procure assets of these types. Proper management and maintenance of OGMVCs
        and Non-REMS reportable LSVs ensures both safe operations and full life expectancy
        from AF equipment. Trailers not meeting all ―registered vehicle criterions established
        in AFI 24-302 paragraph 1.1.3 will be identified as an equipment item, and if locally
        procured, will be accounted for on the owning unit‘s CA/CRL.
     3.2. Responsibilities:
        3.2.1. The 377th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (377 LRS/CC) will establish
        and manage the AF OGMVC and Non-REMS reportable LSV program for the wing.
        3.2.2. The Material Management Flight (377 LRS/LGRC) will establish authorizations,
        approve purchases, and ensure all OGMVC and Non-REMS reportable LSVs are added
        to the owning organization’s CA/CRL. Geographically Separated Unit (GSUs) will
        establish authorizations, approve purchases, and ensure all OGMVC and Non-REMS
        reportable LSVs are added to their organization’s CA/CRL from the local Base Supply
        that manages their equipment account.
KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014                                                              7


     3.2.3. IAW AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, paragraphs 2.2.5 and
     2.3.2, the installation commander must approve OGMVCs for base use prior to
     procurement, and a formal risk assessment must be completed by the using organization
     VCO/VCNCO and provided to the Wing Ground Safety Office (377 ABW/SEG). The
     Vehicle Management Flight (377 LRS/LGRV) will coordinate all OGMVC purchases,
     and ensure owning organizations have made financial arrangements to maintain assigned
     OGMVCs and non-REMS reportable LSVs to manufacturer specifications. Vehicle
     Management will not maintain OGMVCs due to limited manpower, training, equipment
     limitations and prohibitions in AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management.
     3.2.4. Wing Ground Safety office (377 ABW/SEG) will evaluate the formal risk
     assessment package submitted by the VCO/VCNCO. Wing Safety will consult and
     advise the unit on selection of safety features and personal protective equipment to meet
     instructions within AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, AFI 90-802,
     Risk Management, and the suggested guidance in AFPAM 91-210, Contract Safety.
     3.2.5. Individual units will maintain documentation, ensure accountability, arrange for
     maintenance, and ensure proper disposal of each OGMVC under their control.
     3.2.6. Unit commanders will appoint a VCO/VCNCO as the OGMVC/ Non-Registered,
     Low Speed Vehicle (NRLSV) Equipment account custodian who will:
        3.2.6.1. Maintain a record file for each OGMVC in their unit. The file will contain as
        a minimum:
            3.2.6.1.1. A copy of the Equipment Action Request, and purchase documentation.
            3.2.6.1.2. The manufacturer’s owner manual.
            3.2.6.1.3. Records of all annual safety inspections and receipts of contracted
            maintenance repairs for the life of the OGMVC asset.
        3.2.6.2. Ensure the vehicle is placed on the unit’s CA/CRL by coordinating with the
        unit equipment custodian prior to purchase of any new OGMVCs.
        3.2.6.3. Develop and maintain lesson plans to properly train personnel on unit
        Specific OGMVC or Non-REMS reportable LSV operation, as applicable. The lesson
        plan must include where OGMVCs and Non-REMS reportable LSVs can and cannot
        (e.g., troop walks) be operated. If the vehicle is not equipped with signaling
        capability, proper hand and arm signals must be included in the plan. If operated
        during hours of darkness, OGMVCs must be equipped with headlights, tail lights, and
        reflectors. All unit lesson plan training must be documented on the training records
        AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record . All personnel shall receive
        training prior to operating one of these vehicles. The unit POC will maintain an
        independent listing of all personnel trained and training dates.
        3.2.6.4. Prior to operating an OGMVC, always complete a pre-inspection and
        document the inspection on AF IMT 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble
        Report, if not already documented for that day. OGMVC inspections shall be
        documented weekly regardless of use.
        3.2.6.5. Ensure all OGMVCs receive a complete annual safety inspection by a
        certified vehicle inspector in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications.
8                                                     KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014


    3.3. Acquisition Procedures.
       3.3.1. For those LSVs purchased with unit funds prior to June 2006, organizations will
       manage these assets as equipment items on the unit CA/CRL. Procure all OGMVCs in
       accordance to procedures in AFI 24-302 and AFI 23-101, Volume II, Part 2, Chapter 22.
       Operation and Maintenance (O&M) funds will be used to procure and maintain
       OGMVCs. Non-REMS reportable LSVs will no longer be procured, but existing assets
       will be managed as equipment items.
       3.3.2. The unit VCO/VCNCO must first prepare the purchase paperwork necessary for
       each OGMVC. Paperwork must include: Photo of vehicle, price, extended warranty
       information, specifications and justification of need for the equipment. The unit
       VCO/VCNCO must also prepare the risk assessment paperwork necessary for each
       OGMVC. The paperwork must include: Identifying where these vehicles will be used in
       traffic, industrial or pedestrian environments and by type, design and authorized
       operating areas. IAW AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, paragraph
       2.2.5 a formal risk assessment must be completed using all the elements and requirements
       listed in paragraphs 2.2.5.3 through 2.2.5.3.6.
       3.3.3. OGMVC requests will be routed to the Wing Ground Safety office, 377
       ABW/SEG, for coordination/evaluation of safety features and review of the formal risk
       assessment. Where available as a procurement option, equip OGMVCs with safety
       monitoring devices (remote tracking and diagnostic monitoring systems) to support
       monitoring of safe vehicle operation, influence driving behavior and facilitate vehicle
       accident/abuse mishap investigations/statistical analysis.
       3.3.4. Route the purchasing paperwork to the Vehicle Management & Analysis section,
       377 LRS/LGRV, for coordination. Units must understand use of OGMVCs may cause a
       reduction in their general-purpose vehicle authorizations. NOTE: All OGMVCs
       purchase request paperwork should include proof of extended maintenance agreement.
       Prior to purchase approval, Vehicle Management & Analysis, 377 LRS/LGRV will
       ensure that the VCO/VCNCO has provided a formal risk assessment to the installation
       commander and has been approved to operate the requested OGMVC on the base IAW
       AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, paragraphs 2.3.2, 2.2.5.3 and
       2.2.5. For assistance with completing the formal risk assessment, refer to AFI 90-802,
       Risk Management.
       3.3.5. Vehicle Management office will review and forward the OGMVC purchase
       request form to AFMC/A4RD & AFELM/VEMSO for verification that the asset is
       classified as an OGMVC and that it is not classified as an actual vehicle.
       3.3.6. Upon approval, units may procure the OGMVC using the GPC or AF Form 9
       through Base Contracting.
       3.3.7. Provide a copy of the receipt to the unit supply’s Equipment Management Section
       so the asset can be loaded on the unit’s CA/CRL.
       3.3.8. The Logistics Readiness Squadron, Vehicle Management Flight, Vehicle
       Management and Analysis (VM&A) section will request X or Z registration numbers
       from Vehicle and Equipment Management Support Office (VEMSO).
KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014                                                                 9


   3.4. OGMVC Maintenance:
       3.4.1. Owning organizations will work to secure and fund a local maintenance agreement
       for all asset maintenance above the operator level. Additionally, owning organizations
       will ensure assets are maintained IAW manufacturer recommended intervals and will
       have a complete serviceability inspection, to include all safety related systems, at least
       annually.     In the event of depleted unit O&M funds, the required safety
       inspections/service cannot be delayed or postponed. The OGMVC must be parked,
       disabled and secured until unit funding levels are restored and maintenance
       accomplished. The Wing Ground Safety Office (377 ABW/SEG) will be notified by the
       VCO/VCNCO of the parked OGMVCs for their situational awareness and tracking to
       prevent use of unsafe/unserviceable OGMVCs on KAFB.
       3.4.2. Owning organizations will reimburse all expenditures on non-REMS trailers and
       OGMVC’s, that have been grandfathered in prior to the establishment of KAFBI 24-302.
   3.5. OGMVC Inspections:
       3.5.1. Use a unit safety checklist or a modified AF Form 1800 to document the driver
       checks/inspections. Check lights, brakes, turn signals, horn, etc. as required for any AF
       vehicle.
       3.5.2. Owning organizations will ensure annual safety inspections are accomplished and
       that proof is maintained in the VCO/VCNCO binders. This will be an auditable item for
       the unit during Inspector General (IG) compliance inspections, see paragraphs 3.2.6.1.3
       and 3.2.6.5.
   3.6. Salvage Procedures:
       3.6.1. Owning units will process OGMVCs and non-REMS reportable LSVs in the same
       manner as local procedures dictate for disposal of other organizationally owned
       government equipment. Notify 377 LRS/LGRC Equipment Management Section if there
       is a turn-in to ensure units update their CA/CRL.
       3.6.2. Units will return assigned license plates to VM&A to ensure accountability and
       compliance with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) requirements as well as
       guidance in T.O. 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle
       Maintenance, paragraph 2.31.3.
4. Vehicle Idling Instruction.
   4.1. This anti-idling Instruction limits the amount of time vehicles can idle their engines.
   Exhaust from idling vehicles contains dangerous air pollutants, including carbon dioxide,
   which contributes to global climate change, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds,
   both of which contribute to the formation of ozone smog, poisonous carbon monoxide and
   harmful particulate matter. Idling vehicles also waste fuel and increase wear and tear on the
   vehicles’ engine.
       4.1.1. Anti-idling instructions are a cost-effective, common sense way to reduce air
       pollution and they are easy to implement. By reducing the amount of time that engines
       idle, we will use less fuel, save money, and help clean the air.
10                                                   KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014


     4.1.2. During extreme cold weather situations associated with Wind Chill Index and Flag
     colors “yellow” and “red”, vehicles may remain idling for the purposes of warming,
     when no indoor heated environment is available. The vehicle should only remain idling
     during the hourly warming cycle, IAW AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury. Safety is the
     number one concern. It is at the operator’s discretion if he/she feels the need to have a
     vehicle idle longer for the purpose of warming, to prevent hypothermia, frostbite, etc.
     4.1.3. During extreme hot weather situations associated with Heat Category flag colors
     “red” and “black”, vehicles may remain idling for the purposes of cooling, when no
     indoor cooling environment is available. The vehicle should only remain idling during
     the hourly rest/cooling cycle, IAW AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury. Safety is the
     number one concern.
     4.1.4. Operators must use their own discretion in certain situations. This idling
     instruction does not apply to the following vehicles, equipment or situations:
        4.1.4.1. Vehicles undergoing maintenance/diagnostic procedures and flight line
        operations such as loading and unloading aircraft.
        4.1.4.2. Emergency vehicles and equipment are exempt while engaged in Operational
        activities such as a fire, police or ambulance services or vehicles assisting in an
        emergency activity/military exercise. In addition, Security Forces vehicles
        transporting police working dogs (K-9s) are exempt.
        4.1.4.3. Where engine power is necessary for an associated power needs such as, but
        not limited to, electrical power, compressed air, and various power take off devices
        such as auxiliary hydraulics/wrecker/deicer operations.
        4.1.4.4. Where safety may be compromised by shutting down the engine, at the
        discretion of the operator.
        4.1.4.5. During passenger loading or unloading of buses.
        4.1.4.6. When in Mission Oriented Protective Posture (MOPP) I-IV conditions,
        vehicles may remain idling for air conditioning use to prevent heat exhaustion, unless
        otherwise directed.
        4.1.4.7. Vehicles will not be left idling unattended. (T-3).
        4.1.4.8. Installation commander may allow vehicles to remain idling (while being
        monitored) during hot weather for air conditioning use or when the operator safety is
        in jeopardy.
        4.1.4.9. Unless otherwise specified, a “5 minute” idling instruction is in effect on
        KAFB. (T-3).
        4.1.4.10. Excessive reports of vehicles idling past 5 minutes will be reported as a
        misuse of a government vehicle and reported to unit commanders.



                                          TOM D. MILLER, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014                                                         11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 12 September 2013
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 12 February 2014
AFI 90-802, Risk Management, 11 February 2013
DODI 4500.36, Acquisition, Management and use of Non-Tactical Vehicles, 11 December 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 01 July 1996
AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management, 08 August 2013
AFPAM 91-210, Contract Safety, 14 February 1994
AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury, 18 November 2002
TO 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, 12 Jan 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report
AF Form 4437, Deliberate Risk Assessment Worksheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
377ABW/SEG—377th Air Base Wing Ground Safety Office
377CPTS/FMQ—377th Comptroller Squadron, Financial Management Flight
377LRS/CC—377th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander
377LRS/LGRC—377th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Supply Flight
377LRS/LGRV—377th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Vehicle Management Flight
377MSG/CC—377th Mission Support Group Commander
58SOW—58th Special Operations Wing
AFELM/VEMSO—Air Force Element, Vehicle and Equipment Management Support Office
AFMC/A4RD—Air Force Materiel Command, Vehicle Management Division
AFNWC/JA—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center Judge Advocate
 12                                             KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014


AFNWC/SEG—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center Safety office
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Accident Management Center
ANG—Air National Guard
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt List
DEF—Diesel Exhaust Fluid
DTRA—Defense Threat Reduction Agency
EV—Electric Vehicle
FIAR—Financial Improvement Audit Readiness
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSA—General Services Administration
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
K-9—Canine, police working dog
LGRV—Logistics Readiness Squadron, Vehicle Management Flight
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
LSV—Low Speed Vehicle
MOPP—Mission-Oriented Protective Posture
Non-Rems—Non-Registered Equipment Management System
NRLSV—Non-Registered, Low Speed Vehicle
OGMVC—Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
KIRTLANDAFBI24-302 5 JUNE 2014                        13


REMS—Registered Equipment Management System
ROS—Report of Survey
USAF—United States Air Force
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Non-Commissioned Officer
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VEMSO—Vehicle & Equipment Management Support Office
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
VMS—Vehicle Management Superintendent
