BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE                                               INSTRUCTION 34-105

                                                                                15 MARCH 2012

                                                                                          Services

                                                 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STORAGE LOT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 377 FSS/FSCO                                                       Certified by: 377 FSS/CL
                                                                         (Ms. Nanci E. Wildman)
Supersedes:    KAFBI 34-105,                                                              Pages: 6
               10 April 2006


This instruction implements and establishes procedures for parking privately owned recreational
vehicles (RVs), trailers, boats, camper shells, cars, etc., within the recreational vehicle storage
lots (RVSLs) on Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB). The reference used to determine eligibility
and priority categories is AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility. This publication is
affected by AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, 16 May 2011. This publication applies to
377th Air Base Wing and associate units, active duty, reserve and retired military personnel, and
Kirtland civilian Department of Defense (DoD) personnel. This publication applies to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) Units. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1
for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes in eligibility and responsibilities of patrons, fees, discounts, eligibility for discounts,
and penalty of account 60 days delinquent, process of waiting lists and process to terminate
registration. Added KAFB Form 606, Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB) RV/Boat/Trailer and
Vehicle Registration, Notice to Remove Vehicle from KAFB RV Lot, and Recreation Vehicle
 2                                                   KIRTLANDAFBI34-105 15 MARCH 2012


Decal. Updated to comply with AFI 33-360_KIRTLANDAFBSUP, Publications and Forms
Management.
1. General. Individuals authorized to store privately owned RVs in the storage lot will be
granted this privilege on a space-available basis by the 377th Force Support Squadron
Community Support Flight, Outdoor Recreation office (377 FSS/FSCO). Items stored in the
storage lots must be owned by the individual storing the item. Types of RVs permitted for
storage are pop-up campers, slide-in campers, motor homes, utility trailers, fifth wheels, camper
shells, and cars, trucks, and other “regular type” driving vehicles. Three-wheel vehicles,
snowmobiles, and jet skis are permitted, but must be stored on a trailer. Driving vehicles must
be operational and moveable, whether on its own power or by being on a trailer, and free of oil
leaks. In other words all non-operational vehicles must be stored on a trailer, trailers that contain
a non-operational vehicle on it count as one item. It is the owner’s responsibility to
prevent/clean up any type of oil or fluid spill and report the incident to the activity manager, who
will, in turn, report the spill to proper authorities. Only one vehicle per space is permitted for
safety reasons.
2. Responsibility.
     2.1. 377 FSS/FSCO will ensure the procedures in this KAFBI are enforced. 377 FSS/FSCO
     will ensure only authorized personnel are permitted to use the RV storage lot and will
     maintain records on all vehicles parked in the lot.
     2.2. Using the RV storage lot:
        2.2.1. Owners will be responsible for maintaining their property in good working order,
        maintaining a current state vehicle registration and current insurance and maintaining
        appearance of the immediate area surrounding their vehicle (i.e., clutter-free, trash picked
        up, etc.). Individuals shall not repair or modify vehicles in the RV storage area. Storage
        of hazardous waste, materials, and containers is strictly prohibited.
        2.2.2. Storage lots are considered long term storage. A 3 month minimum storage is
        required. Upon registration for a space, the minimum first payment and a one-time $10
        administrative fee will be required. Items removed before the end of their first 3 months
        will not qualify for a refund. Prorated refunds are allowed for all monthly fees after the
        minimum 3 month fee. Fees are billed in advance for 3, 6, or 12 month increments
        depending on patron’s preference and are payable to the Outdoor Recreation cashier on
        the due date. A late fee of $15 per month will be assessed if payment is not received
        within the month of due date. Accounts 60 days delinquent will result in the patron’s
        gate entry card being deactivated and the vehicle being impounded by the 377th Security
        Forces’ tow company at owner’s expense. There is a 10 percent discount for Air Force
        Club members or a one month free discount for patrons who prefer to make a payment
        for 12 month increments. The Air Force Club members discount and the one month free
        offer cannot be combined. Discount is only available for patrons who make their
        payments on time.
        2.2.3. Owners will store their vehicle at their own risk. They must provide proof of
        sufficient liability and comprehensive insurance to cover all claims resulting from theft,
        vandalism, fire, lightning, flood, tornado, or other unusual occurrences while the vehicle
        is in the storage lot.
KIRTLANDAFBI34-105 15 MARCH 2012                                                                 3


       2.2.4. One free RV space is authorized for active duty E-4 members and below assigned
       to KAFB who live on base. Additional spaces will be issued at regular price. If a
       member changes residence to off base or is promoted to E-5, the Outdoor Recreation
       office must be notified within 30 days. This will change the member’s RV space from
       free to paying status. Failure to do so may result in losing storage privileges and the
       vehicle may be impounded. Failure to notify Outdoor Recreation within the 30 day
       period will result in the patron being charged all back fees from the time of rank change.
       2.2.5. Active duty and/or civilians receiving deployment orders, who have a vehicle in a
       Outdoor Recreation Storage Lot, must supply Outdoor Recreation staff with an
       “Emergency Point of Contact” during the period of the deployment. If the Emergency
       Point of Contact is not provided and the patron cannot be contacted, Outdoor Recreation
       reserves the right to move the patron’s property as needed and will not be held
       responsible for any damages.
       2.2.6. All patrons must agree they will terminate registration at the Outdoor Recreation
       office prior to PCS, discharge, the sale of RVs, change in residence outside of the 100
       mile radius, or change in status where base access is no longer allowed to patron. Owner
       must terminate registration in person and return gate entry card at this time. Refunds will
       be paid for advanced payments.
       2.2.7. Gate entry card must be returned to Outdoor Recreation upon vacating. Patrons
       will continue to be charged until the gate entry card is returned to Outdoor Recreation
       and the member completes the check out process. If the gate entry card is lost or stolen it
       must be reported to Outdoor Recreation. In the event of a lost or stolen gate entry card, a
       new one can be purchased from Outdoor Recreation.
       2.2.8. Abandoned Property: If property is impounded more than 60 days and the owner
       has not contacted the Outdoor Recreation office, the property will be deemed abandoned.
       Any property that is deemed abandoned in the RV lot will revert to the Nonappropriated
       Fund Instrumentality (NAFI) that supports the RV storage lot. The property may be sold,
       disposed of or used in any manner the NAFI or Outdoor Recreation office deems
       suitable.
3. Eligibility.
   3.1. Active-duty military personnel, reserve personnel, retired personnel, and eligible base
   civilian employees may store privately owned RVs in this lot. The registration priorities are:
       3.1.1. Priority 1 - Active duty military personnel assigned to KAFB who live on base.
       3.1.2. Priority 2 - Active duty military personnel assigned to KAFB who live off base.
       3.1.3. Priority 3 - Reserve and guard members on active status at KAFB.
       3.1.4. Priority 4 - Retired military personnel residing within 100 mile radius of KAFB.
       3.1.5. Priority 5 - Eligible base civilians.
   3.2. The Outdoor Recreation office will establish a waiting list when spaces are full. The
   waiting list is based on priority status as written in para 3.1.
       3.2.1. When a space becomes available, the Outdoor Recreation staff will contact the
       highest priority customer on the waiting list via E-mail, or by phone if an E-mail address
4                                                    KIRTLANDAFBI34-105 15 MARCH 2012


       is not available. Once initial notification has been made, registration is required within
       five (5) calendar days. An extension may be granted upon request, at the discretion of the
       Outdoor Recreation director. If contact information for the patron is no longer current
       and the patron cannot be contacted, the patron will be removed from the list.
       3.2.2. If no response is received by the Outdoor Recreation staff within the 5 calendar
       days after initial contact, the next customer on the waiting list will be contacted and
       offered the space. We will make two attempts to offer a space to individuals on the
       waiting list. After the second attempt, the individual will be removed from the list.
       3.2.3. If all spaces are full and a higher priority applicant requires a space, the most
       recently registered lowest priority patron will be issued a “notice to vacate” letter. The
       patron will be required to vacate their space within 30 days of notification. Failure to
       vacate in the allotted time will result in the vehicle being impounded at the owner’s
       expense.
       3.2.4. Customers may be authorized up to two spaces maximum, if ample space is
       available and no one is on the waiting list for that size space.
    3.3. RV/Boat/Trailer and Vehicle Registration.
       3.3.1. Personnel who wish to use the RV lot will go to the Outdoor Recreation office,
       Building 20410 during business hours; Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday 0800-1700
       and Wednesday 0800-1400, to complete the KAFB Form 606. In addition, owners will
       read and acknowledge the “Certification of Ownership and Storage Agreement” on the
       back of the form prior to signing the form.
       3.3.2. Owners must show proof of ownership or current vehicle registration and proof of
       current insurance. Eligible personnel must be the registered owner of the vehicle.
       Intention to purchase a vehicle will not qualify you to be placed on the RV storage lot
       waiting list. Outdoor Recreation must be furnished with a copy of ownership proof and/
       or current registration and proof of insurance to maintain eligibility.
       3.3.3. Outdoor Recreation personnel will complete the registration form by assigning a
       space number and decal, then signing and dating the form. Decals must be prominently
       displayed. Acceptable locations include lower corner of the passenger side of the
       windshield or bumper and passenger side of the trailer tongue.
    3.4. The Outdoor Recreation personnel will secure the storage area with an electronic gate
    entry card. The user must secure the RV area after each use.
    3.5. Outdoor Recreation personnel are not responsible for acts of god, bad weather or
    electronic failure. If the gates are left open or sealed shut due to an electronic failure of any
    type, Outdoor Recreation Staff will have repairs done as soon as possible, but are not
    responsible for opening the lot or fixing the system after hours. A sign will be located at
    each lot so patrons can call Outdoor Recreation personnel to report any issues, etc.
    3.6. The registered vehicle is the only authorized vehicle in the parking space.
    3.7. The only exception to Paragraph 3.6 is Lot 3, located off of M Avenue. Lot 3 patrons
    may locate one car dolly under their RV. Both RV and car dolly must fit into the confines of
    their space and for safety reasons the car dolly must be tucked under the RV as much as
    possible. There will be a $10 fee per month for the tow car dolly in Lot 3.
KIRTLANDAFBI34-105 15 MARCH 2012                                                          5


  3.8. If an owner does not comply with listed requirements, Outdoor Recreation may have the
  vehicle impounded at the owner’s expense.




                                         JOHN C. KUBINEC, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 6                                                 KIRTLANDAFBI34-105 15 MARCH 2012


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360_KIRTLANDAFBSUP, Publications and Forms Management, 10 January 2011
AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility, 27 June 2002
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
KAFB Form 606, Kirtland Air Force Base RV/Boat/Trailer and Vehicle Registration
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
377 FSS/FSCO—377th Force Support Squadron Community Support Flight, Outdoor
Recreation Office
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
DoD—Department Of Defense
KAFB—Kirtland Air Force Base
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RV—Recreational Vehicles; trailers, boats, camper shells, cars, etc
RVSL—Recreational Vehicle Storage Lots
SFG—Security Forces Squadron
TDY—Temporary Duty
