BY ORDER OF THE INSTALLATION COMMANDER                                          KAFBI 36-815
HEADQUARTERS, 377TH AIR BASE WING (AFMC)
KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
NEW MEXICO 87117-5882                                                             1 MAY 2006

                                                                            Civilian Personnel

                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE DISMISSAL DUE TO
                                                 HAZARDOUS WEATHER CONDITIONS
                                                         AND OTHER EMERGENCIES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the Air Force Portal: http://www.my.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Work Group Manager.


OPR: 377 MSS/DPCL                                                  Certified by: 377 MSS/DPC
(Mr. John Redfern)                                                          (Ms. Esther Gomez)
Supersedes: KAFBI 36-102, 1 March 1999                                                 Pages: 9
                                                                              Distribution: F, X


This instruction applies to all Federal Civil Service employees assigned to Kirtland Air Force
Base (KAFB) that are serviced by the 377th Mission Support Squadron, Civilian Personnel
Flight (377 MSS/DPC). It complies with the requirements of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-
815, Chapter 7, the Master Labor Agreement between Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)
and the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), AFGE Council 214, Section
23.09 and the 1988 Labor-Management Agreement between KAFB and Local 2263 of the
AFGE, Article 37.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

This revision incorporates the implementation of AFI 36-815 and as such removes the list of
references located in former paragraph 2. corrects the KAFBI title and references of “excused
absence” throughout the instruction, replacing it with the correct term of “administrative
dismissal.” Adds additional clarification of the term “emergency employees” in paragraph 2.
Under Employee Responsibilities, rewords the last sentence for clarity. Adds responsibilities of
377th Air Base Wing Commander (377 ABW/CC), 377th Kirtland Command Post (KCP), 377
MSS/DPC, 377th Public Affairs Office (377 ABW/PA), 377th Combat Weather Team (377
MXS/MXOW) and supervisor. Eliminates former paragraph 5, Employees on Approved Leave,
and incorporates that information within the applicable paragraphs on Early Dismissal, Late
2                                         KAFBI 36-815                                   1 MAY 2006




Reporting, and Base Closure. Changes the order of the paragraphs on Early Dismissal, Late
Reporting and Base Closure to coincide with the AFI. Includes the provisions for employees
with Alternative Work Schedules (AWS) from the Office of Personnel Management Handbook
on AWS in paragraph 6. Adds paragraph 8 titled "Other Provisions." Changes numbering for
applicable paragraphs. Changes the number of the KAFBI to coincide with the AFI.

1. Policy Coverage. This instruction:

    1.1. Discusses administrative dismissal from duty caused by hazardous weather conditions
    and other emergencies in which a significant numbers of employees:

       1.1.1. Are prevented or delayed in timely reporting to duty.

       1.1.2. Require or need early dismissal prior to the end of their normal duty day.

       1.1.3. Are prevented from reporting for duty because of the closure of all or part of
       KAFB.

2. Emergency Employees. For the purpose of this instruction, emergency employees are
personnel who, because of their particular duty requirements, are required to report for work on
time, and remain at work for the duration of their duty hours regardless of hazardous weather
conditions or other emergencies. Emergency employees perform duties vital to public health,
safety, welfare, and national defense, or the operation of essential facilities and functions.
Announcements under this instruction to delay reporting, dismiss employees, or close all or part
of KAFB do not apply to emergency employees. Supervisors determine in advance which
employees are emergency employees. Supervisors are to brief emergency employees on their
status, on the provisions of this instruction, and they are to maintain records of those briefings in
the AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief.

3. Responsibilities. When hazardous weather or emergency conditions occur during normal
duty hours, the following procedures are followed:

    3.1. 377 ABW/CC responsibilities:

       3.1.1. Evaluates weather or emergency data received by 377 ABW/CP and/or 377
       MSG/CWT, and other appropriate sources.

       3.1.2. Based upon weather conditions or other emergency information, makes all
       decisions to close all or part of KAFB, to delay reporting for duty, dismiss employees
       early, or encourage supervisory approval of liberal leave (see examples at Attachment 1).

       3.1.3. Keeps associate commanders informed of conditions existing on base and actions
       taken.
3                                        KAFBI 36-815                                 1 MAY 2006




       3.1.4. Authorizes announcements concerning weather or emergency conditions for 377
       ABW/PA.

    3.2. 377 ABW/CP responsibilities:

       3.2.1. Maintains weather and emergency surveillance. Source of weather and emergency
       information could include the 377 MXS /MXOW, the National Weather Service, 377th
       Security Forces Squadron Law Enforcement Desk (377 SFS/LED), local and state traffic
       enforcement agencies, local radio and television, and any other source deemed
       appropriate. Advises 377 ABW/CC of weather and emergency conditions and forecast to
       enable Commander to determine if late reporting or base closure are appropriate.

       3.2.2. Maintains a list of personnel and/or control centers to be notified of hazardous
       weather or emergency conditions that may affect base closure or late reporting.

       3.2.3. Ensures decisions made by the Commander are passed to TEAM KIRTLAND
       associate units.

    3.3. 377 MXS/MXOW responsibilities: Provides timely information regarding potential
    emergency or hazardous weather conditions to 377 ABW/CC.

    3.4. 377 MSS/DPC: Explains options and administrative procedures available to 377
    ABW/CC regarding liberal approval of leave, late reporting, early dismissal, and base
    closure.

    3.5. 377 ABW/PA responsibilities:

       3.5.1. Issues public weather and emergency announcements, pertaining to administrative
       dismissal and excused absences, coordinated with the Civilian Personne l Officer and 377
       ABW/CC.

       3.5.2. Notifies the news media to ensure rapid and accurate dissemination of
       announcements.

       3.5.3. Receives notifications from the 377 ABW/CP to update information being
       disseminated to base populace and general public via the media.

    3.6. Supervisor responsibilities:

       3.6.1. Designates in advance those positions and activities that must be manned and
       operated under all emergency conditions for reasons of health, safety or national security.

       3.6.2. Notifies in writing (post to AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief) those
       emergency employees whose services are required regardless of weather or emergency
4                                         KAFBI 36-815                                  1 MAY 2006




       conditions or the dismissal of other employees.

       3.6.3. Assumes responsibility for further dissemination of information regarding
       administrative dismissal decisions to the lowest level of their organization.

       3.6.4. Administers leave in accordance with paragraph 5 of this instruction and other
       applicable policies and procedures.

    3.7. Employee responsibilities:

       3.7.1. Unless otherwise notified, all employees are to assume KAFB is open for business
       every workday regardless of weather or emergency conditions.

       3.7.2. When poor weather and travel conditions exist, employees are expected to leave
       their residences early and report to work on time.

       3.7.3. Employees who live outside of communities immediately adjacent to KAFB,
       where weather and travel conditions may be different from areas near the base, are
       expected to work their normal duty hours unless the 377 ABW/CC decides to close all or
       part of KAFB, to allow late reporting, or to approve early dismissal of employees for
       reasons of hazardous weather or other emergencies.

4. Announcements.

    4.1. Announcements Before Business Hours. Determinations made before regular
    business hours to delay reporting to the base, or to close all or part of the base are conveyed
    to local radio and television stations as early as practical. This information is also posted to
    the 377 ABW/CP information line at 853-SNOW (853-7669). (see examples at Attachment
    1).

    4.2. Announcements During Business Hours. Determinations made during regular
    business hours to dismiss employees early, or to temporarily close all or part of the base are
    conveyed by the 377 ABW/CP or 377 ABW/PA to base organizations. (see examples at
    Attachment 1).

5. Procedures for Administrative Dismissal.

    5.1. Early Dismissal. Due to hazardous weather or other emergencies, it may be announced
    by 377 ABW/CC during business hours that employees are to be dismissed a specified
    amount of time earlier than their regular departure times. As an alternative, it may be
    announced that employees are to depart at a specified early dismissal time. In these
    situations, employees are excused without charge to leave.

       5.1.1.   Employees Who Depart Before an Early Dismissal is Announced.                   The
5                                        KAFBI 36-815                                 1 MAY 2006




       employee must request and receive approved leave to cover the remainder of his or her
       duty hours. In this situation, an employee’s approved leave remains as a charge to leave.

       5.1.2. Employees Who Depart After an Early Dismissal Announcement But Before
       Their Authorized Early Dismissal Times. An employee who departs earlier than the
       time authorized by the early dismissal announcement must request and receive approved
       leave to cover the additional period of absence up to his or her authorized early dismissal
       time. This includes situations where earlier than authorized departure is based on school
       closure. However, in situations where an employee's immediate supervisor determines
       that a personal hardship exists, such as the early release of young children from school
       and no available childcare, the supervisor may approve up to 2 hours of additiona l
       excused time for the employee. These decisions are made only on a case-by-case basis
       after administrative dismissal for hazardous weather or emergency conditions has been
       authorized.

       5.1.3. Employees on Approved Leave. An employee absent on previously approved
       leave when early dismissal is announced is charged leave as requested and approved.
       The leave will not be changed to an excused absence. If an employee on duty at the time
       of the announcement had leave approved for later in the day, such leave, to the extent that
       it is covered by the early dismissal, is not charged to leave.

    5.2. Late Reporting. Due to hazardous weather or other emergencies, it may be announced
    before business hours that employees are to report to work a specified amount of time later
    than their regular reporting times, for example, 2-hour delayed reporting. As an alternative,
    it may be announced that employees are to report to work at a specified late reporting time.
    In these situations, employees are excused without charge to leave for the hours and minutes
    of work they are authorized to miss; and they are dismissed at their regular departure times.

       5.2.1. Employees Who Report Early. An employee who reports to work earlier than
       the announced late reporting time is to remain on duty for the duration of his or her duty
       hours. Once an employee reports to work, the employee must request approved leave in
       order to depart either temporarily or for the remainder of his or her regular duty hours.

       5.2.2. Employees Who Report Late. An employee who reports to work later than the
       announced late reporting time must request approved leave or be charged Absence
       Without Leave (AWOL) for the additional period of absence. However, in situations
       where an employee's supervisor determines that the individual made reasonable efforts to
       report to work in accordance with the announcement, and that other similarly situated
       employees were also delayed, the supervisor may approve up to 2 hours of additional
       excused time for the employee (AFI 36-815, paragraph 7.6.2). Use code “LV” on the
       timecard for the amount of time the supervisor has approved an excused absence in
       excess of the time approved by the 377 ABW/CC. These decisions are made only on a
       case-by-case basis and must take into account how other similarly situated employees
       were impacted (AFI 36-815, paragraph 7.6.2).
6                                         KAFBI 36-815                                 1 MAY 2006




       5.2.3. Employees Who Do Not Report for Duty. Those desiring to not report for duty
       must request and receive approved leave from their supervisor. Leave is charged for the
       entire duty day (typically 8 hours of annual leave ). It is not offset by the delayed
       reporting period. Administrative leave for the entire duty day (time card code “LN”) may
       be authorized if the supervisor determines, after personal review of the facts in each case,
       that the employee made every reasonable effort to get to work, and was unable to report
       for duty because of weather or emergency conditions. Determining factors for
       consideration include the distance between the employee’s residence and place of work,
       mode of transportation and whether other similarly situated employees were able to
       report for duty.

       5.2.4. Employees on Approved Leave. An employee who is absent on previously
       approved leave when a late reporting is announced is charged the leave as they had
       requested. The leave will not be changed to an excused absence.

    5.3. Base Closures. Announced Before the Beginning of Regular Business Hours:

       5.3.1. Employees Who Do Not Report to Work. Employees are excused from duty
       without charge to leave.

       5.3.2. Employees Who Do Report to Work. Employees who miss the closure
       announcement or who otherwise report to work are excused from duty without charge to
       leave. Credit for duty time such as overtime, credit hours or compensatory time is not
       authorized or permitted. These employees should consult the 377 ABW/CP information
       line at 853-7669 for the latest update on the closure.

       5.3.3. Employees on Approved Leave. Employees on approved leave on a day when
       the base is closed are excused without a charge to leave (per AFI 36-815, paragraph
       7.6.3). This does not include employees in leave without pay (LWOP) status on the days
       immediately before and after the activity was closed, employees on military duty, or
       employees suspended from duty.

       5.3.4. TDY Employees. Those TDY at other activities open for business are not
       excused from duty. Those TDY at other activities where base closure is announced are
       excused from duty with no charge to leave.

    5.4. Timecard Codes. Timecards are coded as “LN” for administrative dismissal when the
    377 ABW/CC has approved an administrative dismissal for emergency purposes. If a
    supervisor grants additional excused time off, such as the 2 additional hours allowed for road
    closures, they must use the timecard code “LV”, excused absence, for any additional time
    granted.

6. Employees on Alternative Work Schedules (AWS). Employees working approved AWS
7                                        KAFBI 36-815                                1 MAY 2006




are released from duty in the same manner as employees working a set work schedule. The
amount of excused absence is based upon the employee’s established work schedule. For
employees on schedules allowing varied arrival times, and the employee’s arrival time is not
established in advance, consult the Office of Personnel Management Handbook on Alternative
Work Schedules, Section 12, Flexible Work Schedules, part L, Excused Absence, paragraphs (2)
and (3), to determine the amount of administrative leave to authorize. Employees not scheduled
to work on the day the administrative dismissal occurs may not be granted an additional day or
hours off.

7. Telework. Telework employees are normally not affected by the emergency conditions that
cause delayed reporting or early dismissal. Therefore, employees on approved telework
agreements continue to work their entire scheduled duty hours if delayed reporting or early
dismissal are approved. However, in the event of a base closure, telework employees may be
excused under administrative dismissal at their alternative worksites for their telework day. Any
requirement that a telework employee continue to work if the agency closes on his or her
telework day or on any of his or her regularly scheduled workdays should be included in the
employee's formal or informal telework agreement.

8. Other Provisions. The 377 MSS/DPC Flight advises commanders, managers, and
supervisors on all civilian dismissal procedures relating to this instruction. For questions and
individual situations related to these provisions contact the servicing Employee Relations
Specialist.




                                               TERRENCE A. FEEHAN, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
8                                      KAFBI 36-815                                1 MAY 2006




                                        Attachment 1

    SAMPLE ANNOUNCEMENTS CONCERNING HAZARDOUS WEATHER OR
                   EMERGENCY CONDITIONS:

Liberal Leave Sample Announcement:
Due to inclement weather conditions today in the Albuquerque and surrounding areas, the
Albuquerque Public School (APS) system released students early. The 377 ABW/CC
determined that due to this APS decision, supervisors are encouraged to grant annual leave to
civilian employees who must pick up children attending APSs. At this time no decision has been
made to close the base under the current base weather conditions. If a decision is made to
dismiss civilian employees early we will provide additional instructions.

Early Dismissal Sample Announcement 1:
Due to inclement weather conditions today in the Albuquerque and surrounding areas, the 377
ABW/CC determined that supervisors are to begin releasing civilian employees under the
administrative dismissal procedures authorized in KAFBI 36-815, paragraph 5. Employees will
be released 3-hours prior to their normal departure time. Supervisors shall code civilian
employee time cards with code “LN” for any hours of work covered by this decision.

This administrative dismissal decision does NOT apply to civilian employees who have been
designated Emergency Employees IAW KAFBI 36-815, paragraph 2. That is, those who must
perform hazardous weather or emergency duties as determined by each employee’s immediate
supervisor. In addition, this decision does NOT apply to employees who were already in an
approved leave status.

Early Dismissal Sample Announcement 2:
Due to (specify emergency condition) today on KAFB, the 377 ABW/CC determined that
supervisors are to begin releasing civilian employees under the administrative dismissal
procedures described in KAFBI 36-815. Employees will be released in the following order:
- Employees who commute more than one hour, car pool, or must pick up children will be
   released immediately.
- Employees who commute more than a half hour will be released at 1000 hours.
- All remaining employees will be released at 1030 hours.

Supervisors shall code civilian employee time cards with code “LN” for any hours of work
covered by this decision.

This administrative dismissal decision does NOT apply to civilian employees who have been
designated Emerge ncy Employees IAW KAFBI 36-815, paragraph 2. In addition, this decision
does NOT apply to employees who were already in an approved leave status.

Late Reporting Announcement Procedure:
377 ABW/PA would provide a limited statement to the news media such as, “K AFB will be on a
9                                    KAFBI 36-815                             1 MAY 2006




two-hour delay. Employees are expected to report for duty within 2 hours of their normal
reporting time.”

Base Closure Announcement Procedure:
377 ABW/PA would provide a limited statement to the news media such as, “K AFB will be
closed today. Only Emergency Employees are required to report for duty.”
