BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
HEADQUARTERS KIRTLAND AIR                                          INSTRUCTION 31-230
FORCE BASE
                                                                         7 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                     Security

                                                                CODE ADAM AND AMBER
                                                                   ALERT PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication

OPR: 377 SFS/S3                                                      Certified by: 377 SFS/CC
                                                                     (Major Joseph A. Quinn)
Supersedes:   KIRTLANDAFBI31-230,                                                    Pages: 11
              15 March 2007


This publication outlines the responsibilities for implementation of Code Adam procedures and
America’s Missing: Broadcast Emergency Response (AMBER) Alerts™ on the installation.
This publication applies to 377th Air Base Wing (ABW) and associate units, active duty, and
retired military personnel, Kirtland civilian Department of Defense (DoD) personnel and
contractors working on the installation. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) Units. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm/. See Attachment 1 for a
Glossary of References and Supporting Information. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

A change in responsibility of who will ensure a family liaison is established. Removed all
offices listed as authorized requesters, with the exception of Albuquerque Police Department
(APD) Child Exploitation Detail (CED). 377th Services Squadron was replaced with 377th
 2                                               KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013


Force Support Squadron (FSS). Specific personnel to be part of the conference call with APD
CED were identified.
1. Responsibilities. The authority governing the New Mexico (NM) State AMBER Alert
system is New Mexico Statutes 29-15A-1 through 5, New Mexico Statutes Annotated (NMSA)
1978, effective April 2003, NM Department of Public Safety and NM State Police policy and
procedure. All 377th Security Forces Squadron (377 SFS) personnel are responsible for
becoming thoroughly knowledgeable of the procedures identified within this publication. All
other 377 ABW organizations and associate units shall have a basic understanding of the
procedures within this publication and their offices’ specific responsibilities or required actions.
2. Code Adam Requirements.
     2.1. All government owned/operated public facilities on the installation that houses or are
     frequented by children will develop, implement, and maintain a Code Adam program in
     accordance with the guidelines established in this publication.
     2.2. As a minimum, the following facilities will utilize the establish procedures outlined in
     this publication:
        2.2.1. 377th Medical Group (MDG)
        2.2.2. 377th Force Support Squadron (FSS)
            2.2.2.1. Child Development Centers (CDC)
            2.2.2.2. Boys/Girls Club/Youth Center
            2.2.2.3. Bowling Facility
            2.2.2.4. East and West Fitness Centers
            2.2.2.5. Lodging
            2.2.2.6. Base Library
        2.2.3. Army & Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES)
            2.2.3.1. Base Exchange (BX)
            2.2.3.2. Shoppette (East side and West side)
            2.2.3.3. Mini Mall
            2.2.3.4. Base Theater
            2.2.3.5. McDonalds
        2.2.4. DECA/Commissary
        2.2.5. 377th Civil Engineer Division
            2.2.5.1. Military Family Housing Community Center (East)
3. AMBER Alert Program.
     3.1. AMBER Alert Criteria. Child abduction situations will drive the issuance of an
     AMBER Alert Notification. All of the following items must be present prior to issuing an
     AMBER alert:
KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               3


       3.1.1. A non-family abduction of a child under 18 years of age.
       3.1.2. Reason to believe child is in imminent danger of great bodily harm or death.
       3.1.3. Information about the child and/or abductor that may assist in bringing the
       abduction to a successful resolution. If one or more of these criteria are NOT present,
       DO NOT issue an AMBER Alert.
4. General Duties and Responsibilities.
   4.1. Government Owned/Operated Public Facilities. Each group identified in paragraph
   2.2. (i.e., MDG, FSS, AAFES) will utilize the Code Adam Outline in Figure A2.1. during
   Code Adam/AMBER situations. Additionally, they:
       4.1.1. Are responsible for providing initial training, and annual recurring training
       thereafter, to all employees. This training will be documented and maintained by the
       organization.
       4.1.2. Are responsible for knowing and complying with their organization’s Code
       Adam/AMBER procedures.
       4.1.3. Will exercise their procedures frequently enough to ensure their employees are
       thoroughly familiar with their responsibilities and can perform them in unison as a team
       shall the need arise.
   4.2. 377 SFS/S5C. 377 SFS/S5C is responsible for overseeing the Code Adam/AMBER
   program for the installation as part of a Crime Prevention initiative. S5C will do the
   following;
       4.2.1. Assist organizations in the development of their programs by providing guidance,
       applicable materials, and program updates as they become available.
       4.2.2. Help train individuals if requested. SFS will also conduct exercises on facilities as
       requested.
   4.3. Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC). The BDOC Controller will perform the
   following duties:
       4.3.1. Determine if circumstances of the report meet the definition of a missing child.
       4.3.2. Dispatch, in a prompt manner, a patrolman to the scene of the report. The
       National Child Search Assistance Act (NCSAA, 42 U.S.C. § 5779and 5780) mandates
       law enforcement’s immediate response to reports of missing children; no establishment
       or observance of a waiting period before accepting a case.
       4.3.3. Dispatch additional patrolman to the scene and/or sweep locations as
       requested/needed.
       4.3.4. Input required information into National Crime Information Center (NCIC). The
       National Child Search Assistance Act mandates immediate entry of descriptive
       information about the missing child into the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI)
       NCIC Missing Person File and close liaison with National Center for Missing and
       Exploited Children (NCMEC) in missing child cases. (This will be authorized by the
       investigative agency after further investigation into the incident.)
4                                                KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013


       4.3.5. Notify the Flight Chief and other applicable agencies (i.e. Security Forces
       Investigations, Air Force Office of Special Investigations [AFOSI]).
       4.3.6. Transmit the appropriate radio alerts and other notifications.
       4.3.7. Search agency records for related information, specifically any records such as
       those pertaining to the family, the place the child was last seen and the child’s residence.
       4.3.8. Safeguard all pertinent records (i.e. phone conversations, written documents and
       radio transmissions.
       4.3.9. Activate established protocols for working with the media, including activation of
       the AMBER Alert system and/or immediate community notification methods when
       appropriate.
    4.4. Initial Responders. Initial responders (typically 377 SFS personnel) to a suspected
    child abduction will perform the following duties (unless relieved by a Security Forces
    Investigator or AFOSI agent):
       4.4.1. Respond promptly to the scene of the report. Activate patrol vehicle mounted
       video cameras if available.
       4.4.2. Interview the parent/guardian or person making the report (i.e., babysitter, daycare
       provider).
       4.4.3. Obtain a detailed description of the missing child including photos and/or videos.
       4.4.4. Confirm the child is in fact missing. Never assume searches conducted by
       distraught parents or others have been performed in a thorough manner.
           4.4.4.1. Conduct a thorough search of the immediate area including residence(s),
           vehicles, other buildings, etc. Another check of the scene shall be made and include
           places where children could be trapped, asleep or hiding.
           4.4.4.2. Private property (i.e., residences and vehicles) will only be searched based
           on consent of the housing resident or vehicle owner. Coordinate with Air Force
           Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC) Judge Advocate (JA) to obtain an authorization
           to search prior to conducting any search where consent has not been received.
       4.4.5. Initial responders shall ask if parents have checked with the child’s friends or
       perhaps overlooked or forgotten something the child may have said that would explain
       the absence.
           4.4.5.1. Inquire if the child has access to the Internet, cell phone and/or other
           communication devices. Determine if the child may have left to meet someone
           he/she encountered while online.
       4.4.6. Verify the child’s custody status. Ascertain whether a dispute over the child’s
       custody might have played a role in the missing episode or might constitute a risk factor.
       4.4.7. Determine when, where and by whom the missing child was last seen.
       4.4.8. Interview the individual(s) who last had contact with the missing child.
KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             5


     4.4.9. Identify the missing child’s zone of safety for his/her age and developmental stage.
     Attempt to determine how far a missing child could travel from the location where last
     seen before he/she would most likely be at risk for injury or exploitation.
     4.4.10. Obtain a description of the suspected abductor(s) and other pertinent information.
     Utilize facility security cameras when available.
     4.4.11. Advise the BDOC of the information received, including the last known location,
     and have the information broadcast to all post and patrols
     4.4.12. Identify and separately interview potential witnesses at the scene, including
     children.
     4.4.13. Conduct an immediate, thorough search of the scene.
     4.4.14. Secure the scene, area of child’s home and areas of interest as potential crime
     scenes.
         4.4.14.1. Ensure the integrity of all potential evidence.
     4.4.15. Obtain any new information when made available.
     4.4.16. Prepare necessary reports and forms.
  4.5. Flight Chief (with the assistance of Security Forces Investigations and/or AFOSI as
  necessary). The Flight Chief will:
     4.5.1. Ensure he/she is briefed by the initial responder and determine if additional
     resources are needed.
     4.5.2. Consider activation of the AMBER Alert system and/or other immediate
     community notification methods (after clarification from applicable investigative agency
     i.e. Security Forces Investigations, AFOSI).
         4.5.2.1. If there is any doubt as to whether the present incident meets criteria contact
         the Albuquerque Police Department (APD) Child Exploitation Detail (CED) and
         request a conference call between APD CED and the following: 377 SFS/Security
         Forces Group (SFG) Commander and/or AFOSI Det 116 Commander, JA and the
         377 ABW/CC to discuss the possible AMBER Alert system activation.
         4.5.2.2. If the CED supervisor concludes a high probability exists the child was
         abducted and is in danger of serious bodily harm or death, he/she will activate the
         Area Law Enforcement Response Transmission (ALERT) broadcast.
     4.5.3. Establish a command post, if needed, as soon as abduction is confirmed.
     4.5.4. Organize and coordinate an immediate search of the area surrounding the missing
     child’s home and/or place where the child was last seen.
     4.5.5. Ensure all required notifications have been made.
     4.5.6. Ensure the victim unit establishes a liaison with the victim family.
     4.5.7. Confirm all applicable checklists are utilized.
     4.5.8. Manage media relations. Notify 377 ABW/Public Affairs (PA) during duty hours
     at 846-5991 (or after duty hours via the Command Post at 846-3777) and have them
 6                                               KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013


        transmit all information utilizing all available resources (i.e., base marquee, base-wide e-
        mail) and prepare a statement for release to off-base media sources. Statements will be
        released per the expert opinion of the JA and AFOSI. Contact the communications
        directorate for use of the giant voice.
     4.6. Investigator. The investigator assigned to the case (typically personnel from SF
     Investigations or AFOSI) shall:
        4.6.1. Obtain a briefing from agency personnel at the scene.
        4.6.2. Verify the accuracy of all descriptive information.
        4.6.3. Initiate a neighborhood investigation.
        4.6.4. Obtain a brief history of recent family members.
        4.6.5. Explore the basis for any conflicting information.
        4.6.6. Complete all remaining key investigative and coordination steps.
        4.6.7. Implement effective case management.
        4.6.8. Evaluate the need for additional resources and specialized services.
        4.6.9. Update descriptive information.
        4.6.10. Monitor media relations. Coordinate all media releases with PA.
        4.6.11. Enter the unidentified child’s description into the NCIC Unidentified Person File.
     4.7. Victim Unit. The unit of the victim’s sponsor will ensure a vicitim family liaison is
     established.
     4.8. Victim family liaison. The family liaison will explain to the family what investigative
     actions are being employed and what the family can do to assist in the search. The liaison
     can also help the family work with the media through PA.
5. Use of Volunteers.
     5.1. Volunteers will be used only when absolutely necessary. Duties of volunteers will be
     established based on the case and needed involvement.
     5.2. If volunteers are used, they must be under direct supervision of 377 SFS personnel.
     5.3. No person will be allowed to volunteer without first being identified. The person’s
     information will be recorded and kept for future reference. Accurate recordkeeping of names
     and duties of volunteers must be maintained. The 377 SFS will utilize NCIC to conduct a
     background check of volunteers at the earliest possible opportunity. The background check
KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                         7



  will be conducted prior to the volunteer being allowed to participate. NOTE: The offender
  may attempt to volunteer to gain information.
  5.4. Information disseminated to volunteers will consist of the information issued to the
  media and approved by PA, with the guidance of the lead investigative agency (i.e., AFOSI).




                                          JOHN C. KUBINEC, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                            KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
NM State Law 29-15A through 5
Law-Enforcement Policy and Procedures for Reports of Missing and Abducted Children
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army & Air Force Exchange Service
ABW—Air Base Wing
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ALERT— —Area Law Enforcement Response Transmission
AMBER—America’s Missing: Broadcast Emergency Response
ANG—Air National Guard
APD—Albuquerque Police Department
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
BX—Base Exchange
CDC—Child Development Center
CED—Child Exploitation Detail
DoD—Department Of Defense
FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigation’s
FSS—Force Support Squadron
KAFB—Kirtland Air Force Base
JA—Judge Advocate
MDG—Medical Group
KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              9


NCIC—National Crime Information Center
NCMEC—National Center for Missing and Exploited Children
NCSAA—National Child Search Assistance Act
NM—New Mexico
NMSA—New Mexico Statutes Annotated
USC—United States Code
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Affairs
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFG—Security Forces Group
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SFS/S3—Security Forces Squadron/Operations
SFS/CC—Security Forces Squadron/Commander
S5C—Security Forces Crime Prevention
S5RP—Security Forces Resource Protection

Terms
Abducted Child—A child younger than 18 years of age who has been maliciously taken,
detained, concealed, or enticed away by a person(s) who does not have custodial rights to the
child.
AMBER Alert—A statewide, regional, or nationwide notification to the general public, by
various media outlets, of a confirmed child abduction. This program is designed to quickly
transmit information about the abduction in order to locate the abducted child and/or perpetrator
with minimal delay.
Authorized Requestor—Typically, APD CED is the only authorized requestor. However,
approval will be granted to personnel trained to NM State standards and guidelines on the
procedures involved in determining that all AMBER Alert criteria are met prior to issuance.
Code Adam—A nationally-recognized "missing child" safety and security program designed to
prevent child abductions and to find children lost in public facilities. The program establishes a
series of steps that facility employees can follow if a child is reported missing.
Missing Child—A child who is younger than 18 years of age, whose whereabouts are unknown
to a parent, guardian, or responsible party.
Zone of Safety—A dwelling, school, play area, or other area(s) of activity, whether public or
private, that provides reasonable expectation of safety. This includes situations where children
over 10 years of age are under the supervision of persons who are authorized to provide a zone of
safety, or situations where children 10 years of age or less are required by law to be under the
supervision of an adult.
10                                     KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013


                                  Attachment 2
                            CODE ADAM OUTLINE

Figure A2.1. Code Adam Procedures Example
KIRTLANDAFBI31-230 7 FEBRUARY 2013   11
