BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 36-3026

                                                                              23 APRIL 2014

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                          COMMISSARY AND EXCHANGE
                                                                  PURCHASE AGENTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 377 FSS/FSFR                                                    Certified by: 377 FSS/CL
                                                                           (Mr. Rickey Farrin)
                                                                                       Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-3026_IPV1, Identification Cards for
Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Eligible Family Members, and other Eligible
Personnel. It establishes procedures to allow authorized commissary or exchange patrons to
designate an individual to make purchases on their behalf or to accompany them while shopping
in certain situations. This designation applies to facilities under the cognizance of the
installation commander. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or
maintain the records prescribed in this publication are: 5 United States Code (U.S.C.) 301,
Departmental Regulations; 10 U.S.C. Chapters 53, Right and Benefits, Chapter 54, Commissary
and Exchange Benefits. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) Units. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended. Requests for waivers
must be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).

1. Roles and Responsibilities. AFI 36-3026 does not authorize the issuance of a Defense
Department (DD) Form 1173, Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card, to a
 2                                                  KIRTLANDAFBI36-3026 23 APRIL 2014


nondependent agent. IAW AFI 34-101, Air Force Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR)
Programs and Use Eligibility, para 3.2.1. “The installation commander can extend use of these
facilities to an agent of an authorized user, when the user is not capable of shopping (usually up
to a year). Force Support Squadron (FSS) sic documents the authorization using a letter of
appointment…” IAW Department Of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1330.17, Armed Services
Commissary Operations, para 2.J.(3) and Enclosure 4, para 2.j. “Personal Agent or Personal
Representative”. IAW AFI 34-211(I), Army and Air Force Exchanges Service Operations, para
6-3.c. “In these cases, the garrison/installation commander will issue a letter of authorization to
that designated agent.” At Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB) the installation commander
delegates this authority to 377 FSS Airman and Family Readiness Center (FSFR). Authorized
personnel will be issued a KAFB Form 202, Commissary-Exchange Entry/Purchase
Authorization, also known as (AKA) an “Agent Pass”.
     1.1. Issuance of an Agent Pass. Personnel assigned to the 377 FSS/FSFR will maintain
     control of the agent-pass program.
     1.2. Pass and Registration Section. Personnel assigned to the 377th Security Forces
     Squadron, (SFS) Pass and Registration (S5B) office (para 6) process requests for base access
     in accordance with established instructions.
     1.3. Requestor of Agent Pass. The individual authorized use who is requesting an Agent
     Pass must make the request in person.
     1.4. Agent. That person who will be acting for requestor and will be issued the agent pass.
     Agents are not authorized to shop for themselves.
2. Eligibility. 377 FSS/FSFR personnel will only issue an Agent Pass for an individual
(requestor-authorized user) who is currently authorized shopping privilege access to the KAFB
Defense Commissary (DeCA) and Army & Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) base
exchange (BX) via an approved Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS)
issued identification (ID) card. The following circumstances must apply:
     2.1. . Authorized user does not have an authorized ID card holding adult dependent (family
     member) currently available to shop for themselves or dependents.
     2.2. Authorized user (military member) is assigned overseas, will be deployed and/or
     otherwise unable to shop for authorized dependents.
     2.3. Authorized individual is unable to shop due to documented disability, illness, or
     surgery.
3. Personal Presentation. The authorized individual requesting an Agent Pass must make the
request in person or provide an official Power of Attorney (POA). 377 FSS/FSFR may reissue
cards annually if provided with updated required documentation.
4. Documentation Required.
     4.1. The individual to be designated as an agent must possess a valid government approved
     and issued photo ID.
     4.2. Requesting authorized individual must include a typewritten letter (medical stationery)
     from a physician that provides diagnosis and duration of his/her disability or illness that
     precludes personal physical use of BX and/or Commissary facilities.
KIRTLANDAFBI36-3026 23 APRIL 2014                                                                3


   4.3. Authorized patron must show their current Department of Defense (DoD) ID card.
   4.4. A military member requesting an agent be designated per paragraph 2.1.1 or 2.1.2 must
   provide an original POA authorizing the agent to shop for that military member’s authorized
   underage dependent(s). Note: If there is a question regarding the validity of required
   documentation, the Chief FSFR is officially authorized to accept or deny the presented
   documents. This authority is transferred to his/her designated representative in the chief’s
   absence.
5. Period of Authorization. All forms will be issued for the specified period of medical
condition or a one year period. The Agent Pass will be laminated at issue to preserve the
document.
   5.1. The document required from a physician as stated in paragraph 4.2. must clearly state
   the effective period of the medical condition.
   5.2. Updated physician documentation will be required at time of Agent Pass renewal.
6. Installation Entry Authorization. Individuals issued an Agent Pass who do not have
authorization to enter a Military Installation, i.e., KAFB entry, in their own right, must obtain a
Defense Biometric Identification System (DBIDS) Pass or other base access method from the
377 SFS Pass and Registration (S5B) section pending a favorable background check.
   6.1. Agent pass holders must pass all KAFB entry requirements to receive a base access
   pass. An Agent Pass does not guarantee entry onto the installation. The Individual must
   report to the S5B in the Consolidated Support Facility (Building 20245) with an issued Agent
   Pass to process a request for base access. Contact the SFS/S5B at 846-6429 to obtain
   information and current requirements.
   6.2. If an Agent commits a crime whereby a normal authorized user (i.e. dependent) would
   receive a one year suspension of privileges or termination of base access, the Agent can
   expect to be served with the same notice.




                                             TOM D. MILLER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 4                                               KIRTLANDAFBI36-3026 23 APRIL 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 34-101, Air Force Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs and Use Eligibility,
28 March 2013
AFI 34-211(I), Army and Air Force Exchanges Service Operations, 30 July 2008
AFI 36-3026_IP Vol 1, Identification Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their
Eligible Family Members, and other Eligible Personnel, 17 June 2009
DoDI 1330.17, Armed Services Commissary Operations, 8 October 2008
Prescribed Forms
KIRTLANDAFB202, Commissary-Exchange Entry/Purchase Authorization
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army & Air Force Exchange Service
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AKA—Also Known As
ANG—Air National Guard
BX—Base Exchange
DBIDS—Defense Biometric Identification System
DD—Defense Department
DEERS—Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
DeCA—Defense Commissary
DoD—Department Of Defense
DoDI—Department Of Defense Instruction
FSFR—Airmen and Family Readiness Office
FSS—Force Support Squadron
IAW—In accordance with
KIRTLANDAFBI36-3026 23 APRIL 2014                                                        5


ID—Identification
KAFB—Kirtland Air Force Base
KAFBI—Kirtland Air Force Base Instruction
MWR—Air Force Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
POA—Power of Attorney
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
S5B—Pass and Registration section
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Agent— That individual designated and assigned to physically shop for authorized person who
is unable to do so.
