BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 36-2502

                                                                                 8 MAY 2014

                                                                                   Personnel

                                              KIRTLAND AFB SENIOR AIRMAN BELOW-
                                                   THE-ZONE PROMOTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication


OPR: 377 FSS/FSMP                                                    Certified by: 377 FSS/CL
                                                                       (Mr. Rickey L. Farrin)
                                                                                     Pages: 14
Supersedes:   KIRTLANDAFBI 36-2501,
              1 Aug 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion
Programs. It establishes the Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB) Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-
Zone (BTZ) Promotion Program. It applies to all Air Force units that have personnel under the
promotion authority of the 377th Force Support Squadron (FSS). This publication does not
apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication does not apply to the Air
National Guard (ANG). This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication may not be
supplemented or further implemented/extended. Submit requests for waivers through the chain
of command to the Publication OPR. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: BTZ eligibility (paragraph 1. and paragraph 6.2.3.); added the Central Selection Base
 2                                                       KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014


Board (CBB) (paragraph 9.); CBB procedures (paragraph 10.); and supplemental BTZ
consideration (paragraph 11.).
1. Roles & Responsibilities. Roles and responsibilities for the SrA BTZ Promotion Program
are as follows:
     1.1. 377 FSS Career Development Element.
        1.1.1. Administers SrA BTZ promotion program IAW AFI 36-2502 and current
        Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center (HQ AFPC) guidance published in the Enlisted
        Promotions Personnel Service Delivery (PSD) Guide.
        1.1.2. Appoints a board recorder in the grade of E-4 or higher for each CBB.
        1.1.3. Receives from HQ AFPC Master Eligibility Roster and Individual Unit Listing.
        1.1.4. Verifies eligibility regardless of any negative quality indicators.
        1.1.5. Determines 15 percent stripe quota based on total number of eligible members.
        1.1.6. Provides 3-part listing of eligible, questionable eligible, and ineligible members to
        units and requests promotion packages from units by suspense date (first duty day of BTZ
        CBB month) given by the Career Development Element.
        1.1.7. Coordinates with 377th Air Base Wing (ABW) Command Chief Master Sergeant
        (CCC) for board members and CBB date.
        1.1.8. Validates completed packages, eligibility roster and non-recommendation letters.
        1.1.9. Notifies Commanders (CCs), Directors, and First Sergeants of SrA BTZ
        selections.
     1.2. Unit CCs/First Sergeants.
        1.2.1. Review the eligibility listing from the Career Development Element to consider all
        individuals meeting time in service (TIS) and time in grade (TIG) requirements.
        1.2.2. Ensure all eligible members meeting the TIS and TIG requirements are informed
        of eligibility and verify personal data via the virtual Military Personnel Flight (vMPF).
        1.2.3. Nominate unit members to meet the CBB by underlining the name of the nominees
        and returning the original listing to the Career Development Element office.
        1.2.4. Provide the Career Development Element a copy of a completed AF Form 1206,
        Nomination for Award, fitness score sheet and approved military decorations for those
        being recommended and a signed non-recommendation letter (Attachment 2) for those
        who are not recommended for consideration.
        1.2.5. Ensure nominee’s first line supervisor and/or First Sergeant is present during the
        CBB.
     1.3. President of CBB.
        1.3.1. Oversees the CBB process.
        1.3.2. Appoints four board members, normally group superintendents for each CBB.
KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014                                                                 3


       1.3.3. Ensures board members are briefed and administered the oath to the BTZ prior to
       the board.
       1.3.4. Acts as a non-voting member unless there is a tie, then serves as the tie-breaking
       authority.
       1.3.5. Processes CBB results to 377 ABW/CC for signature and release authority
       procedures.
           1.3.5.1. Unit board results will not be released prior to CBB results.
2. Program Objective. To provide an opportunity for exceptionally well qualified Airmen First
Class (A1C) a one-time consideration for promotion to SrA, to be effective 6 months prior to the
fixed fully-qualified phase point. Selection opportunity is 15 percent of the eligible population
based on total TIG, TIS and quality factors.
3. Identifying Eligible Members. The Military Personnel Section (MPS) provides an
automatic quarterly end-of-month (EOM) output product to the Career Development Element,
within the first 10 days of the first processing month (i.e., January, April, July, October). The
roster identifies all A1Cs who meet or exceed the TIS and TIG requirements, regardless of
promotion ineligibility conditions (i.e., on a control roster, Primary Air Force Specialty Code
(PAFSC) skill level not commensurate with grade, undergoing Article 15 suspended reduction,
etc.), and whose grade status reason (GSR) does not equal to code “5Q” (previously considered
for SrA BTZ). This output product automatically updates the GSR to “5Q” to prevent A1Cs
from appearing on future SrA BTZ listings. Note: The output product produces a military
personnel system alphabetical listing and a three-part unit listing.
   3.1. The “SrA BTZ Unit Listing” is a three-part Unit Listing:
       3.1.1. Part I – Eligible. Identifies A1Cs with no quality indicators on their record.
       3.1.2. Part II – Questionable Eligible. Lists “questionable eligible members”
       (individuals with quality indicators) who may not be qualified for BTZ promotion.
       3.1.3. Part III – Ineligible. Lists A1Cs who meet the TIG and TIS requirements, but
       cannot be selected due to promotion ineligibility conditions listed in AFI 36-2502, Table
       1.1.
4. Verifying Eligibility. The squadron CCs and Career Development Element, using military
personnel system generated products, verifies the eligibility of each individual to ensure they
meet the TIG and TIS requirements for the current quarter. Only verify the TIG and TIS
requirements and do not consider normal promotion ineligibility conditions. This will
ensure only those meeting the TIG and TIS requirements are considered and possibly prevent
someone from being considered more than once for SrA BTZ promotion consideration. Remove
names of those who do not meet the current quarter TIG and TIS requirements and ensure the
GSR 5Q is corrected to allow the member to show up on a future roster. Identify and remove
names of those exceeding TIG and TIS requirements if determined the member was
appropriately considered during a previous quarter’s board. If the member was serviced by the
current MPS, review the previous quarterly rosters. If recently assigned, contact the previous
MPS to verify if they were considered at that location. Note: For individuals not considered
during the quarter in which they met TIG and TIS eligibility and were recommended by the
previous or current CC, request supplemental BTZ consideration. (See paragraph 11.).
 4                                                     KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014


     4.1. Individuals who are participating in the World Class Athlete Program are not eligible to
     compete for BTZ promotion at this time. Affected individuals will be considered
     supplemental at the first available CBB at their first/next permanent part assignment.
     4.2. Host wings with enough eligible students to earn a quota (CBB or large unit) may
     request an exception to hold a “student only” BTZ board. Requests should be forwarded
     through the Career Development Element and the MPS Chief to HQ AFPC Enlisted
     Promotions Element (DPSOE) for approval.
4.3. All Reserve Officer Training Candidates (ROTC) / United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) nominees are ineligible for BTZ consideration. They are eligible for SrA after one
year on Entry Active Date (EAD) and once they obtain their 3-skill level.

     4.4. Effective 1 Oct 06 (applicable to active duty only), Combat Controller (1C2X1) and
     Pararescue (1T2X1) Airmen who are 6-year enlistees will be promoted to SrA upon
     completing 28 months TIG or 36 months TIS and TIG (whichever comes first), provided
     they have obtained a 3-skill level and are recommended for promotion by their unit CC.
     Effective with this change, Combat Controller and Pararescue Airmen will be eligible for
     SrA BTZ consideration.
5. Quotas. Quotas are based on 15 percent of the total TIG and TIS eligible population listed on
all parts of the quarterly BTZ roster. The MPS Chief determines quotas and obtains host wing
CCs approval (may delegate no lower than MPS Chief) before distribution to units. See Table
1.1 for quota computation and Table 1.2. for distribution.

Table 1. Quota Computation
                           Eligibles multiplied by 15 percent equals the quota
 COMPUTATION
                           Example: 13 eligibles x 0.15 = 1.95, or 2 BTZ quotas
 Note: Fractions of 0.5 or higher are rounded up
KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014                                                                   5


Table 2. Quota Distribution
                            Eligible Members        Quota        Eligibles       Quota
                                    2-9               1           37-43            6
                                  10-16               2           44-49            7
   DISTRIBUTION
                                  17-23               3           50-56            8
                                  24-29               4           57-63            9
                                  30-36               5
Note 1: Units may not aggregate at the group level. Example: Medical Groups are
divided into four units and each unit CC has promotion authority; therefore, they should
not be considered by the group, but as individual units, and cannot be added together to
make a large unit.

Note 2: In cases where there is a large unit (seven or more eligible members) and there
are not enough eligible members from all the small units to meet the 1-quota requirement
based on 15 percent of the eligible population, the large unit and small units will combine
to meet at the central base. Do not deviate from established written procedures for these
boards.

Note 3: In cases where there are no large units and there is only one eligible out of the
entire base population, request should be made to AFPC/DPSOE to hold a board for the
one eligible and quota authorization. Request should come from the MPS Chief and
should also have the quarterly BTZ roster attached.

6. Method of Nominating. Units will consider all individuals meeting TIG and TIS
requirements, even if they are on temporary duty (TDY), leave, or have departed permanent
change of station (PCS) during or after the processing month (i.e., February, May, August,
November) for that quarter’s selection. All individuals appearing on the eligibility listing must
be considered, but this does not necessarily mean they must be nominated. The CCs should
review their personnel record, personal information file (PIF), discuss the consideration with the
supervisor and chain-of-command, etc., before making a decision to nominate or not to
nominate. The CC is not required to nominate/select the full quota, if the quality is not there.
   6.1. Once boards meet, large units will publish procedures similar to the CBB process.
   Upon approval by unit CC, provide board minutes to the Career Development Element.
   Board minutes will reflect order of merit for primaries and alternates based on total score.
   Alternates will be selected in the event a selectee is removed before the effective date. If the
   alternate selectee’s date of rank (DOR) is past due, they will receive the original BTZ DOR
   and an effective date of the unit CC’s approval (Attachment 3).
   6.2. When nominating to the 377 ABW CBB, unit CCs will:
       6.2.1. Identify which A1Cs are deserving of BTZ consideration and nominate
       accordingly. Deserving airmen usually distinguish themselves through rapid completion
       of upgrade training, attaining distinguished or honor graduate status at technical training,
       participation in unit, base, and community activities, and completing or pursuing off-duty
       education. Most importantly, these individuals usually perform at a level that far exceeds
 6                                                        KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014


        standards as evidenced by an effective, enthusiastic performance report. The CC and first
        sergeant must conduct a quality review of all Airmen being considered for BTZ
        promotion. This ensures only those deserving of promotion are promoted (i.e., no
        unfavorable information file, Article 15, and not on the fitness improvement program).
        6.2.2. CCs will evaluate the Fitness Assessment scores and only nominate if sustained
        performance standards are attained.
        6.2.3. Underline nominee’s name on the unit BTZ eligibility list and return it to the
        Career Development Element along with an AF Form 1206, approved military
        decorations for each nominee (paragraph 1.2.4) and fitness assessment history.
        6.2.4. CCs will need to prepare the BTZ Non-recommendation Memorandum for those
        A1Cs who are not being considered (Attachment 2.). Complete memorandums will be
        turned into the Career Development Element by established suspense dates.
7. Nomination Format.
     7.1. CCs must review all Enlisted Performance Report (EPR)s (if any) and PIFs on all
     nominees and discuss nominations with the member’s supervisor/rating chain prior to
     making a nomination decision, regardless if the Airman is meeting a large or small unit CBB.
     Directed by Headquarter (DBH) reports are not authorized.
     7.2. AF Form 1206 (18 lines in length to include headers) is required for all A1Cs nominated
     for BTZ consideration.
        7.2.1. Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty (Not to exceed 9 bullet
        lines). Describe significant leadership accomplishments and how well the member
        performed assigned primary and additional duties. Define the scope and level of
        responsibilities and the impact on the mission and unit. Include any new initiatives or
        techniques developed by the member that positively impacted the unit and/or the mission.
        Include results of AF, Major Command (MAJCOM), numbered AF-level inspections
        and/or evaluations. Include awards received (i.e., Airman of the Quarter, and
        Maintenance Professional of the Year).
        7.2.2. Significant Self-Improvement (Not to exceed 3 bullet lines). Show how the
        member developed or improved skills related to primary duties (i.e., formal training,
        career development course enrollment or completion, on-the-job training, certifications,
        and off-duty education related to primary duties). Include any off-duty education not
        directly related to primary duties (i.e., class, course, degree enrollment and/or
        completion, and grade point average). Cite any other relevant training or activity that
        significantly enhanced the member’s value as a military citizen.
        7.2.3. Base and Community Involvement (Not to exceed 3 bullet lines). Define the
        scope and impact of the member’s positive leadership and involvement in both the
        military and civilian community; include leadership, membership, or participation in unit
        advisory councils, professional military organizations, associations and events.
8. Selection Requirements.
     8.1. The Unit will provide each eligible individual on Part I and II of the 3-part unit listing a
     Record Review Listing (RRL) to verify all data is accurate and complete. Instruct
     individuals they must correct any erroneous data prior to the board convening date. Only
KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014                                                                 7


   provide individuals on Part III of the unit listing an RRL if, during review, it is found the
   ineligible condition is invalid and the member later becomes eligible.
   8.2. Units will consider all individuals meeting TIS and TIG requirements, even if they are
   TDY, on leave, permanent change of assignment (PCA)’d, or have a PSC report not later that
   date (RNLTD) on or after the first day of the first processing month (i.e., January, April,
   July, and October) for that quarter selections. All individuals appearing on the eligibility
   listing must be “considered”, as stated earlier, this means that the CC must review any EPRs,
   PIF, discuss the consideration with the supervisor/chain of command, etc., before making a
   BTZ recommendation. The Career Development Element will verify BTZ eligibility of
   A1C’s departing PCS date (determine the quarter the individual is BTZ eligible) and ensure a
   BTZ selection folder is prepared prior to PCS departure.
   8.3. Alternates/first non-selects of the CBB or large unit board are selected in the event a
   selectee is removed before the effective date due to an ineligibility condition (AFI 36-2502,
   Table 1.1.) or infractions committed after selection. All past derogatory data may be
   considered in the nomination process. However, once an individual has been submitted and
   subsequently selected for BTZ, this past derogatory information cannot be used as grounds
   later to withdraw an individual’s selection.
   8.4. The MPS is prohibited from placing a projected BTZ promotion in withhold. Non-
   recommend the individual for promotion and promote the first alternate. CCs must ensure all
   quality indicators are accurate before taking action. If the first alternate selectee’s DOR is
   past due, they will receive the original BTZ DOR with an effective date approved by the unit
   CC. Retroactive pay is authorized. The MPS must open a case management system file to
   HQ AFPC/DPSOE for action.
   8.5. If an individual should have been considered during the current quarter board and an
   error is discovered before promotions are announced, large unit CCs will consider the
   Airman and adjust selection accordingly (this does not apply to Airmen who are gained and it
   has been determined they were not considered by the their losing base (see Supplemental
   BTZ Consideration, paragraph 11). The CBB will reconvene to consider small unit eligible
   members and selections are adjusted accordingly. If discovered after selections are
   announced, supplemental promotion consideration procedures apply. Adjustments will not
   be made to the gaining unit/base quota if the error is discovered and an individual should
   have been considered by their losing base. Every effort should be made to ensure the
   individual is considered by their losing unit/base. If the losing unit/base has already
   announced selections, supplemental consideration (with current CC recommendation) should
   be requested by the gaining base.
   8.6. When a CC has promotion authority over two or more units, the eligible members are
   combined and the unit CC complies with established large or small unit procedures.
9. Selection Board. The 377 ABW/CCC will select members for the CBB. The CBB will be
comprised of four Group Superintendents or equivalent as panel members and one board
president. Large units will establish their own board composition.
10. Board Procedures. The 377 ABW CBB will normally convene on the third Wednesday of
the last month of the quarter (March, June, September, and December). If the regularly
 8                                                      KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014


scheduled day falls on a non-duty day, the board will be held the next duty day or as specified by
the 377 ABW/CCC. In the event of exercise or alerts, boards will be rescheduled as required.
     10.1. The Career Development Element will prepare the CBB binders.
     10.2. Nominees. Nominees must physically appear before the board, unless unavailable due
     to TDY, hospitalization, or PCS. (Personnel on scheduled leave must receive a waiver from
     the 377 ABW/CCC to be excused from appearing before the board.)
        10.2.1. Nominees will meet their respective board on the day specified and at the time
        scheduled by the Career Development Element. They must report 15 minutes prior to
        their scheduled board time. Every effort should be made to ensure nominees are
        available to meet the CBB. Those who cannot attend due to TDY or deployment or other
        approved reason, will receive an average score of other nominees meeting the board.
        10.2.2. Uniform for nominees is service dress. Nominees will be asked questions from
        any of the following categories:          Unit, individual accomplishments, leadership
        challenges, enlisted heritage and history, customs and courtesies and current events.
     10.3. The Board. Uniform for board members is service dress. The criteria and objective
     of this board is to provide an opportunity for exceptionally well qualified A1C a one-time
     consideration for promotion to SrA, to be effective 6 months prior to the fixed fully-qualified
     phase point. Selection opportunity is 15 percent of the eligible population based on total TIG
     and TIS and quality factors.
        10.3.1. Board Factors.
            10.3.1.1. AF Form 1206s are required IAW para 7. for A1C’s being nominated for
            BTZ consideration. The nomination will be no more than 15 single bullet lines plus
            the three mandated headers. The board will not consider any previous performance
            evaluations, however approved military decorations prior to board date will be
            considered. Each package (AF Form 1206) will be evaluated in the following areas
            with point values on the KIRTLANDAFB 619, Senior Airman (SrA) Below-The-Zone
            (BTZ) Score Sheet.
                10.3.1.1.1. Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duties: 9.0 max/1 point
                per bullet.
                10.3.1.1.2. Significant Self-Improvement: 3.0 max/1 point per bullet.
                10.3.1.1.3. Base or Community Involvement: 3.0 point max/1 point per bullet.
            10.3.1.2. Board members will interview nominees ‘face-to-face’ and based upon the
            Airman’s physical and verbal presentation the following areas with point values will
            be annotated on the score sheet as indicated.
                10.3.1.2.1. Military Bearing: 5.0 points max.
                10.3.1.2.2. Dress and Appearance: 5.0 points max.
                10.3.1.2.3. Communication Skills: 5.0 points max.
        10.3.2. Scoring. Using the criteria in para 10.3.1., rank each package with 1 being the
        highest ranking to separate packages with like scores and score each nominee using the
        score break out at Figure 1.1 Thirty points are the maximum point total a nominee may
KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014                                                                    9


       receive using 0.25 increments. After scores are tallied and recorded overall point totals
       will be validated by the board president to ensure there is no major disagreement or
       scoring disparity between board members. If there are significant disagreements between
       two or more panel members the difference will be resolved by the board president. Note:
       The board president is a non-voting member except in case of a tie, in which the board
       president’s scores will be used to resolve the tie. If you have any questions or need
       assistance please call 846-2367.

Figure 1. Score Breakout




   10.4. Board Minutes. A representative from the Career Development Element will prepare
   board minutes immediately following the CBB for the board president signature and approval
   by the 377 ABW/CC. Each nominee’s unit CC will be advised of the CBB results following
   377 ABW/CC approval.
11. Supplemental BTZ Consideration. Unit CC’s may request supplemental BTZ
consideration for individuals who should have been considered by a previous board and the error
is not discovered until after promotions are announced.              After obtaining unit CC’s
recommendation, the Career Development Element forwards fully documented supplemental
requests to Wing CC for consideration via E-mail. It is imperative supplemental BTZ
consideration is requested only when unit CC concurs with consideration. Additionally, if the
basis for the supplemental request is because the individual did not receive fair consideration, the
MPS must provide justification for the request. If the individual was not considered at all at their
last duty station, contact the losing unit and MPS before requesting supplemental consideration,
and forward this information along with the supplemental request. This will assist the Wing CC
in determining if supplemental BTZ consideration is appropriate. Note: If selected, members are
authorized retroactive change to their effective date according to Retroactive Promotion
Effective Date Correction Requests and the MPS must send a message to HQ AFPC/DPSOE.
   11.1. It is the responsibility of the individual, supervisor, and CC to ensure an individual has
   been properly identified as eligible for BTZ consideration, personnel data is accurate, obtains
   correct study references, is nominated IAW program guidance, and most importantly, the
   data on the BTZ Report on Individual Personnel (RIP) is accurate and complete.
   11.2. IAW AFI 36-2502 supplemental BTZ consideration will not be granted for the
   following reasons:
       11.2.1. Incorrect data reflected on the BTZ RIP.
       11.2.2. Denied BTZ nomination due to incorrect data reflected on the BTZ output
       products.
10                                                 KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014


     11.2.3. BTZ eligibility list not returned to the Career Development Element or individual
     was “overlooked” on the listing.
     11.2.4. Nomination package or approved military decoration not completed, turned in, or
     approved in time to meet the board.




                                          TOM D. MILLER, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014                                           11


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, 21 Jun 1993
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs, 31 December 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
KIRTLANDAFB 619, Senior Airman (SrA) Below-The-Zone (BTZ) Score Sheet.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A1C—Airman First Class
ABW—Air Base Wing
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
BTZ—Below-The-Zone
CBB—Central Selection Base Board
CC—Commander
CCC—Command Chief Master Sergeant
DBH—Directed by Headquarter
DOR—date of rank
DPSOE—Enlisted Promotions Element
EAD—Entry Active Date
EOM—end-of-month
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
GSR—grade status reason
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
IAW—in accordance with
 12                                          KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014


KAFB—Kirtland Air Force Base
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
MAJCOM—Major Command
MPS—Military Personnel Section
PA—Privacy Act
PAFSC—Primary Air Force Specialty Code
PCA—permanent change of assignment
PCS—permanent change of station
PIF—personal information file
PSD—Personnel Service Delivery
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIP—Report on Individual Personnel
RNLTD—report not later that date
ROTC—Reserve Officer Training Candidates
RRL—Record Review Listing
SrA—Senior Airman
TDY—Temporary Duty
TIG—time-in-grade
TIS—time-in-service
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
vMPF—Virtual Military Personnel Flight

Terms
5Q— previously considered for SrA BTZ
large unit— seven or more eligible members
small unit— six or less eligible members
KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014                                       13


                                  Attachment 2
     SAMPLE LETTER BELOW-THE-ZONE (BTZ) NON-RECOMMENDATION

Figure A2.1. Sample Letter Below-The-Zone (BTZ) Non-Recommendation
 14                                            KIRTLANDAFBI36-2502 9 MAY 2014


                                   Attachment 3
        SAMPLE LETTER BELOW-THE-ZONE (BTZ) RECONSIDERATION

Figure A3.1. Sample Letter Below-The-Zone (BTZ) Reconsideration
