BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 10-243
LAJES FIELD
                                                                               4 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                     Operations

                                                  INSTALLATION AUGMENTATION DUTY




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the E-Publications site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 65 LRS/DO                                                         Certified by: 65 MSG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel John S. Oliver)
                                                                                        Pages: 13


This instruction implements Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 10-243, Augmentation Duty, and
establishes guidelines and procedures for the management and employment of the Lajes Field
Installation Augmentation Program. It applies to military members and Department of Defense
(DoD) civilians assigned to the 65th Air Base Wing, Lajes Field, Azores, Portugal. Individuals
assigned to associate and tenant unit commanders may volunteer for tasking. Contractors may
participate if the augmentation duty is part of their contract. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the Lajes Field
publications/forms manager. Ensure all records created as a result of processes described in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/rims.cfm This instruction requires collecting and
maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, authorized 10 U.S.C. 8013 and
E.O. 9397.

1. General
   1.1. Augmentation Objective. The Installation Augmentation Program is designed to assist
   commanders in validating, approving and documenting the need for additional personnel
   resources primarily to support temporary, short-term workload surges during
   installation-level exercises, contingencies and wartime or emergency situations/
   scenarios. Sustained use of augmentees should not be used to offset normal manpower
   shortfalls. The Installation Augmentation Program provides guidelines and procedures for
 2                                                    LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014


     the management and employment of the 65th Security Forces Squadron (65 SFS) and 65th
     Logistics Readiness Squadron (65 LRS) augmentation programs. It can also aid commanders
     and functional area managers in identifying, training and tracking personnel.
2. Responsibilities
     2.1. The 65th Air Base Wing Commander (65 ABW/CC) is responsible for determining if an
     augmentation program is required.
3. Processes and procedures
     3.1. The 65 ABW/CC has determined an augmentation program is required.
     3.2. Tenant units, are highly encouraged to participate in and receive benefits of the
     Installation augmentation program.
     3.3. The 65th Air Base Wing Vice Commander (65 ABW/CV) is the Installation
     Augmentation Program OPR and is responsible for the overall direction of the program. He
     will establish and serve as the chair of the Augmentation Review Board (ARB), decide when
     to hold ARB, and appoint a Base Program Manager (BPM). The Vice Wing Commander is
     the approval authority for all augmentation call-ups.
     3.4. The ARB is made up of two groups: the board members who represent the command
     structure at the group/wing level and those who function as board advisors because of their
     unique positions in manning and requirements management. Board members and advisors
     will provide the 65 ABW/CC with advice on decisions needed to meet the temporary
     augmentation needs of the installation. The ARB consists of the following personnel:
        3.4.1. Chair: 65ABW/CV
        3.4.2. Members: Mission Support Group CC and Medical Group CC
        3.4.3. Advisors (non-voting members): Installation augmentation program manager,
        manpower office (MO) representative and 65ABW/CCC
     3.5. The ARB is responsible for ensuring all local augmentation requirements are identified
     and met, and local training programs are established to meet those needs. The board will
     convene at least annually or as needed, and directed by the chairperson, to revalidate
     requirements and prioritize exercise, contingency, wartime, or other emergency augmentation
     needs, and identify available resources to fill them. The board validates and approves
     augmentation requirements and exemptions based on the servicing MO representative’s
     advice. The ARB has overall responsibility for tasking installation units to meet
     augmentation requirements.
     3.6. The servicing MO representative to the ARB, using approved management engineering
     methods, will assist units in determining total augmentation requirements under locally
     defined scenarios. The MO will advise units regarding documenting augmentee
     shortfall/reclama requests, attend all ARB meetings, and review all augmentation
     requirements and exemptions forwarded to the ARB for action. The MO will advise the ARB
     based on their assessment of the need for and utilization of augmentees, and recommend
     solutions to augmentee reclama/shortfall actions.
     3.7. The Installation Augmentation Base Program Manager will:
LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014                                                               3


     3.7.1. Schedule ARB meetings; provide agendas and other documents to all members.
     3.7.2. Brief the augmentation program OPR on all actions and recommendations of the
     ARB as required.
     3.7.3. Maintain a database of all augmentation requirements and augmentee training
     status.
     3.7.4. Ensure all requirements and exemptions are properly documented and validated by
     the manpower office before being sent to the ARB for action.
     3.7.5. Publish a local operating instruction (OI) to establish procedures and define
     responsibilities for the administration of the installations augmentation program.
  3.8. Squadron Commanders will:
     3.8.1. Appoint Unit Augmentation Coordinators (UAC) if their squadron uses or
     provides augmentees (see Attachment 3 for appointment letter format). Although not
     mandatory, the squadron senior enlisted manager or first sergeant should be appointed as
     squadron UAC
  3.9. UAC will:
     3.9.1. Notify personnel of their assignment to a particular detail (see Attachment 4 for
     appointment letter format). UACs will be responsible for replacing augmentees not later
     than (NLT) 60 days prior to permanent change of station (PCS) or separation and assist
     commanders in determining total Installation Augmentation Program requirements under
     locally defined scenarios.
     3.9.2. Submit requests for exemptions from participation in the Installation
     Augmentation Program under each plan based only upon AF guidance/policy and other
     guidelines provided by the ARB.
     3.9.3. Ensure personnel are identified to fill augmentation requirements and have at least
     eight months remaining before their Date Eligible for Return From Overseas (DEROS).
         3.9.3.1. Ideally trained augmentees should remain in the program for a minimum of
         one year after having been trained in their augmentation duties.
     3.9.4. Ensure appointment letters identifying primary and as required alternate personnel
     to fill augmentation duty requirements are provided to augmented UCA. It is encouraged
     that alternates will total 50% of primary requirements. It is the augmenting unit’s
     responsibility to have enough alternates.
     3.9.5. Augmented Unit Requirements. The unit requesting augmentation will
     accomplish, at a minimum, the following: (1) maintain a list of assigned personnel, (2)
     decide augmentee duties, train augmentees to perform those duties, schedule and track
     team training, (3) forecast any increase/decrease in personnel needed for this detail
     through the BPM and (4) be responsible for providing any necessary equipment, uniform
     items (rain gear, cold weather gear, etc.), and safety gear (steel toed boots, leatherwork
     gloves, reflective belts, etc.) needed to accomplish this detail. Forecasting/budgeting for
     the cost of required equipment is the responsibility of the augmented unit.
  3.10. The 65 SFS UAC will identify Security Force (SF) augmentee requirements.
4                                                     LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014


    3.11. The 65 LRS UAC will identify Mobility Machine augmentee requirements.
    3.12. The 65th Force Support Squadron, Military Personnel Section (65 FSS/FSMP) will
    provide the 65 FSS/FSMM with a spreadsheet which identifies all Airmen assigned to Lajes
    Field broken down by unit/grade/name/DEROS information for fair share calculations, when
    requested.
    3.13. Activation of Augmentees
       3.13.1. The 65ABW/CV or designated detail manager will activate the appropriate
       augmentation duty program.
       3.13.2. The augmented units and squadron UACs will be notified of the activation by
       command post and the appropriate rules of engagement will be issued. At this time, the
       augmented unit will activate recall procedures for their augmentation duty program, as
       necessary. Other pertinent factors such as: duration of the activation, manpower
       requirements, circumstances surrounding the activation, and individual member
       requirements will be briefed to wing leadership as soon as possible. Proper utilization of
       base mass communication mediums, wing staff meetings, Battle Staff Directives and
       commander's call will be maximized to get pertinent information to the appropriate
       audience as needed.
       3.13.3. When squadrons fail to provide personnel for wing approved details according to
       tasking or when personnel report late, the requesting agency will contact first the
       squadron UAC, then as needed, appropriate first sergeant, squadron section commander,
       or unit commander for assistance. If the squadron fails to provide the required detail
       personnel in a timely manner, the requesting agency should notify the 65ABW/CV
       telephonically, followed up with a memorandum of record, outlining the circumstances
       involved.
    3.14. When activated, anticipate routine job orders will not be completed in a timely manner,
    along with other customer service requirements.
    3.15. Tasking Augmentees
       3.15.1. The targeted personnel for performing most details are E-6 and below; however,
       the individual commander will decide if a higher rank or grade performs the detail. Group
       and squadron commanders will determine who will perform augmentation duty based on
       the various squadrons' missions. Some squadron personnel may not be able to support
       extended augmentation duties, but shorter duration taskings like the Search and Recovery
       may be feasible based on their mission.
       3.15.2. Units with approved augmentation requirements will forward their request to the
       BPM to be reviewed by the ARB at the next meeting or sooner if needed. The request
       will have a sample appointment letter attached and any other supporting documentation
       needed by the tasked units to fill the tasking. Once the ARB validates the request, it will
       be forwarded to the appropriate groups or squadrons. Requesting units will establish
       timely and reasonable suspense’s for obtaining detail personnel names to allow sufficient
       time for identifying, equipping and training augmentees.
       3.15.3. Augmentees will not be removed from the program without squadron
       commander approval except departing for PCS, reassignment, separation, or retirement
LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014                                                               5


     (Attachment 5). The augmented unit augmentation program coordinator should assure
     replacements are identified and trained. Tasked units will provide a replacement when an
     augmentee is within two months of separation, retirement, or PCS, and will provide
     appointments letters for replacements 30 days prior. Variations will be worked on a case
     by case basis. It is highly encouraged to add augmentation membership to all out
     processing checklists Close coordination between using and providing units and the
     augmentation program manager should be established to ensure there are no shortfalls in
     providing augmentee replacements.
     3.15.4. Any time an augmentee on any of the two augmentee rosters departs for a 6-
     month or longer deployment the unit providing the augmentee must provide a
     replacement. Use the template at Attachment 4 to provide a replacement. Tasking the
     same individual for two different augmentations (double-tapping) is prohibited.
  3.16. Augmentee Management. Once augmentees have reported to their augmentation duty
  location, the unit under which the augmentation requirement resides assumes responsibility
  for augmentee accountability, shift scheduling and any additional training/instruction.
  Augmentees will work until the condition that caused activation of the Installation
  Augmentation Program or manpower pool has been terminated, at which time they will be
  released to their respective units. Changes should be mission-related only and not for
  convenience of the unit
  3.17. Fair Share Tasking. Fair share tasking for the Installation Augmentation Program is
  calculated semi-annually or as needed by applying the man-hour availability factor to the
  total number of requirements and divided by the total available pool of military personnel in
  the grades Airman Basic through Technical Sergeant (E1-E6) from each assigned unit less
  approved exemptions.
  3.18. Accessing the Manpower Pool. Additional manpower requirements can also be
  considered for unit fair share tasking. The commander requesting support will provide the
  number and grade requirements (if any) to the 65 FSS/FSMM. The fair share tasking
  standard will be determined by applying the man-hour availability factor to the total number
  of requirements and divided by the total available pool of military personnel from each
  assigned unit less approved exemptions and activated Installation Augmentation Program
  augmentees. Fair share tasking is representative of assigned personnel only and does not
  reflect availability and mission impact.
  3.19. If a unit is not able to fulfill their unit fair share augmentation tasking whether with
  available manpower or qualified personnel the unit commander will ensure the applicable
  supported unit commander is notified.
  3.20. Requesting Installation Augmentation Program Exemptions. Exemptions are submitted
  by unit commanders via the Augmentation Duty Mission Essential Exemption Request
  (ADMEER) (Attachment 2), validated by the 65 FSS/FSMM and approved by the ARB.
  Each exemption must be accompanied by a technical reference (AFI, Technical Order, HQ
  USAFE Directive, etc.). All units must have an approved exemption request on file with the
  65 FSS/FSMM in order to not be counted towards ADP availability.
  3.21. During an exercise or real-world situation, shortfalls will be directly reported to
  the 65ABW/CV followed by the unit requiring the augmentee.
 6                                                       LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014


     3.22. The Installation Plans Office should ensure all appropriate installation plans/scenarios
     include ARB approved personnel augmentation requirements.
4. Training
     4.1. Security Forces (SF) Augmentee Training.
        4.1.1. The 65 SFS will conduct SF augmentation training. As a minimum, SF
        augmentation training will be conducted IAW AFPAM 10-243, AFI 36-2646 and AFI
        36-2646 USAFESUP, consisting of the following:
        4.1.2. Weapons. Augmentees will be qualified with the M-16 or able to qualify with the
        M-16.
        4.1.3. SF Concepts and operations.
        4.1.4. Counter Bloodborne Pathogens.
        4.1.5. Qualify with Assigned Weapon(s) (M-9/M-4/M-16A2).
        4.1.6. Weapons Safety .
        4.1.7. Use of Force (lethal/non-lethal).
        4.1.8. CJCS Standing Rules of Engagement.
        4.1.9. Communications.
        4.1.10. Reports (SITREP/SALUTE)
        4.1.11. Individual and Small Team Tactics.
        4.1.12. Handcuffing Procedures.
        4.1.13. Individual Search.
        4.1.14. Area Search
        4.1.15. Vehicle Search
        4.1.16. Challenging (Foot & Vehicle)
        4.1.17. Non-Lethal tools
        4.1.18. SF Augmentees must meet certain minimum requirements to qualify. As a
        minimum:
            4.1.18.1. Possess at least a secret security clearance.
            4.1.18.2. Not have an active UIF or control roster.
            4.1.18.3. Not have a medical profile which would disqualify them from performing
            SF augmentation duties.
            4.1.18.4. Have at least eight months remaining before their DEROS.
     4.2. 65 LRS Mobility Machine Augmentee Training.
        4.2.1. The 65 LRS will conduct augmentation training for mobility bag processing and
        security and ensure cargo/preparation training is coordinated with the 729 AMS.
LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                 7


     4.2.2. Augmentees assigned to the pallet build-up team will require gloves, steel toed
     boots and wet weather gear to perform duties.
     4.2.3. Augmentees assigned to CDF security detail will require wet weather gear to
     perform duties.
     4.2.4. Augmentees assigned to mobility bag processing are required to have gloves and
     steel toed boots.
     4.2.5. Mobility Machine Augmentees must meet certain minimum requirements to
     qualify. They will not have a medical profile, which would disqualify them from
     performing cargo preparation and pallet build up augmentation duties (lifting, bending,
     long periods of standing, etc.). If assigned personnel are under a profile, an alternate will
     be named to meet mobility machines requirements.




                                           CHRIS BARGERY, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
 8                                                 LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 Aug 02
AFI 36-2225, Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs, 28 Apr 09
AFI 36-2225 USAFESUP, Security Police Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs,
24 Oct 02
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Prescribed Forms
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
ABW—Air Base Wing
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
CC—Commander
CV—Vice Commander
FAPM—Functional Augmentation Program Manager
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
S&R—Search and Recovery
LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                     9


                                          Attachment 2
       AUGMENTATION DUTY MISSION ESSENTIAL EXEMPTION REQUEST

MEMORANDUM FOR 65 FSS/FSMM
                65 ABW/CV
                IN TURN

FROM: UNIT/CC

SUBJECT: Augmentation Duty Mission Essential Exemption Request

1. Mission Essential Short Title: ___________________________________________

2. Justification: Include a full explanation and hard copy of supporting documentation such as an
    AFI, Technical Order, HQ USAFE Directive, etc. as an attachment. Highlight the applicable
    sections(s).

3. Effect on the unit’s mission : ______________________________________________



                                              NAME, Rank, USAF
                                              Squadron Commander’s Signature Block

Attachment(s):
AFI, USAFE Sup or LFI


1st Ind, 65 Group/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR 65 FSS/FSMM

Recommend approval/disapproval.



                                              NAME, Rank, USAF
                                              Group Commander’s Signature Block

2d. Ind, 65FSS/FSMM

MEMORANDUM FOR 65ABW/CV

Recommend approval/disapproval.


                                              NAME, Rank, USAF
                                              Superintendant, Manpower and Organization
 10                                                LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014




3d Ind to, 65 ABW/CV, Augmentation Duty Mission Essential Exemption Request

MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT/CC

Request approved/disapproved.



                                          NAME, Rank, USAF
                                          Vice Commander, 65th Air Base Wing

cc:
65 FSS/FSMM
LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                   11


                                           Attachment 3
       UNIT AUGMENTEE COORDINATOR APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM

MEMORANDUM FOR

FROM: UNIT/CC

SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Augmentee Coordinator

1. The following personnel are appointed to be the Unit Augmentee Coordinators for the 65d XXXXXX
    Squadron:

              Rank/Name         DEROS             Duty Phone            Home Phone
Primary:

Alternate:

2. If you have any questions, please contact (Rank/Name of Unit Augmentee Coordinator), at 535-
XXXX.




                                                                 NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                                 Squadron Commander
 12                                                       LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014


                                            Attachment 4
               AUGMENTATION DUTY APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM

MEMORANDUM FOR

FROM: UNIT/CC

SUBJECT: Appointment to (specific augmentation team)

1. The following personnel are appointed to the (specific augmentation team):

              Rank/Name          DEROS             Duty Phone             Home Phone
Primary:

Alternate:

2. If you have any questions, please contact (Rank/Name of Unit Augmentee Coordinator), at 535-
XXXX.



                                                                           NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                                           Squadron Commander


cc:
1. Member
2. UAC
LAJESFIELDI10-243 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                      13


                                            Attachment 5
                   AUGMENTATION DUTY CHANGE MEMORANDUM

MEMORANDUM FOR

FROM: UNIT/CC

SUBJECT: Change of (SF, S&R, LRS) Augmentee

1. 1. I request that our (SF, S&R, LRS) augmentee be changed from (previous name) to (new name,
SSAN, duty phone) due to a pending (PCS, Retirement, Separation).


              Rank/Name          DEROS              Duty Phone             Home Phone    Previous:

New:

2. This letter supersedes previous letter appointing (previous name) as an augmentee.

3. If you have any questions, please contact (Rank/Name of Unit Augmentee Coordinator), at 535-
XXXX.



                                                                           NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                                           Squadron Commander
