BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                           LAJES AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 32-601
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)
                                                                                   30 JUNE 2010

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                      PEST CONTROL SERVICES FOR OFF-
                                                                       BASE RENTALS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 65 CES/CEOIE                                                       Certified by: 65 MSG/CC
Supersedes: LAJESFIELDI 32-6,                                           (Col Archibald E. Bruns)
            21 February 2000                                                              Pages: 3


This instruction implements AFPD 32-60, Housing. It establishes the policy and provides
guidance, responsibilities and procedures for pest control services in off-base rentals. It applies
to United States Air Force personnel assigned to Lajes Field, who reside in off-base rentals.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field to the OPR of this publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-
123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. This
instruction changes the procedures taken by occupants to open work orders for pest control
services. All references to the “Environmental Controls Section” have been changed to reflect
“Pest Control Section”. All references to “Privately Owned Cottages” have been deleted. There
are no more privately owned cottages.
1. Policy:
   1.1. It is the policy of the 65th Civil Engineer Squadron to provide pest control services to
   US Air Force personnel residing in off-base rentals.
   1.2. This service is offered due to the ever present threat of disease carrying insects and is
   designed to enhance the morale and welfare of those personnel who reside off-base. Pest
 2                                                           LAJESABI32-601 30 JUNE 2010


     control service is offered on a cost-of-material reimbursable basis because no like
     commercial source is available off base.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Occupants will:
        2.1.1. Visit the cashier’s cage at bldg T-100 to initiate a USAFE Base Form 713, Pest
        Control Service Agreement, treatment of their quarters. The same procedures must be
        followed for each successive treatment. The agreement is completed by the individual
        and signed in two copies.
            2.1.1.1. The first copy becomes the source document for billing by the finance
            officer.
            2.1.1.2. The second copy is retained by the occupant and must be presented to the
            technicians at the time of service or the services will not be completed.
        2.1.2. Contact the Pest Control Section at 535-6194, to open a work order and schedule a
        date and time for the service.
        2.1.3. An adult member of the immediate family must be present at the quarters or the
        service will not be completed. If the customer fails to make his/her appointment, then a
        new Pest Control Service Agreement will have to be purchased, and the original
        agreement will be cancelled. The new Service Agreement is to reimburse the Pest
        Control Section for chemicals and time lost from the missed appointment. When
        spraying is done, the technicians will sign the customer copy and return it to them.
        2.1.4. Call the Pest Control Section at 535-6194, no later than the day prior to the
        scheduled service in order to cancel or change the time of the spraying.
        2.1.5. Remove any furnishings, plants, carpets, fish tanks or pets which may be
        damaged.
     2.2. Pest Control Section will:
        2.2.1. Will provide pest control service to all on-base facilities; secondly to off-base
        rentals. Every effort will be made to provide this extra service on a timely basis
        depending on manpower and transportation availability.
     2.3. Prescribed Forms: USAFE Base Form 713, Pest Control Service Agreement
     2.4. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication (Use of
     this form is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program)




                                            MARGARET B. POORE, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
LAJESABI32-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                       3


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-60, Housing, 16 September 2005
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Adopted Form—A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Certifying Official—A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certifies the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
e-Publishing—Central website for accessing, viewing, downloading, and printing electronic
products; physical products may be ordered from the e-Publishing website. Information on
product development and links to other agency publications are also provided on the e-
Publishing website (www.e-publishing.af.mil).
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)—The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
