BY ORDER OF THE                                        LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 48-131
BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)                                                      17 JUNE 2009
                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                                    CONTROL OF ANIMALS




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing site at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 65 SFS/S3                                                       Certified by: 65 MSG/CC
                                                              (Colonel Roderick E. Dorsey, Jr.)
                                                                                      Pages: 8



This instruction implements AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services. It establishes procedures
for control of animals, specifies owner and agency responsibilities and delineates
immunization/registration requirements. All actions, procedures and processes will be in
accordance with AFJI 48-131, Army Regulation 40-905. This instruction is applicable to all
personnel and their dependents assigned, attached or under the operational control of the
Commander, 65th Air Base Wing (ABW), residing on Lajes Field or off-base Military Family
Housing (MFH) areas. Failure to comply with this instruction may result in punishment under
the Uniform Code of Military Justice. It is the responsibility of organizational commanders to
ensure their personnel comply with this instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publications; rout AF Form 847s from the field through the
Lajes Field publications/forms manager. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. Definitions. Pet: Domestic animal maintained for pleasure or companionship.
   1.1. Pet Owner: An individual who has, as his or her personal property, a pet.
   1.2. Wildlife: Animals not domesticated and normally considered wild (to include bats,
   ferrets, snakes, raccoons, foxes, hedgehogs, etc.)
2                                                        LAJESFIELDI48-131       17 JUNE 2009


    1.3. Livestock: Cattle, horses, poultry, sheep, goats and pigs.
    1.4. Dangerous Animal: An animal will normally be classified as “dangerously aggressive”
    or “vicious” if it is involved in two unprovoked animal-inflicted injury incidents. However,
    depending upon the severity of the incident, an animal may be determined to be “dangerous”
    after a single incident.
    1.5. Nuisance Animal: Three justifiable complaints regarding a specific animal will
    normally result in that animal being classified as a “nuisance.” This may include, but is not
    limited to, excessive barking, running loose, destroying property, etc.
    1.6. Neglect: Pets being left exposed to severe weather elements without shelter; left in
    extreme unsanitary conditions (for example, feces in pet living area); left unattended or
    abandoned for periods of more than 24 hours; and left without food or water for periods of
    more than 24 hours.
    1.7. Abuse: Actions that may cause injury or harm to an animal.
    1.8. Stray Animal: Animal is uncontrolled and roaming freely on Lajes Field or MFH.
    1.9. Abandoned Animal: Animal whose owner is known, but is left uncontrolled and
    roaming freely on Lajes Field or MFH due to the owner PCSing from Lajes Field, and/or
    when the owner is still assigned to Lajes Field, but the animal was intentionally and
    knowingly abandoned by the owner.
    1.10. Foster Care: Temporary pet ownership for the purpose of finding and placing a pet in
    a suitable home.
2. Responsibilities. 65th Mission Support Group Commander (MSG/CC):
    2.1. After coordination with Air Base Wing Staff Judge Advocate (ABW/JA), orders
    removal from the installation of any animal determined to be a nuisance belonging to 65
    ABW personnel.
       2.1.1. After coordination with 65 ABW/JA, orders the euthanasia or removal from the
       installation of any pet belonging to 65 ABW personnel that has been classified as
       “dangerous” or “vicious.”
       2.1.2. Informs unit commanders when their personnel fail to pay pet-related fees to either
       65th Services Squadron (SVS) or the 65th Medical Group (MDG/SGOAV), US Army
       Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF).
    2.2. 65th Security Forces Squadron (SFS):
       2.2.1. Picks up or accepts stray or abandoned animals discovered on-base or in off-base
       MFH areas as deemed necessary by Chief Security Forces (CSF).
           2.2.1.1. Uses chip scanner on animal to attempt to identify owner. Contacts owners
           to immediately pick up their pet.
           2.2.1.2. Makes arrangements to impound any animal considered dangerous, vicious
           or a nuisance. Owners of impounded pets will be responsible for paying any
           boarding fees to 65 SVS and/or any veterinary services fees to the VTF.
LAJESFIELDI48-131      17 JUNE 2009                                                         3


        2.2.2.1. Accomplishes Security Forces blotter entry with the details of the incident.
        Identify owner in the blotter entry.
        2.2.2.2. If owner is identified as, or believed to be, a Portuguese national, requests
        (through AB4) Praia Civilian Police obtain the owner’s information and verify animal
        vaccinations are current. If vaccinations are not current or SFS is unable to verify
        currency of vaccinations, inform appropriate medical authorities (65th Medical Group
        or local medical authorities, depending on the situation).
     2.2.3. Transports dangerous, vicious or nuisance animals to building T-587/Atlantic
     Island Kennels as deemed necessary by CSF.
     2.2.4. Uses chip scanner to assist Entomology Shop identify owners of carcasses prior to
     disposal.
     2.2.5. Contacts the VTF in cases involving suspected animal abuse or neglect. The
     veterinary technician will accompany Security Forces to the scene. If it is determined an
     animal has been abused or neglected, the veterinarian technician will make a
     recommendation to the 65 MSG/CC for an order to remove, or for euthanasia when
     authorized. In either case, an AF IMT 3545, Incident Report, will be accomplished with
     the owner listed as the subject. Owners of impounded pets will be responsible for paying
     any boarding fees to 65 SVS, and/or any veterinary services fees to the VTF.
  2.3. 65 SVS:
     2.3.1. Ensures a contractor maintains the Stray/Abandoned Animal Kennels, located at
     building T-587, housing strays, abandoned, nuisance and dangerous animals.
     2.3.2. Ensures the contractor cleans Stray/Abandoned Animal Kennels and feeds and
     waters animals.
     2.3.3. Provides temporary boarding for pets at building T-587/Atlantic Island Kennels.
     Pet owners are responsible for paying temporary boarding fee(s) to 65 SVS.
     2.3.4. Implements a process to remind newly arriving PCS personnel to register their
     pets at the VTF within 72 hours of arrival.
     2.3.5. Informs the 65 MSG/CC when pet owners fail to pay pet-related fees to 65 SVS.
     2.3.6. Ensures Air Force Crossroads website and other sponsor information media
     concerning pet-related issues at Lajes Field is kept current.
  2.4. VTF:
     2.4.1. Implants ID chips in pets.
     2.4.2. Provides 65 SFS with professional advice concerning animal abuse, neglect and
     bite cases.
     2.4.3. Maintains a copy of the rabies vaccination certificate for base registration
     containing the owner’s name, description of the animal, rabies vaccination date and 65
     ABW tag number.
     2.4.4. Manages the bite control program and performs quarantine examinations on
     animals involved in human wound inflictions.
4                                                       LAJESFIELDI48-131         17 JUNE 2009


           2.4.4.1. Informs 65 MDG/SGOPM, Military Public Health and the Aerospace
           Medicine Council about any bite incidents.
       2.4.5. Ensures Lajes Field Clinic Ambulance Service and 65 SFS have current
       emergency kennel and veterinary technician contact numbers.
       2.4.6. Notifies owners when vaccinations are required.
       2.4.7. Provides an updated monthly listing of pets, chip numbers and owners to 65 SFS.
       2.4.8. Manages the Animal Adoption Program and ensures personnel who adopt stray or
       abandoned animals comply with this instruction.
           2.4.8.1. Provides euthanasia service if a stray or abandoned animal’s owners cannot
           be contacted after 3 duty days.
       2.4.9. Involves the 65 MSG/CC and unit First Sergeant when pet owners do not comply
       with this instruction.
       2.4.10. Informs the 65 MSG/CC when personnel fail to pay pet-related fees to the VTF.
       2.4.11. Disposes of pets abandoned by owners who have departed because of a
       permanent change of station (PCS). The last pet owner of record will be responsible for
       paying any veterinary service fees to the VTF.
       2.4.12. Uses chip scanner to assist Entomology Shop identify owners of carcasses prior
       to disposal.
       2.4.13. Notifies 65 SVS of all host nation changes regarding pet registration and
       importation requirements.
    2.5. 65th Civil Engineer Squadron (65 CES):
       2.5.1. Entomology shop picks up and disposes of all animal carcasses from the VTF, as
       well as any found along roadways of Lajes Field and/or in the base housing, on-base
       cottage areas or off-base MFH areas.
           2.5.1.1. Prior to disposal of carcasses, entomology shop will transport the carcass to
           either the VTF or 65 SFS to have the carcass scanned using a chip scanner to
           determine pet’s owner. Disposal will not occur until the VTF or 65 SFS attempts to
           notify owner.
           2.5.1.2. Animal carcasses will be placed in an animal carcass trash box and
           transported by garbage collectors to the off-base landfill.
    2.6. Pet Owners:
       2.6.1. Register their pet(s) and present a valid health certificate, rabies certificate and
       proof of current distemper combination vaccines to the VTF within 72 hours after arrival
       on Terceira Island or upon acquiring a new pet.
           2.6.1.1. Owners must provide the 65 SVS the same paperwork as stated in para 2.6.1.
           for boarding at bldg T-587/Atlantic Island Kennels.
       2.6.2. Be liable for costs incurred for veterinary service when immunization or
       emergency treatment is necessary. Fees will be paid to the VTF.
LAJESFIELDI48-131      17 JUNE 2009                                                            5


     2.6.3. Be liable for all other costs that may arise concerning their pet(s). Applicable fees
     will be paid to 65 SVS and/or the VTF.
     2.6.4. Obtain treatment and immunizations necessary to keep their pets from becoming a
     health hazard to the community (i.e. deworming, flea control, etc.).
     2.6.5. Be responsible when departing for PCS, TDY or leave for the disposition of all
     animals in one of the following manners prior to departure:
        2.6.5.1. Make all necessary arrangements to ship the animal(s) to the next duty
        station or place of retirement/separation. Abandonment of a pet constitutes neglect
        and may be grounds for punitive action.
        2.6.5.2. Ensure adoption of the animal(s) by responsible personnel.          Change of
        ownership is required through the VTF.
        2.6.5.3. If unable to place the pet after a minimum 2-week period, schedule an
        appointment with a veterinarian for euthanasia.
        2.6.5.4. If departing for TDY or leave, arrange for proper care of pets either by
        paying for boarding at bldg T-587/Atlantic Island Kennels or having a responsible
        person take control of pets.
     2.6.6. Upon PCS, all pet owners must out-process through the VTF.
     2.6.7. Ensure animal(s) are properly fed, watered and cared for at all times and are
     adequately sheltered from the weather. Failure to do so will result in an abuse/neglect
     incident report. The quarters or area in which the animals are maintained will be kept in
     a sanitary manner. Pet owners will remove pet droppings immediately from walkways,
     yards and any other areas, to include common areas or large open areas.
     2.6.8. Pets will be under control of the owners at all times. Dogs and cats will be penned
     in a suitable enclosure, kept in the family quarters or chained within the rear confines of
     the quarters, not to exceed 20 feet, and walked on a leash. The maximum number of pets
     per household is two, unless a waiver is granted by the 65 MSG/CC.
        2.6.8.1. Female pets in heat will be confined within the owner's quarters. Any time
        out-side will be strictly monitored to prevent accidental breeding. Intentional
        breeding is only allowed with specific permission of the 65 MSG/CC (refer to
        Chapter 6).
        2.6.8.2. Pets will not be tied to water spigots or front/rear entrance doorways, nor
        will they be quartered on housing balconies. Under no circumstances will pets be
        chained to perimeter fencing.
     2.6.9. Register dogs and cats with the VTF within 72 hours of obtaining them. If animal
     ownership changes, the new owner must re-register the animal, ensure it has a current
     rabies immunization certificate, a registration microchip and a 65 ABW identification
     tag. Previous owners will not be outprocessed until these actions have been completed.
     2.6.10. All 65 ABW registered animals must wear a current rabies tag at all times.
     2.6.11. When 65 ABW-registered animals die; owners must notify the VTF to terminate
     registration and obtain disposal instructions.
6                                                         LAJESFIELDI48-131         17 JUNE 2009


       2.6.12. Failure of a pet owner to comply with this instruction may subject the individual
       to permanent loss of authorization to keep animals, involuntary termination of
       government quarters or other punitive actions.
    2.7. All animals brought to or adopted at Lajes Field, regardless of their arrival date, will be
    fitted with an electronic chip for identification purposes upon registration.
3. Immunizations. All dogs and cats 4 months of age or older must be immunized against
rabies. Rabies vaccinations are a yearly requirement. Other small animal immunizations will be
given at the advice of the veterinary technician at the VTF beginning at 8 weeks of age, as a
booster series, then annually.
4. Prohibited Areas. Domestic animals will not be permitted in base clubs, exchanges, dining
facilities, community centers, school areas, theaters, swimming pool areas, snack bars, skating
rink or similar activities that may be established. EXCEPTION: Seeing Eye Dogs, Hearing
Dogs and Military Working Dogs on official duty. Occupants of dormitories and lodging
facilities are not permitted to maintain pets.
5. Large Anima/Livestock. Large animals/livestock will not be quartered within the confines
of Lajes Field or any off-base MFH area. Animals discovered quartered in these areas will be
removed.
    5.1. Horses are prohibited in MFH areas. Horses are prohibited on Lajes Field unless
    approved by AB4 for an officially sanctioned function.
    5.2. Horses must be stabled under acceptable husbandry practices.
    5.3. Horses must be under positive control of the rider at all times.
    5.4. Riders must observe and obey all traffic/pedestrian rules and instructions outlined in
    AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, as supplemented, Portuguese
    traffic codes and this instruction. Violators will be cited. Accidents involving horses with
    riders and motor vehicles will be investigated IAW AFI 31-204, as supplemented.
6. Restrictions. Livestock: No animal will be maintained on-base or in off-base MFH housing
for the purpose of food production (i.e. chickens, goats, pigs, sheep, etc.)
    6.1. Breeding Animals: Pets may be bred for sale in MFH with the express permission of
    the 65 MSG/CC. Requests for permission to breed and sell animals in MFH must be
    coordinated through the MFH Office for approval to operate a home business. In addition,
    the request must include a signed Memorandum of Agreement between the member and the
    VTF that all veterinary care for animals used for a commercial enterprise will be totally at the
    member's expense from a non-US Government provider.
7. Animal Adoption Procedures. Personnel wishing to adopt animals will contact the VTF.
    7.1. After 3 duty days, stray or abandoned animals can be adopted on a first come, first serve
    basis.
    7.2. Upon completion of the adoption, individuals will have 3 duty days to schedule an
    appointment at the VTF to have the animal immunized, implanted with an ID chip and
    registered.
LAJESFIELDI48-131       17 JUNE 2009                                   7


  7.3. Adopted Forms:
     AF IMT 3545, Incident Report
     AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications




                                       PAUL J. SUAREZ, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
8                                                      LAJESFIELDI48-131      17 JUNE 2009


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
Army Regulation 40-905/AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29 Aug 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW— 65th Air Base Wing
AB4— Air Police Station
CES— Civilian Engineer Squardon
CSF— Chief Security Forces
JA— Judge Advocate
MFH— Military Family Housing
MDG/SGOAV— Medical Group
MSG/CC— Mission Support Group Commander
PCS— Permanent Change of Station
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
SFS— Security Forces Squadron
SVS— Services Squadron
VTF— Veterinary Treatment Facility
