BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 48-101
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)
                                                                                   11 MAY 2012

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                  BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS EXPOSURE
                                                                   CONTROL PLAN




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publication site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 65 MDOS/SGOL                                                      Certified by: 65 MDG/CC
                                                                     (Colonel William D. Parker)
                                                                                        Pages: 10
Supersedes:    LAJESFIELDI48-8,
               3 November 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine
Enterprise and outlines procedures under 29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens. It applies
to all U.S. military and civilian personnel assigned to Lajes Field, Azores, Portugal, with
potential occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens (BBP). Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publications; route AF Form 847s from the field through the Lajes Field
publications/forms manager. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at.
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This instruction requires collecting
and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013
and E.O. 9397.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

OPR was updated to current Element Chief and section symbol was changed. Certified by
information was updated to current Commander. Under Section 2.1 Responsibilities, added
responsibility sections for Air Base Wing Commander, Medical Group Commander and Primary
 2                                                         LAJESFIELDI48-101 11 MAY 2012


Care Manager Teams in section 2.1 Responsibilities.          Updated Section 3, Exposure
Determination, to reflect Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) and CDC guidance.
1. GENERAL PURPOSE
     1.1. Federal Law established under the auspices of the Occupational Safety and Health
     Administration (OSHA) requires employers to provide a safe working environment for their
     employees. Although these laws specifically exempt federal agencies, United States Air
     Force policy requires compliance with them within the profession of arms. In accordance
     with (IAW) 29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens, this instruction is the Bloodborne
     Pathogen (BBP) Exposure Control Plan (ECP) for US forces stationed at Lajes Field, Azores,
     Portugal and covers all US sponsored activities on Lajes Field. The 65th Medical Group,
     65th Security Forces Squadron, 65th Civil Engineering Squadron, Fire Department and
     Detachment 6 Air Force Office of Special Investigations each require a BBP ECP specific to
     their operations.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES
     2.1. 65 Air Base Wing Commander will:
        2.1.1. Ensure all employees have a safe and healthy working environment. Establish a
        written Exposure Control Program designed to eliminate or minimize employee exposure
        to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
        2.1.2. Ensure program identifies duties that conceivably pose a risk of occupational
        exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
        2.1.3. Ensure initial and annual training is accomplished for personnel considered at risk.
        2.1.4. Ensure that each unit (group and squadron) commander complies with this
        instruction.
        2.1.5. Ensure this instruction is reviewed at least annually and updated whenever
        necessary to reflect new or modified tasks and procedures which affect occupational
        exposure and to reflect new or revised employee positions with occupational exposure.
     2.2. Unit Commanders/Supervisors will:
        2.2.1. Identify all job positions which have a potential risk for occupational exposure to
        blood, body fluids and other potentially infectious material (OPIM).
        2.2.2. Ensure all personnel in identified job positions undergo initial and annual BBP
        training and comply to 29 CFR 1910.1030.
        2.2.3. Ensure supervisors document training on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
        Health Record, or its equivalent.
        2.2.4. Ensure adequate PPE (gloves, masks, goggles, face shields, outer protective
        garments, etc.) is available for workers to use at all times where there is a potential for
        occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or OPIM.
        2.2.5. Enforce the wearing of PPE during procedures in which there is a potential for
        occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
        Noncompliance of workers to adhere to policies and directives of this program must be
        immediately addressed through appropriate administrative procedures. This policy is
LAJESFIELDI48-101 11 MAY 2012                                                                 3


     established to protect the government's financial interest and to protect the worker's
     health.
     2.2.6. Provide personal protective equipment (PPE) appropriate to the reasonably
     anticipated type of exposure at no cost to the employee.
     2.2.7. Evaluate worker's duty performance during an exposure incident. If worker does
     not wear appropriate PPE or PPE is breached during the incident, the supervisor will
     complete a narrative summary (which will include the individual's name, job description,
     source of the blood, body fluid, or other infectious materials if known, and a statement on
     how the exposure occurred) of the situation and forward copies to Base Safety and Public
     Health for information and action.
     2.2.8. Ensure Hepatitis B vaccination will be made available, at no cost, to all employees
     with potential occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials. If
     civilian employees, including volunteers, decline to take the vaccination, a Hepatitis B
     Vaccination Declination form must be signed and placed in the medical record. This
     does not include civilian personnel and volunteers working in AFSCs listed in Tables 1
     and 2; they must receive vaccine as a condition of their employment. It is mandatory for
     all active duty members.
     2.2.9. Will complete required safety/exposure reports and direct employees to contact
     their Primary Care Manager (PCM) in the Lajes Field health care facility immediately to
     schedule a medical evaluation.
  2.3. Contractors will:
     2.3.1. Ensure the safety and health of their own employees (if neither the USAF nor any
     other federal agency). USAF contract specifications for services and materials should
     stipulate strict adherence to 29 CFR 1910.1030, specify who provides PPE to whom, who
     provides hepatitis B vaccinations, who provides training, and who investigates and
     documents BBP exposure incidents.
     2.3.2. Follow the guidelines implemented in this instruction.
  2.4. 65 Medical Group Commander will:
     2.4.1. Comply with this instruction and ensure that personnel under his/her authority
     observe them.
  2.5. Primary Care Manager Team will:
     2.5.1. Evaluate the worker's potential exposure to bloodborne pathogens using criteria
     developed by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) based on the type of
     exposure and source's risk factors.
     2.5.2. Ensure appropriate testing of the source as well as testing, treatment, and follow-
     up care for the exposed worker is accomplished in a timely manner, if needed.
     2.5.3. Educate exposed worker/patient on the necessity of treatment and follow-up.
     2.5.4. Provide a written opinion on the individual's exposure incident and recommended
     follow-up care within 15 days of receipt of results of laboratory tests. Ensure the written
     opinion is placed in the individual's medical record.
4                                                         LAJESFIELDI48-101 11 MAY 2012


       2.5.5. Ensure appropriate follow-up is accomplished following the guidelines outlined in
       Medical Group Instruction (MDGI) 48-101, Bloodborne Pathogens Exposure Control
       Program.
       2.5.6. Direct the employee to Public Health (PH) for a data collection interview and
       follow-up scheduling. NOTE: Civilian employees not eligible for military medical
       benefits will be directed to contact their health care provider and will report to PH after
       being medically evaluated.
    2.6. Bioenvironmental Engineering Element (BEE) will:
       2.6.1. Provide evaluations of engineering controls (e.g., biosafety cabinets, laboratory
       hoods, ventilation systems), monitor work center environmental exposures IAW
       applicable standards, and establish personal protective equipment (PPE) requirements.
    2.7. Public Health (PH) will:
       2.7.1. Provide educational training material upon request to organization supervisors on
       proper techniques and prevention of exposure to blood, body fluids, and other potentially
       infectious materials.
       2.7.2. Review a unit’s BBP initial training curriculum upon request to ensure OSHA and
       AFI guidelines are met.
       2.7.3. Provide technical advice and supervisory assistance upon request on:
           2.7.3.1. The types of PPE needed to protect workers from exposure to blood, body
           fluids, or OPIM. Bioenvironmental Engineering personnel also provide
           recommendation on PPE.
           2.7.3.2. Training of workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
           infectious materials in the course of their duties.
           2.7.3.3. Decontamination of surfaces contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other
           potentially infectious materials.
    2.8. Employees will:
       2.8.1. Understand and follow BBP guidelines as outlined in this instruction and 29 CFR
       1910.1030.
       2.8.2. Report exposures promptly to the workplace supervisor and seek post-exposure
       treatment and evaluation.
       2.8.3. Use the PPE provided.
3. EXPOSURE DETERMINATION
    3.1. Each Sq/CC who has employee(s) with occupational exposure to OPIM as defined as
    high risk, exposure prone, or no anticipated risk personnel (see Attachment 1) must prepare
    an exposure determination.
    3.2. Category II (Moderate Risk): Routine tasks that involve no exposure to human blood,
    body fluids, tissues, or other OPIMs, but employment may require performing
    unplanned/emergency Category I tasks. The normal work routine involves no exposure to
    blood, body fluids, or OPIMs, but exposure or potential exposure may be required as a
LAJESFIELDI48-101 11 MAY 2012                                                                  5


  condition of employment. Appropriate PPE, as determined by the supervisor in consultation
  with Bioenvironmental Engineering, will be readily available to every employee engaged in
  Category II tasks.
  3.3. Employees in the job classifications listed in Table 2 (Attachment 2) have occupational
  exposure to BBP when performing the indicated tasks.
4. IMPLEMENTATION
  4.1. Methods of compliance:
     4.1.1. IAW 29 CFR 1910.1030, the use of Universal Precautions is required and all
     blood or OPIM will be treated as though infectious. All personnel occupationally
     exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials will practice universal
     precautions.
     4.1.2. Engineering and work practice controls will be implemented to eliminate or
     minimize employee exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials. Where
     occupational exposure remains after institution of these controls, PPE will also be used.
     4.1.3. Supervisors of personnel with the AFSCs listed in Table 1 and Table 2 will ensure
     newly arrived personnel provide documentation of previous hepatitis B vaccination series
     completion or that they begin the series, after receiving initial BBP training and within 10
     days of initial assignment.
  4.2. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow-Up:
     4.2.1. Will be performed by the PCM Team.
     4.2.2. Will be completed following a report of an exposure incident, post-exposure
     evaluation and follow-up will be made available immediately, at no cost, to the exposed
     employee including the following elements:
     4.2.3. Documentation of the route(s) of exposure and the circumstances under which the
     exposure incident occurred.
     4.2.4. Identification and documentation of the source individual, unless the employer can
     establish that identification is infeasible or prohibited by state or local law.
     4.2.5. Collection and testing of blood for hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus
     (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serological status.
     4.2.6. Post-exposure prophylaxis, when medically indicated, as recommended by the US
     Public Health Service.
  4.3. Communication of hazards to employees:
     4.3.1. Any and all containers used to store, transport, or ship blood or other potentially
     infectious materials, or items contaminated by such, will be labeled according to 29 CFR
     1910.1030, section (g)(1).
     4.3.2. All employees with potential occupational exposure will receive BBP training
     within 10 days of initial assignment and annually thereafter. Additional training must be
     provided when changes such as modification of tasks or procedures or institution of new
     tasks or procedures affect the employee’s occupational exposure.
6                                                         LAJESFIELDI48-101 11 MAY 2012


       4.3.3. PH is available to provide training or to train trainers and review lesson plans and
       other training materials.
       4.3.4. All BBP training will be documented and maintained IAW this instruction.
       4.3.5. Each supervisor of employees covered under this instruction and 29 CFR
       1910.1030 will ensure that a copy of this instruction and 29 CFR 1910.1030 are
       accessible to their employees.
    4.4. Record keeping:
       4.4.1. All records maintained as required by this instruction and 29 CFR 1910.1030 are
       strictly confidential and are protected under the Privacy Act of 1974. Employee medical
       and training records will be provided to the individual employee for examination and
       copying when requested by the employee, or to an employee representative with written
       consent from the employee.
       4.4.2. Unit Commanders/Supervisors will establish and maintain records documenting
       each employee’s HBV vaccination status.
       4.4.3. 29 CFR 1910.1030 requires very specific, thorough, and confidential medical
       documentation of all exposure incidents and of subsequent evaluation and follow-up. For
       all employees eligible for military medical benefits, these documents will be maintained
       in their permanent medical record as the property of the USAF. For all employees not
       eligible for military medical benefits, copies of these documents will be obtained from
       the treating physician and maintained by the supervisor. These records will be
       maintained for the duration of employment plus 30 years.
       4.4.4. BBP training will be documented on AF Form 2767, Occupational Health
       Training and Protective Equipment Fit Testing, and maintained by the shop supervisor.




                                            JOSE A. RIVERA, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
LAJESFIELDI48-101 11 MAY 2012                                                             7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine
Preventable Diseases, 11th ed., May 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
HQ USAF/SG Memorandum, Hepatitis B Immunization Policy for Air Force Medical and
Dental Personnel (SG Policy Letter #03-004), Sep 2003
MMWR, Vol 50/No. RR-11, Updated U.S. Public Health Service Guidelines for the
Management of Occupational Exposures to HBV, HCV and HIV and Recommendations for
Postexposure Prophylaxis, 29 June 2001
MMWR, Vol 54/No. RR-9, Updated U.S. Public Health Service Guidelines for the Management
of Occupational Exposures to HIV and Recommendations for Postexposure Prophylaxis, 30 Sep
2005
Prescribed Forms
No Forms Prescribed
Adopted Forms
AF Form 2767, Occupational Health Training and Protective Equipment Fit Testing, 28 May
2002
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, 30 March 2007
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
BBP—Bloodborne Pathogens
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
ECP—Exposure Control Plan
HBV—Hepatitis B Virus
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IAW—In Accordance With
LFI—Lajes Field Instruction
MDG—Medical Group
 8                                                         LAJESFIELDI48-101 11 MAY 2012


OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PCM—Primary Care Manager
PH—Public Health
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Blood— Human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
Bloodborne Pathogens (BBP)— Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood
and can cause disease in humans. These include Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) and Human
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
Contaminated— The presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other
potentially infectious materials on an item or surface.
Engineering Controls— Controls (e.g., sharps disposal containers, self-sheathing needles) that
isolate or remove the BBP hazard from the workplace.
Exposure Incident— A specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or
parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious material that results from the
performance of an employee’s duties.
Exposure Prone Personnel—: Medical and dental providers, nurses, and technicians who
perform invasive procedures, defined by the CDC as “surgical entry into tissues, cavities, or
organs or repair of major traumatic injuries associated with operating or delivery room,
emergency department, or outpatient setting (dental and physician), cardiac catheterization and
angiographic procedures; vaginal/cesarean delivery or other invasive obstetric procedure where
bleeding occurs; or manipulation, cutting, or removal of any oral or perioral tissues, including
tooth structure, during which bleeding occurs or the potential for bleeding exists.” All exposure
prone personnel are also high risk.
High—Risk Personnel – Personnel working in, or under jurisdiction of, Air Force MTFs who
have direct contact with patients or blood/body fluids, and are at ongoing risk for injuries with
sharp instruments/needle sticks.
No Anticipated Risk—: Tasks that involve no exposure to human blood, body fluids or tissues.
The normal work routine involves no exposure to human blood, body fluids or tissues (although
situations may be imagined or hypothesized under which anyone, anywhere, might encounter
potential exposure to body fluids). Persons who perform these duties are not called upon as part
of their employment to perform or assist in emergency medical care or first aid, or to be
potentially exposed in some other way.
Occupational Exposure— Reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that may result from the performance
of an employee’s duties.
Other Potentially Infectious Materials— Semen, vaginal secretions, cerebrospinal fluid,
synovial fluid, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid, amniotic fluid, saliva in dental
LAJESFIELDI48-101 11 MAY 2012                                                                     9


procedures, any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood, and all body fluids in
situations where it is difficult or impossible to differentiate between body fluids; and any unfixed
tissue or organ (other than intact skin) from a human (living or dead).
Parenteral— Piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such events as needle
sticks, human bites, cuts, or abrasions.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)— Specialized clothing or equipment worn by an
employee for protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g., uniforms, pants, shirts or
blouses) not intended to function as protection against a hazard is not considered to be personal
protective equipment.
Source Individual— Any individual, living or dead, whose blood or other potentially infectious
materials may be a source of occupational exposure to the employee.
Universal Precautions— An approach to infection control in which all human blood and certain
other human body fluids and tissues are treated as if known to be infectious for HIV, HBV, or
other BBP.
Work Practice Controls— Controls that reduce the likelihood of exposure by altering the
manner in which a task is performed (e.g., prohibiting recapping of needles by a two-handed
technique).
 10                                                   LAJESFIELDI48-101 11 MAY 2012


                                       Attachment 2
                               JOB CLASSIFICATION TABLES

Table 1. Job Classifications with Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens


AFSC         Job Title
43TX         Biomedical Lab Officer
44XX         Pediatrician, Physician
46XX         Nurse
47XX         Dentist
48XX         Flight Surgeon
4J0XX        Physical, Occupational Therapy
4NXX         Aeromedical Technician
4R0XX        Radiology
4T0XX        Medical Laboratory
4Y0XX        Dental Assistant


Table 2. Job Classifications with Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens when
Performing the Indicated Task.


AFSC         Job Title                  Task
3P0X1        Security Forces            Emergency Response, first aid
3E7XX        Fire Protection            Emergency Response, first aid
3M0XX        Mortuary Affairs           Care of human remains
4A2XX        Biomedical Equipment       Repair of contaminated medical equipment
4Y0XX        Dental Laboratory          Dental prosthesis fittings on patients
71SX         Special Investigator       Field investigations, handling contaminated evidence
7S0X1        Special Investigation      Field investigations, handling contaminated evidence
