BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 36-101
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)
                                                                            26 OCTOBER 2009
                                                         Certified Current on 19 November 2013
                                                                                     Personnel

                                                     PORTUGUESE CIVILIAN PERSONNEL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing site at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 65 FSS/FSMC                                                       Certified by: 65 MSG/CC
                                                                (Colonel Roderick E. Dorsey, Jr.)
Supersedes:    LAJESFIELDI 36-4, 1 October 1998                                       Pages: 68



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-1. This instruction is
provided in accordance with Article (Art) 1.3 of the Agreement On Cooperation and Defense
Between The United States Of America and Portugal-Labor Agreement (hereinafter Labor
Agreement) and Article 3 of the Agreement On Cooperation and Defense Between The United
States of America and Portugal-Work Regulation (hereinafter Work Regulation). Its purpose is
to provide guidance on applicable provisions of the Labor Agreement (LA) and the Work
Regulation (WR), applicable to employment of all 65th Air Base Wing (65 ABW) Portuguese
Civilian employees. No provision within this instruction will conflict with any requirement
established in the current LA or WR. Any matter that is considered to be in conflict will be
submitted to the Labor Committee for determination. References to the LA or WR are made
where appropriate by showing the specific regulation and article number next to the applicable
provision within the instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the Lajes Field publications/forms manager. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
2                                                                         LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This version
clarifies, updates and streamlines previous guidance. Renumbering of sections, paragraphs
required throughout the revision. 1.1 Purpose was changed to introduction removing references
of the Labor Agreement or Work Regulation and the reference to applicable provisions of the
documents removed from the Lajes Field Instruction (LFI) revision. 1.3-1.6 were removed and
replaced with 1.3 Distribution, 1.4 Administration. Section 2.3 was rewritten to combine
sections 2.3 and 2.4 of the previous LFI. Section 3.2 was expanded to clarify the types of actions
requested by the supervisor. Section 3. Removed references to Standard Form 52 with electronic
request for personnel action. Section 3.9 Examples of Actions was deleted. Section 4 rewritten
to include required documentation for submitting a classification appeal. Section 5 establishes
the use of USAFE 119 for security background checks and USAFE 110, Request for Placement
Consideration for in-service placements. Section 6 expanded to include the nomination
procedures for the types of awards and the approving authority level. Section 7 expanded to
include procedures for Portuguese employees attending off base training requiring HAAZ
approval. Section 8 expanded to include meal and transportation subsidies, and firefighter pay
and entitlements. Section 9 expanded to include procedures for change in work schedules for
coordination with HAAZ. Section 13 expanded to include procedures for the suspension of
privilege cards and reinstatement.

       1.      Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    3
       2.      Maintenance of Employee Records - Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder and
               Automated Supervisor Brief ..................................................................................                3
       3.      Request for Personnel and Position Actions ..........................................................                        5
       4.      Classification Appeals (Art 12, WR; Art 3, LA) ...................................................                           7
       5.      Personnel Staffing ..................................................................................................        8
       6.      Performance Evaluation .........................................................................................            14
       7.      Employee Training and Development ...................................................................                       22
       8.      Pay Administration ................................................................................................         25
       9.      Work Schedules, Overtime, Weekly and Complementary Day Off, and Holiday Work
               Approval ................................................................................................................ 30
       10.     Language Bonus System (Art ................................................................................                 36
       11.     Reduction-in-Force (RIF) ......................................................................................             37
       12.     Leave Administration ............................................................................................           38
       13.     Employee Identification Cards ..............................................................................                44
       14.     Conduct and Discipline ..........................................................................................           45
       15.     Employee Complaints ............................................................................................            50
       16.     On-the-Job Accidents ............................................................................................           51
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                                                                       3


      17.     Social Welfare ........................................................................................................   52
      18.     Special Programs ...................................................................................................      53
      19.     Committee of Employee Representatives (CRT) ...................................................                           54

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          57

Attachment 2—TABLE OF OFFENSES AND PENALTIES GUIDELINES ONLY PENALTIES
             [ART 74, 80-82, WR]                                       60

Attachment 3—RELEVANT FACTORS                                                                                                           64

Attachment 4—65 ABW MERIT PROMOTION PLAN                                                                                                65


1. Introduction. Scope. The provisions of this instruction are applicable to Portuguese
employees paid from appropriated and non-appropriated funds.
   1.1. Content. The guidance within is provided to assist operating officials and supervisors in
   the day-to-day management of Portuguese civilian employees.
   1.2. Responsibilities. The Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) will keep this instruction up-to-
   date. The CPF is the 65 ABW liaison with the Azores Air Zone Portuguese Civilian
   Personnel Recruitment Section (SRPC), and will handle routine matters relating to the
   employment of Portuguese civilian personnel.
   1.3. Distribution. (Art 3, WR) This instruction will be publicized and distributed as follows:
      1.3.1. To all key management officials who are responsible for personnel administration
      of Portuguese employees within their respective organizations.
      1.3.2. To all base and tenant organizations in sufficient quantity to assure immediate
      accessibility to Portuguese civilian employees and their supervisors.
   1.4. Administration. Changes to this instruction must be submitted for review and comment
   to Commander, Headquarters Azores Air Zone (HAAZ) prior to issuance. If the
   Commander, HAAZ considers the proposed changes to be outside the scope of the LA, WR
   or applicable Portuguese law, then it will be submitted to the Labor Committee for decision.
   (Art 3, WR)
      1.4.1. Approved changes to this instruction will be made as required and distributed to
      all key management officials. How to effect the change, whether by removal of a page or
      an entire chapter, will be specified in the written notice of change. Changes are to be
      filed in the back of the instruction in numerical order after annotations have been made
      and/or revised pages inserted.
2. Maintenance of Employee Records - Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder and
Automated Supervisor Brief
   2.1. Policy. AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief, will be maintained by the
   immediate supervisor.
4                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


    2.2. Purpose. The purpose of the Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder is to provide a
    medium for recording data on each assigned employee for reference, locator, and
    performance evaluation purposes.
    2.3. Responsibilities and Procedures
       2.3.1. Supervisors: First-level supervisors maintain the records and files on each
       assigned employee and ensure that records are safeguarded to protect employee privacy.
       2.3.2. Operating Official: Organizational commanders or second-level supervisors
       ensure that (1) records are kept at the lowest supervisory level within the organization,
       and (2) that each supervisor knows and fulfills his or her responsibility for keeping
       records of supervised employees.
       2.3.3. Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF): The CPF provides supervisors with required
       employee automated records; issues instructions for upkeep and use; and trains and
       assists supervisors in their use. The following guidance is provided to assist you in
       keeping your employee work folder manageable.
           2.3.3.1. CPF recommends the use of a six-section folder labeled ―
                                                                           Supervisor’s
           Employee Work Folder,‖ set up in the following manner:
           2.3.3.2. Tab 1 contains information regarding employee leave and may include: OPM
           Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence, Leave Schedule for current year,
           doctor’s certificates.
           2.3.3.3. Tab 2 contains the AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief (Computer
           Generated). The AF Form 971 is provided by the CPF for each new employee.
           Certain personnel actions generate a new AF Form 971, e.g., promotion,
           reassignment, change to lower grade, etc., which is then forwarded on to the
           supervisor. Supervisors may also request a new AF Form 971 by contacting the CPF.
           Upon request, an employee is permitted to review the AF Form 971 record. The
           contents of the AF Form 971 follows:
              2.3.3.3.1. Part A contains current personal employee data. The supervisor will
              enter employee’s home address, home telephone and necessary emergency
              information.
              2.3.3.3.2. Part B of the brief is an area for supervisors to record comments and
              remarks (positive and negative) occurring during the year. Supervisors should
              record discussions with employees on performance, emergency-essential
              responsibilities, debt complaints, duty and travel restrictions, conduct of employee
              and other pertinent data. All annotations should be annotated by the supervisor
              and initialed by the employee. Initialing by the employee does not indicate
              concurrence but only knowledge of the entry.                 Counseling entries or
              admonishments may be deleted any time the supervisor feels they are no longer
              necessary, but in no case will they be maintained longer than two years (Letters of
              Reprimand become part of the Official Personnel Folder for two years from the
              date of issuance and are then removed). Suspensions are entered in ink or typed,
              as they are a permanent part of the employee’s record. When more space is
              required, a separate sheet of paper (bond or lined) may be used to continue the
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                            5


             comments and remarks.
          2.3.3.4. Tab 3 is for training records, which may consist of the following:
             2.3.3.4.1. SF 182, Authorization, Agreement and Certification of Training.
             2.3.3.4.2. Training Plans.
             2.3.3.4.3. Copies of certificates or SF 182 certifying completed training.
             2.3.3.4.4. Employee requests for training consideration.
             2.3.3.4.5. Supervisory notes regarding identified need for training.
             2.3.3.4.6. Handwritten notes pertaining to training, etc.
             2.3.3.4.7. Other information relevant to training.
          2.3.3.5. Tab 4 is for miscellaneous documents, which may include:
             2.3.3.5.1. Emergency-Essential Agreement.
             2.3.3.5.2. AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
             2.3.3.5.3. Complaints of indebtedness and the employees reply.
          2.3.3.6. Tab 5 is for the Civilian Personnel Position Description (AF Form 1378) or
          the Air Force Core Personnel Document (AF Form 1003), copies of Civilian
          Progress Review Worksheet (AF Form 860B) and other performance-related
          documents. If the employee has an AF Form 1378, Civilian Personnel Position
          Description, in lieu of the AF Form 1003, this tab will also contain the AF Form 860,
          Civilian Performance Plan.
3. Request for Personnel and Position Actions
   3.1. Responsibility. The supervisor is responsible for initiating personnel and position
   actions, since supervisors are responsible for maintaining an adequate workforce and
   maximum utilization of authorized personnel. Actions that affect the entire Portuguese
   workforce (i.e., scheduled longevity increases, pay adjustments based on a new wage
   schedule, completion of requirements for English language premium pay) are initiated by the
   CPF.
   3.2. Types of Action. The following actions may be requested by a supervisor:
      3.2.1. Position actions - those which affect a position (i.e., cancel, establish, and/or
      position review).
      3.2.2. Personnel actions - those which affect the employee (i.e., appointment,
      reassignment, pay change, or separation).
      3.2.3. Combined actions - those which affect both the position and the employee (i.e.,
      establish and fill a new position, reclassification and promotion of an incumbent, or the
      abolishment of a position along with the movement of the incumbent).
   3.3. An electronic Request for Personnel Action (RPA), SF 52, will be used by appropriated
   and non-appropriated fund activities to request actions shown in paragraph 3.2.
6                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


    3.4. Purpose of the RPA. The RPA is the authority document allowing the CPF to carry out
    management’s request.
    3.5. Disapproved Requests. When it is necessary to disapprove a request, the RPA will be
    returned to the requesting official with an explanation of the disapproval.
    3.6. Source of Information for Preparation of RPA. AF Form 971 may by used as a basic
    source of information for preparing the RPA, other than requests for new positions where no
    identical type position exists.
    3.7. Requests Requiring Manpower Review. The Manpower approval will be obtained prior
    to forwarding the RPA to the CPF for actions regarding position reviews and recruit fill
    requests.
    3.8. Approval of Overhire Positions.            A USAFE Form 243, Request for
    Temporary/Seasonal/Supplemental Civilian Overhire, must be completed for
    Temporary/Seasonal/Supplemental civilian over-hires+. The unit will provide justification
    pertaining to the need of the over-hire requirement; including answers to questions in the
    footnote of the form. The request must be coordinated by manpower, finance and
    coordinated through key management officials prior to submission to the Corporate Board.
    For processing requirements contact the CPF.
    3.9. Examples of Actions
       3.9.1. Fill. Used to recruit for and fill a previously established position.      Special
       recruitment requirements of the position should be entered on the RPA.
       3.9.2. Cancel, Establish and Fill. Used to cancel an existing position, and then establish
       and recruit for a new position.
       3.9.3. Position Review. Used when the duties of a position have changed significantly to
       warrant rewriting the position description/core document. An electronic copy of the
       proposed core document and a justification of change requirements are required. There is
       a minimum of two years between position reviews unless the position is affected by a
       major reorganization or mission change.
       3.9.4. Change to Lower Grade. Used when an employee is being changed to a lower
       grade in accordance with Art 9, WR. If the change is at the request of the employee, the
       reason(s) should be shown in Part ― of RPA, printed and signed by the employee.
                                         D‖
       3.9.5. Name Change. Used when an employee’s name changes.                    A copy of
       substantiating documentation must be attached.
       3.9.6. Detail. Used when an employee is temporarily assigned to another position.
       Details of more than 30 days must be documented in the Official Personnel Folder. A
       temporary assignment to a higher-graded position for more than 30 days is a temporary
       promotion. (Art 11, WR)
       3.9.7. Removal or Suspension. Used for removal or suspension of employee. A specific
       statement of reasons for the action must be shown in Part ―
                                                                 D‖.
       3.9.8. Abolish Position. Used for cancellation of a position due to reduction in force or
       similar action.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                                7


      3.9.9. Resignation. In case of resignation, a RPA should be completed and forwarded to
      the CPF at the earliest possible date in order that recruitment action may be initiated. The
      reason(s) for resignation must be shown in Part ― of RPA, and signed by the employee.
                                                          E‖
4. Classification Appeals (Art 12, WR; Art 3, LA)
   4.1. Objective. To establish procedures for an employee to appeal the classification of their
   position. An employee can only appeal the classification of a position (Pay Plan, Series,
   Title and/or Grade) to which s/he is officially assigned to. The provisions of this chapter are
   the only means available for an employee to appeal the classification of a position where
   there is no disagreement as to the duties performed. S/he cannot appeal the assignment of
   duties and responsibilities under Art 12. However an appeal may be filed under WR, Art 86
   (See Chapter 15 of this LFI). The following processes will be used to appeal the
   classification:
   4.2. Informal Process. In situations where an employee disagrees with the classification of
   his/her current position, s/he should notify the supervisor and attempt to resolve the issue.
   The supervisor will ensure the accuracy of the duties and responsibilities shown in the
   position description. The supervisor will explain the basis of the classification of the
   position. A position classification specialist from the CPF will be available for consultation
   with either the employee or the supervisor. A position audit may be performed by the
   classification specialist to resolve the issue(s). This audit may entail the development by the
   supervisor of a new Air Force Core Personnel Document, or a review of whatever portions of
   the current position description that may be in dispute. The supervisor will provide a written
   response to the employee not later than 30 days from the date the supervisor became aware of
   the employee’s dissatisfaction.
   4.3. Formal Process. If an employee disagrees with the classification decision following the
   informal process, the employee may file a formal appeal with the CPF in accordance with the
   WR, Art 12. This formal appeal must be filed within 14 days of the classification decision in
   paragraph 4.1. The formal appeal must be submitted to the CPF in writing and contain the
   following:
      4.3.1. Full name and badge number.
      4.3.2. Employee’s organization and office symbol.
      4.3.3. Present title, series, grade, and pay plan of the position being appealed.
      4.3.4. A statement by the employee indicating what s/he believes to be the correct pay
      plan title, and grade along with justification to support his/her beliefs. The justification
      must address specific classification criteria found in the applicable classification
      standard(s).
      4.3.5. The employee may request comments from the Technical Commission on
      Professional Classification (TCPC). The TCPC must submit recommendations to the
      CPF within 14 calendar days of the date of the employee appeal.
      4.3.6. On the position description’s last page, or as an attachment, a verification of duties
      statement must be attached to the position description that includes the major duties and
      responsibilities assigned to the position.
8                                                   LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


           4.3.6.1. ― undersigned hereby certifies that the foregoing is an accurate and
                    The
           complete description of the major duties and responsibility assigned to this position”.
           The statement must be signed and dated by the appellant(s), their supervisor and the
           CPF classifier.
           4.3.6.2. If the employee, supervisor or CPF classifier does not accept and sign the
           position description; the employee cannot proceed with the formal appeal process.
           The classification of the position description is interrupted and the employee may
           proceed with a WR Art 86 complaint. At the conclusion of the Art 86 complaint
           process, the employee may restart the formal process provided in paragraph 4.3.
       4.3.7. The Civilian Personnel Officer will issue a decision on the classification appeal
       and include the TCPC recommendations within 30 days of receiving the formal appeal or
       the TCPC comments, whichever is later. If the employee is dissatisfied with the CPF’s
       decision s/he may further appeal the classification through the established US
       classification channels outlined in 4.3.
    4.4. Required Documentation to File the Classification Appeal Through the US
    Classification Procedures. If an employee disagrees with the classification decision
    following the formal complaint process, the employee may file an appeal through Office of
    Personnel Management (OPM) through the CPF in accordance with LA, Art 3 and WR, Art
    12. The appeal must contain the following information in writing:
       4.4.1. Name, mailing address and commercial duty phone number.
       4.4.2. The present classification of the position and the requested classification.
       4.4.3. The name of the department or agency in which the employee works.
       4.4.4. The installations mailing address.
       4.4.5. A copy of the official position description and either a statement affirming that it
       is accurate or a detailed explanation of the inaccuracies and an explanation of the efforts
       made to correct the position description.
       4.4.6. Any additional information about the position that will aid OPM to understand.
       4.4.7. Arguments supporting the requested classification by referencing the appropriate
       classification standards.
       4.4.8. Address for OPM appeals: OPM Atlanta Field Service Office; 75 Spring Street,
       SW; Atlanta, GA 30303.
    4.5. Reduced Classification. If the classification appeal process results in a downgrade,
    provisions in Art 10, WR, Change in Position Classification, apply.
5. Personnel Staffing
    5.1. Utilizing Portuguese Citizens .
       5.1.1. Purpose. Portuguese citizen positions are authorized and filled in accordance with
       the LA, WR, 65 ABW Merit Promotion Plan Attachment 4, and OPM Qualification
       Standards.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 9


     5.1.2. CPF Responsibility. CPF will monitor and ensure personnel staffing procedures are
     followed as outlined in this chapter. In addition, they will oversee the control and collection
     of employees' identification passes and schedule appointments to examine applicants for
     employment to ensure that physical and health requirements are met.
  5.2. Employment Policies and Practices
     5.2.1. Filling Positions. Supervisors may fill vacant positions by recruitment outside the
     installation or by in-service placement of employees currently on the rolls.
     5.2.2. Outside Recruitment (Art 22-24, WR).          The following rules apply to outside
     recruitment:
        5.2.2.1. Priority placement will be given to qualified employees who have been
        separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), see Chapter 11. Names of employees who have
        been separated under RIF are maintained by the CPF on a Reemployment Priority List
        by title and grade of last position held.
        5.2.2.2. If no former employees with priority placement entitlement are available, CPF
        will request referral of qualified candidates from the Civilian Personnel Recruitment
        Section (SRPC) where registers are maintained. Off-base candidates, who are not
        registered by SRPC, cannot be considered for employment.
        5.2.2.3. Former 65 ABW employees with good work records may be requested by
        name without regard to order of standing, provided they had performed the same type of
        work and were not discharged for cause.
        5.2.2.4. Local National Background Checks and US Security Requirements after
        Selection.
            5.2.2.4.1. Candidates must meet basic US security requirements upon their
            selection and before their appointment. These requirements include the following:
                5.2.2.4.1.1. To comply with the Host Nation Agency Check (HAC)
                requirement, candidates must provide CPF a background check (Certificado do
                Registo Criminal) from the Ministry of Justice.
                5.2.2.4.1.2. A records check will be performed by the Security Manager at 65th
                Security Forces Squadron (65 SFS).
                5.2.2.4.1.3. Candidates are also required to complete USAFE Base Form 119,
                Residency Check for Employment with 65 ABW and Tenant Units, Lajes Field,
                Azores, Portugal (Verificação de Residência para Contrato de Trabalho no 65
                ABW e Unidades Militares, Base das Lajes, Açores, Portugal). This form is
                used by the Civilian Personnel Office to verify residency, determine if the
                candidate lived in the US for one year or more and receive authorization to
                obtain candidate’s US criminal file, if applicable. If the candidate lived in the
                United States for at least 1 year after their 18th birthday, a Federal Bureau of
                Investigation check will be conducted. USAFE Base Form 119 will be kept on
                file at the Civilian Personnel Office in the employee’s Security Folder for the
                duration of employment at Lajes Field.
10                                                   LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


               5.2.2.4.2. After this process is complete and if there is no derogatory information,
               the candidate will then be placed in the position. If derogatory information is
               received from any of the above investigations, the candidate will not be hired.
        5.2.3. Qualification Requirements. Qualification requirements are established prior to
        recruitment for a position, and constitute the minimum criteria for a candidate to be rated
        eligible for the specific position. The basic qualification requirements are patterned after
        those in the Office of Personnel Management Operating Manual, Qualification Standards for
        General Schedule Positions, as used in the U.S. program, with the exception of the time-in-
        grade restriction and the Job Qualification System for Trades and Labor Occupations. Both
        standards are supplemented with the special qualification requirements and should be fully
        justified and added to the position description or core document. For requirements not
        included in these documents, the supervisor must coordinate with the staffing specialist prior
        to recruitment.
     5.3. Probationary Period (Art 32, WR)
        5.3.1. Probationary Periods (Art 32 & 75, WR). The probationary period is identified in the
        employee’s work contract and on the appointment SF 50, Notification of Personnel Action.
        The probationary period applies to new employees only as defined in Art 6, LA. New
        employees normally will serve the following probationary periods during which time they
        can be separated without justification or job protection rights.
           5.3.1.1. Permanent employees in unskilled jobs such as laborer, custodian, etc, are on a
           probationary basis for the first 60 days of employment. For skilled crafts and trade
           positions, supervisors, firefighters, technicians, etc., a probationary period of up to six
           (6) months is required.
           5.3.1.2. Temporary employees with appointments for more than six (6) months are on a
           probationary basis for the first 30 days of employment regardless of the type of position.
           5.3.1.3. Temporary employees with appointment for 6 months or less are on a
           probationary basis for the first 15 days of employment regardless of the type of position.
        5.3.2. Responsibilities. When an individual is re-employed into a different position than
        previously assigned, the employee may be required to serve an additional Probationary
        Period. The CPF will determine at the time of the new appointment whether or not the
        employee must complete the additional period and coordinate the date of expiration of such
        period in accordance with the terms and limits of Art 32, WR. The probationary period will
        be recorded on the appointment documents. Supervisors are responsible for:
           5.3.2.1. Observing the employee’s conduct, general character traits, and performance.
           5.3.2.2. Evaluating the employee’s performance and potential to determine suitability
           for retention.
           5.3.2.3. Approving continued employment on CPF follow-up checklist or initiating
           action to separate the employee if it becomes apparent that the employee’s conduct,
           general character traits, or capacity do not indicate potential for satisfactory service.
           Separation action will be initiated when these facts become apparent. Notification must
           be given to the employee at least 5 workdays prior to the expiration of the probationary
           period.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                              11


     5.3.3. Promotion Consideration During the Probationary Period. Employees cannot be
     considered for promotion during their probationary period.
  5.4. Placement Follow-Up
     5.4.1. Objectives. The placement follow-up is a part of the supervisor’s responsibility to
     continually evaluate the performance of subordinates. This essential management device is
     designed to:
        5.4.1.1. Ensure that the employee is being properly oriented and fully understands the
        duties and expected performance requirements of the position.
        5.4.1.2. Determine whether the employee is satisfactorily performing the duties of the
        position and should be retained.
        5.4.1.3. Determine whether there is a need for additional or special training.
     5.4.2. Procedures. The placement follow-up must be completed during the probationary
     period in accordance with the following procedures:
        5.4.2.1. The CPF will send a notification for placement follow-up to supervisors within
        two (2) weeks of the expiration of the established probationary period.
        5.4.2.2. The placement follow-up consists of a discussion of job performance with the
        employee that will be conducted by the supervisor using a follow-up checklist, which
        will be filed in the employee’s Official Personnel Folder (OPF.)
        5.4.2.3. The supervisor will document comments concerning the evaluation and
        pertinent findings of the placement follow-up on the AF Form 971.
  5.5. Merit Promotion Program
     5.5.1. Policy. Both appropriated and non-appropriated fund employees compete for
     promotion under the provisions established in this instruction. The area of consideration can
     be determined by the organization in conjunction with the CPF.
     5.5.2. In-Service Placement
        5.5.2.1. Vacancies may be filled by promotion, reassignment or change to lower grade.
        No employee will be considered for a change to lower grade or professional category
        unless the individual has filed a written request with the CPF. The written request must
        be approved by the Regional Labor Inspection Office (IRT.)
        5.5.2.2. Vacancies may be filled non-competitively by re-promotion of an employee
        downgraded or reassignment when the employee was previously displaced by reduction-
        in-force.
     5.5.3. Procedures. When a vacancy is to be filled by other than a noncompetitive
     placement action, the following steps are taken:
        5.5.3.1. Management has the right to select from any recruitment source available to
        them. The CPF will confirm the qualification requirements of the position. Minimum
        education, experience, training, English language requirements and any additional
        special skill or physical requirements pertinent to the position can be found on the job
        vacancy announcement.
12                                                   LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


           5.5.3.2. USAFE Base Form 110, Request for Placement Consideration (Requerimento
           de Candidatura), will be used to apply for consideration to vacancies. This form is
           provided by and used at the Civilian Personnel Office. Once completed, USAFE Base
           Form 110 will be placed in the CPF recruitment files and maintained for 5 years.
           5.5.3.3. The CPF screens records to identify candidates eligible for priority
           placement/consideration such as employees scheduled for reduction-in-force, previously
           downgraded due to RIF, or those who are on reemployment priority lists. The CPF
           refers candidates entitled to priority consideration to the supervisor for selection.
           5.5.3.4. If no priority candidates are available or selected, the CPF prepares a
           Reassignment List and/or Promotion Certificate of qualified candidates. If there are
           fifteen or fewer eligible candidates on the Promotion Certificate, all candidates will be
           certified to the supervisor. Ranking is not necessary.
           5.5.3.5. An employee selected for promotion will normally be released at the beginning
           of the pay period that most nearly approximates the two-week notice period. In unusual
           circumstances, the release period may be extended to a maximum of 30 calendar days
           by mutual agreement of the operating officials concerned. A release will not be
           conditional upon the ability to obtain a replacement.
        5.5.4. Non-Competitive Promotions. Normally, employees must compete for promotion.
        However, under certain circumstances, employees may be promoted without competition.
        These circumstances include promotion of an employee downgraded due to RIF, and
        authorized exceptions as follows:
           5.5.4.1. Classification of a position to a higher grade, either by re-evaluation, change in
           standards, or gradual job enlargement other than through deliberate planned
           management action.
           5.5.4.2. Completion of approved training programs provided the employee was selected
           for entry into the trainee position under the competitive procedures of the Merit
           Promotion Plan.
           5.5.4.3. Promotion under the above-authorized exceptions is neither automatic nor
           mandatory.
     5.6. Temporary Performance of Duties not Included in the Position Description
     (Details) (Art 11, WR)
        5.6.1. Definition. An employee may be temporarily assigned duties not included in the
        position description (detail) when 65th Air Base Wing interests so require it, provided this
        change does not entail reduction in pay or substantial changes in the employee’s position.
        5.6.2. Use of Temporary Performance of Duties not Included in the Position Description
        (details). Authority to assign temporary duties to an employee not included in the position
        description provides management with a means of meeting certain temporary operating
        needs. This is appropriate only when necessary services cannot be obtained by other means.
        An employee is entitled to a temporary promotion whenever the performance of higher
        graded duties lasts more than 30 consecutive days. After 6 months, this promotion becomes
        permanent unless the position is obligated to another absent employee. The following
        circumstances may justify the use of temporary assignment:
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                              13


        5.6.2.1. A temporary shortage of military and/or civilian personnel exists.
        5.6.2.2. An exceptionally heavy workload surge seriously interrupts the organization’s
        regular work schedule and the use of overtime employment or additional temporary
        employees will not provide a satisfactory solution.
        5.6.2.3. An emergency work situation; a special project or other work is required for a
        short time or for intermittent periods of time; or a need exists to replace another
        employee on extended absence.
        5.6.2.4. An employee has been given a proposed notice of separation, and his/her
        continued performance in the current assignment is not in the best interest of the 65
        ABW.
        5.6.2.5. It may be a part of an established training or career development plan.
        Supervisors and operating officials must observe the provisions of the Merit Promotion
        Program in selecting employees for temporary assignment when the assignment may
        lead to a promotion.
     5.6.3. Procedures. During all periods of temporary assignment to perform duties not
     included in the position description (detail), the employee remains assigned to his/her
     official position. The temporary duties must be recorded on the AF Form 971. For periods
     of performance of duties (details) in excess of 30 calendar days, but less than 180 days, the
     following will apply:
        5.6.3.1. Losing supervisor will:
            5.6.3.1.1. Submit an electronic Request for Personnel Action (RPA) , to the CPF for
            approval, with a reason for the request in Part ― If the temporary assignment of
                                                               D‖.
            duties (detail) is to other than an established position, attach a description of the
            duties to be performed sufficient to classify the position.
            5.6.3.1.2. Terminate the temporary duties (detail) at the end of the authorized
            period, and ensure the employee returns to the official position of record.
        5.6.3.2. Gaining supervisor will:
            5.6.3.2.1. Discuss the following with employees selected for the temporary duties:
            the reasons for the action, nature of the duties to be performed, and approximate
            length of the temporary assignment.
            5.6.3.2.2. Complete time and attendance reports, act on requests for leave and
            provide normal administrative services.
     5.6.4. Termination of Performance of Duties not Included in the Position Description
     (detail). The temporary assignment must be terminated when the need no longer exists, and
     in no case, later than the expiration of the approved period. The employee will return to
     his/her official assignment at the end of the assignment. The supervisor must submit a RPA
     for the termination prior to the original expiration date. The request should be submitted at
     least 7 calendar days in advance of the termination date to allow for processing and
     employee notification.
14                                                     LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


        5.6.5. Disposition of Requests. The approved request for the performance of duties not
        included in the positions description (detail) and termination documentation will be placed
        in the employee’s OPF.
     5.7. Obligated Positions
        5.7.1. Reemployment Rights (Arts 67 & 68, WR)
            5.7.1.1. An employee separated in order to perform mandatory military or civic service
            or to serve in an elected or appointed political office is entitled to restoration to the
            position from which separated or an equivalent position at the same grade level. The
            employee must have been on a permanent appointment at the time of separation, and
            must notify the CPF in writing, not later than 15 calendar days following completion of
            the service, of the desire to exercise the return rights.
            5.7.1.2. An employee separated due to reasons beyond his/her control, such as illness or
            accident, is entitled to restoration to the position from which separated or to an
            equivalent position at the same grade level provided the employee:
                5.7.1.2.1. Was on a permanent appointment.
                5.7.1.2.2. Exercises his/her return right within 15 days from the date 65 ABW
                received notice of the employee’s availability.
            5.7.1.3. After employee’s notification, 65 ABW must rehire him/her within 15 days.
        5.7.2. Replacement (Art 68, WR). The position vacated by an employee under the above
        circumstances becomes an obligated position and will normally be filled by a conditional or
        temporary appointment. Before an individual is conditionally appointed, the employee must
        sign a statement of understanding that he or she may be separated from the position without
        advance notice when the former employee returns. For an employee in a temporary
        appointment, the employee must be given at least eight (8) days advance written notice that
        the appointment will not be renewed. In the case of an indefinite appointment lasting more
        than one year, the employee will be given thirty (30) calendar days notice of termination. If
        the obligated position has been identified as misclassified, the person assigned in
        substitution to perform these duties will be temporarily assigned, temporarily promoted,
        appointed, etc., to the correctly classified position and grade. When justified, the supervisor
        may opt to establish a different position to be filled during the employee’s absence, i.e., if no
        qualified candidates can be found to temporarily fill the job, or if the supervisor opts to
        assign different tasks.
6. Performance Evaluation
     6.1. Performance Evaluation
        6.1.1. Purpose. The performance appraisal rating is used as a basis for decisions
        regarding employees' rewards, assignments, training, promotions, retention and/or
        removal.
        6.1.2. Annual Evaluation. The annual performance appraisal period is 1 April through
        31 March. Each employee will be evaluated at the end of this period using performance
        criteria established in a Performance Plan (AF Form 860, Civilian Performance Plan, or
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                          15


     AF Form 1003, Air Force Core Personnel Document). Performance evaluations will be
     accomplished on AF Form 860A, Civilian Rating of Record.
     6.1.3. General. Performance plans (AF Form 860) or Core Personnel Documents (AF
     Form 1003) must be in place within 30 days of an employee’s entrance on duty. A
     discussion of the performance plan at the beginning of the appraisal period is required.
     The supervisor will accommodate an interpreter if requested by the employee to ensure
     he/she fully understands their performance plan.
     6.1.4. Performance Plans
        6.1.4.1. A performance plan consists of written performance elements and standards
        developed and documented on AF Form 860 by the supervisor. It is an important
        document for both the employee and supervisor because it defines responsibilities and
        expectations for the annual appraisal cycle, and serves as the foundation for
        evaluating an employee’s performance.
        6.1.4.2. Each performance plan must contain sufficient elements (generally 5-7 are
        sufficient) to describe performance requirements of the position. They may be
        derived from the employee’s official position description. Performance elements
        describe what needs to be done to perform a particular job.
        6.1.4.3. All performance elements in a performance plan are designated as ― critical‖.
        A critical element is sufficiently important so that not performing one element at an
        acceptable level requires corrective action.
        6.1.4.4. Performance standards are written to clarify performance expectations for
        employees. They should permit a supervisor to accurately evaluate job performance
        and describe contributions by the employee.
        6.1.4.5. Standards should be written at a level of expectation of the average employee
        performing in the position. Performance standards prescribe how a particular element
        is to be accomplished.
     6.1.5. Core Personnel Documents. The core personnel document is a position
     description, performance plan and job description all in one document; therefore, the
     performance plan (AF Form 860) is not needed if the employee is covered by this
     document.
     6.1.6. Types of Annual Ratings. Performance will be rated as Acceptable or
     Unacceptable. An unacceptable rating documents performance where an employee is not
     performing at an acceptable level in one or more of the elements of the performance plan.
     When an unacceptable rating is rendered, the supervisor must identify the deficiencies in
     the employee’s performance and establish a performance improvement plan (PIP) (the
     PIP must be coordinated with the Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF)) to bring the
     employee’s performance up to an acceptable level. The PIP will specify the tasks
     requiring improvement, describe the level of performance required and provide a
     reasonable amount of time (normally 90 days), for the employee to improve. NOTE:
     Immediately contact CPF when faced with an employee-related performance problem.
     6.1.7. Out-of-Cycle Ratings. Performance must be evaluated more often than annually
     in the following circumstances:
16                                              LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


        6.1.7.1. Anytime an employee’s performance deteriorates to an unacceptable level.
        6.1.7.2. At the completion of a performance improvement period resulting from
        unacceptable performance.
     6.1.8. Changes in Rating Officials
        6.1.8.1. If the rating official (immediate supervisor) changes or departs between the
        beginning of the rating period and 31 December, he/she prepares an informational
        evaluation and leaves it and the performance plan for the new supervisor. This is not
        a rating of record for official purposes, but serves as information for the new
        supervisor to consider.
        6.1.8.2. If the rating official changes or departs between 1 January and 31 March, and
        supervised the employee fewer than 90 days, the reviewing official prepares annual
        rating of record with input from departing supervisor.
        6.1.8.3. If the rating official changes or departs between 1 January and 31 March, and
        supervised the employee for 90 days or more, departing supervisor prepares annual
        rating of record and leaves it for processing by reviewing official.
     6.1.9. Employee Transfers/Changes Positions
        6.1.9.1. If an employee moves within 65 ABW between the beginning of the
        performance appraisal cycle (1 April) and 31 December, the losing supervisor will
        prepare an informational appraisal and forward it to new supervisor as a courtesy.
        The new supervisor considers the informational appraisal and renders the annual
        rating of record on the employee at the end of the appraisal cycle.
        6.1.9.2. If an employee moves within the 65 ABW between 1 January and 31 March,
        the losing supervisor renders the annual rating of record on that employee. NOTE: If
        an employee is approved for an award, the losing organization is responsible for
        paying award amount.
     6.1.10. Temporary Promotion or Temporary Assignment to a Different Position (detail)
        6.1.10.1. When an employee is serving on a temporary promotion or a temporary
        assignment to a different position (detail) for 120 days or more, the temporary rating
        official gives the employee a written performance plan reflecting the temporary
        promotion or a temporary assignment to a different position (detail) as soon as
        possible. At the end of the temporary promotion or a temporary assignment to a
        different position (detail), the temporary rating official rates the employee’s
        performance on the elements and forwards the information to the permanent rating
        official. The permanent rating official considers the input received from the
        temporary rating official in completing the employee’s rating of record.
            6.1.10.1.1. When an employee is on a temporary promotion or a temporary
            assignment to a different position (detail) for 90 days or more and the annual
            appraisal is due, the temporary rating official completes the rating of record.
            6.1.10.1.2. If an annual appraisal is due and the employee’s temporary promotion
            or a temporary assignment to a different position (detail) has lasted for less than
            90 days, the permanent rating official completes the rating, but consults with the
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                             17


            temporary rating official.
     6.1.11. Progress Review
        6.1.11.1. Supervisors are required to provide their employees’ with a progress review
        (normally) at the midpoint of the appraisal period. The progress review is
        documented using the AF Form 860B, Civilian Progress Review Worksheet, and is
        filed in the Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder upon completion. Although
        completion of this form is mandatory, it is kept by the supervisor and is not sent to the
        CPF. The annual rating is forwarded to the CPF.
        6.1.11.2. The CPF highly encourages quarterly informal feedback sessions between
        supervisors and employees. This is helpful both to employees and to supervisors.
        Quarterly feedback lets employees know how they are doing and minimizes surprises
        at performance rating time. Giving quarterly feedback to employees enables
        supervisors to more easily recall specific performance examples at the end of the
        performance cycle.
     6.1.12. Quality Control Reviewers (QCR). Each Squadron commander or equivalent
     will appoint a QCR. The QCR will assure evaluations are procedurally correct and award
     justifications are fully supported. Also the QCR is responsible for obtaining and
     forwarding the final appraisal packages to CPF. Evaluations that reach the CPF without
     adequate documentation or award justification will be returned to the QCR.
     6.1.13. Evaluation Process
        6.1.13.1. The rater/supervisor rates the elements, assigns an annual rating, writes
        award justification and recommends award amount (if applicable). Award amounts
        should be in Euros for Portuguese employees. S/he signs the AF Form 860A,
        recertifies the performance plan, completes the promotion appraisal factors, and
        forwards the appraisal package to the reviewing official (rater’s immediate
        supervisor). (Note: Part B of AF Form 860A, ― Impact on Mission Accomplishment,‖
        is not used at Lajes Field)
            6.1.13.1.1. The reviewing official reviews the appraisal package, then:
            6.1.13.1.2. Signs and dates AF Form 860A if s/he agrees with the
            ratings/justification,
            6.1.13.1.3. Recertifies the performance plan and, forwards the package to the
            designated QCR.
        6.1.13.2. If the reviewing official disagrees with the ratings/justification, s/he should
        discuss the disagreement with the rating official. If the reviewing official still
        disagrees after consulting with the rating official, s/he changes the rating, signs and
        dates the form and forwards to the QCR. NOTE: Due to possible changes by the
        reviewing official, the rating official should not discuss ratings or awards with
        employees prior to approval.
        6.1.13.3. The QCR reviews the packages and ensures that all requirements are met.
        6.1.13.4. If there are any packages with discrepancies, the QCR returns those to the
        rater or requests additional information from the rater/reviewer.
18                                                LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


           6.1.13.5. Forwards appraisal packages without award recommendations back to the
           raters so that they may discuss with employees and,
           6.1.13.6. Forwards appraisal packages with award recommendations to the
           commander/award approving official, who will forward the final package back to the
           rater for discussion with the employee.
           6.1.13.7. The rating official then discusses the appraisal with the employee for the
           first time, then:
              6.1.13.7.1. Obtains employee’s signature on a printed AF Form 860A and on
              performance plan.
              6.1.13.7.2. Provides a copy to the employee.
              6.1.13.7.3. Documents AF Form 971.
              6.1.13.7.4. Places the original performance plan and a copy of the AF Form 860A
              in the Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder.
              6.1.13.7.5. Forwards the original AF Form 860A to the QCR.
              6.1.13.7.6. The QCR is responsible for obtaining and forwarding the final AF
              Form 860A (original), to the CPF by the date determined annually.
     6.2. Service and Performance Recognition
        6.2.1. Performance Awards
           6.2.1.1. A Performance Award is a monetary recognition for outstanding
           performance that substantially exceeds normal expectations. This award is only
           awarded in conjunction with the annual evaluation. To be eligible for a Performance
           Award the employee must receive a performance rating of ―acceptable‖.
           6.2.1.2. Monetary amount for a performance award is based on a percentage of the
           employee’s annual salary (monthly salary + language bonus x 14), excluding meals,
           transportation, premium pay, or overtime except for firefighters whose base pay
           includes 48 hours with applicable premium pay. The maximum amount authorized is
           5 percent of the annual base pay; however, the maximum amount may not be
           available due to budget constraints. Corporate Board determines the award limits and
           the CPF will notify supervisors of the limits annually.
           6.2.1.3. A recommendation and justification for a performance award must be
           documented on AF Form 860A, Part C and is limited to a maximum of 9 lines in
           bullet format. Note: Squadron/CC approves performance awards. Performance
           awards are not mandatory.
           6.2.1.4. Time off awards (TOA) may also be recommended during the annual
           appraisal cycle using the AF Form 860A. Supervisors may recommend a
           combination of both a performance cash award and a TOA. Note: Squadron/CC
           approves TOAs when recommended in conjunction with the annual appraisal.
     6.3. Other Awards/Recognition
        6.3.1. Notable Achievement Award
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                            19


        6.3.1.1. Notable Achievement Awards recognize a special achievement that resulted
        in a noteworthy contribution to the Air Force, but does not warrant a Special Act or
        Service Award. The amount of this award can be recommended for the equivalent of
        $25 and cannot exceed the equivalent of $500 US dollars.
        6.3.1.2. Recommendations must be submitted on a Staff Summary Sheet, AF Form
        1768. Recommendations should be submitted no later than one month after the
        achievement for which the award is recommended.
        6.3.1.3. Recommendations will be reviewed by the QCR or designated Award
        Approving Official. The resource advisor must certify availability of funds for tenant
        organizations only.
     6.3.2. Special Act or Service Award
        6.3.2.1. Special Act or Service Awards recognize a singular special achievement
        resulting in verifiable, significant, tangible or intangible benefits to the government.
        This award should be recommended only when the achievement is truly exceptional,
        and not merely to recognize work for which the employee was already compensated,
        i.e., with overtime pay.
        6.3.2.2. Recommendations must be submitted on an AF Form 1768, Staff Summary
        Sheet, within 60 days of the special act or service.
        6.3.2.3. The Unit QCR or the designated Award Approving Official will review
        recommendations. The resource advisor must certify availability of funds.
     6.3.3. Time-Off Award
        6.3.3.1. Time-off awards grant time off from duty without loss of pay or charge to
        leave, and are awarded for superior accomplishment that contributes to the quality,
        efficiency, or economy of government operations. The intent of a time-off award is
        to provide an alternate means of recognition in lieu of granting a monetary award.
        6.3.3.2. Supervisors may approve time-off awards of no more than one working day
        without review and approval of a higher level official.
        6.3.3.3. Only the 65th Air Base Wing Commander (65 ABW/CC), or an official
        designated by 65 ABW/CC, may approve time-off awards in excess of one workday.
     6.3.4. Time-Off Award Limits
        6.3.4.1. Full-time employees may be awarded a maximum of 80 hours time-off
        during any one calendar year. The maximum amount of time-off that can be
        approved for any single contribution is 40 hours.
        6.3.4.2. Part-time employees or employees with unusual tours of duty may in any one
        calendar year be granted an amount of time-off equal to the average number of work
        hours in the employee’s biweekly scheduled tour of duty. The maximum award for a
        single contribution is one-half the maximum amount of time that can be granted
        during the year.
20                                              LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


     6.3.5. Documenting Time-Off Awards
        6.3.5.1. Justification for time-off awards must be submitted on an AF Form 1768
        (when not recommended in conjunction with the annual appraisal), within 30 days of
        the accomplishment, explaining why the employee merits the award. Approved time-
        off awards are submitted to the CPF for processing.
        6.3.5.2. AF Form 1768 granting time-off awards must include the employee’s name,
        badge number, organization, and number of hours of time-off granted. All time off
        awards must include the following: ― have considered fully the wage costs and
                                                 I
        productivity loss in granting this time-off award. The amount of time-off granted is
        commensurate with the individual’s contribution or accomplishment. I also
        considered the unit’s workload and unit employees’ leave projections and certify that
        the employee can schedule time-off, in addition to other projected leave no later than
        (date). I also considered other available forms of recognition in determining the
        amount of this time-off award‖.
     6.3.6. Recording Scheduled Time-Off
        6.3.6.1. An employee’s use of time-off award is documented on the time and
        attendance reports with the appropriate code. Meal and transportation subsidies are
        not included.
        6.3.6.2. Employee must get supervisory approval to schedule and use a time-off
        award. An employee must request the time-off far enough in advance to use it
        without disrupting the unit’s work.
        6.3.6.3. Supervisors who want to approve the scheduling of an employee’s time-off
        before receiving the SF 50 will contact the CPF to verify that regulatory requirements
        were met.
     6.3.7. Length of Service Recognition
        6.3.7.1. Upon completion of at least 10 years of loyal service with 65 ABW, CPF
        will identify eligible employees, prepare certificates, and forward to the appropriate
        organization for presentation to the employee. Each subsequent 5 years of service, up
        to 50 years of service, will be recognized with a certificate.
        6.3.7.2. Retiring employees may qualify for service recognition if they have
        completed at least 10 years of loyal service with 65 ABW. The CPF will determine
        the employee’s eligibility and prepare a certificate with the employee’s name, number
        of years of service and date of retirement. The certificate should include an
        appropriate statement, ― Presented on the occasion of retirement after ___ years of
        loyal service to 65 ABW.‖ The certificate may be presented to the employee in an
        appropriate ceremony.
     6.3.8. Letters of Appreciation. Letters of appreciation are used to recognize individuals
     for a variety of accomplishments that do not meet the criteria for other awards. They
     may be used at any time. Letters of appreciation are not filed in the OPF.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                           21


     6.3.9. Letters of Commendation
        6.3.9.1. Letters of Commendation are used to recognize an employee for unusual
        achievement or contribution that does not meet the criteria for other awards. Such
        letters are considered during performance evaluation. The following procedures
        apply:
        6.3.9.2. The letter will be prepared and signed by the supervisor or any other official
        aware of the achievement for which the recognition is appropriate. It should contain
        a concise description of the achievement being recognized.
        6.3.9.3. The commander should endorse the letter and it should be presented to the
        employee.
        6.3.9.4. A copy of the letter should be maintained in the Supervisor’s Employee
        Work Folder (Tab 2). Copies of the Letter of Commendation are submitted to CPF
        for inclusion in the Employee’s Performance File.
     6.3.10. Air Force Civilian Achievement Award
        6.3.10.1. Air Force Civilian Achievement Award recognizes an individual or group
        for clearly outstanding service for a single, specific act or accomplishment in support
        of the unit’s mission goals.
        6.3.10.2. Recommendations must be submitted on AF Form 1768, describing
        accomplishments and draft citation (90 words or less).
        6.3.10.3. The approval authority is the Wing Commander (may be delegated one
        level to Group Commander)
        6.3.10.4. CPF will document award in the civilian data system and file a copy of AF
        Form 1768 and justification in the Employee’s Performance File.
     6.3.11. Exemplary Civilian Service Award
        6.3.11.1. Exemplary Civilian Service Award recognizes an individual or group for
        clearly outstanding service in support of the command mission goals.
        6.3.11.2. Recommendations must be submitted on AF Form 1768, with narrative
        justification that includes specific examples of the employee’s accomplishment with
        draft citation (90 words or less).
        6.3.11.3. The approval authority is the Wing Commander.
        6.3.11.4. CPF will document award in the civilian data system and file a copy of AF
        Form 1768 and justification in the Employee’s Performance File.
     6.3.12. Outstanding Civilian Career Service Award
        6.3.12.1. Outstanding Civilian Career Service Award recognizes outstanding career
        service meriting recognition.
        6.3.12.2. Employee demonstrated significant accomplishments, leadership, unusual
        competence, and significant impact upon the Air Force mission throughout the
        employee’s career.
        6.3.12.3. This type of award is used only when an employee retires.
22                                                   LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


            6.3.12.4. Recommendations must be submitted on AF Form 1768 with narrative
            describing employee’s accomplishments.
            6.3.12.5. Approval authority is the Wing Commander.
        6.3.13. Meritorious Civilian Service Award
            6.3.13.1. Meritorious Civilian Service Award recognizes an individual or group for
            outstanding service to the Air Force in the performance of duties in an exemplary
            manner, setting a record of individual achievement and serving as an incentive to
            others to improve the quality and quantity of their work performance. This award is
            not appropriate for an employee about to retire.
            6.3.13.2. Recommendations must be submitted on AF Form 1768, which describes
            specific accomplishments with draft citation (90 words or less).
            6.3.13.3. Approval authority is MAJCOM Commander (CC) or Vice Commander
            (CV).
        6.3.14. Exceptional Civilian Service Award
            6.3.14.1. Exceptional Civilian Service Award recognizes exceptionally meritorious
            service of major significance to the Air Force in the performance of duties in a
            manner clearly exceptional to others. This award is the highest recognition granted
            an individual or group within the Air Force and serves as an incentive. It is not
            appropriate for employee about to retire.
            6.3.14.2. Recommendations must be submitted on AF Form 1768, which describes
            specific accomplishments with draft citation (90 words or less).
            6.3.14.3. Approving Authority is Secretary of the Air Force.
7. Employee Training and Development
     7.1. Policy and Scope. The professional training and development of Portuguese employees
     of 65 ABW complies with LA, Art 9 and follows Air Force policy for civilian training and
     education.
     7.2. Training Programs. The training and career development of Portuguese employees may
     involve formal classroom training, workshops, seminars, conferences, local training courses,
     on-the-job training (OJT), correspondence courses, computer-based instruction (CBI) courses
     and/or self-development.
     7.3. On-Base Training Programs. When available, local training courses, including OJT,
     will be used to fill identified training needs whenever this approach has been identified as the
     most efficient and economical method of training.
        7.3.1. OJT is planned, organized and conducted at the work site. OJT is one form of
        training that will be considered for any displaced employees affected by downsizing or
        reassignment.
     7.4. Required Supervisory Training. The CPF Training Section, (65 FSS/FSMC) ensures that
     newly assigned Portuguese Supervisors and Supervisors of Portuguese employees receive
     required supervisory training.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                           23


     7.4.1. The on-site supervisory training consists of the following classes:
         7.4.1.1. Portuguese Civilian Personnel Management Course – for supervisors of the
         Portuguese work force
         7.4.1.2. United States Air Force (USAF) Supervisors Course – For all newly
         assigned civilian supervisors
         7.4.1.3. Military Personnel Management Course – For all newly assigned civilian
         supervisors of military members
     7.4.2. 65 FSS/FSMC schedules, tracks attendance for the Portuguese Civilian Personnel
     Management Course, and conducts the training. The course is designed to help
     supervisors understand the LA and WR in relation to Portuguese civilian employees. All
     newly assigned first-level supervisors must attend this course either before they assume
     their new duties or within 6 months after assignment to a supervisory position.
  7.5. Formal Training (Off-Base). Off-base training may be considered when training is not
  available locally; or justified on the basis of economy, feasibility and timeliness. When
  supervisors are considering Formal Off-Base Training, they must contact 65 FSS/FSMC
  prior to any commitments. Portuguese employees may be nominated to attend formal off-
  base training provided they meet the course prerequisites. Employees must have sufficient
  language proficiency for courses offered in English.
     7.5.1. If required, 65 FSS/FSMC administers the American Language Course Placement
     Test (ALCPT) to Portuguese employees prior to their attendance at a course.
     7.5.2. HAAZ requires a minimum of three (3) weeks to process requests for
     authorization to travel (per COMUSFORAZORES INST 5216.2). 65 FSS/FSMC
     processes required paperwork to request authorization to travel and forwards to HAAZ
     for approval. Employees are not authorized to contact HAAZ on this matter. The HAAZ
     approval is not required for temporary duty (TDY) in Portugal. All training requests
     must be coordinated with 65 FSS/FSMC, regardless of the training location, so that TDY
     insurance coverage can be attained.
     7.5.3. An SF 182, Authorization, Agreement, and Certification of Training, must be
     accomplished for all training requests prior to class attendance.
     7.5.4. The training section briefs all Portuguese employees prior to their attendance at a
     training event overseas to make sure that the employee fully understands the process.
         7.5.4.1. 65 FSS/FSMC is the point-of-contact (POC) between the employee and the
         American Consulate. Employees should not contact the Consulate themselves. The
         Training section will explain the Visa process and coordinate the interview with the
         American Consulate if a Visa is required.
         7.5.4.2. A Visa is not required if the employee is going TDY and authorized
         commercial flight. A Visa is required if the employee is flying on an Air Mobility
         Command (AMC) flight or if the training is over 90 days in length.
         7.5.4.3. 65 FSS/FSMC will advise the insurance company an employee is TDY, off-
         island, to ensure insurance protection is extended during the TDY period away from
         their assigned
24                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


            7.5.4.4. 65 FSS/FSMC will inform the employee of the process to obtain European
            Insurance Card when TDY is within Europe.
     7.6. Self-Development. Self-development may provide the knowledge, skills and abilities
     needed to improve performance.
        7.6.1. Employees are encouraged to participate in self-development or training. Upon
        completion of a self-development course or program, employees must furnish pertinent
        information on the training to 65 FSS/FSMC in order to ensure inclusion in training
        record.
     7.7. Supervisory Responsibilities
        7.7.1. Use performance appraisals to determine training needs for employees.
        7.7.2. Review technology shifts. Anticipate and identify actual mission, program,
        weapon, or system changes. Prioritize needs and the methods used in evaluating training.
        Develop impact statements if training is not funded.
        7.7.3. Discuss employee training/development needs with 65 FSS/FSMC for suggestions
        on the most economical and efficient sources of training.
        7.7.4. Evaluate subordinates’ job performance following formal training, on-the-job
        training (OJT), and developmental assignments for effectiveness, and provide written
        evaluations to the Employee Development Specialist (EDS) as required.
        7.7.5. Prior to training, submit the completed SF 182, to 65 FSS/FSMC. Early
        submission of this form to 65 FSS/FSMC is especially critical when a TDY is involved.
        7.7.6. Ensure employees are released to attend training as scheduled.
        7.7.7. Adhere to merit principles when selecting employees for training or
        developmental assignments that may serve to enhance promotional opportunities.
        7.7.8. Mentor and inform subordinates concerning self-development opportunities and
        encourage career development activities.
        7.7.9. Coordinate with the CPF and the installation safety office when procuring training
        activities with physical requirements, which may adversely affect the safety and health of
        65 ABW employees.
     7.8. 65 FSS/FSMC Training Specialist Responsibilities
        7.8.1. Monitor compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Ensures data system
        is accurate with training, education and development programs.
        7.8.2. Review and approve (or disapprove) all requests for training (except centrally
        managed training) according to statutory, legal, and administrative requirements,
        regardless of funding source.
        7.8.3. Ensure competitive procedures are used in selecting employees for training and
        development that may serve to enhance promotion potential.
        7.8.4. Ensure a system is in place to manage effective course planning, registration and
        documentation of training.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                            25


      7.8.5. Assist managers and supervisors in identifying the most economical and efficient
      means to meet training needs.
      7.8.6. Evaluate the overall training and development program.
      7.8.7. Keep abreast of developments in the field of training sources and instructional
      technology.
      7.8.8. Prepare and distribute the installation training guide (ITG) to inform managers and
      employees of methods and programs for employee training and development.
      7.8.9. Assist supervisors in developing, approving, and monitoring formal training plans
      (FTP).
      7.8.10. Plan, organize and conduct training for newly assigned supervisors of Portuguese
      employees.
   7.9. Employee’s Responsibilities
      7.9.1. Maintain the necessary competence to perform the job and help the organization
      meet its mission.
      7.9.2. Participate in directed training and development activities.
      7.9.3. Share knowledge gained from such training activities with co-workers.
      7.9.4. Assist in training other employees.
      7.9.5. Discuss training needs with supervisors and obtain approval before applying for
      training.
      7.9.6. Assume responsibility for self-development activities and assure his/her personnel
      records reflect current training and development accomplishments.
   7.10. English Language and Typing Tests. 65 FSS/FSMC is responsible for determining
   English language and typing proficiency of 65 ABW employees, as well as off-base job
   applicants.
      7.10.1. Tests. 65 FSS/FSMC administers the American Language Placement Test. The
      resulting score determines the English Language level:
          7.10.1.1. A – Basic
          7.10.1.2. B – Intermediate
          7.10.1.3. C – Advanced
      7.10.2. The waiting period for repeating any test is 3 months.
8. Pay Administration
   8.1. Purpose. To establish policies and guidelines for payment of Portuguese employees of
   65 ABW.
   8.2. Setting Rates of Pay for Portuguese Employees
      8.2.1. Pay Rates for Portuguese Employees (Art 15, WR). Portuguese employees are
      paid in accordance with a wage schedule (monthly rates) established annually in
      accordance with Art 13, WR. Base pay is defined as salary, plus longevity (step
26                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


        increases in 5 year increments) and language bonus. Employee pay rates are determined
        by the CPF.
        8.2.2. Determining Creditable Service. All periods of employment in appropriated and
        non-appropriated fund activities will be treated as creditable service, and shall be
        computed as though there were no distinction between them. Periods of service for
        which an employee was separated during his/her probationary period are not considered
        creditable service if the individual is subsequently re-employed.
            8.2.2.1. Time that an employee is in a non-pay status due to prolonged illness or
            accidents, mandatory Portuguese military or civic service, elected or appointed to
            political office (Art 67 and 68, WR) or Leave Without Pay (Art 65, WR) is creditable
            for length of service purposes.
        8.2.3. Determining Pay Rates. For appointments, transfers, or reassignments, pay will be
        set at the rate for the grade level of the position to which assigned.
            8.2.3.1. Promotion. An action is determined to be a promotion if step "0" in the new
            pay grade is higher than step "0" of the previous pay grade. Pay will be set at the
            higher grade using the same longevity step as the employee earned at the lower grade.
            8.2.3.2. Change to Lower Grade. Pay retention for involuntary change to lower
            grade will follow the provisions of Art 9, WR. For a voluntary change to lower
            grade, pay will be set at the lower grade using the same longevity step the employee
            previously held.
            8.2.3.3. Reemployment. When an employee returns to duty after a break in service,
            all creditable service under previous appointments will be used in determining service
            computation date. Pay will be set at the step last held.
     8.3. Special Rates of Pay
        8.3.1. Responsibilities
            8.3.1.1. 65 ABW/CC reviews requests for overtime before they are submitted to
            HAAZ for IRT approval. This authority may be delegated to the appropriate unit
            commander or staff officer (Art 43-48, WR).
            8.3.1.2. CPF provides technical assistance to assure compliance with the WR
            concerning hours of work and pay entitlements.
        8.3.2. Overtime, Night Work and Holiday Pay
            8.3.2.1. Overtime. Overtime work performed on a regular workday is paid at a
            premium rate of 100% of the basic hourly rate (100% + 100% = 200%).
            8.3.2.2. Overtime work performed on a weekly or complementary day off is paid at a
            premium rate of 200% of the basic hourly rate (100% + 200% = 300%).
            8.3.2.3. Overtime work performed on a holiday is paid at a rate of 200% of the basic
            hourly rate (100% + 200% = 300%).
            8.3.2.4. Employees cannot be granted compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay
            (Art 46 and 48, WR).
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                              27


        8.3.2.5. Call Back Overtime Work. When an employee is required to return to
        his/her place of employment for unscheduled overtime work, the employee becomes
        entitled to a minimum of at least two (2) hours pay at the overtime rate for each time
        s/he is called back to duty, even if the employee’s services are not required for the
        full two hours.
        8.3.2.6. Night Work. A night differential premium of 25 percent of the employee’s
        basic hourly rate of pay is established for all work performed between 2000 and 0700
        hours by other than day shift employees. Those employees who have been
        permanently assigned to shift work between 2000-0700 hours since 1972 for which
        night differential is appropriate, shall be entitled to a 50 percent differential. Regular
        work day and day shift employees required to work between 2000 and 0700 hours
        will receive a night differential of 50 percent for those hours worked. (For shift
        definitions, see Chapter 9)
        8.3.2.7. Holiday Pay. An employee is entitled to holiday pay when regularly
        scheduled work is performed on a holiday (Art 48, WR). Holiday pay is paid at a rate
        of 300% of the basic hourly rate (100% + 200% = 300%).
        8.3.2.8. When an employee is not scheduled to work on a holiday that falls within his
        workweek, the employee will be paid at their normal rate of pay for that holiday.
        8.3.2.9. When an employee is in a pay status, either the day before or after the
        holiday, s/he is entitled to pay for the holiday. If the employee is in a non-pay status
        both the day before and after the holiday, the employee has no entitlement to holiday
        pay.
     8.3.3. Environmental Differential Pay (EDP). First level supervisors are responsible for
     reporting hazardous working conditions, which cannot be eliminated from the job, to the
     Classification Section of Civilian Personnel. A hazardous condition is to be determined
     by the appropriate authorized agency officials only, following prescribed procedures.
     Employees exposed to hazardous conditions identified below will be entitled to a
     minimum of one hour of premium pay for the exposure. EDP will be paid in one-hour
     increments. All other premium pay entitlements are computed separately. The following
     hazardous conditions and premium rates are examples of situations that have been
     approved in the past for EDP for Lajes Field:
        8.3.3.1. Fifty percent of the basic hourly rate for work on energized electrical lines
        suspended from utility poles of approximately 50 feet.
        8.3.3.2. Fifty percent of the basic hourly rate for work on underground systems in
        manholes, to inspect, maintain, troubleshoot and repair cables, oil filled switches and
        transformers.
     8.3.4. Daylight Savings Time. During the transition to or from daylight savings time,
     pay for shift workers is computed as follows:
        8.3.4.1. Daylight Savings Time. An employee working on a shift when daylight
        savings time goes into effect will work a full 8 hour shift if there is sufficient work.
        If sufficient work is not available the employees will be placed on administrative
28                                                 LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


           leave with no loss of pay for 1 hour.       This choice will be at the supervisor’s
           discretion.
           8.3.4.2. Return to Standard Time. An employee working on a shift when standard
           time goes into effect will be credited with the number of hours he is actually on duty.
           The hour beyond the normal work period shall be paid as overtime.
     8.4. Subsidies
        8.4.1. Christmas Subsidy (Art 17, WR). Computation of the Christmas subsidy will be
        proportionate to time spent in a duty status during the year.
        8.4.2. Vacation Subsidy (Art 57, WR). In addition to remuneration owed for earned
        vacation days, an employee is entitled to a vacation subsidy equal to 100 percent of said
        remuneration. An employee may request payment of vacation subsidy at any time by
        giving at least 10 days written notice to the appropriate Portuguese Civilian Pay Office.
        An employee does not have to take leave in order to request payment of the vacation
        subsidy. The vacation subsidy amount will be computed starting with the first day of the
        pay period after the date of receipt in the payroll office. Vacation time may not be
        charged on an official holiday.
           8.4.2.1. The entitlement to earn leave as of 1 January is based upon work performed
           in the previous calendar year.
               8.4.2.1.1. Upon termination of the forced absence, the employee is entitled, after
               three months of effective service, to a vacation period and corresponding subsidy
               that he would have earned on January 1 of that year, as if he had been working.
               8.4.2.1.2. However, on 1 January of the year during which the work contract is
               interrupted, the employee has already earned the full entitlement for annual leave
               and subsidy based on uninterrupted work performed during the previous year.
               Therefore, unused leave (and subsidy) the employee may have when the
               interruption starts, will be compensated at that time.
           8.4.2.2. If the employee does not take his/her annual leave and carries it over to the
           next year, and if the employee does not request payment of vacation subsidy during
           the year will receive his/her vacation subsidy on the first pay period of the new
           calendar year. Computations will be made by computing back from the last day of
           the pay period that includes 31 December of the previous year.
           8.4.2.3. An employee on a temporary appointment will be entitled to a vacation
           subsidy for the total number of leave days accrued through the pay period in which
           the vacation subsidy is paid.
        8.4.3. Fund Transfers. When, during the year, an employee transfers from one fund
        entity to another, the prorated amount of Christmas subsidy entitlement earned will be
        transferred by the losing payroll office to the gaining payroll office at the time of the
        employee's transfer.
        8.4.4. Meal Subsidy (Art 14, WR). Requirements and Conditions. Meals are authorized
        as follows:
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                          29


        8.4.4.1. Portuguese employees who work at least four (4) hours on their scheduled
        workday are entitled to a meal or its equivalent.
        8.4.4.2. Employees may request a cash payment in lieu of meals. Requests must be
        submitted to CPF for appropriate coordination. Employees must work four (4) hours
        on the scheduled workday for entitlement to payment for meal on that day.
        8.4.4.3. Shift workers are also authorized one meal or equivalent.
        8.4.4.4. Hourly rate employees are only entitled to one meal or equivalent after five
        (5) hours of work or more on any given day.
        8.4.4.5. Employees scheduled to work overtime for two or more hours are entitled to
        one additional meal or equivalent. The meal will be furnished upon presentation of a
        written request from the employee’s section signed by the supervisor.
     8.4.5. Transportation Subsidy (Art 50, WR).             Requirements and Conditions.
     Transportation is authorized as follows:
        8.4.5.1. All employees are entitled to a round-trip from established transportation
        routes in the area of their legal residence to Air Base 4 (AB4) on each day of
        scheduled work.
        8.4.5.2. Employees may request cash payment in lieu of transportation. In this case,
        transportation subsidy is awarded and annually adjusted in accordance with the
        amount established for the public administration (Portuguese Government
        Employees) as published in Diário da República.
        8.4.5.3. Requests must be submitted to CPF for appropriate coordination.
  8.5. Firefighters (Art 49, WR)
     8.5.1. Work Schedules. Firefighters are scheduled to work two (2) 24-hour days per
     week.
     8.5.2. Meals. Firefighters are entitled to four (4) meals during a 24-hour scheduled work
     period or the equivalent.
     8.5.3. Pay. Firefighters are entitled to receive premium pay after completion of 40 hours
     of work in the workweek as follows:
        8.5.3.1. Premium pay will be paid at a rate of 50% of the basic hourly rate for those
        hours worked between 40 and 44. (100% + 50% = 150%)
        8.5.3.2. Premium pay will be paid at a rate of 75% for the hours worked between 44
        and 48. (100% + 75% = 175%)
     8.5.4. Overtime Pay. All work performed in excess of the scheduled workday (24 hours)
     or basic workweek (48 hours).
        8.5.4.1. Overtime work performed on a regular workday is paid at a premium rate of
        100% of the basic hourly rate. (100% + 100% = 200%)
        8.5.4.2. Overtime work performed on a weekly or complementary days off is paid at
        a premium rate of 200% of the basic hourly rate. (100% + 200% = 300%)
     8.5.5. Holiday Pay. Firefighters are entitled to holiday pay for work on a holiday.
30                                                 LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


           8.5.5.1. Holiday pay is paid at a rate of 300% of the basic hourly rate. (100% + 200%
           = 300%)
           8.5.5.2. Hours worked between 40 and 44 are paid at a rate of 200% of the hourly
           rate in addition to the remuneration to which the employee would be entitled. (100%
           + 200% + 50% = 350%).
           8.5.5.3. Hours worked between 44 and 48 are paid at a rate of 200% of the hourly
           rate in addition to the remuneration to which the employee would be entitled (100% +
           200% + 75% = 375%).
        8.5.6. Overtime Work on a Holiday
           8.5.6.1. Overtime work performed on a holiday is paid at a rate of 200% of the basic
           hourly rate. (100% + 200% = 300%)
           8.5.6.2. The hours in excess of 48 are paid at a rate of 200% of the basic hourly rate
           in addition to the remuneration to which the employee would be entitled. (100% +
           75% +200% = 375%)
        8.5.7. Night Work. All work performed between 2000 hours of one day and 0700 hours
        of the following day is considered night work.
           8.5.7.1. Firefighters receive night differential premium of 25% of the basic hourly
           pay when work is performed between the hours identified above.
        8.5.8. Compensatory Time for Firefighters.      Compensatory time for firefighters is
        scheduled in accordance with the following:
           8.5.8.1. For overtime worked on the weekly day off, compensatory time off with pay
           must be taken within the next scheduled 3 days of work in the firefighter’s approved
           work schedule.
           8.5.8.2. For overtime worked on a complementary day off, compensatory time off
           with pay must be taken within the next 22 workdays in the firefighter’s approved
           work schedule.
           8.5.8.3. For work on a holiday that is not overtime, compensatory time off must be
           taken within the next 22 workdays on the firefighter’s approved work schedule.
9. Work Schedules, Overtime, Weekly and Complementary Day Off, and Holiday Work
Approval
     9.1. Work Schedules
        9.1.1. Purpose. To establish policy and procedures for developing work schedules, and
        requesting overtime and holiday work.
        9.1.2. Policy. Requests for approval of overtime or holiday work will be held to the
        absolute minimum, and must be fully justified.
        9.1.3. 65 ABW Approval. Squadron and tenant unit commanders are designated to act
        for 65 ABW/CC in reviewing and recommending approval of uncommon tours of duty,
        shifts, overtime in excess of two hours per day or 220 hours per year, and holiday work.
        Overtime work on a holiday, weekly day off, or complementary day off must be
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                         31


     approved at the group commander or tenant activity commander/director level, prior to
     submission to the Inspecção Regional do Trabalho (IRT) (Art 44, WR).
     9.1.4. Labor Delegate Approval. Prior approval of the IRT is required for Portuguese
     employees to work overtime in excess of two hours per day or 220 hours per year, on a
     Portuguese holiday, or on an employee's complementary or weekly day off. Approval is
     also required to establish any uncommon tour of duty or working in shifts as defined in
     Art 38, WR.
     9.1.5. Preparation of Work Schedules.      The following should be considered when
     establishing work schedules:
        9.1.5.1. Work schedules definitions:
            9.1.5.1.1. Regular work hours for 65 ABW are 0800 – 1700, Monday through
            Friday.
            9.1.5.1.2. Uncommon work hours: any hours scheduled outside of the regular
            work hours.
            9.1.5.1.3. Day shift: is defined as any shift scheduled between 0700 and 2000
            hours.
            9.1.5.1.4. Shift hours: work schedules that are organized due to special
            circumstances in such a way to maintain continuous coverage greater than eight
            consecutive hours up to 24-hour manning.
        9.1.5.2. Supervisors schedule working hours, lunch, and rest periods for employees,
        and secure approval for such schedules when required (Art 38, WR)
        9.1.5.3. For activities requiring round-the-clock coverage, operations will normally
        be organized into three daily shifts of eight consecutive hours of duty, allowing a
        30-minute paid lunch break on the job (Art 45, WR).
        9.1.5.4. To the extent possible, shifts will be organized to coincide with available
        transportation.
        9.1.5.5. Lunch periods should be established to coincide with the dining hall
        schedule. (Refer to 9.1.8)
        9.1.5.6. Employees will have a weekly day-off, normally Sunday, with a contiguous
        complementary day off, normally Saturday. They may be separated only by mutual
        agreement of supervisor and employee. The weekly day-off is coded ― on the
                                                                               W‖
        work schedule, and the complementary day off is coded as ―C
                                                                  ‖.
        9.1.5.7. For schedules where weekly and complementary days do not fall on
        Saturday and Sunday, the supervisor must indicate which of the two days off per
        week are the weekly and complementary days.
        9.1.5.8. A change in shift can only be made following the employee’s weekly day
        off. Under special circumstances, shift changes without a day off in between may be
        scheduled as long as the difference between the start hours of the new shift does not
        exceed 2 hours.
        9.1.5.9. Employees on shifts will have at least four Sundays off per year.
32                                              LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


        9.1.5.10. Compensatory time for work during the five holidays (Art 46, WR), for
        which it is authorized, should be scheduled into the original work schedule with code
        ― (administrative leave).
         A‖
        9.1.5.11. Employees required to work on a holiday will be identified on the reverse
        side of the schedule. Employees scheduled, but not required to work, will be paid
        straight pay for that day.
        9.1.5.12. When an unexpected absence of an employee occurs, an employee who
        normally works an assigned shift may be assigned to relieve that employee on a
        different shift or schedule without an intervening day off (relief worker). This relief
        may not exceed one work week for each situation, without prejudice to Art 43.
     9.1.6. Work Schedule Approval. Where possible, requests for changes or uncommon
     tours of duty must reach CPF not later than 30 days prior to the date proposed for
     establishment of the schedule.
        9.1.6.1. The following information must be provided by requesting office:
           9.1.6.1.1. Full justification for proposed deviation from the prescribed workweek
           or revision to an already approved work schedule.
           9.1.6.1.2. A statement indicating clearance by the resource manager if the
           proposed schedule involves a requirement for night differential.
           9.1.6.1.3. One original plus four copies of the proposed work schedule, along
           with employee’s concurrence or non-concurrence, with specific reasons.
        9.1.6.2. Employee non-concurrence must be based on his/her personal work
        schedule, work contract (position description and other documents) and specific
        provisions of the LA and/or WR.
        9.1.6.3. The CPF will send requests for change of work schedule or uncommon tour
        of duty to the Committee of Employee Representatives (CRT) for comment, and to
        the IRT, through HAAZ, for approval. Copies of the approved work schedules will
        be retained by IRT (one copy), HAAZ (one copy); Payroll Office (one copy); CPF
        (one copy); and Originator (one copy). Approved work schedules cannot be changed,
        revised or amended without resubmission except as provided in paragraph 9.1.6.4.
           9.1.6.3.1. When a position becomes vacant and is subsequently filled,
           management must submit a schedule for approval for the newly assigned
           employee within 30 days of assignment. In the interim, the new employee’s
           schedule will be assigned by the supervisor using the previous employee’s
           approved schedule.
           9.1.6.3.2. When a new position is established and filled, the work schedule will
           be established following procedures outlined in 9.1.6.4.
           9.1.6.3.3. Approved work schedules must be posted in a location for review by
           employees and competent Portuguese authorities.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                             33


            9.1.6.3.4. Work Schedules submitted for review and coordination to the CPF will
            be provided to CRT, for their review and comments within 7 workdays of
            submission to CPF. CRT will have 7 days to review and submit comments to
            CPF.
        9.1.6.4. Short notice changes to an approved work schedule are described as changes
        with less than 30 days advance notice. This procedure will be used only for
        exceptional situations. It is management’s responsibility to notify CPF as soon as the
        requirement for a change to the work schedule is required. Justification for the short
        notice change must be provided by the Squadron Commander in writing. Procedures
        outlined in 9.1.6.1. are still required.
            9.1.6.4.1. CPF will:
                9.1.6.4.1.1. Provide CRT a copy of the short notice change for review and
                comment.
                9.1.6.4.1.2. Obtain ― number and signature from the Political Affairs office.
                                    P‖
                9.1.6.4.1.3. Fax the request for work schedule change to IRT and HAAZ
                simultaneously.
                9.1.6.4.1.4. The fax request will have the ― number clearly identified for
                                                           P‖
                future reference.
                9.1.6.4.1.5. Forward the original request as outlined in 9.1.6.3. for official
                signatures.
                9.1.6.4.1.6. Upon concurrence from IRT, a confirmation will be faxed to
                CPF.
                9.1.6.4.1.7. Upon faxed receipt of approval for change from IRT,
                management may implement work schedule change.
     9.1.7. Rest Periods. Supervisors may grant rest periods and will notify employees of the
     established policy within the organization. Rest periods may be established for:
        9.1.7.1. Protection of an employee's health by relief from hazardous work or work
        which requires continual or considerable physical exertion.
        9.1.7.2. Reduction of accident rates by reducing fatigue.
        9.1.7.3. Work in confined spaces or in areas where physical mobility is restricted.
        9.1.7.4. Possible increase or maintenance of high quality or quantity production is
        attributable to the rest period.
     9.1.8. Lunch Periods. Lunch periods, normally one hour, during which the employee is
     entirely free of duties connected with his/her job, may not be considered as duty for
     which compensation is payable (Art 40, WR). When an employee who works in shifts
     cannot be released for a one-hour lunch period (due to work requirements), a half-hour,
     compensated lunch period may be scheduled. The following guidelines control lunch
     periods:
34                                                      LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


           9.1.8.1. An unpaid lunch period of one hour will be scheduled after 4 or 5
           consecutive hours of work, unless approved otherwise, in the terms of Art 40.2, WR.
           9.1.8.2. Where shifts are in operation, an overlapping of shifts to permit time off for
           lunch may not be possible. A lunch period of 30 minutes is counted as time worked
           for which compensation is payable. Where a 30-minute on-the-job lunch period is in
           effect, workers must spend this time near their workstation. If the lunch period is
           longer than 30 minutes, the time spent at lunch is not compensable time.
           9.1.8.3. Where one or two shifts are in operation, the supervisor will normally
           schedule a one-hour unpaid lunch period, unless this conflicts with transportation or
           dining hall meal schedules.
           9.1.8.4. Lunch periods during periods of overtime work are included as part of the
           compensable duty hour, if they do not exceed 30 minutes for every four (4) hours of
           continuous work.
     9.2. Holiday Work
        9.2.1. Requests for Approval of Holiday Work. Supervisors of employees not working
        on a shift schedule will submit requests to the appropriate official within squadron for
        approval no later than fifteen (15) workdays preceding the holiday. A copy of the
        approved request will be provided to the CPF. The following information will be
        required:
           9.2.1.1. Name of organization.
           9.2.1.2. Name of holiday and the names and badge number of the employees to work.
           9.2.1.3. Justification of the mission necessity.
           9.2.1.4. Statement indicating clearance by the resource manager for expenditure of
           funds.
           9.2.1.5. Statement from the employee concurring to work the holiday.
     9.3. Overtime Work
        9.3.1. Requests for Approval of Overtime Work (Art 44, WR). Overtime should be
        approved in advance where possible.
           9.3.1.1. Foreseen Overtime. Except for firefighters, requests for employees to work
           overtime in excess of two hours in one day, or 220 hours per calendar year must be in
           writing and reach CPF at least fifteen (15) workdays preceding the overtime in order
           to obtain IRT approval through HAAZ. The request letter must contain the following
           information:
               9.3.1.1.1. Dates, time, and number of overtime hours to be worked by each
               employee
               9.3.1.1.2. Badge number, and name of each employee.
               9.3.1.1.3. Cumulative overtime hours worked by each employee during the
               calendar year.
               9.3.1.1.4. Justification for overtime.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                          35


            9.3.1.1.5. Statement from the resource manager indicating availability of funds.
            9.3.1.1.6. Statement from employees concurring or non-concurring to work the
            overtime.
        9.3.1.2. Unforeseen Overtime. An emergency increase in working hours due to
        mission surge, serious accident, or from imminent danger of property loss or damage,
        will be reported to the organization commander on the following workday.
        Documentation of the overtime worked, including the information in paragraph
        9.3.1.1 must be submitted to CPF as soon as possible to be forwarded to IRT through
        HAAZ. (Art 44, WR).
  9.4. Overtime Work on Weekly or Complementary Day Off
     9.4.1. Requests for Approval. Requests must be approved by the group or tenant activity
     commander/director and are processed using the same procedures used for regularly
     scheduled overtime. (Art 42, WR)
  9.5. Compensatory Days Off
     9.5.1. COMPENSATORY Time Off. Compensatory time off is earned in accordance
     with Art 46, WR. Compensatory time is time off with pay that should be scheduled and
     recorded on the time card as administrative leave.
        9.5.1.1. Personnel required to work overtime during their weekly day off will be
        entitled to a day off with pay on one of the next three days.
        9.5.1.2. Personnel required to work overtime during their complementary day off are
        entitled to a half day off with pay when the hours worked accumulate to equal their
        normal workday. This time must be taken within thirty days.
        9.5.1.3. Personnel required to work on the following holidays are entitled to an
        additional day off which must be taken within thirty days:
            9.5.1.3.1. New Year’s Day – 1 January
            9.5.1.3.2. Day of Portugal – 10 June
            9.5.1.3.3. Day of the Worker – 1 May
            9.5.1.3.4. Espírito Santo Monday – Variable date
            9.5.1.3.5. Christmas Day – 25 December
     9.5.2. SCHEDULING Compensatory Time Off. Compensatory time off should be
     scheduled as soon as possible, and in accordance with the employee’s request where
     possible. The supervisor is the approval authority for any leave request including
     compensatory days off.
        9.5.2.1. Foreseen Overtime. The compensatory time off for foreseen overtime
        should be scheduled at the time the overtime request is submitted.
        9.5.2.2. Unforeseen Overtime. The compensatory time off for unforeseen overtime
        should be scheduled as soon as is practical after the requirement for overtime
        becomes apparent.
36                                                   LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


            9.5.2.3. Designated Holidays. The compensatory time off for working the designated
            holidays, when such work is not overtime, should be scheduled when the work
            schedule is originally submitted.
10. Language Bonus System (Art 20, WR)
     10.1. Policy and Authority. An English Language Bonus (ELB) is authorized for qualified
     employees on the basis of official position requirements.
     10.2. Responsibilities. Responsibility for the ELB program is divided as follows:
        10.2.1. The supervisor will:
            10.2.1.1. Submit in writing, as part of the core document, specific justification for the
            language requirement, specifying the degree to which an employee is required to
            speak, read, write and/or understand English to accomplish the duties of the position.
            The language requirement must be fully justified to merit assignment of the ELB
            level.
            10.2.1.2. Notify the CPF, in writing, of any proposed change in the language
            requirements of a position. Justification for such proposed changes must relate
            position requirements to the language designation criteria.
            10.2.1.3. Ensure that employees fully utilize the language skill for which they are
            being paid.
            10.2.1.4. Require employees whose language proficiency is below position
            requirements to improve their ability.
        10.2.2. The CPF will:
            10.2.2.1. Determine the appropriate ELB classification of positions and document
            such in the core document.
            10.2.2.2. Administer tests to determine language ability.
     10.3. Where English Language Requirement Differ From Ability. The employee’s language
     ability may be different than the requirement of the position.
        10.3.1. If the language ability of an employee is below the language designation of the
        position to which assigned, the employee will be paid the bonus on the basis of the
        individual's language ability.
        10.3.2. If the supervisor believes that an employee’s ability has retrogressed to the point
        that the employee no longer meets job requirements, the supervisor should contact the
        CPF for assistance on the performance problem and for language training for the
        employee as required.
     10.4. ELB Designation Criteria. The following defines the three ELB categories:
        10.4.1. Language Category A. Positions which require a basic knowledge of the English
        language. This level is typical of most trade positions, such as asking and answering
        simple questions or directions; reading simple work orders, signs in shops, simple
        instructions; copying and writing simple English statements, phrases and sentences; and
        following simple directions, etc.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 37


      10.4.2. Language Category B. Positions which require an intermediate knowledge of the
      English language. This level is typical of most clerical and technical positions, including
      1st level supervisors. Positions require the of technical or specialized vocabulary
      connected with the job, such as discuss procedural changes, explain the requirements of
      the job; read and technical orders, regulations, complex work orders, standard operating
      procedures; write statements about the work and related matters, compose endorsements
      and simple letters, prepare reports; use the telephone effectively, discuss employee
      performance, work procedures, technical procedures, etc.
      10.4.3. Language Category C. Positions which require an advanced knowledge of the
      English language. This level is typical of managerial and specialist positions, section and
      branch-level supervisory positions. Positions require the use of technical vocabulary in
      several different subject matter areas, such as discuss and interpret policy matters and
      changes, explain interrelated functions, organizational procedures; teach complex
      material, answer questions related to procedures; read, edit, and interpret technical
      directives and regulations; originate and compose regulations, policies, directives,
      correspondence, etc.; and participate in conferences and discuss policies, technical work
      procedures etc.
11. Reduction-in-Force (RIF)
   11.1. Pre-Reduction-in-Force. Prior to a RIF, 65 ABW may use pre-RIF placement of
   employees to ensure the least impact across the installation. If pre-RIF placement doesn’t
   satisfy the placement needs, the RIF procedures below will be utilized.
   11.2. Procedures (Art 76, WR). Reduction-in-force is used whenever it is necessary to release
   employees by separation, reassignment, or change to lower grade as a result of lack of funds or
   work, organizational realignment, or other mission changes. When a position has been
   identified for abolishment, the reduction-in-force process is initiated to determine the impact on
   employees. Based upon the criteria below, the CPF will determine employee placement/release,
   and issue necessary advance notices to affected employees.
   11.3. Scope of Competition (Art 76, WR).
      11.3.1. Competitive Area. When it is necessary to abolish positions by reduction-in-force,
      all employees within 65 ABW compete for the remaining positions.
      11.3.2. Competitive Levels. Names of employees are grouped according to competitive
      levels. A competitive level is defined as all positions in the competitive area which are
      similar in kind and grade and between which employees could be readily interchanged
      without undue interruption to the work.
      11.3.3. Retention Registers. When an activity finds it necessary to reduce the number of
      employees doing a particular kind of work, all employees holding positions of similar kind
      and grade compete for the remaining jobs. Retention within a competitive level will be
      based on length of service.
   11.4. Release of Employees. When it becomes necessary to separate employees by reduction-
   in-force, those employees with the least service time will be the first to be separated. All ties
   will be broken by badge number, with the employee with the lowest number given priority in
   retention.
38                                                    LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


        11.4.1. When an employee is separated by reduction-in-force, the AF Form 971,
        Automated Supervisor Employee Work Folder, will be forwarded to the CPF for filing, and
        the employee will receive priority placement to positions for which qualified up to one year
        from the date of separation. After one year, a separated employee will receive priority
        consideration for future vacancies for which qualified. Selection of candidates referred with
        priority consideration based on separation under RIF will be mandatory, unless justification
        for non-selection is submitted by the selecting supervisor and approved by the Civilian
        Personnel Officer. Separated employees will complete an application stating the conditions
        of employment acceptable to them, i.e., grade level, hours of work, etc.
        11.4.2. Employees who are identified for reduction-in-force have placement rights to any
        vacant position at or below their current grade for which they qualify. They will also be
        considered along with other eligible for promotion to higher-grade vacancies.
     11.5. Notice Period. The CPF will give a 30-day advance notice to employees who are to be
     affected by reduction-in-force. The separation may not take place before the 30-day notice
     period has elapsed. If 65 ABW fails to comply with the notice period, the employee will be
     entitled to receive the wages corresponding to the advance notice period unless the parties
     mutually agree to an earlier release date. During the advance notice period, the employee is
     entitled to 64 hours, with pay, to look for alternative employment. The hours can be taken at the
     employee’s option, subject to supervisory approval, based on mission requirements.
     11.6. Termination Indemnity (Art 13, LA). The termination indemnity is determined in
     accordance with Art 13, LA. Indemnity is paid at the rate of one month’s pay including
     language bonus for each full year of creditable service. Fractions of a year will be rounded up to
     the next full year, i.e., 9 years and 4 months will be credited as 10 years. Termination indemnity
     is paid only once for any period of service.
     11.7. Grievance Rights (Art 86, WR; Art 15, LA). Employees being separated, reassigned or
     changed to lower grade, as a result of reduction-in-force, have the right to examine records
     pertaining to their own case and grieve any action they believe to be improper. The advance
     notice of separation, reassignment or change to lower grade will contain instructions concerning
     grievance procedures.
     11.8. Creditable Service for Indemnity. The following procedures are used to determine how
     much service time is creditable toward the indemnity:
        11.8.1. The CPF will review the employees’ records to determine the amount of creditable
        service (appropriated and non-appropriated) for indemnity purposes and will attach this
        information to the SF 50 in triplicate. Creditable service is all time of employment by 65
        ABW, for which no previous indemnity has been paid, unless the employee has voluntarily
        returned the amount of that previous indemnity.
        11.8.2. The total amount of severance payment will be paid by the fund, appropriated or
        non-appropriated, releasing the employee. The severance payment will then be divided
        between the responsible funds in proportion to the amount of time worked for each fund
        with reimbursement being made accordingly.
12. Leave Administration
     12.1. General
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                            39


     12.1.1. Purpose. To establish policy and procedure for implementing leave entitlements
     for all 65 ABW Portuguese employees.
     12.1.2. Responsibilities. Authority to approve leave will be assigned at the lowest
     practical level, and will normally be given to those supervisors who are authorized to
     certify time and attendance reports. Supervisors who are authorized to approve leave
     will:
        12.1.2.1. Inform employees under their supervision of policies and regulations
        governing leave.
        12.1.2.2. Determine that all absences of employees under their supervision are
        charged in accordance with applicable policies and regulations.
        12.1.2.3. Schedule and monitor annual leave ensure that employee leave entitlement
        is used by the end of the leave year (Art 54 and 56, WR).
  12.2. Annual Leave
     12.2.1. How Annual Leave is Earned and Credited (Art 55, WR). Leave is earned and
     credited based upon work performed in the previous calendar year. The maximum leave
     amount earned is 192 hours (24 days) in any leave year and is determined by the length
     of service of the employee.
        12.2.1.1. Permanent full-time employees. Leave is credited on 1 January to all
        employees based on employment from the previous calendar year.
        12.2.1.2. Permanent part-time employees. Leave is credited on 1 January for part-
        time employees and is proportional to time in a pay status, not to exceed 24 days per
        work year.
        12.2.1.3. For temporary employees, refer to Art 55, WR.
        12.2.1.4. Granting of annual leave before it is earned and credited to the employee's
        account is not authorized.
     12.2.2. Approval of Annual Leave
        12.2.2.1. Annual leave must be requested and the schedule approved in advance and
        documented on an OPM Form 71 by 15 Apr each year.
        12.2.2.2. While annual leave is a right of the employee, the final determination as to
        the time and amount of leave granted, at any specific time, is made by the supervisor.
        During a military emergency the employee may be denied the right to take all his/her
        accrued leave prior to the end of the calendar year. The group or tenant activity
        commander/director must approve the denial of annual leave in writing. (Art 59 & 60,
        WR)
     12.2.3. Employment/Leave Interruption (Art 67 & 78, WR)
        12.2.3.1. If an employee is unable to take earned leave during a leave year due to
        prolonged absence, under Art 67, WR, the individual shall be entitled to use the leave
        upon return to duty, as mutually agreed, or receive a remuneration equivalent to the
        unused vacation period and any corresponding unpaid vacation subsidy. If the
        employee elects to take the leave, but there are insufficient duty days remaining in the
40                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


           year to use all the leave, employee must request transfer of excess leave to be used
           during the first three months of the following year unless the employee and
           supervisor can mutually agree to schedule the leave within the first six months of the
           year.
           12.2.3.2. When the employee is on prolonged forced absence on 1 January, but
           returns to work later that year, the individual will be entitled to the vacation period
           and corresponding subsidy that would be earned in January of that year as if not
           absent from work.
        12.2.4. Vacation Schedules (Art 54, WR). Supervisors must complete and post a
        vacation schedule by 15 April of each year. If the supervisor and employees cannot agree
        on a vacation period, the supervisor may schedule the employee’s vacation between 1
        May and 31 October after advising the Committee of Employee Representatives. All
        possible efforts should be made to allow members of the same household to take their
        yearly vacation period at the same time.
        12.2.5. Absence Due to Illness (Art 61 & 62, WR). Absence for the first three days of
        illness is not covered by Social Welfare and may be charged to leave without pay, or
        annual leave. The specific type of leave to be used is up to the employee, based on
        supervisory approval. A medical certificate will be required for absences of more than
        three days. When there is reason to believe that an employee is abusing leave for illness,
        a medical certificate may be required for absences of three days or less. This requirement
        will be limited to individual cases of suspected abuse, and guidance from CPF should be
        obtained before initiating any such action. (Refer to Chapter 16 for absence due to on the
        job accidents/injuries).
     12.3. Charges to Leave
        12.3.1. Charges to Leave. The minimum charge to annual leave is one hour. Additional
        charges are made in multiples of one hour. Leave is only chargeable for days of work.
        Leave cannot be charged for holidays when the employee is not scheduled to work or
        other non-work days.
        12.3.2. Charging Absences in Non-pay Status (Art 62, WR). Unauthorized absences will
        be charged to absence without leave (AWOL). If circumstances warrant, the supervisor
        may change the charge of AWOL to annual leave or leave without pay before the
        attendance report is forwarded to the payroll office. Exact records of periods of AWOL
        must be maintained for justification of appropriate administrative actions.
     12.4. Lump Sum Leave Payments
        12.4.1. Lump sum annual leave payments will be made when the employee:
           12.4.1.1. Is separated.
           12.4.1.2. Has been accepted for disability retirement under Social Welfare.
           12.4.1.3. Goes into active military service.
           12.4.1.4. Is granted leave without pay (LWOP) for extended periods (6 months or
           more).
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                           41


     12.4.2. An employee who is transferred from one fund activity to another shall have
     accrued annual leave transferred between appropriated and non-appropriated fund
     activities or within non-appropriated fund activities. Payment for the leave will be made
     by check to the gaining activity and will include the deduction for the employer's
     contribution to the social welfare fund and any appropriate vacation subsidy. In addition,
     a SF 1150, Record of Leave Data, will be prepared by the losing activity and sent to the
     gaining activity itemizing leave hours and subsidy credited to the employee at the time of
     the transfer.
     12.4.3. Personnel who are separated will receive a lump sum payment for all accrued
     leave and that prorated portion of leave and leave subsidy earned during the current year
     through the date of separation.
  12.5. Policies Relating to Specific Types of Absences
     12.5.1. Portuguese Holidays (Art 51 & 52,WR). All employees, except those required to
     remain on duty to carry out essential operations, will be excused without charge to leave
     on all specified holidays. 65 ABW will determine those employees required to work on a
     holiday. Shift workers required to work on a holiday (Religious and Local holidays) will
     be identified on the work schedule. Only those religious/local holidays outlined in Art 51
     & 52, WR are considered official holidays for employment purposes. Employees who
     wish to observe unofficial holidays may be permitted annual leave or leave without pay
     for observance with supervisor’s approval.
     12.5.2. Absence Due to Emergency Conditions. Employees who have been designated
     as mission essential may be directed to remain on duty when other employees are
     released. Designation of employees as mission essential will be done in writing or may
     be noted in the position description. The installation commander may excuse non-
     essential employees from duty with pay when conditions warrant. Conditions that may
     require non-mission essential employees to be excused from duty include:
         12.5.2.1. Normal operations are interrupted by events beyond the control of
         management or employees, such as fire, flood, severe storm conditions and other
         natural disasters.
         12.5.2.2. Closing an establishment or portions thereof is required for short period of
         time for managerial reasons such as breakdown of equipment or essential services.
     12.5.3. Brief Periods of Absence and Tardiness (Art 63, WR)
         12.5.3.1. Unavoidable absence of less than one hour and tardiness may be excused by
         the supervisor for adequate reasons or charged to annual leave. If the absence or
         tardiness is charged to annual leave, the charge must be in multiples of one hour. If
         the leave charge exceeds the period of absence or tardiness, the employees will not be
         required to work the additional time covered by the leave charge. Unauthorized
         absence during the workday may also be charged as AWOL if the circumstances do
         not justify an excused absence or the approval of annual leave. Repeated tardiness or
         unauthorized absences during the workday may warrant disciplinary action and/or
         refusal of service for part or the entire work period. Such cases will be referred to
         CPF to determine whether disciplinary action is appropriate.
42                                              LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


        12.5.3.2. 65 ABW/CC may excuse employees for short periods to participate in or to
        attend certain ceremonies or official functions at the installation when their
        attendance is in the interest of the 65 ABW.
     12.5.4. Absence for Treatment of On-the-Job Injuries (Art 90, WR). An employee
     injured in the performance of duty will be considered in a duty status during the initial
     examination or emergency treatment, and for the remainder of the duty day, if unable to
     return to duty. When additional absence from work it is necessary because of the injury,
     leave without pay will be granted when compensation is received under the provisions of
     the Portuguese Insurance Program. For additional information regarding on-the-job
     injuries, refer to Chapter 16.
     12.5.5. Medical Examinations. Employees required having a medical examination to
     determine their fitness for employment, or who obtain chest x-rays or similar medical
     services administered as part of the health program, will be considered in duty status
     during the time necessary to obtain the examination and/or treatment.
     12.5.6. Training. No charge will be made to leave for training, whether on or off the
     installation, which is approved as job related and attended during the employee's duty
     hours. Training taken by an employee on his/her own initiative must be taken outside
     duty hours or during periods of approved annual leave or leave without pay.
     12.5.7. Hearings. Employees who are required or authorized to attend hearings
     conducted within the US Air Force on such matters as grievances, complaints of
     discrimination, and performance rating appeals will be considered in an official duty
     status for the time required. Employees who are personally affected will be allowed up to
     eight hours to prepare for such hearings without charge to leave or loss of pay.
     12.5.8. Official Appointments. Appointments required by the installation or other
     official activities are considered official duty and will not be charged to leave.
     12.5.9. Consultation with CPF Staff. An employee will not be charged leave for a
     reasonable amount of time required to consult with the CPF staff on questions affecting
     duties, working conditions, employment status, or similar matters. Arrangements
     satisfactory to the employee, immediate supervisor, and the official to be consulted must
     be made in advance.
     12.5.10. Court Summons. When an employee is called as a witness in his/her official
     capacity or to testify in connection with a matter pertaining to the U.S. Government, the
     witness service is considered official business.
     12.5.11. Maternity Reasons (Art 69, WR). 65 ABW is liable under Portuguese law to
     retain an employee in pay status during maternity leave if the employee is not fully
     covered by the Social Welfare Program. An employee becomes fully vested in the Social
     Welfare Program health insurance after six (6) months of contributions.
     12.5.12. Special Absence. Upon completion of maternity leave as outlined in WR, Art
     69, employees may request and will be entitled to an additional 30 days of absence. The
     employee must request the additional absence prior to the end of the first 60 days of
     maternity leave. The absence will be paid by Social Welfare and charged as sick without
     pay on the time card.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                             43


     12.5.13. Elections. When notified by the Town Hall to work in an official capacity on
     the voting table, the employee is entitled to be excused from duty status on the election
     day and on the following day. The employee must provide proof of his/her election
     duties. If an employee is assigned to be an election official, this is a mandatory function
     under Portuguese Law. When an employee is a candidate, the candidates are entitled to
     be released from work for the period of time in accordance with the current electoral law
     of Portugal. The candidates need to provide management with official certification of
     participation in the election that meets Portuguese law at the time of the election
  12.6. Justified Absence (Art 64, WR)
     12.6.1. Justified Absence (Art 64, WR). The following defines procedures for paid
     excused absences.
        12.6.1.1. Absence without charge to leave or loss of pay will be allowed for those
        situations identified in Art 64, WR. The allowable period of absence will begin on
        the date of the occurrence of the justified absence. Shift workers will be excused
        from the entire shift even if it extends into the next calendar day. The supervisor will
        require the employee to furnish proof of eligibility for the absence. Certification for
        all justified absences will be provided to the supervisor within 5 working days of the
        absence.
        12.6.1.2. When an employee requests leave pursuant to Art 64 for the reason that
        assistance to a member of his/her immediate household is essential, the following
        criteria should be used in considering the employee's request for up to three
        consecutive calendar days:
            12.6.1.2.1. The employee must be required to provide medical documentation to
            support the absence.
            12.6.1.2.2. The assistance to be provided must be for a permanent resident of the
            employee's immediate household.
            12.6.1.2.3. The assistance must be "essential" and could not be fulfilled by
            another household member.
            12.6.1.2.4. The employee must provide a signed, written acknowledgement that
            meets the criteria as enumerated in 12.6.1.2.2. and 12.6.1.2.3.
            12.6.1.2.5. The individual will not automatically be entitled to the entire three (3)
            days. Only the amount of time actually required will be granted.
        12.6.1.3. Justified absence of an employee without loss of pay for essential care of an
        immediate household member will not exceed a total of 15 days per calendar year.
            12.6.1.3.1. In addition to the 15 days of absence without loss of pay for the
            reason stated in 12.6.1.3., above, employees will be granted a total of 30
            additional days of justified absence without pay in the cases of sickness or
            accident to children, adopted children and step-children who are less than 10
            years of age. In the event an employee needs to take leave without pay for such
            reason, the employee will have the option of applying for reimbursement for the
            absence from Social Welfare.
44                                                   LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


                12.6.1.3.2. In cases of justified absence that exceeds 3 consecutive days, the
                supervisor must coordinate the request with the CPF.
13. Employee Identification Cards
     13.1. Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for initial issue and
     renewal of Portuguese employee identification and privilege cards. The identification card
     allows all 65 ABW Portuguese employees to arrange for access to the AB4 and to the
     appropriate 65 ABW facilities thereon. The Army Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES)
     privilege card allows Portuguese civilian employees access to AAFES facilities.
     13.2. Identification Cards Issuance Responsibilities.
        13.2.1. Responsibilities.
            13.2.1.1. CPF. Identification cards for Portuguese employees of 65 ABW are
            prepared in the CPF for issuance by AB4. Upon notification the card is approved, the
            CPF notifies the employee to pick up the card at AB4, Identification Section.
        13.2.2. Initial Issuance. Identification cards are prepared during the initial processing of
        new employees. It takes a minimum of one week for cards to be completed and ready for
        employee’s use. The CPF will provide proof of employment for employees to submit to
        AB4 Security Police for issuance of temporary base access.
        13.2.3. Renewal. Employees should make an appointment with the CPF at least 30 days
        prior to expiration of identification card(s). This allows processing time for issuance of a
        new card. If the card expires prior to completion of the replacement, the employee must
        obtain appropriate documentation of employment from the CPF and to get a temporary
        pass from AB4 Security Police.
     13.3. Privilege Cards (AAFES Access). The current version of NEP/ADM-005, Purchases
     at USFORAZ-Sponsored Facilities, establishes that certain host nation military and civilian
     personnel, active and retired, may receive a privilege card (cartão de privilégio) allowing
     them access to specified AAFES and other facilities at Lajes Field. Among those entitled to
     a privilege card are Portuguese employees of 65 ABW and their immediate dependents.
     NEP/ADM-005 further delineates purchasing limitations and caps for different classes of
     privilege cards. Refer to the NEP for specific eligibility and shopping limitation statements.
        13.3.1. Issuance of privilege cards to 65 ABW personnel:         The process for issuing
        privilege cards to Portuguese employees of 65 ABW and their eligible dependents begins
        at the CPF, where eligibility is verified and an application completed. A current ID-size
        photo is required for each card. Sponsors typically are to apply for privilege cards for
        themselves and their eligible dependents at the same time, as a group, and a common
        expiration date will apply to all the cards in the family group.
        13.3.2. Turn-in of privilege cards: Upon termination of a sponsor’s base employment, or
        under circumstances of extended absence from work which would warrant suspension of
        employment benefits while the absence continues, the affected sponsor’s/dependent’s
        privilege cards must be turned in to the CPF, as a group.
        13.3.3. Retiree privilege cards: Upon retirement from base employment, those who
        remain eligible will be reissued a privilege card appropriate to retired status, in
        accordance with the revision of NEP/ADM-005 in force at the time.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                               45


      13.3.4. Renewal of privilege cards: Through the CPF, privilege card holders should
      request renewal of their cards and submit the required photos for themselves and eligible
      dependents at least 30 days prior to the expiration date. Sponsor and dependent cards
      should typically be renewed as a group.
      13.3.5. Revocation/suspension of privilege cards:               Privilege cards may be
      revoked/suspended for shoplifting, violation of NEP-imposed shopping limitations,
      purchasing for resale to individuals not entitled to privilege card benefits, allowing use of
      one’s privilege card by another, or other serious abuses judged on a case-by-case basis.
      65 Mission Support Group Commander (MSG/CC) is the final arbiter in cases of alleged
      privilege card abuse. When serious abuse is substantiated, MSG/CC will issue a letter
      detailing the reason for the revocation/suspension, its length, and the terms for
      reinstatement of shopping privileges.
         13.3.5.1. Shoplifting: In the event a privilege card bearer is detained for shoplifting,
         the responding joint patrol, will pull the individual’s privilege card and turn it over to
         the CPF for safekeeping until MSG/CC completes review of the case and determines
         appropriate disposition. If shoplifting is substantiated, MSG/CC will either
         permanently revoke the privilege card or impose a period of suspension appropriate to
         the gravity of the case. MSG/CC’s decision will be presented in writing to the
         individual. Copies of the letter will be provided to the CPF, the commander (or
         senior official) of the unit where the individual is employed, or, in the case of a
         dependent, to his/her sponsor. Card revocations or suspensions do not preclude other
         law enforcement or judicial actions from being pursued as deemed appropriate by
         competent authority.
         13.3.5.2. If the card bearer whose privileges are revoked or suspended is a sponsor,
         s/he must also turn in to the CPF the privilege cards of his or her dependents for the
         period of the penalty imposed.
         13.3.5.3. Reinstatement of privileges: When the period of suspension of a privilege
         card is nearing completion, the employee who desires to regain his/her privileges
         must request it in a letter to MSG/CC, endorsed by the employee’s unit commander
         (or senior official), and submitted via the CPF. The request must reference the
         original letter that suspended his/her shopping privileges. In the case of reinstatement
         of dependent privileges, the dependent should write the letter and the sponsor
         endorses it and submits it via the CPF. In the case of outright revocation of a
         privilege card, the former bearer may petition MSG/CC for reinstatement, however
         not prior to 18 months from the effective date of the revocation. The procedures for
         seeking reinstatement of a revoked privilege card are otherwise the same as for
         suspensions. MSG/CC will respond to such petitions with a decision, in writing, to
         the involved party, with courtesy copies to the CPF and commander (or senior
         official) of the unit where the employee (or sponsor) works. All approved re-issues
         of privilege cards will be processed by the CPF.
14. Conduct and Discipline
   14.1. Purpose. To provide guidance to supervisors and employees regarding conduct,
   discipline and procedures for disciplinary actions/adverse actions.
46                                                   LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


     14.2. Policy Governing Employee Conduct. Supervisors are responsible for maintaining
     good employee-supervisor relationships and will ensure that employees are fully informed of
     the rules, and regulations, affecting their employment. Supervisors are responsible for
     discussing this information on a periodic basis with their employees. Employees are required
     to discharge assigned duties conscientiously and their conduct should reflect credit upon 65
     ABW and themselves.
     14.3. Rules of Conduct. The following rules apply:
        14.3.1. Safeguarding Information. An employee will not disclose official records and
        business at any time except as required to discharge official duties.
        14.3.2. Private Employment and Interests.          Employees may engage in private
        employment or acquire private interests in business, provided such employment and/or
        business do not interfere with the performance of duty or create a conflict of interest.
        14.3.3. Gratuities. Employee will not accept any favor or gratuity, directly or indirectly,
        from anyone conducting procurement activities or business transactions with 65 ABW.
        14.3.4. Gifts and Services. Employees will not solicit contributions of any type from
        other employees or applicants for the purpose of obtaining a position or service.
        14.3.5. Government Vehicle Operation. Employees will operate U.S. Government
        vehicles (GOV) for official purposes only. While operating a GOV, employees will wear
        seatbelts and observe all traffic rules and laws. Negligence or willful misconduct may
        result in loss of US Government Motor Vehicle Operators Identification permit and
        disciplinary action up to and including removal.
     14.4. Responsibilities (Art 83, WR)
        14.4.1. Commanders and supervisors are responsible for the fair, impartial, and uniform
        administration of disciplinary actions taken under the provisions of this chapter.
        14.4.2. The CPF is responsible for providing advice and assistance to supervisors,
        operating officials, and employees on disciplinary matters and for ensuring that proposed
        disciplinary actions are consistent with the LA, WR, and governing regulations and
        policies.
        14.4.3. The immediate supervisor is responsible for the maintenance of proper conduct
        and discipline among employees, such as:
            14.4.3.1. Maintaining an office or shop atmosphere conducive to good employee-
            management relations and efficient work production.
            14.4.3.2. Informing employees of rules, regulations, and standards of conduct.
            14.4.3.3. Taking all possible steps to prevent situations that might lead to disciplinary
            action.
            14.4.3.4. Consulting with the CPF prior to initiating disciplinary action.
            14.4.3.5. Gathering and analyzing all the facts and carefully considering
            circumstances and principles before initiating disciplinary action.
            14.4.3.6. Constructively counseling employees individually whenever necessary.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                             47


        14.4.3.7. Initiating disciplinary action promptly and uniformly in accordance with the
        established procedures.
        14.4.3.8. Maintaining complete records of employee's work performance and
        conduct on the AF Form 971.
  14.5. Disciplinary Actions (Art 80, WR)
     14.5.1. Policy. 65 ABW may take the disciplinary actions listed below without prejudice
     to the employee's rights and guarantees. Disciplinary action must be taken within 60
     days from the time the proposing official initiating the action learned of the offense. This
     time limit may be extended for an additional 45 days to allow for a formal investigation.
     All disciplinary/adverse actions must be coordinated with the CPF before issuance.
        14.5.1.1. Admonishment. A counseling by the supervisor regarding the employee's
        unacceptable conduct or failure to observe a rule, regulation, or administrative
        instruction. An oral admonishment is annotated in the AF Form 971 and maintained
        for two years.
        14.5.1.2. Official Reprimand. This is a formal letter to an employee on the subject of
        misconduct or repeated infractions of a lesser nature. A reprimand is maintained in
        the AF Form 971 and official personnel folder for two years.
        14.5.1.3. Suspension (Non-pay Status). A suspension is a forced temporary absence
        from duty in a non-pay status that may be imposed for significant misconduct or
        repeated infractions of a lesser nature. It is an adverse action that is made a matter of
        permanent record.
        14.5.1.4. Removal. This is the most severe type of adverse action. Before a removal
        is initiated, the facts and circumstances in an individual case must be carefully
        analyzed and must support the conclusion that the employee has clearly demonstrated
        unwillingness or refusal to conform to the rules of conduct. Normally, except where
        the WR specifies otherwise, a progression of recorded disciplinary measures will be
        applied in an effort to rehabilitate an employee before a determination is made to
        remove the employee (Art 81-83, WR).
            14.5.1.4.1. Based on initial findings and if deemed necessary, an employee may
            be immediately suspended from work, with pay for a maximum of 10 days, if a
            supervisor has lost confidence in an employee or the employee poses a physical
            menace (Art 83.3, WR). This time will permit the supervisor to complete an
            investigation and proceed with further disciplinary action if warranted. The
            employee must be notified of the non-duty status in writing. This action must be
            worked closely with the CPF.
            14.5.1.4.2. Following an investigation, the proposing official may determine a
            preventive suspension without loss of pay is warranted as a precautionary
            measure (Art 83.4, WR). In this case, the supervisor will notify the employee
            within the written notice of proposed removal that he/she is being placed in a non-
            duty status with pay until a final decision regarding the removal is made. This
            must be worked closely with the CPF.
48                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


     14.6. Procedures for Administering Discipline (Art 83, WR)
        14.6.1. General Procedure:
           14.6.1.1. During the investigation of an allegation, if the supervisor questions an
           employee or other witnesses, the supervisor will paraphrase any oral comments in a
           written statement and include the time and date of the interview. The employee
           should acknowledge the statement with a signature and that it contains their true
           intent. If the employee refuses to acknowledge the statement, the supervisor will
           indicate on the statement: ―   Employee Refused to Sign‖.       The acknowledged
           statement will be considered when determining the appropriate penalty.
           14.6.1.2. The employee may request that an interpreter of their choice be present.
           14.6.1.3. Admonishment
               14.6.1.3.1. Gather all the facts and give the employee the opportunity to explain
               the situation;
               14.6.1.3.2. If the admonishment is warranted, conduct the counseling with the
               employee in private;
               14.6.1.3.3. State all the reasons for the admonishment;
               14.6.1.3.4. Explain the reasons why the employee's explanation is not acceptable
               and the specific ways to correct the deficiency;
               14.6.1.3.5. Make annotation on AF Form 971 and have the employee initial and
               date the entry.
           14.6.1.4. Official Reprimand and Suspensions
               14.6.1.4.1. As soon as the supervisor becomes aware of possible misconduct,
               he/she gathers, analyzes and carefully considers available facts and circumstances
               before taking or recommending disciplinary action.
               14.6.1.4.2. Supervisor prepares an incident report, considering all circumstances
               and facts involved in any act of misconduct.
               14.6.1.4.3. Supervisor completes relevant factors (attachment 3). The factors
               assist the supervisor in selecting the appropriate penalty and involve a responsible
               balancing of the factors based on the individual case. Some of the factors may
               weigh in the employee’s favor while others may not.
               14.6.1.4.4. CPF prepares the notice of proposed action considering all the
               circumstances and facts involved in the act of misconduct and indicate to the
               employee the second level supervisor (deciding official) that will make the final
               decision.
               14.6.1.4.5. CPF coordinates proposed action with Legal Office before being
               issued.
               14.6.1.4.6. The supervisor initiating the proposal presents the notice of proposed
               action to the employee.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                           49


            14.6.1.4.7. When the employee receives the notice of proposed disciplinary
            action s/he has the right to answer the charges and to request copies of the
            evidence used to support the proposed action from the CPF.
            14.6.1.4.8. The employee’s response must be in writing and submitted within five
            (5) workdays and may request the deciding official to listen to witnesses. The
            response must present all supporting evidence and all elements considered
            relevant for clarification of the facts, including witnesses, documents and /or
            requesting other actions be taken. If needed, the employee may request additional
            time to complete the information in his/her response. This extension shall be
            granted but may not exceed 5 (five) workdays and the employee may not include
            any information not originally identified in the initial response. The request and
            approval for the extension must be in writing.
            14.6.1.4.9. The employee may attach any supporting documentation to the
            response. 65 ABW is not obligated to hear more than three (3) witnesses for each
            charge, nor more than a total of ten (10) for any proposed action. If the employee
            does not provide written witness statements, the deciding official will generate a
            memo for record (MFR) paraphrasing the oral comments of the witnesses. The
            witnesses should acknowledge that the MFR contains their true intent. The
            acknowledged MFR will be made a permanent part of the case file.
               14.6.1.4.9.1. At the employee’s request, a copy of the proposal and decision
               letter will be forwarded to the CRT, who shall have two (2) days in which to
               present a written reply.
               14.6.1.4.9.2. A final decision will not be issued until the time limits for
               response from the employee and CRT, as required, have elapsed.
               14.6.1.4.9.3. After reviewing the proposal and any response from the
               employee and/or the Committee of Employee Representatives (CRT), the
               deciding official considers and prepares relevant factors and informs the CPF
               of decision.
               14.6.1.4.9.4. CPF prepares decision letter and coordinates with Legal Office
               before being issued.
               14.6.1.4.9.5. Deciding official presents final decision to the employee.
        14.6.1.5. Removals. Procedures for removals are specified in Art 83.2, WR.
     14.6.2. Uniformity in Disciplinary Actions (Art 83, WR)
        14.6.2.1. The Table of Offenses and Penalties (Attachment 2) contains a list of the
        most common offenses. For offenses not listed, penalties imposed will be consistent
        with penalties shown in the table for offenses of comparable gravity. Determination
        of appropriate disciplinary action will be made in accordance with this table to assure
        that throughout the base, equitable penalties are imposed and comparable action is
        taken in similar cases. The table is not to be applied mechanically. In evaluating
        offenses and penalties, careful consideration must be given to the circumstances.
        Consider such aspects as elements of enticement and provocation, the individual’s
        work history, contribution to the base, reputation, the opportunity for rehabilitation,
50                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


            background, and the extent to which the penalty will serve as a constructive example
            to other employees.
            14.6.2.2. When an employee commits a series of unrelated recorded offenses over a
            period of time or combination of different offenses at the same time, a greater penalty
            than listed for a single offense may be considered. Whether to apply a penalty within
            the range for a second or third offense will be determined by the total number of
            recorded offenses committed.
15. Employee Complaints
     15.1. Policy (Art 15, LA; Art 86, WR). All 65 ABW employees will be free of restraint,
     interference, coercion, discrimination or reprisal when/after presenting complaints over any
     matter related to conditions of employment or disciplinary actions.
     15.2. Responsibilities
        15.2.1. CPF will:
            15.2.1.1. Provide advisory services to supervisors and employees.
            15.2.1.2. Explain the complaint process.
            15.2.1.3. Explain the options for using Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR).
            15.2.1.4. Assist employees in evaluating the areas of dissatisfaction and in
            determining appropriate options available.
            15.2.1.5. Assist employees and supervisors in resolving dissatisfactions informally.
            15.2.1.6. Assure that all properly filed complaints are processed in accordance with
            the provisions of the LA, the WR and this chapter.
            15.2.1.7. Translate complaints, grievances, proposed notices and final decisions as
            required.
        15.2.2. Supervisors will investigate verbal and/or written complaints submitted by an
        employee and attempt to resolve them in a fair and equitable manner. Employee
        complaints will be answered in accordance with the time limits prescribed in Art 86, WR.
        15.2.3. Employee complaints should be settled informally, promptly, and equitably at the
        first level of supervision whenever possible. Efforts of both employees and supervisors
        will be directed toward that objective. Employees are encouraged to provide a full and
        detailed explanation of their complaints to their immediate supervisors.
        15.2.4. In accordance with the provisions of Art 86, WR, an employee may submit a
        complaint to the first level, HAAZ and 65 ABW/CC simultaneously and the following
        procedures will be followed:
            15.2.4.1. Whenever an employee complaint is received, the 65 ABW will
            immediately send the case to the Staff Judge Advocate. The Staff Judge Advocate
            will contact the HAAZ legal office to discuss the complaint with each other as well as
            hear the complainant, the supervisor, the CRT, CPF, or others who could help clarify
            the matter or reach a solution which is acceptable to all parties involved.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 51


          15.2.4.2. The 65 ABW should schedule a meeting with the Commander, HAAZ to
          discuss the matter unless a justified situation requires a delay. If a delay is required, a
          notification to the employee will be provided in writing.
          15.2.4.3. This meeting can result in one of the following solutions, however any
          resolution reached will be provided to the grievant in writing:
              15.2.4.3.1. 65 ABW agrees with the employee – in this case the matter is
              considered closed.
              15.2.4.3.2. 65 ABW does not agree with the employee and does not get
              concurrence from the Commander, HAAZ.
              15.2.4.3.3. 65 ABW does not agree with the employee and obtains concurrence
              from the Commander, HAAZ.
      15.2.5. If the employee is not satisfied with the determination by the first level of dispute
      resolution, s/he may submit the complaint to the Labor Committee within fourteen (14)
      days of receipt of notification by the Commander, 65 ABW. Submission may be made
      simultaneously to the Regional Representative of the Azores serving on the Labor
      Committee and the Chief, Civilian Personnel Flight (65 FSS/FSMC).
16. On-the-Job Accidents
   16.1. General (Art 9, LA; Art 89 & 90 WR). Portuguese employees paid from both
   appropriated and non-appropriated funds are covered by accident insurance. The insurance
   company provides initial treatment for work-related injuries; it does not provide care for
   routine illnesses not related to work (e.g., colds, headache, upset stomach). All on-the-job
   injuries that occur during duty hours at or away from the work site in which the employee is
   in an official duty status are covered by the insurance contract.
   16.2. Procedures. The standard procedure will be for employees to report to the emergency
   room at Praia or Angra Hospital for initial treatment of work related injuries. The employee
   is entitled to first aid and full medical care for the effects of the injury, including
   hospitalization, without cost to the employee.
      16.2.1. Ambulance Services. The 65th Medical Group (65 MDG) ambulance services
      will respond to all calls, however, transportation will not normally be provided if required
      care is determined by on-scene medical authorities as routine or non-urgent. In these
      cases personal vehicle, government vehicle, taxi or bus shall be used for transportation at
      the discretion of the employee and supervisor. In the event medical personnel determine
      that life, limb, or eyesight is threatened, a 65 MDG ambulance will transport the injured
      employee directly to Angra Hospital. At the discretion of medical authorities on the
      scene of the accident, 65 MDG ambulance transportation may also be provided.
      16.2.2. Fatal Accident. The body of a Portuguese worker suffering a fatal accident at
      the work site cannot be removed without the presence and authorization of the
      appropriate Portuguese authorities. Management officials must immediately notify the
      Wing Safety Office and the Political Advisor, 65 ABW/CCL, who will then notify
      HAAZ and the following Portuguese authorities: (1) District Attorney (Ministério
      Público); (2) Public Health Officer (Delegado de Saúde); (3) City Police (Polícia de
      Segurança Pública); and (4) Inspecçao Regional do Trabalho (IRT).
52                                                   LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


        16.2.3. USAFE BASE IMT 50. The supervisor will complete USAFE BASE IMT 50,
        Report of Injury for Portuguese Employees, in three (3) copies. The original is forwarded
        to the Civilian Personnel Office Employee Management Relations section (65
        FSS/FSMC), one copy to the Safety Office (65 ABW/SE), and one copy is faxed to the
        insurance company office within 24 hours of the accident.
        16.2.4. Medical Appointments. If follow up medical appointments are required after the
        Insurance Company receives USAFE BASE IMT 50 and the employee received care at
        the Hospital, the employee needs to inform the Insurance Company. The company in-
        turn will advise the employee who will be the doctor assisting him, date and time. Please
        note that if this procedure is not followed the Insurance Company will not be able to
        work the case and, if the injury results in lost time, the employee will not be reimbursed.
     16.3. Basic Financial Benefits. Compensation and/or death benefits are paid by the
     insurance company to Portuguese employees or their dependent(s) as a result of work-related
     injuries. The amount is determined by standards contained within Portuguese Law and are
     paid by the insurance company. The injured employee will be carried in a leave without pay
     status during any period in which compensation benefits are being received from the
     insurance company.
     16.4. Responsibilities
        16.4.1. CPF will:
            16.4.1.1. Monitor the insurance contract.
            16.4.1.2. Coordinate with the clinic commander, contracting officer, wing
            comptroller, and safety officer on contract specifications.
            16.4.1.3. Advise new employees and             supervisors   on   employee       accident
            compensation benefits and requirements.
            16.4.1.4. Provide counseling to employees concerning their specific cases.
            16.4.1.5. File copies of all pertinent forms in the employee's medical folder.
            16.4.1.6. Fax one copy of the USAFE BASE IMT 50 to IRT within 48 hours for any
            accidents/injuries that required medical care.
        16.4.2. Supervisors will:
            16.4.2.1. Arrange for the employee to be sent to the emergency room at Praia or
            Angra Hospital for all on-the-job injuries.
            16.4.2.2. Complete USAFE BASE IMT 50 as outlined in 16.2.3.
        16.4.3. The wing safety office will be responsible for all health and safety matters and
        the chief of safety is designated as the ―   Safety Officer‖ in accordance with the
        requirement in the WR.
        16.4.4. See 12.5.4. for information regarding absence due to on-the-job injuries.
17. Social Welfare
     17.1. Purpose. This chapter addresses the Social Welfare for Portuguese employees.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                           53


   17.2. Authority. As part of the Portuguese-American Labor Regulation of 1965, retirement
   coverage under the Portuguese Social Welfare was extended to all 65 ABW Portuguese
   employees. The Social Welfare also provides the written guidelines on how to apply for
   retirement.
   17.3. Employee Benefits Under Social Welfare. Employees are entitled to the benefit
   established in the Social Welfare rules and regulations.
      17.3.1. Supervisors should refrain from advising Portuguese employees on the Social
      Welfare. Employees with questions regarding their rights and benefits under this
      program should be encouraged to contact Social Welfare officials for proper counseling
      and advice.
   17.4. Retirement Annuity. There is no mandatory retirement age for Portuguese employees.
   The minimum retirement age for retirement other than disability within the Social Welfare is
   65 years of age.
      17.4.1. Upon learning that an employee is receiving an annuity from the Social Welfare,
      their employment can be terminated. Management must notify the employee within 30
      days of the date they become aware Social Welfare benefits are being received. The
      employee must be provided at least 60 days notice prior to the termination. Retired
      employees may continue to work after age 65 upon mutual agreement and provided the
      conditions of employment are changed to a temporary appointment not to exceed (NTE)
      six (6) months (Art 72, WR). Retired employees may be re-employed by conversion to
      the temporary appointment only after the approval of the Corporate Board.
      17.4.2. Employee(s) may be terminated at age 70 whether or not they are receiving an
      annuity. When an employee reaches 70 years of age, 65 ABW has the option of
      terminating his/her employment after giving the employee a 60-day advance notice (Art
      72, WR).
   17.5. Contributions to the Fund (Art 19, WR). 65 ABW and its employees will submit
   appropriate contributions to Social Welfare. Changes in Portuguese law relating to Social
   Welfare will be communicated to 65 ABW through HAAZ. Contributions that are made to
   the Social Welfare Fund on a monthly basis are levied against earnings for the month.
   Format of the report and data transmittal are in accordance with an agreement reached
   between the 65th Comptroller Squadron, fund custodians, and Social Welfare personnel.
   17.6. Reporting Sick Leave. Days off as sick leave are to be shown on the time card as Sick
   Without Pay (SWOP). Social Welfare will only start paying for sick leave on the fourth day
   of the any sick leave report. Employees may request use of annual leave for the first three
   days of absence due to illness.
18. Special Programs – Syndicate Dues
   18.1. Authority (Art 19, WR.) This chapter establishes requirements for withholding
   Portuguese employees’ syndicate dues by payroll deductions and remitting such withholdings
   to designated syndicates.
   18.2. Responsibilities
      18.2.1. CPF will:
54                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


            18.2.1.1. Inform employees at the time of employment that syndicate affiliation is
            optional. Obtain a written statement from employees affiliated with a syndicate to
            determine whether payroll deduction is the preferred method of payment for dues.
        18.2.2. Forward a copy of the employee's election to the appropriate payroll office to
        authorize payroll deduction.
        18.2.3. Enter the appropriate syndicate election code in the remarks section of the SF 50
        whenever the personnel action indicates syndicate membership.
        18.2.4. X - No Syndicate Affiliation
        18.2.5. C – Syndicate of Technicians and Workers of the Chemical and Milling
        Industries of the District of Lisbon
        18.2.6. F – Syndicate of Professionals of Food and Drink Industries
        18.2.7. I - Syndicate of Professionals of the Transforming Industries.
        18.2.8. O - Syndicate of Office Workers and Sales Clerks
        18.2.9. T - Syndicate of Transports, Tourism and Other Services.
        18.2.10. P - Syndicate of Photographers
        18.2.11. Other codes will be established as required.
     18.3. Payroll Procedures. The Payroll Office will establish procedures for withholding
     syndicate dues and remitting them to the respective syndicates
        18.3.1. An employee(s) who desires to resign from his/her syndicate will be required to
        notify both the syndicate and payroll office in writing. The CPF will provide a form
        letter for the employee’s use to notify all concerned. Copies of the employee's letter will
        be filed in his/her Official Personnel Folder.
19. Committee of Employee Representatives (CRT)
     19.1. Purpose. To establish procedures and responsibilities for supervisors and members of
     the Committee of Employee Representatives (CRT). These processes apply when a
     legitimate CRT is formed and functioning. The exercise of military and administrative
     requirements on the part of 65 ABW, or its operations, cannot be prejudiced by the exercise
     of the committee’s rights and duties.
     19.2. Use of Work Time for Committee Activities (Art 35, WR). Committee members are
     entitled up to 20 hours of duty time per month for exercise of committee activities. Any
     unused hours remaining at the end of the month may not be carried over to the next month
     under any circumstances. Under unusual circumstances, committee members may be granted
     duty time in excess of 20 hours per month but never to exceed 40 hours of per month. Before
     granting requests for use of hours in excess of 20 per month must be justified in writing and
     submitted to the CPF for coordination before being submitted to 65 ABW/CC.
     19.3. Work Time Release Procedures. Keeping in mind administrative and military
     requirements, committee members will provide a minimum of 48 hours advance notice to
     their supervisors when they wish to leave their assigned work areas. If committee members
     are unable to provide 48 hours advance notice, they will advise their supervisors as soon as
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                            55


  they become aware of an appointment. The following procedures shall apply to committee
  members who wish to leave their assigned work area on committee business:
         19.3.1.1. When a committee member desires to conduct committee business, the
         member must request the time from the immediate supervisor stating the nature of the
         function to be performed, destination, and the estimated time required.
     19.3.2. Supervisors of CRT members will keep a detailed log of time used for committee
     activities. The log must be used to show the function being performed, the date, location,
     and duration for each absence during the month. A copy of the completed monthly log
     must be submitted to 65th Force Support Squadron, Civilian Personnel Flight, Employee
     Management Relations (65 FSS/FSMC) no later than the 10th of the following month.
  19.4. Committee Review and Comments. The committee has the right to review and
  comment on specified management proposals, as stipulated in Art 34, WR. The CRT must
  justify and request in writing extensions of the review time periods established by the WR.
  Such extensions are not automatic and will be approved only when fully justified by events
  outside the control of the CRT members. Requests for extensions must be submitted to CPF
  prior to the expiration of the established time periods. The CPF is the only office authorized
  to approve extensions of review time periods.
  19.5. Meetings with 65 ABW/CC (Art 34, WR). The CRT will initiate the request for the
  monthly meeting with 65 ABW/CC or his/her designated representative. Requests by the
  CRT to be accompanied by other individuals will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
  Requests will consist of specific agenda items to be discussed and must be submitted to the
  CPF at least five workdays prior to the requested date of the meeting. Agenda items should
  be presented with enough detail to allow the 65 ABW/CC to research the responses if
  necessary. The CPF will arrange the meeting time and date with 65 ABW/CC and will notify
  the CRT. Normally, items not presented on the advance agenda will not be discussed at the
  meeting.
  19.6. Communications with 65 ABW Organizations. All CRT communication (oral or
  written) with 65 ABW organizations is to be initiated by contacting the CPF. The CPF will
  coordinate appropriate responses or meetings in reply to the CRT request.
  19.7. CRT Elections. In accordance with the WR, Art 37, CRT elections will be held every
  other year with a minimum notice of 15 workdays prior to its occurrence, by the CRT or by a
  minimum of 10% of permanent employees.
  19.8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms .
     19.8.1. Prescribed Forms:
             USAFE Base Form 110, Request for Placement Consideration (Requerimento de
             Candidatura)

             USAFE Base Form 119, Residency Check for Employment with 65 ABW and
             Tenant Units, Lajes Field, Azores, Portugal (Verificação de Residência para
             Contrato de Trabalho no 65 ABW e Unidades Militares, Base das Lajes, Açores,
             Portugal)

     19.8.2. Adopted Forms :
56                                         LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


     AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record

     AF Form 860, Civilian Performance Plan

     AF Form 860A, Civilian Rating of Record

     AF Form 860B, Civilian Progress Review Worksheet

     AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief

     AF Form 1003, Air Force Core Personnel Document

     AF Form 1378, Civilian Personnel Position Description

     AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet

     OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence

     SF 50, Notification of Personnel Action

     SF 52, Request for Personnel Action

     SF 182, Authorization, Agreement and Certification of Training

     SF 1150, Record of Leave Data

     USAFE BASE Form 50, Report of Injury for Portuguese Employees

     USAFE Form 243, Request for Temporary/Seasonal/Supplemental Civilian
     Overhire




                                  MARGARET B. POORE, Colonel, USAF
                                  Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                57


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Labor Agreement, 1995
Work Regulation, 1995
COMUSFORAZORES INST 5216.2, Timeline Standards for Correspondence Requiring Azores
Air Zone Approval, 2000
NEP/ADM-005, Purchases at USFORAZ-Sponsored Facilities, 1998
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
65 ABW— 65th Air Base Wing
65 ABW/CC— 65th Air Base Wing Commander
65 ABW/SE— 65th Air Base Wing Safety Office
65 FSS/FSMC— Civilian Personnel Flight
65 MDG— 65th Medical Group
65 MSG/CC— 65th Mission Support Group Commander
65 SFS— Security Forces Squadron
AAFES— Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AB4— Air Base Four
ABW— Air Base Wing
ADR— Alternative Dispute Resolution
AF— Air Force
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
ALCPT— American Language Course Placement Test
AMC— Air Mobility Command
ART, Art— Article
AWOL— Absence without Leave
CC— Commander
CV— Vice Commander
CBI— Computer-Based Instruction
CPF— Civilian Personnel Flight
58                                            LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


CRT— Committee of Employee Representatives (Comissão Representativa dos Trabalhadores)
EDP— Environmental Differential Pay, Hazard Pay
EDS— Employee Development Specialist
ELB— English Language Bonus
FTP— Formal Training Plans
GOV— Government Operated Vehicle
HAAZ— Headquarters Azores Air Zone
HAC— Host Nation Agency Check
IRT— Regional Labor Inspection (Inspecção Regional do Trabalho)
ITG— Installation Training Guide
KSA— Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
LA— Labor Agreement
LFI— Lajes Field Instruction
LWOP— Leave Without Pay
MAJCOM— Major Command
MFR— Memo for Record
NEP— Permanent Norm of Execution (Norma de Execucao Permanente)
NTE— Not to Exceed
OJT— On-the-job Training
OPF— Official Personnel Folder
OPM— Office of Personnel Management
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
PIP— Performance Improvement Plan
POC— Point of Contact
QCR— Quality Control Reviewer
RDS— Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
RIF— Reduction in Force
RPA— Request for Personnel Action
SF— Standard Form
SRPC— Civilian Personnel Recruitment Section (Secção de Recrutamento do Pessoal Civil
Português)
SWOP— Sick Without Pay
TCPC— Technical Commission on Professional Classification
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                    59


TDY— Temporary Duty
TOA— Time off Award
US— United States
USAF— United States Air Force
USAFE— United States Air Forces in Europe
WR— Work Regulation

Terms
Compensatory Time-Off— Time off with pay for overtime performed on a weekly day-off or a
comp day-off and Holidays specified in Article 46, WR
Complementary Day Off— Equal to a Saturday off
Weekly Day Off— Equal to a Sunday off
60                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


                                          Attachment 2
                         TABLE OF OFFENSES AND PENALTIES
                                GUIDELINES ONLY
                                    PENALTIES
                                 [ART 74, 80-82, WR]

Table A2.1. Table of Offenses and Penalties
Offense                                           1st          2nd                3rd
1. Deliberate delay or failure to carry out       Admonishment Written            Written
work or instructions in a reasonable period of    to removal   reprimand to       reprimand to
time.                                                          removal            removal
2. Insubordinate defiance of authority.           Written         Written         5-day
Refusal to comply with proper orders, wanton      reprimand to    reprimand to    suspension to
disregard of directives or insolence.             removal         removal         removal
3. Tardiness of less than an hour.                Admonishment    Written         Written
NOTE: A fourth offense would typically            to Written      reprimand to    reprimand to
result in a suspension of 5 days or less with     Reprimand       1-day           5-day
the added warning that a ―    continuation of                     suspension      suspension
offenses‖ could result in removal.
4. Tardiness of 1 hour or more, leaving the job   Admonishment Written            Written
without permission, delayed return from           to written      reprimand to    reprimand to
lunch, unauthorized absence of 8 hours or         reprimand       5-day           5-day
less.                                                             suspension      suspension
5. Unauthorized absence of more than 8            Written         Written         5-day
hours.                                            reprimand to 5- reprimand to    suspension to
Note: A removal using adverse action              day suspension 12-day           removal
procedures in the regulation may be initiated                     suspension
for a first or later offense after passage of a
reasonable time (minimum of 5 workdays)
when the employee fails to notify
management of his or her intention
concerning return to duty and where
management has been unable to ascertain the
employee’s intentions.
6. Failure to request leave according to          Written         Written         5 day
established procedures, or failure to honor a     reprimand to 5- reprimand to    suspension to
valid denial of leave request. (See note with     day suspension 12-day           removal
para 5 above)                                                     suspension
7. Failure to observe safety precautions          Written         1-day           5 day
including failure to use safety equipment such    reprimand to    suspension to   suspension to
as eye protection devices and failure to          removal         removal         removal
comply with hearing conservation program
requirements.
8a. Violation of security regulations when the    Written         Written         10-day
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                             61


Offense                                            1st             2nd             3rd
breach does not result in release of security      reprimand to 5- reprimand to    suspension to
information to unauthorized sources and there      day suspension 12-day           removal
is not evidence of a compromise of classified                      suspension
information.
8b. If violation is intentional or results in      Written         5-day           12-day
unauthorized release or compromise of              reprimand       suspension to   suspension to
sensitive information.                                             removal         removal
9a. Drinking, transferring, or selling alcoholic   Written         1-day           5-day
beverages on duty or on government premises        reprimand to 5- suspension to   suspension to
except where authorized. Reporting for duty        day suspension removal          removal
under the influence of intoxicating liquor
9b. Being on duty so intoxicated as to be          1-day      5-day                5-day
unable to properly perform assigned duties, or     suspension to
                                                              suspension to        suspension to
to be a hazard to self and others.                 removal    removal              removal
10a. Gambling during work hours.                   Written    Written              Written
                                                   reprimand  reprimand to         reprimand to
                                                              5-day                removal
                                                              suspension
10b. Promotion of or assisting in operation of Admonishment Written                Written
organized gambling on duty or on government to 5-day          reprimand to         reprimand to
premises.                                       suspension    removal              removal
11a. Loafing or sleeping on duty; idleness;     Admonishment Written               Written
unauthorized participation in activities during to 5-day      reprimand to         reprimand to
duty hour which were outside of regularly       suspension    removal              removal
assigned duties but danger to safety or person
or property is minor or nonexistent.
11b. When such actions may result in injury, 1-day            5-day                5-day
loss of life or damage to property              suspension to suspension to        suspension to
                                                removal       removal              removal
12a. Careless workmanship or negligence.        Admonishment Written               Written
When spoilage or waste of materials or delay to reprimand     reprimand to         reprimand to
in production is small                                        removal              removal
12b. When spoilage or waste of materials or     Written       Written              Removal
delay in production is significant; covering up reprimand to  reprimand to
or attempting to conceal defective work;        removal       removal
removing or destroying defective work
without permission.
13a. Loss of, damage to, unauthorized use or    Admonishment Written               Written
destruction of property (including motor        to written    reprimand to         reprimand to
vehicles or aircraft), records or information.  reprimand     3-day                removal
When loss or damage is of small value.                        suspension
13b. Where willfulness or intent is involved or Written       Written              Written
damage is significant or unauthorized use of    reprimand to  reprimand to         reprimand to
government property (including motor            removal       removal              removal
vehicles and aircraft).
62                                                    LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


Offense                                             1st             2nd           3rd
14. Theft, actual or attempted, taking and          Written         3-day         Removal
carrying away government property or                reprimand to    suspension to
property of others. Note: Penalty is                removal         removal
determined considering the value of property
and relevant factors
15. False statements, serious representation,       Written         Written        Written
fraud, falsification, exaggeration or               reprimand to    reprimand to   reprimand to
concealment of a material fact in connection        removal         removal        removal
with any official document, or withholding of
material facts in connection with matters
under official investigation, refusal to testify
or cooperate in an inquiry, investigation, or
other official proceedings.
16. Disorderly conduct; rude, boisterous play       Written         Written        5-day
which adversely affects production, discipline      reprimand to    reprimand to   suspension to
or morale; use of disrespectful abusive or          removal         removal        removal
offensive language; quarreling or inciting to
quarrel.
17. Discourteous conduct. Includes                  Written         Written        Written
discourteous conduct to the public                  reprimand to    reprimand to   reprimand to
                                                    12-day          12-day         removal
                                                    suspension      suspension
18a. Misconduct off duty of such importance         Admonishment    Written        Written
that the employee is unable to fulfill his/her      to written      reprimand to   reprimand to
job responsibilities.                               reprimand       12-day         removal
NOTE: Before initiating action, consult CPF.                        suspension
18b. Misconduct off-duty of such significance       Written         Written        Written
that there is an adverse effect upon the 65         reprimand to    reprimand to   reprimand to
ABW.                                                removal         removal        removal
NOTE: Before initiating action, consult with
CPF.
19. Defamation. Knowingly making false or           Written         Written        Written
malicious statements or unauthorized                reprimand to    reprimand to   reprimand to
disclosures against other employees,                removal         removal        removal
supervisors or officials with the intent to harm
or destroy the reputation, authority, or official
standing of those concerned.
20a. Compromise or discredit of examination         Written         Written        5-day
materials or process resulting from discussion      reprimand to 1- reprimand to   suspension to
of specific questions(s) or context of              day suspension 12-day          removal
examination with other employee(s) based on                         suspension
experience in the examination when there is
no deliberate effort or intent to compromise
the examination materials or process.
20b. Compromise of an examination through           Written         5-day          Removal
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                             63


Offense                                             1st             2nd           3rd
unauthorized possession, use, or furnishing to      reprimand to    suspension to
others of examination information or                removal         removal
materials.
21. Discrimination based on color, religion,        Written         Written        5-day
race, national origin, age, sex or handicapping     reprimand to 5- reprimand to   suspension to
condition. Includes sexual harassment. Also         day suspension 12-day          removal
includes making racial or ethnic slurs or                           suspension
disseminate literature containing such slurs.
Consider circumstances and the effect on the
person(s) discriminated against, use of
abusive language, violent treatment, or
insulting demeanor.
22. Use of abusive or offensive language            Written         Written        5-day
toward a subordinate; baiting or otherwise          reprimand to 5- reprimand to   suspension to
inciting a subordinate to violate rules or          day suspension 12-day          removal
regulations; coercion in deprivation of an                          suspension
employee’s rights; or reprisal for employment
of appellate procedures.
23. Soliciting contributions from other             Written         Written        Written
government officers or employees for gifts or       reprimand       reprimand to   reprimand to
presents to those in superior official positions.                   12-day         removal
Accepting gifts or gratuities from lower paid                       suspension
employees. (Except those of nominal value to
commemorate a special occasion, such as
retirement).
24. Unauthorized use of ID badge                    Written         Written        Removal
                                                    reprimand to    reprimand to
                                                    removal         removal
25. Violation of other administrative rules or      Admonishment    Written        Written
regulations not specifically mentioned herein.      to written      reprimand to   reprimand to
Consider the employee’s obligation to be            reprimand       12 days        removal
aware of pertinent rules or regulations, the
significance or frequency of violations and the
degree of affect on production, morale,
maintenance of discipline, internal
relationships or reputation of the Air Force.
64                                               LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


                                       Attachment 3
                                 RELEVANT FACTORS

A3.1. Before initiating disciplinary action, I reviewed the Table of Offenses and Penalties
contained in LFI 36-4, Chap 14.6. I have specifically reviewed the following factors and
provided rational for each as it relates to the action:
Employee Name and Badge #:
A3.2. The nature and seriousness of the offense, and its relation to the employee’s duties,
position, and responsibilities, including whether the offense was intentional or technical or
inadvertent, or was committed maliciously or for gain, or was frequently repeated:
A3.3. The employee’s job level and type of employment, including supervisor or fiduciary
role, contacts with the public, and prominence of the position;
A3.4. The employee’s past disciplinary record;
A3.5. The employee’s past work record.
A3.6. The effect of the offense upon the employee’s ability to perform at a satisfactory
level;
A3.7. Consistency of the penalty with those imposed upon other employees for the same of
similar offenses in like or similar circumstances
A3.8. Consistency of the penalty with any applicable agency table of penalties;
A3.9. The notoriety of the offense or its impact upon the reputation of 65 ABW;
A3.10. The employee’s knowledge and understanding of any rules that were violated in
committing the offense;
A3.11. The potential for the employee’s rehabilitation;
A3.12. The mitigating circumstances surrounding the offense:
A3.13. The adequacy and effectiveness of alternative sanctions to deter such conduct in the
future by the employee or others;
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                                  65


                                           Attachment 4
                            65 ABW MERIT PROMOTION PLAN

A4.1. 65 ABW promotion policy is a program designed to ensure a systematic means of
selection for promotion according to merit and is an equitable means of referral and selection for
all placement actions. A sound promotion program, properly administered and fully supported
by managers at all levels, is essential to the staffing of an effective and highly motivated civilian
work force. Identifying, qualifying, evaluating and selecting candidates must be made without
regard to lawful political affiliation or non-affiliation, religion, labor organization affiliation or
non-affiliation, marital status, race, color, sex, national origin, non-disqualifying disability,
sexual orientation, status as parent, age or other non-merit factors. A selection for a merit
promotion must be based solely on job-related criteria according to legitimate positions
requirements. Failure to adhere to equal opportunity or merit principles may compel a
commander or designee to withdraw selection authority from a supervisor and delegate it
upward.
A4.2. Key Principles. The following principles form the basis of the 65 ABW Merit Promotion
Program:
   A4.2.1. All candidates within a designated area of consideration who meet minimum
   qualification are considered eligible for promotion or placement.
   A4.2.2. Areas of consideration within which candidates are identified to compete are
   established and adjusted as necessary to provide management with a sufficiently broad
   number of qualified candidates from which to choose and to provide candidates with
   adequate opportunities to advance.
   A4.2.3. Appropriate job-related criteria are applied with fairness in evaluating candidates.
   A4.2.4. Selections must be made without discrimination for any non-merit reason and
   without favoritism based on personal relationships or patronage.
   A4.2.5. Promotions and placements into positions with known promotion potential are
   usually competitive. Candidates are kept informed about the promotion opportunities and
   eligibility requirements. Candidates are given full access to information about advancement
   opportunities and how to take advantage of these opportunities.
   A4.2.6. Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF), managers and supervisors will:
       A4.2.6.1. Accomplish mission goals by staffing positions with qualified candidates
       A4.2.6.2. Ensure candidates have access to information about career and advancement
       opportunities
       A4.2.6.3. Encourage candidates to increase their experience qualifications
       A4.2.6.4. Ensure the skills, qualifications, and promotion potential of candidates are
       recognized and fairly considered in the staffing process
       A4.2.6.5. Encourage candidates to improve their performance and to develop their skills
A4.3. General Coverage. This plan applies to all 65 ABW employees.
   A4.3.1. Candidates will be excluded from consideration under the following conditions:
66                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


        A4.3.1.1. They have not self-nominated by the closing date of the vacancy announcement
        A4.3.1.2. They have a current unacceptable appraisal
     A4.3.2. Candidates are responsible to update their records to document any detail not
     covered by an official personnel action.
A4.4. The Right to Select or Non-select from a Group of Qualified Candidates.
     A4.4.1. Provided there are no mandatory placement priorities, managers have the right and
     the responsibility to select from appropriate sources, determining which is most likely to
     meet mission objectives, contribute new ideas and viewpoints. These include but are not
     limited to merit promotion candidates. Applicants from external source may be considered
     concurrently, before or after the referral of candidates from the workforce.
     A4.4.2. The availability of eligible candidates who could be considered through merit
     promotion or other in-service placement procedures does not prevent a decision to restructure
     a vacant position and fill it at a different grade level. Nor does the availability of merit
     promotion or other in-service candidates prevent a search for external candidates.
A4.5. Applying Non-Competitive Promotion Procedures
     A4.5.1. An employee may be noncompetitively promoted up to and including a grade
     previously held on a permanent basis due to separation or change to lower grade.
     A4.5.2. An employee initially selected under competitive procedures for a position with
     known promotion potential may be noncompetitively promoted to intervening and target
     grades at management request. The employee must meet eligibility requirements for
     promotion to these grades, as well as any additional qualifying criteria, e.g. satisfactory
     completion of all required training of higher graded duties being assigned.
     A4.5.3. An employee must be noncompetitively promoted following reclassification of
     position to a higher grade, due to application of new classification standards.
A4.6. Areas of Consideration. The area of consideration for advertising positions is
determined by local CPF and coordination with selecting official. Areas of consideration must
be sufficiently broad to ensure the availability of qualified candidates.
     A4.6.1. Determination of the area of consideration is based on such factors as availability of
     qualified candidates locally, mission objectives and goals, short and long-range manpower
     skills requirements and other factors.
A4.7. Referring and Selecting Candidates: The evaluation of self-nominated candidates for
eligibility, qualification and ranking will be accomplished by CPF to identify those eligible for
promotion, reassignment and voluntary change to lower grade.
     A4.7.1. CPF will observe priorities (identified in 5.5.3.2) established to determine the
     eligibility of candidates for consideration and identify those to be referred.
     A4.7.2. Position descriptions will be presented accurately and without misrepresentation.
     A4.7.3. Selecting officials and supervisors may not imply commitment to any candidate.
     The CPF will make all job offers.
LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009                                                                67


   A4.7.4. The authority for personnel management is usually delegated to the lowest
   practicable level of supervision. Commanders may withdraw selection authority and assign
   it to higher level supervisor(s) if inquiries determine inappropriate selections. The supervisor,
   in conjunction with the CPF, determines when internal candidates are considered and when
   these positions are filled from external sources. Judgment is used to provide equitable and
   balanced consideration of candidates from all sources.
A4.8. The Selection Process
   A4.8.1. When an internal referral certificate is issued; the selecting official must, as a
   minimum, review system-generated career briefs of all candidates referred.
   A4.8.2. Interviews. If the selecting official chooses to interview, s/he may interview one or
   more of the candidates on the certificate. It is not required that all candidates be interviewed
   but for those who are, the same interview questions will be used.
   A4.8.3. All questions used in a selection interview must be job related and tied to
   Knowledge, Skills & Abilities (KSA) identified in the position description.
   A4.8.4. If some, but not all, candidates are interviewed, the selecting official must document
   the reasons for not interviewing and the method used to evaluate the remaining candidates
   (i.e. records review, supervisor inquiry, past working knowledge of the employee). The
   documentation and interview questions/responses are maintained by the selecting official.
   However, supervisors will be advised to interview all candidates.
A4.9. Notifying Candidates
   A4.9.1. Candidates may inquire as to the status of vacancy referrals. After the CPF has
   made the job offer and the candidate accepted the position, the selecting official will notify
   candidates of non-selection in writing.
A4.10. Temporary promotions. The area of consideration for temporary promotions is the
installation where the vacancy exists and maybe further limited to an organization
   A4.10.1. Prior to the effective date of the action, candidates selected for temporary
   promotions will be informed, in writing, of the temporary nature of the promotion and related
   conditions, including returning to their former positions.
   A4.10.2. Management-Initiated Reassignments. Managers may request the reassignment of
   an employee with the concurrence of the losing organization with coordination from the CPF.
A4.11. Safeguarding Promotion Materials. Information contained in automated data
products, promotion registers, and promotion certificates may not be disclosed to unauthorized
personnel. Promotion certificates may be electronically transmitted, faxed, e-mailed, presented
personally, or mailed in a sealed envelope to the selecting officials and then returned to the CPF
in the same way. Caution must be taken when transmitting and receiving promotion materials to
ensure unauthorized personnel do not inadvertently gain access.
   A4.11.1. Records Maintained by Selecting Officials. Selecting officials will maintain all
   substantive documentation related to the consideration of competing candidates. This may
   include, but is not limited to, interview questions, notes on interview responses, records of
   contacts with previous supervisors of candidates, nonelection memos, notes on review of
68                                                  LAJESFIELDI36-101 26 OCTOBER 2009


     candidates’ briefs or candidates’ resumes, and any rating or informal rankings made on
     referred applicants or employees.
A4.12. Promotion Information to Employees. The candidate is entitled, upon inquiry to the
CPF, to be informed of his/her qualifications for a specific position. However, the candidate
applicant may not be informed of the assessment of another candidate’s qualifications without
that candidate’s written permission.
     A4.12.1. Upon request, the selecting supervisor must inform the non-selected candidates of
     the reasons for non-selection. The supervisor must adhere to the provisions of the Privacy
     Act and may not discuss the rank order or assessment of qualifications against eligibility or
     criteria of the candidate selected or any other candidate referred.
A4.13. Keeping Employees Informed. At least once annually, the CPF will remind
employees, through published articles, of the principles and procedures outlined in this plan and
OPM dealing with the subject of promotion.
     A4.13.1. Employee Audit of Employee Brief. New employees will be provided a copy of
     their placement information contained in system. Employees are responsible for reviewing
     and updating their records for the purpose of self nomination for positions being announced.
A4.14. Employee Complaints. An employee, who believes his/her experience was not
properly credited, was incorrectly ranked, or that the terms of promotion plan were not otherwise
followed, thereby depriving him/her of promotion consideration may submit a formal grievance
under WR, Art 86, however, he/she will be encouraged to discuss their concerns informally with
the CPF.
