BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 90-201
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)
                                                                        20 NOVEMBER 2013
                                                             Certified Current on 17 June 2014
                                                                         Special Management

                                                            LAJES FIELD COMMANDERS
                                                                INSPECTION PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 65 ABW/IG                                                      Certified by: 65 ABW/CV
                                                                  (Colonel Michael Callender)
                                                                                     Pages: 11


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 90-2, Inspector General--The Inspection
System, and AFI 90-201_AFGM3. It establishes guidance for the new Air Force Inspection
System governing the Commander’s Inspection Program to include the self-inspection program,
Wing Inspection Team program, and the Commander’s Inspection Management Board;
procedures for management of the Gatekeeper program; the responsibilities and duties for
management of the exercise program; and the procedures to evaluate the wing’s ability to
respond to both peacetime and wartime contingencies. This instruction applies to all units
assigned or attached to Lajes Field, Azores. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
 2                                               LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013



                                           Chapter 1

                        COMMANDER’S INSPECTION PROGRAM

1.1. Introduction. The new Air Force Inspection System will consist of three inspections in
order to evaluate the effectiveness of different levels of command. These three inspections
include: Management Inspections, which will be conducted above Wing Level to assess
management functions; Unit Effectiveness Inspections (UEI), which will be conducted by
USAFE-AFAFRICA/IG to evaluate the 65 ABW; and the Commander’s Inspection Program
(CCIP), which is managed by the Wing Commander to evaluate groups, squadrons, and staff
agencies under the 65 ABW.
     1.1.1. Purpose. The CCIP is led by the 65 ABW/CC and its purpose is to assess the Groups,
     Squadrons, and other organizations within the 65 ABW on the four Major Graded Areas
     (MGA) and sub-MGAs outlined in AFI 90-201. The primary objective of the CCIP is to
     improve effectiveness, compliance, readiness, discipline and surety in the 65 ABW and to
     provide feedback to the Wing/CC regarding the Wing’s ability to execute its unique
     Designed Operational Capabilities (DOC) statement.           Further guidance on CCIP
     Methodology is outlined in AFI90-201_AFGM3, Para 10.5.
1.2. Key Players and Responsibilities. The following are key duties and responsibilities, in
addition to the requirements laid out in AFI 90-201.
     1.2.1. 65th Air Base Wing Commander will:
        1.2.1.1. Approve the wing inspection calendar at the beginning of each calendar year.
        1.2.1.2. Review wing readiness and inspection reports.
        1.2.1.3. Provide the vision and regular oversight of the wing readiness and inspection
        program.
     1.2.2. CCIP Director will:
        1.2.2.1. Develop and manage a wing inspection schedule and get Wing/CC approval
        prior to the beginning of each calendar year.
        1.2.2.2. Coordinate/develop wing Commander’s Inspection Management Board (CIMB)
        slides and determine a location and time for the monthly meeting.
        1.2.2.3. Manage the Wing Gatekeeper program and provide updates to leadership during
        the weekly Wing Staff meeting. The slides should include the current month of events
        and provide oversight of the rest of the quarter.
            1.2.2.3.1. Ensure USAFE-AFAFRICA Gatekeeper is aware of visits, inspections, and
            audits as they are approved by the 65 ABW/CC utilizing the SharePoint calendar at
            https://eis.af.mil/cs/afgatekeeper/usafe/65ABW/default.aspx .
        1.2.2.4. Brief newly assigned Inspector General Augmentee (IGA) group leads and team
        chiefs of responsibilities within the CCIP. As a minimum this briefing will include
        discussion on Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT), Self-Assessment Program
        (SAP), Unit Effectiveness Inspections (UEI), unit inspections, and IGA participation.
LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013                                                          3


     1.2.2.5. Provide oversight of exercise planning and Master Scenario Event Listing
     (MSEL) construction based on group and IGA evaluator inputs to meet objectives.
     Ensure a line-item walk-through of the MSEL with IGA team chiefs is accomplished
     before execution. The MSEL will include all exercise inputs, in chronological order. As a
     minimum, each line item will include the event, objective, IGA responsible for initiating
     and monitoring the event, and any other data to aid IGI in synchronizing evaluation
     inputs.
     1.2.2.6. Coordinate with Group/CCs to approve simulation requests submitted by the
     units.
     1.2.2.7. Establish a Whitecell and delegate individuals to play the role of higher
     headquarters and host nation functions as appropriate during exercises. This support will
     be available on a 24-hour basis, unless otherwise directed by the CCIP Director.
     Whitecell will monitor NIPR and SIPR email accounts, the MSEL, and will keep a daily
     log to track Requests for Information (RFI) and other pertinent events.
     1.2.2.8. Appoint a Wing Inspection Team (WIT) Chief to assemble the WIT members to
     assess the Wing’s readiness, compliance and state of discipline.
     1.2.2.9. Appoint a Chief and/or a NCOIC of Wing Exercises. The Chief and NCOIC,
     Wing Exercises are responsible for development of operational readiness or other
     exercises and 65 ABW/IGI are the points of contact for planning, conducting, and
     inspecting exercises.
  1.2.3. 65 ABW MICT Manager will:
     1.2.3.1. Serve as the member management and permission granting authority for the
     Wing within MICT.
     1.2.3.2. Act as the single liaison to the AF level MICT Help Desk and USAFE-
     AFAFRICA/MICT POC.
     1.2.3.3. Provide and conduct MICT training for group and unit administrators, as well as
     oversee any training conducted by the groups.
     1.2.3.4. Perform as the Wing SAP Manager and provide guidance, training, and
     assistance to group, squadron and other organization’s SAP representatives and will
     ensure that MICT is the tool used to facilitate the program.
  1.2.4. Group Commanders, Unit Commanders, Wing Staff Agency (OSS/CC and CPTF/CC)
  will:
     1.2.4.1. Appoint a Group IGA Chief to work with 65 ABW/IGI on readiness evaluations
     and unit inspections.
     1.2.4.2. Appoint a Group MICT Manager to provide oversight of the group SAP and
     MICT checklists. The Group MICT Manager will also work closely with the Wing MICT
     Manager to ensure group and squadron checklists are up-to-date and completed within
     the SAP timeline.
     1.2.4.3. Ensure their group/squadron reports all inspections, evaluations, assessments,
     and other inspection-related visits (including audits, inquiries and site visits) to 65
4                                                LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013


       ABW/IGI within a timely manner. Relevant message traffic should be included when
       possible and keep 65 ABW/IGI abreast of any date changes or cancellations.
       1.2.4.4. Attend and provide inputs for the monthly Commander’s Inspection
       Management Board (CIMB). If unavailable, send a designated representative who can
       discuss applicable data at the meeting.
    1.2.5. Group IGA Team Chiefs will:
       1.2.5.1. Coordinate with 65 ABW/IGI to provide MSEL inputs and develop objectives
       and concepts for OREs.
       1.2.5.2. Ensure all group and squadron IGA members are trained and qualified in their
       respective areas and capable of performing an impartial evaluation of their unit’s
       activities.
       1.2.5.3. Compile and prepare evaluation reports for their groups, as well as submit all
       findings, recommended improvement areas and strengths to 65 ABW/IGI within the
       required timeline. All report inputs should include sufficient detail to include references
       and Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the corrective action.
       1.2.5.4. Attend all required planning conferences.
       1.2.5.5. Assist 65 ABW/IGI as necessary to conduct readiness and compliance
       inspections throughout the wing in order to ensure the success of the Wing CCIP.
    1.2.6. IGA Members will:
       1.2.6.1. Perform IGA duties for the duration of the exercise or real world operation,
       including the hotwash and report writing or until released by the group team chief.
       1.2.6.2. Evaluate all exercise events as tasked by their team chief and 65 ABW/IGI.
       Team members will not inject “free play” events into the exercise without approval from
       White Cell.
       1.2.6.3. Provide unbiased feedback, in the form of Findings (critical, significant, or
       minor), Strengths, or Recommended Improvement Areas (RIA), on areas of their
       expertise during exercises and in some cases, real-world contingencies via the Lajes Field
       Inspections SharePoint page.
       1.2.6.4. Work and report directly to the Wing Commander during exercises and
       inspections.
       1.2.6.5. Attend all meetings as determined by 65 ABW/IGI and group team chiefs.
       1.2.6.6. Serve on the WIT if chosen by the 65 ABW/IGI, CCIP Director or appointed
       WIT Team Chief.
LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013                                                               5


                                           Chapter 2

                                       IGI PROGRAMS

2.1. Self-Assessment Program. The SAP is a vital part of the CCIP in which each group,
squadron, and other organizations assess their own effectiveness prior to being evaluated by the
WIT. It is important for commanders to identify deficiencies at this stage and provide corrective
actions via MICT in order to avoid Critical, Significant, or Minor discrepancies on subsequent
inspections. In order to facilitate this program each group, squadron, and staff agency must
appoint a SAP representative.
   2.1.1. Group, Squadron and Staff Agency SAP Representatives. Each unit’s SAP
   representative will be responsible for managing the unit’s SAP to include ensuring the Air
   Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) and MAJCOM Functional Area Manager (FAM) checklists
   are tracked, when applicable. When AFIA and MAJCOM FAM checklists are not available,
   local checklists must be created until standardized checklists are made available. This
   representative will act as a liaison between their unit and the Group MICT Lead Manager and
   the Wing MICT/SAP Manager. In addition, provide training for their commanders and
   checklist assessors.
   2.1.2. SAP Cycle. The SAP runs on a 6-month cycle and the cycle starts in May and
   November of each year. This cycle may be modified to smooth work demands (i.e. rolling
   inspections), but alternate schedules must ensure checklists are revisited every 6 months.
       2.1.2.1. During the first month of the cycle, each unit should conduct a review of all its
       regulatory guidance libraries to ensure the use of up-to-date guidance and review all of its
       Self-Assessment checklists to ensure their currency.
       2.1.2.2. The second and third month of the cycle, each unit should complete all assigned
       checklists in MICT and create deficiencies for out of compliance items.
       2.1.2.3. The fourth and fifth months are utilized for each unit to work towards closing-
       out all their deficiencies in MICT.
       2.1.2.4. The final month of the cycle, reports will be generated in MICT and leadership
       will be out-briefed during the CIMB.
       2.1.2.5. If any new checklist arise after the third month or after the suspense to have all
       checklists completed the new checklist will be completed during the next SAP cycle. If
       there is an upcoming inspection visit during the cycle and a new checklist arise after the
       third month or after the suspense date the checklist will have a 30 day extension to
       complete or before the upcoming inspection.
       2.1.2.6. For any items with a score of a “No”, a deficiency must be created. The
       deficiency “Deficiency Level will equate to the Tiered “Criticality” level established by
       the FAM. A checklist POC may deviate from the “Criticality” level by coordinating with
       the unit commander to get group commander approval. The group commander has the
       final authority to deviate from the FAM’s established “Criticality” Tier level.
 6                                                 LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013


Table 2.1. Tier Levels
Criticality          Deficiency Level
Tier 1               Critical
Tier 2               Significant
Tier 3               Minor
        2.1.2.7. Focus Groups. During the SAP each unit will conduct a focus group meeting
        with wing leadership to ensure all units are answering assessment items at a consistently
        high level of detail and applicability.
              2.1.2.7.1. Focus groups will consist of checklist assessors from the unit along with
              squadron supervision.
              2.1.2.7.2. A sampling of checklists and responses will be used to determine the units
              adequacy of documentation. Suggestions and standard practices will be conveyed.
        2.1.2.7.3. 65 ABW/IG will note wing trends in how checklists are addressed, and will
        tailor training and guidance to address any shortcomings.
2.2. Commander’s Inspection Management Board. The CIMB is run monthly by the CCIP
Director and chaired by the 65 ABW/CC, or the 65 ABW/CV in the his absence, to discuss
issues and concerns as well as track progress and status of discrepancies and corrective actions
until closure. Required attendees are Group Commanders and any designated Wing staff agency
chiefs. Squadron Commanders may attend at the Group Commanders’ discretion.
     2.2.1. Agenda. The CIMB will discuss at a minimum:
        2.2.1.1. Open deficiencies from the last CIMB
        2.2.1.2. Exercises conducted since the last CIMB
        2.2.1.3. Inspections conducted by WIT since the last CIMB
        2.2.1.4. Functional inspections conducted since the last CIMB (QA, SAV)
        2.2.1.5. Inspections conducted by outside agencies since the last CIMB
        2.2.1.6. New deficiencies
        2.2.1.7. Deficiency trend analysis
        2.2.1.8. Upcoming exercises/inspections
        2.2.1.9. Focus of the CCIP for the next quarter
     2.2.2. Major Graded Areas. CIMBs will address the current state of, and any initiatives to
     improve, the four Major Graded Areas (MGAs) that will be evaluated in future unit
     effectiveness inspections (UEIs). The 65 ABW/CC may add MGAs or Sub-MGAs in
     addition to those added by the USAFE IG. The basic MGAs are:
        2.2.2.1. Executing the Mission
        2.2.2.2. Managing Resources
        2.2.2.3. Improving the Unit
        2.2.2.4. Leading People
LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                 7


2.3. Wing Gatekeeper Program. The purpose for the Wing Gatekeeper program is to
deconflict inspections, evaluations, and audits from external agencies with other local unit
activities. All Gatekeeper events should be coordinated with the USAFE-AFAFRICA
Gatekeeper. All inspections, assessments, and evaluations should be scheduled through the
USAFE-AFAFRICA Gatekeeper and will be utilized to reschedule poorly timed visits.
Ultimately this program provides higher headquarters and wing leadership with a means of
evaluating the tempo of the wing. Gatekeeper calendars will also be utilized in the Health of the
Wings briefing given quarterly to the USAFE-AFAFRICA/CC.
   2.3.1. 65 ABW/Gatekeeper will compile and report all Gatekeeper events for Lajes Field.
   All units, to include tenant units, are responsible for reporting relevant data in a timely
   manner to 65 ABW/Gatekeeper by emailing 65abw.gatekeeper@us.af.mil.
   2.3.2. Reportable visits consist of inspections, assessments, evaluations, DV visits, or audits
   from an outside agency to include those requested by unit commanders. These visits should
   be reported to 65 ABW/Gatekeeper with all pertinent information on the event, to include:
   dates of visit, purpose of the visit, the official name of the visit, number of visitors and their
   names, unit(s) being visited, local POC for the visit (name, office symbol, DSN, and email
   address) and visiting agency OPR.
   2.3.3. DVs will still schedule visits to Lajes Field by contacting 65 ABW/CP and 65
   ABW/CCP. Upon notification of a potential visit by a DV, each office will forward
   applicable information to the 65 ABW/Gatekeeper inbox.
   2.3.4. Once the visit request is received by the 65 ABW/Gatekeeper, they will route the
   request via E-SSS to the affected Squadron and Group/CCs for approval. After getting
   concurrence from the Group, the Gatekeeper will then forward the visit request to the 65
   ABW/CC for final approval. Once approved, the request will be posted to the SharePoint
   Gatekeeper site so that USAFE-AFAFRICA Gatekeeper maintains situational awareness.
2.4. Deficiency Trend Analysis. Trend analysis will be accomplished by categorizing
deficiencies and observations by cause codes and MGAs. Trends discovered will be discussed
during CIMB.
   2.4.1. Wing Program Managers will submit summaries to 65 ABW/IG with the status of
   their programs. Any negative trends will be identified and root cause analysis will be utilized
   to develop countermeasures.
   2.4.2. Wing Programs include, but are not limited to:
       2.4.2.1. SORTS/DRRS/ART
       2.4.2.2. Quality Assurance (QA)
       2.4.2.3. Standardization/Evaluation
       2.4.2.4. Individual Medical Readiness (IMR)
       2.4.2.5. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
       2.4.2.6. Community Support Coordinator
   2.4.3. Personal observations will also be used to provide narrative and anecdotal
   information. The 65 ABW/IG will collect and analyze this information.
 8                                                LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013


                                            Chapter 3

             COMPLIANCE INSPECTION PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT

3.1. Wing Inspection Team. The WIT will consist of a sufficient number of subject matter
experts to conduct CCIP inspections under the authority of the Wing Commander and the
direction of the Wing IG/CCIP director. WIT members will be hand-picked by 65 ABW/IGI or
the designated WIT Team Chief.
3.2. Key Players’ Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.2.1. The WIT Chief will:
        3.2.1.1. Ensure the team consists of a sufficient number of subject matter experts within
        the Wing to conduct CCIP inspections under the authority of the Wing Commander and
        under the direction of the CCIP Director.
        3.2.1.2. Coordinate with the unit prior to the inspection to gather recent reports from
        HHQ inspections, Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs), management boards, external audits,
        SORTS/ARTS/DRRS data, and finally MICT Checklists.
        3.2.1.3. Oversee and lead a pre-brief with WIT inspectors and assign inspection duties.
        3.2.1.4. Schedule an in-brief with the unit commander prior to commencing inspections.
        Relay any WG/CC focus areas to the Group/Squadron Commander.
        3.2.1.5. Gather data from WIT inspection members and draft an inspection report for the
        CCIP Directors review and signature.
        3.2.1.6. Provide the Wing, Group, and Squadron Commanders a report within 30 days of
        the last day of the inspection.
     3.2.2. WIT Members will:
        3.2.2.1. Be responsible for providing an unbiased assessment of organizations they have
        been selected to evaluate.
        3.2.2.2. Conduct compliance type inspections using self-inspection checklists in MICT
        and will also hold interviews with Airmen in order to give the wing commander and
        assessment of the four MGAs.
        3.2.2.3. Compile data and ensuring inputs are added to the final inspection report.
3.3. WIT Purpose, Frequency, and Scope. The WIT will inspect each squadron and staff
agency at least once every two years. These inspections will focus on the four Major Graded
Areas (Managing Resources, Leading People, Improving the Unit, and Executing the Mission)
through auditing checklists with process owners and conducting one-on-one and small group
interviews. The overall management of the unit’s SAP, to include MICT management will also
inspected as a major portion of each unit inspection.
LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              9


                                           Chapter 4

                      EXERCISE PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT

4.1. Program Overview: The Exercise Evaluation Program is used by the wing commander to
assess the installation’s ability to perform its in-garrison and expeditionary mission. The
installation must be able to rapidly respond to major accidents, natural disasters, and other
peacetime and wartime contingencies in addition to employing forces in accordance with
published DOC statements.
4.2. Exercise Phases. Each exercise will consist of three phases: planning phase; execution
phase; and after action phase. Active management and coordination during all phases is the key
to a well-executed exercise.
   4.2.1. Design and Development Phase. The planning phase of the exercise consists of
   several planning conferences hosted by 65 ABW/IGI. Conferences are attended by unit
   IGAs and other select agencies, as required. Conferences include the Initial Planning
   Conference, Mid-term Planning Conference, MSEL Conference, and a Final Planning
   Conference for each major exercise.
       4.2.1.1. Initial Planning Conference. The Initial Planning Conference (IPC) is the first
       step in the planning process and should lay out the foundation for the exercise. The
       purpose of this conference is to get all the key players together to collect inputs on the
       scope of the exercise, start brainstorming large events and injects, determine the level of
       participation, and begin a draft MSEL. The MSEL SharePoint site should be created
       prior to the IPC so all IGAs have access to start adding injects during and immediately
       after the IPC.
       4.2.1.2. Mid-term Planning Conference. The Mid-term Planning Conference (MPC) is
       more operations based than the IPC. During this conference, there should be discussion
       of the organization of the exercise and a more firm MSEL timeline should be established.
       Logistical, scheduling, and administrative requirements should be the main focus and a
       deadline should be set for final MSEL inputs.
       4.2.1.3. Final Planning Conference. The Final Planning Conference (FPC) is the last
       opportunity for the planning team to review the process and procedures for the exercise.
       There should not be any major changes made at this time, unless directed by the Wing
       Commander. This conference is the time to finalize all logistical requirements and ensure
       all outstanding issues are identified and/or resolved. IGAs will receive their inspector
       vests or badges at this meeting and will be expected to turn them back in upon
       completion of their inspector duties. Hand receipts will be used to account for IGA vests
       or badges. The MSEL Conference is a line-by-line review of the entire MSEL. The
       focus of this meeting should be to deconflict events and verbally rehearse key
       components and requirements necessary to facilitate each inject.
   4.2.2. Conduct and Inspection Phase. During the execution phase, constant communication
   is key to the overall success of each inject and of the exercise as a whole. In order to
   facilitate continuous communication between IGAs, IGI, and exercise players, Whitecell will
   be stood up for 24-hour operations unless otherwise directed by the CCIP Director. In
10                                              LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013


  addition, daily shift change meetings will help drive communication between key IGA
  members, acting as controllers, to insure effective inject management.
     4.2.2.1. Daily Shift Change Meetings. Daily shift change meetings should be hosted by
     65 ABW/IGI with IGAs and Whitecell in attendance to ensure all the final details are in
     place for the next 12 to 24 hours as well as discuss observations from the previous 12 to
     24 hours. During this daily meeting, radios should be distributed via hand receipt to key
     players for any large injects taking place during the next shift and should be turned back
     in upon completion of their inject for redistribution to other key players for future injects.
     4.2.2.2. Inject Management. Inject management takes constant communication and
     cooperation between all inject controllers, 65 ABW/IGI, and Whitecell personnel. Some
     injects are internal to a particular squadron and can be controlled by a single controller
     while external injects affect more than one unit. Inject controllers should follow the
     MSEL for all injects as closely as possible and notify Whitecell of any last minute
     changes, delays, or issues that may arise. Non-internal injects entail much coordination
     during the planning phase and they usually act as a driver for other injects and require the
     oversight by more than one controller. It is extremely important for these injects to be
     initiated at the designated time in the MSEL since many other controllers and IGAs are
     standing by to initiate succeeding injects in direct response to the initial or subsequent
     inject. Each inject controller should be aware of how his/her inject will affect other units
     and should coordinate with IGAs from affected units prior to initiation of each inject.
  4.2.3. Improvement Planning Phase. The Improvement Planning Phase of the exercise
  occurs after ENDEX and requires each IGA member to formally annotate all observations on
  the 65 ABW/IGI SharePoint page.
     4.2.3.1. After Action reporting.      Observations are defined as findings (Minor,
     Significant, or Critical), recommended improvement areas (RIA), or strengths. These
     observations will then be consolidated by the CCIP Director into an After Action Report
     (AAR) for the Wing Commander within 30 days of the end of the exercise.
     4.2.3.2. Corrective Action Program. The Corrective Action Program (CAP) will be the
     central repository for the tracking and improvement planning for all coded deficiencies
     noted in each published AAR. IGI will load each deficiency into the CAP upon
     publication of every AAR. The CAP tracks the number of days each deficiency is open,
     repeat write-ups, corrective action plans, get-well dates, and OPRs. Open deficiencies
     will be briefed at the CIMB, along with corrective plan and progress towards closure.




                                            CHRIS BARGERY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
LAJESFIELDI90-201 20 NOVEMBER 2013                                   11


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General--The Inspection System, 26 April 2006
AFAMN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
CAP—Corrective Action Program
CCIP—Commander’s Inspection Program
CIMB—Commander’s Inspection Management Board
FPC—Final Planning Conference
IG—Inspector General
IGA—Inspector General Augmentee
IPC—Initial Planning Conference
MGA—Major Graded Area
MICT—Management Integration Compliance Tool
MPC—Midterm Planning Conference
MSEL—Master Scenario Event Listing
RIA—Recommended Improvement Area
SAP—Self-Assessment Program
UEI—Unit Effectiveness Inspection
WIT—Wing Inspection Team
