BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 24-303
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)
                                                                           22 AUGUST 2011

                                                                              Transportation

                                                                   VEHICLE OPERATIONS




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the E-Publishing site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 65 LRS/LGRDDO                                                  Certified by: 65 MSG/CC
                                                                 (Colonel Archibald E. Bruns)
                                                                                      Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Directive 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground
Transportation Vehicles and AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations. It establishes policy for official
use of government owned, rented and leased vehicles (GOV) at Lajes Field, Azores, Portugal
and outlines vehicle misuse reporting procedures. Vehicles financed through non-appropriated
funds are exempt from this instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the Lajes Field publications/forms manager. Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. General. Use of GOV for personal reasons is a violation of statutory law (40 U.S.C. 491),
The Joint Federal Travel Regulation U3200, Government Conveyance Use on Temporary Duty
(TDY), The Joint Travel Regulations C2050, Government Automobile, DOD 4500.36R,
Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles and AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
   1.1. Personnel should refer to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, USAFE Supplement 1,
   Chapter 2 for further guidance.
   1.2. U-drive-it (UDI) vehicles are limited. All UDIs require a written request through the
   requesting units Vehicle Control Officer/Noncommissioned Officer (VCO/VCNCO). The
   written request must clearly justify the sole use requirement. Vehicle Operations will
   provide a non-availability statement if assets aren’t available.
 2                                                      LAJESFIELDI24-303 22 AUGUST 2011


2. Prohibited Vehicle Use (Non-Inclusive)
     2.1. Government vehicles will not be driven to the following locations except to perform
     official duties: The Exchange, the Shoppette, Top of the Rock Club (TORC), Sargento’s,
     DeCA Commissary, post office, on-base eating establishments, lodging, outdoor recreation,
     Chase Fitness Center, theater, bank, automated teller machines or private quarters. Note:
     Sections 3.1 and 4.3 provide limited exception for emergency response vehicles and
     members in TDY status.
     2.2. Government vehicles will not be parked in an approved area with the intent to walk to a
     prohibited establishment.
     2.3. Government vehicles (to include low speed vehicles) will not be used to transport
     personnel and dependents arriving/departing on Permanent Change of Station (PCS) orders
     between the Pax Terminal or Commercial Terminal and quarters.
     2.4. Personnel on house hunting PTDY will not use government vehicles for house hunting
     purposes. Air Force vehicles assigned to housing offices may be used by Housing Office
     employees to transport newly arrived members to search for off-base housing.
     2.5. Exclusive assignment of a GOV (owned, rented, or leased) to one official or employee
     based on grade, prestige, or personal convenience is unauthorized. Vehicles are authorized
     and assigned per the vehicle authorization listing and should remain with the intended user.
     For example, if a vehicle is authorized for a specific function such as the contract
     management office, this vehicle should not be reassigned to a flight chief or commander to
     be used as their individual vehicle.
     2.6. Government vehicles may not be used for personal household goods moves. The
     Traffic Management Office authorizes appropriate moving entitlements.
     2.7. Government vehicles will not be used for purposes of stocking or set up for unit
     fundraising activities (i.e., festival food booths, unit snack bars, squadron picnics or holiday
     parties).
     2.8. Use of government vehicles for transportation to any entertainment or recreational
     facility is prohibited.
3. TDY Personnel Vehicle Use (Non-Inclusive)
     3.1. TDY personnel may use government vehicles anywhere on base except permanent party
     private housing areas. Off-base use is restricted to official business and reputable eating
     establishments in reasonable proximity to the base. Off-base use for entertainment purposes
     is prohibited. Personnel found not in compliance with these instructions will lose UDI
     privileges on this installation. For off-base travel, personnel must have license validated by
     65th Security Forces Squadron.
     3.2. Lajes Field’s limited resources will be prioritized based on mission importance; efforts
     to use military taxi and/or commercial services will be utilized first. Aircrew members on
     station less than 72 hours will be provided aircrew shuttle and military taxi support for
     official business only.
LAJESFIELDI24-303 22 AUGUST 2011                                                             3


4. Permanent Party Personnel Vehicle Use
   4.1. Official use determinations must consider whether use is essential to complete a
   Department of Defense mission and consistent with the intended use of the vehicle.
   4.2. Government vehicles may be driven to Air Force scheduled appointments (i.e., record
   checks, dental appointments, hospital outpatient appointments, etc.) and to perform official
   duties.
   4.3. The following personnel and agencies are authorized to take emergency response
   vehicles to on-base eating establishments and Chase Fitness Center: 65th Civil Engineer
   Squadron (Firefighting Personnel only), 65th Security Forces Squadron (Security Patrols
   only), and 65th Medical Group (Ambulance Crews only). Authority is limited to on-duty
   emergency response personnel only.
      4.3.1. Approved dining facilities:, Ocean View Grill, TORC, Portuguese Terminal, the
      Shoppette, Bowling Center, Sargento’s, Subway, and DeCA Commissary.
      4.3.2. For the Exchange, the Shoppette and Commissary, visit will be limited to
      purchasing items for immediate consumption. Personnel are prohibited from combining
      visit for official and personal convenience.
   4.4. The 65th Air Base Wing Commander is authorized Command and Control authority for
   domicile to duty transportation and is allowed to park overnight at his/her quarters.
   4.5. Entertainers, guests and their supplies and equipment essential to morale and welfare
   programs may be transported using utility type vehicles and buses. Support must be
   coordinated through Vehicle Operations and Force Support Squadron. Non-appropriated
   Funds (NAF) and commercial sources must be used before Air Force assets are used.
   4.6. The following organizations can be provided vehicle support when it can be made
   available without detriment to the mission:
      4.6.1. Command or base varsity teams composed of personnel who officially represent
      the installation in scheduled events, when vehicles and personnel are available without
      detriment to the mission.
      4.6.2. Military personnel or dependent spectators attending local events in which a
      command or base-sponsored team is participating, when vehicles and personnel are
      available without detriment to the mission.
      4.6.3. Use of utility type vehicles for cargo movements is authorized.
      4.6.4. Civilian groups transported to military installations in the interest of community
      relations, when officially invited by the installation commander.
      4.6.5. Base sponsored tours and trips, when operated on a nonprofit basis. Assets may
      be used only after mission requirements have been met.
      4.6.6. Scouting programs (Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts of America), when vehicles and
      personnel are available without detriment to the mission.
      4.6.7. Child development center sponsored activities, when vehicles and personnel are
      available without detriment to the mission.
 4                                                    LAJESFIELDI24-303 22 AUGUST 2011


5. Permissible Operation Distance (POD). The POD for official government business is
limited to the island of Terceira.
6. Official Use Guidance
     6.1. When an official use determination arises and is not covered by another section of this
     instruction, the following questions will be used as guidance:
        6.1.1. Is the purpose of the trip official?
        6.1.2. Does the request have the potential to create a perception that will reflect
        unfavorably on the Air Force or cause public criticism?
        6.1.3. Will the request negatively impact mission requirements?
        6.1.4. Is commercial or DoD scheduled transportation available? The Air Force does not
        provide transportation support that competes with commercial services.
        6.1.5. In the absence of specific guidance concerning official use determination,
        commanders should err on the side of protecting the public trust rather than providing
        questionable service.
        6.1.6. Contact 65 LRS/LGRDDO, ext. 535-3780, for additional guidance.
7. Misuse Reporting
     7.1. Any suspected vehicle misuse must be reported to 65 LRS Operator Records and
     Licensing section, ext. 535-4291. Provide the following information: vehicle registration
     number, location the misuse occurred, date and time of occurrence and a description of what
     was witnessed. Anyone may report vehicle misuse.
     7.2. When misuse is reported, a misuse notice will be forwarded to the member’s unit
     commander through the 65th Logistic Readiness Commander. Units have two weeks to
     respond with justification for the vehicle use or actions taken to prevent reoccurrence.
     7.3. Operator Records and Licensing will log and file all misuse cases. Misuse response
     letters will be maintained in the misuse case file for 2 years.




                                                JOSE A. RIVERAGAUD, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
LAJESFIELDI24-303 22 AUGUST 2011                                                            5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation Vehicles, 6 September 2006
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 24-301_USAFE Supplement 1, Vehicle Operations, 27 October 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 16 March 2007
The Joint Federal Travel Regulation Volume 1, Uniformed Service Members, paragraph U3200,
Government Conveyance Use on TDY, 1 January 2009
Joint Travel Regulations Volume 2, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel, paragraph
C2050, Government Automobile, 1 January 2009
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms
No Forms Prescribed
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
AAFES—Army Air Force Exchange Services
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BX—Base Exchange
CC—Commander
DOD—Department of Defense
GOV—Government owned, rented and leased vehicles
LRS—Logistic Readiness Squadron
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POD—Permissible Operating Distance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
 6                                                    LAJESFIELDI24-303 22 AUGUST 2011


TDY—Temporary Duty
UDI—U-Drive-It vehicle
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Non-Commissioned Officer

Terms
Adopted Form— A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Certifying Official— A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certifies the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
e-Publishing – Central website for accessing, viewing, downloading, and printing electronic
products; physical products may be ordered from the e-Publishing website. Information on
product development and links to other agency publications are also provided on the e-
Publishing website (www.e-Publishing.af.mil).
Form— A tool used for the collection, recording, and/or extraction of information whereby a
predetermined set of data fields have been established and defined to meet a definitive purpose
or object, as defined in an official Air Force publication.
Office of Primary Responsibility— The originating office for a publication; the author of the
publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)— The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
Records Management— The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting
and any other managerial activity related to records creation, records maintenance and records
disposition for the sake of achieving adequate and proper documentation of the policies and
transactions of the Federal Government and effective economical management of agency
operations.
