BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 24-302
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)
                                                                                   17 JUNE 2014

                                                                                   Transportation

                                                           VEHICLE ACCIDENT AND ABUSE
                                                                 PROGRAM PROCEDURES




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the E-Publishing site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 65 LRS/LGRV                                                        Certified by: 65 MSG/CC
                                                                         (Colonel John S. Oliver)
                                                                                         Pages: 11
Supersedes:    LAJESFIELDI24-101,
               22 August 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground
Transportation Vehicles, and outlines definitions, responsibilities and procedures for an effective
vehicle accident and abuse program at Lajes Field IAW AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management.
Visibility and emphasis is placed at the unit level and under the direct control of the unit
commander to foster better operator care and condition of Lajes’ vehicle fleet. This instruction is
applicable to all persons operating any GOV/E that is assigned to Lajes Field and are loaded in
the OLVIMS. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change or Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through Lajes Field publication/forms manager. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been updated to reflect AFI numbering change, from AFI 23-302 to AFI 24-
302. No content changes were made.
 2                                                         LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014


1. General. For the purpose of this instruction the following definitions are offered:
     1.1. Vehicle Accident. A vehicle accident is an unintended event resulting in a collision,
     involving one or more moving motor vehicles, or vehicles striking a solid object (such as a
     brick wall or building).
     1.2. Vehicle Abuse. Vehicle abuse is considered damage caused by willful or negligent acts
     of improper operation or care that cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear under normal use,
     accident or incidents. Vehicle abuse may result in early failure of components or immediately
     detectable damage. Some examples of vehicle abuse are listed in (Attachment 2) of this
     instruction.
     1.3. Vehicle Incident. A vehicle incident is any damage that cannot be classified as an
     accident or abuse and is beyond the control of the using organization. Organizations and
     individuals will not be held liable for incident damage. Examples of incidents are: (1) A rock
     thrown through the windshield by the tire of a vehicle being followed; (2) A wind-carried
     object striking a vehicle; (3) Damage as the result of vandalism; or (4) Hail or other
     inclement weather damage.
2. Local Reimbursement Procedures. The volume of accident and abuse damage is
unpredictable and repair costs are not budgeted. Therefore, this instruction establishes
procedures for reimbursement to the 65 LRS Vehicle Management Flight account. IAW AFI 24-
302, Vehicle Management, all Vehicle Management O&M funds expended for vehicle accident
and abuse repair costs, including contract cost, will be reimbursed to Vehicle Management by the
owning organization, or the organization responsible for the damage if not the owner.
     2.1. The LRS/CC is the approval authority on the amount of funds to be reimbursed by the
     using organization. Reimbursement will be made to 65 LRS/LGRV by the using
     organization regardless of determination of pecuniary liability. If a member is found
     personally liable for an accident or abuse, he/she would reimburse the government.
        2.1.1. Accomplish reimbursement via a transfer of funds from the using organization’s
        O&M account to the account number listed on the reimbursement letter (Attachment 3).
        Reimbursement funds will be used to recoup expenditures for the cost of all materials,
        civilian labor and all contract costs as a result of accidents or abuses to GOV/E.
     2.2. Vehicle Accident Processing. When a GOV/E has been involved in an accident, the
     VCO and the driver’s supervisor are immediately notified. When a vehicle is presented to
     Vehicle Management CSC for repairs, the VFM/VMS will be notified immediately of any
     suspected accident and/or abuse damage to make a determination.
        2.2.1. Upon request of the VFM/VMS, Vehicle Management CSC initiates an
        accident/abuse estimate work order. A complete visual and operational check will be
        completed and any other repairs will be documented on a separate work order. All
        documentation will be presented to the Vehicle Management and Analysis (VM&A)
        section.
        2.2.2. Vehicle Management can no longer take digital photos of the vehicle’s damaged
        area(s) to serve as an electronic record because of AF-wide computer use restraints.
        VCOs and/or VCNCOs should look at the damaged vehicles themselves before repairs
        begin so they can brief the unit commander of the damage.
LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014                                                                   3


      2.2.3. Once the estimate work order is closed, VM&A will send the notification/release
      email to the using/responsible organization commander and the VCO/VCNCO.
   2.3. The using/responsible organization commander will determine if an ROS is required.
   Ensure the investigation is completed IAW AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force
   Property, Para. 18.4.3, if applicable.
      2.3.1. Vehicle Management will refrain from conducting repairs for a period of 3 duty
      days pending the organization commander’s release or statement not to release the
      vehicle for repairs. Repairs will commence after 3 duty days have passed without
      correspondence from the organization CC. A written release will be needed for all
      vehicles and exceptions will be validated by the VFM/VMS.
      2.3.2. In cases where the damages may be due to negligent or intentional acts of non-
      DoD entities, Vehicle Management will coordinate with 65 ABW/JA to determine
      whether a pro-government claim can be asserted. Repairs in these cases will not be
      commenced without 65 LRS/CC approval, except for the following critical vehicles: (1)
      Fire Trucks, specifically those with “L” in the registration number; (2) Medical Group
      ambulances; (3) Security Forces Law Enforcement sedans/trucks; and (4) Priority flight
      line support vehicles.
   2.4. In order to expedite repairs, Vehicle Management will order all necessary parts using
   the estimate repair work order, except when the damaged vehicle or equipment was involved
   with private property and the property owner may or will be held liable for any damages. If
   the property owner is held liable, they will be allowed to arrange for the commercial
   purchase of all parts, materials, facilities and labor required to complete repairs (this allows
   for the exact cost of the repairs to be paid by the property owner/owner’s agent).
   2.5. After the repair work order is opened in OLVIMS, VM&A will enter a refundable code
   (4) to track all costs associated with the accident/abuse repairs. V&MA submits these costs
   on a monthly basis to the accounting and finance office in the course of normal OLVIMS
   processing.
      2.5.1. The 65 LRS/RA will be responsible for tracking and the collection of all damaged
      vehicle and/or equipment repair costs back into the squadron’s account. The unit RA that
      is responsible for the vehicle damage will submit an SF Form 1080, Voucher for Transfer
      between Appropriations and/or Funds to 65 LRS.
      2.5.2. For squadrons having an accident or abuse where the operator wants to voluntarily
      pay for damages, collection procedures are outlined in AFMAN 23-220, Reports of
      Survey of Air Force Property, Chapter 16.
3. Vehicle Management Responsibilities. Return vehicle or equipment to unit when release
letter has been received and all work has been completed.
   3.1. Maintain a record of all vehicle accident and abuse cases for 6 years.
4. Unit Commander Responsibilities. Make every attempt to prevent accidents and abuses of
unit assigned vehicles within areas of responsibility.
   4.1. Aggressively investigate accident and abuse cases.
 4                                                        LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014


     4.2. Determine cause, negligence, liability and corrective actions, as well as preventive
     measures to safeguard the vehicle fleet.
     4.3. Review all accident and abuse cases and provide timely response within 3 duty days to
     release for repair. After 3 duty days, damage repairs will commence. Circumstances
     preventing a 3 duty day turnaround will be worked on a case-by-case basis.
     4.4. Authorize the transfer of funds to the Vehicle Management O&M account for repair
     parts, civilian labor and all contract costs associated for all accidents and abuses of
     government vehicles.
     4.5. Ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of the unit’s safety program.
     (Attachment 4).
5. Replacement Vehicles. Replacement vehicles will be provided by 65 LRS Vehicle
Operations Element (65 LRS/LGRDDO) in cases of vehicle accidents, when an organization’s
vehicle assets fall below the Minimum Essential List (MEL) and vehicles are available.
Temporary replacement vehicles will not be provided in cases of vehicle accidents and/or
abuses.
     5.1. Each unit VCO/VCNCO maintains a copy of their latest MEL listing. This document
     will be used to determine whether replacement vehicles will be provided by the 65
     LRS/LGRDDO.
6. Disputes and Resolution Authority. All disputed claims for settlement and resolutions will
be decided by the 65 LRS/CC in concert with responsible organization’s CC. If no agreement is
reached, the next higher resolution authority is 65 MSG/CC.




                                              CHRIS BARGERY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014                                               5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation Vehicles, 6 Sep 2006
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey of Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 29 Oct 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Prescribed Forms
No Forms Prescribed
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change or Publication
SF Form 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report
SF Form 94, Statement of Witness
SF Form 1080, Voucher for Transfer between Appropriations and/or Funds

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
CSC—Customer Service Center
IAW—In Accordance With
GOV/E—Government Owned Vehicles/Equipment
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MEL—Minimum Essential List
OLVIMS—On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management System
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RA—Resource Advisor
ROS—Reports of Survey
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Non Commissioned Officer
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
 6                                                      LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014


VMS—Vehicle Management Superintendent

Terms
Fair Wear and Tear—- The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment based on
its age, usage and life expectancy.
Motor Vehicle Accident—- Any collision, impact, or abrasion against a fixed or moving object
with a military motor vehicle, that causes damage, whether immediately noticeable or not.
Responsible Organization—- An organization is the responsible organization when vehicle
accident or abuse damage is caused by personnel assigned to the organization. The responsible
organization may not necessarily be the owning organization. For example, an organization using
vehicles owned by another organization is responsible for accident or abuse damage caused by
personnel assigned to the unit.
Vehicle Abuse—- Vehicle abuse is considered damage caused by willful or negligent acts of
improper operation or care.
Vehicle Incident—- Repairs required as a result of damages beyond the control of an individual,
which have resulted from natural causes. Such repairs will not be categorized as an accident or
abuse. Letters of explanation from individual will accompany vehicles turned in to explain any
incident damage. Examples of incidents are: (1) A rock thrown through the windshield by the tire
of a vehicle being followed, (2) A wind-carried object striking a vehicle or (3) Hail or other
inclement weather damage.
U- Drive-It—- Vehicle available to support organizations that do not have assigned vehicles and
to augment units with assigned vehicles in meeting infrequent peak requirements for short-term
use. Support is normally limited to 72 hours.
LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014                                                                    7


                                         Attachment 2
                             EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

A2.1. Vehicle abuse action will be initiated for vehicle or equipment damage or failure
resulting from:
   A2.1.1. Improper cargo distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo areas of
   vehicle or not following established loading or unloading procedures.
   A2.1.2. Using a vehicle for other than its intended or designed purpose (i.e., 6K F/L used to
   transport a 10,000 pound pallet).
   A2.1.3. Tampering with governors, distributors or pollution-control devices.
   A2.1.4. Operating vehicles with insufficient oil or coolant; a failure to check fluid levels
   according to established requirements or failure to monitor dashboard instrumentation.
   A2.1.5. Operating vehicle with brakes applied or dragging parking brakes.
   A2.1.6. Failing to protect the painted surface(s) from corrosion and/or oxidation.
   A2.1.7. Failure to clean, wax or maintain vehicle’s interior or exterior to meet corrosion
   control and appearance requirements.
   A2.1.8. Unauthorized wiring, marking or modification of a vehicle (modifications must be
   processed in writing through the VCO or VCNCO and Vehicle Management for approval).
   A2.1.9. Vehicle being operated by an unqualified or untrained operator without an instructor
   present.
   A2.1.10. Operating a vehicle with broken tire chains or improperly inflated tires; i.e., not
   IAW manufacturer recommendations.
   A2.1.11. Tire wear beyond minimum acceptable safe tread depth. Tire wear that exposes the
   cord renders tires unsuitable to be recapped or re-grooved and is unsafe.
   A2.1.12. Intentional destruction or disfigurement of vehicle interior or exterior.
   A2.1.13. Operating a vehicle or equipment in conflict with published safety Department of
   Defense publication, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health, Occupational Safety and
   Health Act, AFI, AFMAN, TO or Portuguese laws concerning vehicle safety.
   A2.1.14. Allowing water to accumulate in the vehicle interior as a result of washing with a
   hose or the excessive accumulation of water from a storm, due to leaving windows open.
   A2.1.15. Over-filling the engine crankcase, transmission or hydraulic reservoirs.
   A2.1.16. Servicing the vehicle fuel tank or hydraulic reservoir with incorrect fuel or oils.
   A2.1.17. Not restraining doors when opening in excessive wind.
   A2.1.18. Operating a vehicle in violation of operator’s manual or accepted driving practices.
   A2.2.1. Other situations where vehicle abuse action may be initiated: Failure to report any
   malfunctions, defects or damages on a vehicle to 65 LRS/LGRV within 24 hours. A pre-
   approved delay of this action can be authorized by 65 LRS/LGRV to support mission
   requirements.
8                                                     LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014


    A2.2.2. Failure to bring vehicle or equipment to 65 LRS/LGRV for scheduled maintenance
    before an overdue condition exists. Prior to becoming overdue, pre-approved rescheduling
    due to mission requirements is exempt.
    A2.2.3. Failure to accomplish proper operator care and maintenance stated in AFI 24-302,
    paragraph 3.12.
LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014                                                                    9


                                         Attachment 3
            SAMPLE ACCIDENT OR ABUSE REIMBURSEMENT LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR 65 XXX/CC (Using/Responsible Unit)

FROM: 65 LRS/CC

SUBJECT: Reimbursement for Vehicle Accident/Abuse Repairs

1. The following vehicle assigned/used by your organization had accident/abuse repairs completed
by Vehicle Maintenance. IAW LFI 24-1, Paragraph 2.1. “Accomplish reimbursement via a transfer
of funds from the using organization’s operation and maintenance (O & M) account to a Vehicle
Maintenance account, IAW AFI 24-302”

  Case #     Vehicle Reg. #    Repair Opened      Repair Closed      Parts Cost      Damage
 AB-12-03     00X00000         DD-MMM-YY          DD-MMM-YY              $          Front Tires

2. The Squadron Resource Advisor will be processing a SF Form 1080 (Voucher for Transfers
between Appropriations and/or Funds) for funds collected from your organization and sending it to
the FMA/ALO. The total amount to be collected is under the receiving fund site:

                        573 3400 303 8056 342447 01 61950 16 678900

3. Please have your resource advisor contact the 65 LRS/RA at ext. 535-3821 as soon as possible
to facilitate the funds transfer.



                                             FIRST M. LAST, Rank, USAF
                                             Commander, 65th Logistics Readiness Squadron

cc:
65 LRS/LGRV
65 LRS/RA
65 XXX/RA (Using/Responsible Unit)
 10                                                       LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014


                                         Attachment 4
                               SAFE DRIVING GUIDELINES

A4.1. The goal of a vehicle accident prevention program is to reduce the number and severity of
vehicle accidents. All units should ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of
the unit’s safety program. One way to accomplish this is by incorporating driver safety into your
weekly safety briefings. There are six main areas that should be stressed:
A4.2. Regular Vehicle Inspections (at least weekly, or more frequently as needed).
   A4.2.1. Tires. Check tire pressure and visually check for damage/abnormalities.
   A4.2.2. Lights. Visually check for proper operation.
   A4.2.3. Leaks. Visually check for fuel/brake/oil/coolant leaks.
   A4.2.4. Engine oil and coolant. Visually check levels.
   A4.2.5. Battery. Visually check fluid level, cleanliness, security of hold-down.
   A4.2.6. Drive belts. Visually check for fraying or cracking.
   A4.2.7. Safety devices. Functionally check operation of seat belts, headrests and warning
   lights.
   A4.2.8. Instrument, horn and windshield wipers. Functionally check for operation.
   A4.2.9. Brake and steering. Functionally check responsiveness and effectiveness.
   A4.2.10. Note any unusual           occurrences    such    as     noise,   odor    and   erratic
   instruments/operation.
A4.3. Safe Driving Cushion between Vehicles.
   A4.3.1. Use the 2-second rule during normal driving conditions and more during inclement
   weather.
   A4.3.2. Never over-drive the distance lit by your headlights.
   A4.3.3. Signal your intentions at least 100 feet ahead of intersection. Not signaling your
   intentions well in advance causes other drivers to make last minute/panic decisions.
   A4.3.4. Exercise caution anytime that you are backing a vehicle; use spotters when you
   cannot see.
   A4.3.5. Use mirrors to monitor your surroundings. If you cannot see, use a spotter.
   A4.3.6. Ensure you have adequate clearance around vehicles, especially when operating
   over-sized vehicles or towing equipment. Larger vehicles need a larger area to maneuver.
A4.4. Expecting the Unexpected.
   A4.4.1. Be constantly aware of surroundings and watch for other vehicles. You not only
   have to deal with decisions that you make, but the decisions of other drivers as well.
   A4.4.2. Be attentive to situations that may come up while driving. You are not the only
   driver on the road.
LAJESFIELDI24-302 17 JUNE 2014                                                                 11


   A4.4.3. Always drive defensively and expect other drivers to do something unexpected.
   A4.4.4. Be extra cautious when approaching major roadways, intersections and areas where
   vehicles are entering and exiting the roadway. High traffic areas pose a greater risk to all
   drivers.
   A4.4.5. Don’t become complacent in familiar areas. Most accidents happen within 50 miles
   of your home; knowing the area is not an excuse for not paying attention to your
   surroundings.
A4.5. Weather and Road Conditions.
   A4.5.1. Changing weather conditions can degrade road conditions in a matter of seconds.
   A4.5.2. Road surfaces can have damaged areas; be prepared for them.
   A4.5.3. Use extra time to drive safely during inclement weather conditions and when
   roadways are damaged or under construction.
A4.6. Rules of the Road.
   A4.6.1. Pay attention to traffic signs and obey them. Traffic signs give drivers information to
   prepare for situations on the road ahead.
   A4.6.2. Follow posted speed limits. Speed limits are set for a reason.
   A4.6.3. Follow directional arrows in parking lots. Arrows are used in parking lots to control
   the flow of traffic and to make things safer for everyone.
A4.7. Use of Seat Belts.
   A4.7.1. Seat belt use is MANDATORY for all drivers and passengers.
A4.8. Following these tips will greatly reduce the likelihood of being involved in an accident.
Also remember that fatigued drivers are more likely to be involved in an accident. Get the rest
that you need. Driving tired has the same effect as driving under the influence of alcohol; your
reaction times increase making it more difficult to cope with incidents on the road.
