BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                              LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 15-101
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)
                                                                                    2 APRIL 2012

                                                                                            Weather

                                                                  WEATHER SUPPORT PLAN



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:               Publications and forms are available on the E-Publishing site at
                             https://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:               There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 65 OSS/OSW                                                        Certified by: 65 ABW/CV
                                                                         (Colonel David A. Parr)
Supersedes: LAJESFIELDI15-101, 29 August 2008                                           Pages: 33


This instruction implements AFMAN 15-129, Air and Space Weather Operations – Processes
and Procedures. Its purpose is to document weather services provided by the 65th Operations
Support Squadron Weather Flight (65 OSS/OSW), the 21st Operational Weather Squadron in
Sembach, Germany as well as reciprocal support from other wing agencies. This instruction
applies to all 65th Air Base Wing (65 ABW) units, as well as Lajes Field tenant units. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publications; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
Lajes Field publications/forms manager. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Significant additions and updates were included into this revision to include weather flight's
automated dissemination system, mission execution forecast process and addition of new
weather watches and warnings. Minor administrative and formatting changes were also made
and some existing information was re-arranged into appropriate chapters.
2                                                      LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012



                                      Chapter 1
                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This stand-alone document provides a consolidated source of weather support
capabilities, procedures and responsibilities at Lajes Field, Azores, Portugal. However, it does
not eliminate the need for specialized weather support to be included in base/command
operational plans. Air Force Weather concepts and procedures are outlined in various Air Force
and MAJCOM publications. This instruction does not cover weather support agreements made
between the Portuguese Air Force (PoAF) and 65 ABW. The details of combined weather
support provided by the weather flight and the Portuguese Air Base 4 Meteorological Center
(CMETEO) are outlined in the USAF/PoAF Weather Implementation Arrangement between
Commander, Headquarters Azorean Air Zone (HAAZ) and Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
regarding the operation of Meteorlogical Servcies (LOA).

1.2. Concept of Operations. The weather flight acts as the “eyes forward” for the 21st
Operational Weather Squadron (OWS), at Sembach, Germany. In concert with the OWS, the
weather flight provides mission tailored weather support to worldwide DoD operations
conducted at and through Lajes Field. The primary focus is airfield operations and accurately
reflecting its current and future meteorological state to move warfighters to and from the fight.

1.3. Duty Priorities. All AF weather units are required to develop clearly defined duty
priorities to assist in task allocation and direct operations during circumstances when only one
weather technician is on duty. In order of precedence, the weather flight priorities are:

1.3.1. Perform Emergency War Order (EWO) Taskings

1.3.2. Execute WF Evacuation

1.3.3. Respond to Aircraft/Ground Emergencies

1.3.4. Respond to Pilot to Metro Service (PMSV) Contacts

1.3.5. Augment fixed meteorological equipment, when required

1.3.6. Disseminate EQYL observations

1.3.7. Provide “Eyes Forward” / Collaborate with OWS

1.3.8. Severe Weather Action Procedures

1.3.9. Provide Backup support to 21 OWS for Resource Protection (e.g. forecasted weather
warnings, watches and advisories.)

1.3.10. Relay Urgent PIREPs to OWS

1.3.11. Disseminate PIREPs
 LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012                                                       3



1.3.12. Perform MISSIONWATCH Activities

1.3.13. Provide Flight Weather Briefings

1.3.14. Aid Centro de Meteorologia (PoAF) in dissemination of LPLA observations

1.3.15. Weather Functional Training

1.3.16. Accomplish Administrative Tasks

1.3.17. Lajes Field weather personnel must ensure the highest priority tasks are completed first
with strict adherence to ORM principles (AFMAN 15-129 Figure 1.4. Six-Step Process of
Operational Risk Management).

Figure 1.1. Six-Step Process of Operational Risk Management.
4                                                        LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012

1.4. Duty Location and Normal Operations. The weather flight is located in Bldg. 713, also
known as the Portuguese Terminal. It is a combined weather station with the Portuguese Air
Force. The station is manned 0700L-1700L M-F and 0700L-1500LZ S/S (Daylight Standard
Time is +00hrs Zulu, Daylight Savings Time is +01hrs Zulu) by at least one USAF/DoD Civilian
and 24/7/365 by one PoAF observer. The duty forecaster can be reached at DSN 535-3514. If
needed, standby USAF personnel can be reached at 963-542-242 at all times. Duty times
can/will be adjusted dependent upon DoD aircraft support requirements.

1.4.1. Obtaining weather information when the weather flight is unavailable (i.e., closed,
deployed, evacuated). During duty hours, first contact the USAF standby weather person at 963-
542-242. If outside normal operating hours, contact the 21 OWS at DSN 496-6125.

1.5. Release of Weather Information. Release of weather information to non-DoD agencies
and the general public will not be provided until the base Public Affairs Office has given
permission. However, exchange of weather information between the PoAF weather personnel
and the weather flight is appropriate and highly encouraged in the interest of resource protection
and airfield safety.

1.6. Alternate Operating Location (AOL). The alternate site for all weather operations is
located in the 65 OSS AEF Center, building T-810; the primary phone number is DSN 535-3184.
The AOL must have access to adequate communications (i.e. telephone, fax machine, computer
workstations with internet capability) and allow for a view of the airfield complex, if feasible. A
minimum of 40 sq ft of space should be provided with a briefing counter and desk space for
computer set-up plus sufficient space for portable/permanent weather sensors and equipment.

1.6.1. When operations cannot be performed at the primary weather center, the AOL still allows
the weather flight to act as the “eyes forward” for the OWS. It also provides an adequate base
from which to disseminate weather advisories/watches/warnings, prepare flight weather briefings
and provide weather support to major DoD aircraft deployments (Tanker Task Force, rotational
Coronet movements, etc.).

1.6.2. The alternate observing site is located across from building T-810 directly across from the
Transient Alert entrance along the Golf South parking apron. The point, at the north end of the
parking area along the stone wall, has visibility limitations to the south-east through north due to
rising terrain. Observations made from the alternate observing site may contain estimated
elements, such as winds and pressure.

1.6.3. The Lajes Weather Flight will use its automated dissemination system (ADS) as the
primary means of sending weather information. Email, phone and fax will be used as a backup
to the ADS. Agencies will be notified as outlined in Attachment 3 and 4 of this instruction.
Note: If PoAF transfers full observation responsibility to 65 OSS/OSW, call the observation out
locally in the following order. (1) Tower: 535-3929 (Tower is responsible for disseminating to
RAPCON if they need it), (2) 21 OWS: DSN 496-6125.

1.6.4. The Weather Surveillance Radar 1988 Doppler (WSR-88D) is not accessible from the
AOL, nor is there Pilot-to-Metro Service (PMSV) capability. Phone patch PMSV calls may still
be transferred through the Command Post to the AOL. Communication protocols call for
 LAJESFIELDI15-101       2 APRIL 2012                                                    5

automatic forwarding of any patches placed to the primary station phone numbers. NOTE: The
WSR-88D and PMSV is discussed in greater detail in Chapter 2.

1.7. 21 OWS Continuity of Operations (Back-Up). The Lajes weather flight will assume
flight weather briefing support, local TAF and weather watch, warning and advisory
responsibility during significant 21 OWS communication outages, evacuations or catastrophic
events until relieved by the 21 OWS.
6                                                       LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012


                                        Chapter 2
                                   OBSERVING SERVICES

2.1. Airfield Observations. Observations of the current weather are taken in accordance with
AFMAN 15-111, USAFESUP1, Surface Weather Observations, and disseminated under the
EQYL identifier. Observations are provided primarily in service of the “Eyes Forward” role for
the OWS (both forecast accuracy and resource protection issuance) and support of local mission
requirements.

2.2. Observation Site. The primary observation site for augmented observations is the north-
west corner of building 713. Observing site limitations at this site include terrain and building
obstructions from the north through the east to the south-east. The approach end of runway 15 is
not viewable due to terrain slope; however, the sky immediately above that end of the runway is
clearly visible.

2.3. Special Observations. Special observations (SPECI) are taken at Lajes during augmented
services to report changes in conditions significant to airfield operations. The FMQ-19 and/or
weather technicians will take, disseminate, and record observations as indicated in the table
below:
Table 2.1. Special Observation Criteria.
SPECI Criteria
Visibility - Surface visibility as reported in the body of the report decreases to less than or, if
below, increases to equal or exceed:
5000 meters (Note: AFMAN 15-111/USAFE Sup 1 para 3.3.6 USAFE organizations will use
5000 meters instead of 4800m.)
4000 m (DoD FLIP)
3600 m (DoD FLIP)
3200 m (AFMAN 15-111/DoD FLIP)
2800 m (DoD FLIP)
2400 m (DoD FLIP)
2000 m (DoD FLIP)
1600 m (AFMAN 15-111/DoD FLIP)
Ceiling - The ceiling (rounded down to nearest reportable value) forms or dissipates below,
decreases to less than, or if below, increases to equal or exceed:
3,000 feet (AFMAN 15-111)
2,000 feet (AFI 11-202, Vol 3)
1,500 feet (AFMAN 15-111)
1,000 feet (AFMAN 15-111)
800 feet (AFMAN 15-111, required for precision approach critical areas)
700 feet (AFMAN 15-111/DoD FLIP)
600 feet (DoD FLIP)
500 feet (AFMAN 15-111/DoD FLIP)
400 feet (DoD FLIP)
300 feet (AFMAN 15-111/LOC RWY 15 APPROACH)
Sky Condition. A layer of clouds or obscuring phenomena aloft is observed below our highest
published instrument landing minimum of 700 feet, and no layer aloft was reported below this
height in the previous observation.
 LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012                                                        7


Wind Shift. Wind direction changes by 45 degrees or more in less than 15 minutes and the wind
speed is 10 knots or more throughout the wind shift.
Squall. When squalls occur.
Volcanic Eruption. Eruption or volcanic ash cloud first noted.
Thunderstorm occurring at the station. A SPECI is not required to report the beginning of a
new thunderstorm if one is currently reported.
1. Begins.
2. Ends.
Precipitation
1. Hail begins or ends.
2. Any other type of precipitation begins or ends.
Tornado, Funnel Cloud or Waterspout.
1. Is observed
2. Disappears from sight or ends
Runway Visual Range (RVR) - The unit of measurement will be the same as that published for
the installation in DoD FLIPs--meters at Lajes Field.
Manual RVR Reporting Conditions: (1) Prevailing visibility first observed <1600 meters, also
when prevailing visibility increases above 1600 meters.
(2) RVR for active runway decreases to less than or, if below, increases to equal or exceed:
    P1500 m
    1500 m (AFMAN 15-111)
    0750m
    0600 m
    RVRNO RVR is first determined as unavailable for the runway and the runway is in use

Note about RVR: AN/FMQ-19 units will report RVR in 50-meter increments up to 800 meters,
and in 100-meter increments up to 1500 meters in accordance with WMO Manual on Codes
(WMO-No. 306). Weather units will coordinate RVR reporting in meters with supported
customers and the ATC agency when PoAF observations are not available.
Upon Resumption of Observing Function: A SPECI observation will be taken within 15
minutes after the weather technician returns to duty following a break in observing coverage or
augmentation at the unit unless a record observation is filed during that 15-minute period
Wind Speed: The maximum wind speed increases by 10 knots or more since the last METAR or
SPECI, and the predominant wind speed/gust exceeds 25 knots. (NOTE: This requirement
enables the USAFE Operational Weather Squadron (OWS) to conduct a more effective
metwatch).
Miscellaneous: Any other meteorological situation, that in the weather technician's opinion, is
critical to operations


2.4. Airfield Local Observations. Since LPLA is the official observation of the airfield, the
Lajes Weather Flight will only take a local observation in the instance of an Aircraft Mishap and
it will not be disseminated. Note: See AFMAN 15-111, paragraph 2.14.3. for procedures on
recording LOCAL observations.
8                                                         LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012



Table 2.2. LOCAL Observation Criteria.
Aircraft Mishap. Take an aircraft mishap LOCAL immediately following notification or
sighting of an aircraft mishap at or near the unit unless there has been an intervening METAR or
SPECI. Identify the observation by including (ACFT MSHP) in remarks on the AF Form
3803/3813 only. This remark is not disseminated locally. Aircraft Mishap LOCALs will be
recorded on the AF Form 3803/3813. NOTE: A LOCAL observation is not required for in-
flight emergencies (IFE). However, such IFEs should alert weather personnel to intensify the
weather watch to ensure maximum support to the aircraft in distress. If the IFE results in an
accident or incident, the aircraft mishap LOCAL is then required.

2.5. Meteorological Equipment Locations and Limitations.

2.5.1. The FMQ-19. The FMQ-19 is a full suite of weather sensors positioned at three locations
on the runway, one at each end and another midfield. The FMQ-19 Automated Meteorological
Station is capable of continuously reporting/displaying/disseminating full element surface
weather observations through a computer located in the combined weather station. The FMQ-19
is designed to operate in a fully automatic mode or be augmented by a human observer, when
needed.

2.5.1.1. Augmentation is the process of having position-qualified weather technicians manually
add or edit data to an observation generated by a properly sited Automated Meteorological
Observing System (AMOS). The two augmentation processes used are supplementing and back-
up.

2.5.1.1.1. Supplementing is a method of manually adding meteorological information to an
automated observation that is beyond the capabilities of the AMOS to detect and/or report. The
FMQ-19 cloud detectors (ceilometers) can only detect clouds directly above them and may
“miss” a cloud layer just off the airfield. The sensor may also indicate lower cloud ceilings than
manual observations if slow moving clouds linger over the sensor. The same holds true for
visibility sensors; they are only able to detect obstructions to vision that are occurring at their
particular location. In addition, the system lacks the ability to properly detect tornadoes/funnel
clouds and identify cumulonimbus clouds (thunderstorms). Also, the system’s precipitation
measurements are unreliable in strong winds. Finally, high terrain parallel to runway (SW-NW)
may occasionally affect output.

2.5.1.1.2.   Back-up is the method of manually providing meteorological data and/or
dissemination to an AMOS observation when the primary automated method is not operational
or unavailable due to sensor and/or communication failure. Should Lajes’ system fail or become
unreliable, weather flight personnel will initiate back-up procedures as defined in AFMAN 15-
111 and notify maintenance personnel of the malfunction.

2.5.1.2. The primary sensor suite (consisting of wind, cloud, visibility, lightning, temperature/ dew-
point, present weather, and precipitation sensors) is located on the approach end of Runway 33. The
suite on Runway 15 contains wind, cloud, and visibility sensors. A 10-meter wind sensor stands at
the midfield location. Should the system fail or become unreliable, weather flight personnel will
initiate back-up procedures and notify maintenance personnel of the malfunction.
 LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012                                                         9

2.5.1.3. The FMQ-19 will be supplemented by weather personnel when operationally significant
criteria has occurred or is forecasted to occur outside the capability of automated observing
equipment to measure (e.g., tornadic activity, hail greater than or equal to 1/2 inch, and volcanic
ash.) Technicians will also log on to and back-up the FMQ-19 should a specific sensor fail or
become unreliable, as well as during supplementation, weather flight personnel will implement
procedures using back-up observing techniques for the missing element(s).

2.5.2. Barometry Comparison. The Lajes Weather Flight will conduct semi-annual barometer
comparisons with all portable equipment (i.e. Kestrel 4500) and compare it against the
commissioned pressure sensors of the FMQ-19.

2.5.3. The WSR-88D. The WSR-88D is used to display precipitation, thunderstorm structure,
winds in the vertical column and other atmospheric information. A workstation displays the
radar information in the combined weather station. The 21 OWS does not have access to
Doppler radar information.

2.5.3.1. The radar is located on Santa Barbara Mountain, north-west of Angra do Heroismo.
Despite its limitations over the aerodrome complex, it is still instrumental to flight operations.
The radar’s lowest scan angle (approximately 3,600 feet above Mean Sea Level) does not allow
for the radar to measure below 4,000 feet directly over the Lajes Field runway. This keeps the
weather flight from using the radar to gauge low-level wind shear and low clouds/precipitation
over the aerodrome complex but these factors are still able to be ascertained from any approach.

2.5.3.2. Strong winds play a role in the immediate maintenance on the radar tower and may
prevent crews from reaching the radome. As a result, the radar may be inoperative for extended
periods of time.

2.5.4. The Mark IVB. The Mark IVB is a satellite system that allows forecasters to manipulate
the type and coverage areas of satellite views. Lajes Field houses one of two satellite receivers
in USAFE. The Mark IVB satellite receiver is located at building T-817 with access from every
workstation on the US side of the combined weather element in building 713 for forecaster use.

2.6. NATO Weather Color Code. The color code is attached to the end of all routine
(METAR) and special (SPECI) observations, in addition to forecasts (TAFs) located on the 21
OWS “Operations” website, under the ICAO option. The colors allow for a quick assessment of
the current and forecast weather conditions. When color codes between ceiling and visibility
differ, the lower of the two will be reported. See AFMAN 15-111 USAFESUP1 Table 3.4 and
Table A3.2, Remark 37 for the current list of NATO color codes and criteria.
10                                                     LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012


                                       Chapter 3
                                 FORECASTING SERVICES

3.1. 21st Operational Weather Squadron

3.1.1. General. In accordance with AFMAN 15-129, USAFESUP1, the OWS is responsible for
preparing and disseminating the EQYL Terminal Aerodrome Forecast (TAF) and all forecast
Weather Watches, Warnings and Advisories. The 21 OWS will also disseminate any
amendments required for the products above. Daily TAF issue times are 02Z, 10Z and 18Z.

3.1.2. TAFs. All TAF specification/amendment criteria are outlined in the OWS-WF datasheet
(https://ows.sembach.af.mil/Tailored_Met/index.cfm?fuseaction=showunit&UID=&BW=H&UF
=M&AOR=1&unit=131) and serves as the Memorandum of Agreement between the two
organizations. Ceiling and visibility amendment thresholds are established by regulations/DoD
FLIPs. Each weather flight forecaster plays a critical role in maintaining TAF accuracy through
their role as “eyes forward” observers. One hour prior to TAF file time the on duty forecaster
will thoroughly review the OWS TAF and reasoning. The forecaster will post additional
pertinent comments to the TAF worksheet. When disagreements occur, forecasters will discuss
differences in opinion and reason to a common understanding using sound meteorological
judgment. Lajes Field forecasters will maintain proactive communication with the OWS to
ensure the technician producing/ amending the TAF remains abreast of any unforecasted changes
to conditions on the airfield. Should total communication failure between the OWS and weather
flight occur, the weather flight will be responsible for producing and issuing the EQYL TAF and
resource protection products IAW locally established procedures.

     3.1.3. METWATCH. While on duty, the weather flight will perform the “eyes-forward”
     meteorological watch for the hub and alert them of any elements that cross any of the
     aforementioned specification/amendment criteria.

     3.1.4. Planning Weather. A 5-day Outlook is published daily by the OWS. Even though
     forecasters have the ability to amend the outlook, this forecast is for general planning
     purposes only and should not be used as an operational forecast. The outlook is available at
     https://ows.sembach.af.mil/Tailored_Met/index.cfm?fuseaction=by_type.brief.none&type=5
     day&loc=lpla&unit=131&UID=&BW=H&UF=M&AOR=1

3.2. Weather Briefings.

3.2.1. Flight Weather Briefings. Flight weather briefings are provided and normally recorded on
DD Form 175-1. Briefings will be prioritized by departure time and mission type, as needed.
The 21 OWS will assume the briefing load during non-duty hours. Aircrews are advised to
schedule briefings at least 2 hours prior to the desired brief time. Exceptions will be made for
high priority missions, such as aero-medical evacuations.

3.2.2. Coronet Missions. All briefing support requests should be coordinated through the
CORONET Liaison Office or weather operations flight chief as soon as possible. The weather
flight will update takeoff weather on the CMEF as needed and notify the TACC’s LWU if the
takeoff update includes any of the following criteria:
LAJESFIELDI15-101           2 APRIL 2012                                                            11



Table 3.1. CMEF Update Criteria.
   Ceiling/visibility less than or equal to 200ft/1/2sm (or other published airfield limitations)
   Dry runway crosswind (predominant wind) 25kts or greater
   Wet runway crosswind (predominant wind) 20kts or greater
   Forecast low-level wind shear for KC-10 operations
   Observed low-level wind shear for all AMC aircraft
   Predominant thunderstorms on station
   Freezing precipitation
   Moderate (or greater severity) turbulence/icing
   Forecast or observed volcanic ash on takeoff


3.2.3. Space Weather Support. Daily space weather impacts to UHF satellite communications
are available to decision-makers on the 65ABW daily weather slides. See Chap 6 for specific
space weather support information.

3.2.4. Other Briefings. The weather flight will meet all requests for other forecasts within the
limitations of its manning. These forecasts routinely include, but are not limited to, wing staff
briefings, crisis action team (CAT) support and space shuttle weather support, as needed.

3.3. Pilot-to-Metro Service (PMSV).

3.3.1. PMSV coverage is provided only while USAF personnel (active duty and LN DoD
civilians) are on duty at the primary weather station and only on assigned NATO frequency
284.425 MHz. Only qualified forecasters are permitted to relay weather observations, forecasts
and weather advisories/watches/warnings.

3.3.2. PMSV radio coverage is not available at the AOL; however, telephone patches through
the Command Post is available. Local procedures will be followed for PMSV coverage.

3.4. Staff Meteorological Functions. The weather flight leadership will provide:

3.4.1. Tailored forecasts for Emergency/Crisis Action Response, as the situation dictates.

3.4.1.1. The weather flight will respond with detailed weather information/data for any
emergency situation. Forecaster will complete the Emergency Actions Checklist and use it as a
guide to initiate actions for crisis response.

3.4.1.2. Upon request, the forecaster will provide wind data and weather forecasts for
emergency cordon plotting.
12                                                     LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012

3.4.1.3. Forecasters will be poised to provide weather information during CAT activation and
other contingency operations.

3.4.2. Climatology services for base and any other requested location.

3.4.2.1. When requested by the 65 ABW, forecasters will brief the previous month’s
climatology at the first Lajes Team meeting of the month. EXCEPTION: If the meeting falls
within the first three days of the month, climatology will be briefed at the following meeting.

3.4.2.2. When requested by the 65 ABW, forecasters will brief annual climatology at the second
Lajes Team meeting of the year.

3.4.2.3. Forecasters will forward monthly climatology information to 65 CES for study of
weather and usage of base utilities.

3.4.3. Location specific pre-deployment weather and climatology briefings. Due to the lack of
steady state deployments at Lajes Field, the weather flight will offer pre-deployment weather and
climatology briefings on request.

3.4.4. Staff briefings at a frequency determined by command leadership.

3.4.4.1. The weather flight will brief current and forecasted weather conditions at every ABW
staff meeting and every OSS staff meeting.

3.4.4.2. At a minimum, forecasters will brief the European MetSat analysis situation, the five day
outlook and any forecasted weather impacts for the next five days.

3.4.5. Air Traffic Control limited observation program.

3.4.5.1. Every newly arriving Air Traffic Controller will make an appointment with the Lajes
Weather Flight Chief or the on-duty forecaster to receive tower observation training. The
training will consist of a briefing about weather flight functions, a written test and practical
observation exercises.

3.4.6. Pre-deployment planning and briefings such as the Mobility Concept Briefing.
Forecasters will utilize the Mobility Concept Briefing worksheet as needed. The weather flight
will also leverage products on the 28 OWS website for pre-deployment planning and briefings.
Forecaster can also utilize information outside of the 28 OWS but only approved DoD sources.

3.5. Mission Execution Forecast Process. The MEFP is an organized and systematic approach
used to temporally and spatially refine forecast products to provide decision-quality
environmental information for an operational decision-making process. The MEFP is a
continuous cycle that adapts as parent/host unit needs change. The weather flight has developed
internal processes to gather customer feedback and integrate into furthering the development
process.
LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012                                                           13

3.5.1. Forecasters will attach a MEFP worksheet to each flight weather briefing (with the
exception of PMSV verbal briefings) and also obtain an email address to forward to the form to
the customer, if requested. Statistics will be compiled monthly and forwarded to USAFE/A3W
by the 10th of the following month. Worksheets will also be reviewed by flight leadership for
trend analysis and used to focus quarterly training to shortfall areas.

3.5.2. MISSIONWATCH. All missions briefed will be Missionwatched by the mission support
(MS) forecaster or the briefing forecaster for the duration of the flight or until the weather flight
closes for the day. This will be documented on a Missionwatch worksheet as outlined in the
Missionwatch operating procedure.
14                                                       LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012


                                           Chapter 4
                                       Resource Protection

4.1. General. Resource protection (RP) products refer to forecasted weather advisories,
watches and warnings that are aimed to warn base agencies and the general populace of
approaching weather conditions.

4.1.1. The foremost threat to airfield operations is severe wind events. In particular, strong
crosswinds are the most prevalent mission limiting factor at Lajes Field. Other mission limiting
factors are low level wind shear and forecasted severe turbulence for category II aircraft.
Accurately forecasting these factors is critical. The first being the possible danger to the aircraft
and crew, but also that Lajes Field has only one close alternate airfield capable of receiving DoD
aircraft in the event the crew has to bypass Lajes Field.

4.1.2. The OWS and weather flight will notify supported agencies when these conditions are
expected that may endanger property or life, pose a safety hazard or adversely affect a supported
agency's operations. Dissemination of RP products will be in accordance with Attachments 3
and 4 of this instruction. They are issued via the ADS and accompanied by a call to the
Command Post and Base Operations to ensure receipt. Units that receive weather advisories,
watches and warnings are encouraged to maintain checklists or quick reaction procedures that
support this instruction and to ensure protective actions are taken after notification.

4.2. Definitions.

4.2.1. Weather Advisories (WA) are special products notifying an end user when an established
environmental condition effecting operations is occurring or is expected to occur.

4.2.2. Weather Watches (WW) are special notices notifying operational commanders of
potential for environmental conditions of such intensity as to pose a hazard to life or property.
Weather Watches indicate a potential for environmental threats and are used by operational
commanders to make force protection and risk management decisions.

4.2.3. Weather Warnings (WWA) are special notices to notify operational commanders when
established weather conditions of such intensity as to pose a hazard to life or property is
occurring or is expected to occur. Weather warnings provide concise information outlining
environmental threats and are used by operational commanders to make force protection
decisions.

4.3. Severe Weather Action Procedures (SWAP). These are actions taken by a weather unit
to enhance the unit’s response capability during a severe weather event. Actions include, but are
not limited to, recalling personnel or reallocating resources from other tasks to provide focused
support during a severe weather event. Note: Prior to recalling personnel and/or reporting,
weather flight personnel will incorporate the principles of Operational Risk Management into
their activities……identify the hazard, assess the risk, analyze risk control measures, make
control decisions, implement risk controls, supervise and review.

4.3.1. The weather flight will implement SWAP for the following criteria:
LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012                                                          15



Table 4.1. Mandatory SWAP Criteria.
Tornadoes                                          Watch/Warning issued
Hail > ½ inch                                      Warning issued
Note: If the tornadoes or hail > ½ inch is expected weather personnel will augment the FMQ-19.


4.3.1.1. If mission dictates, the weather standby person will evaluate the need to
implement SWAP for the following criteria:

Table 4.2. Optional SWAP Criteria.
Winds > 45 knots                                  Watch/Warning issued
Hail > ½ inch                                     Watch issued
Lightning W/I 5NM                                 Watch issued
Rain accumulation > 2 inches in 12 hours          Watch/Warning issued
Note: If the above criteria are expected, weather forecasters will take appropriate actions and be
ready to augment observations as required.


4.3.1.2. Weather Standby Person will: (1) act as the lead meteorologist; (2) provide crisis
response weather services and respond for Installation Control Center response/briefings; (3)
function as Mission Services Element or consider recalling additional personnel; (4) assist the
Airfield Services Element as needed; (5) ensure expected severe weather forecasts are
disseminated up the chain of command beginning with the OSS/CC; (6) pass severe weather
reports through the local chain of command, as required, following Operational Event/Incident
Report (OPREP-3) reporting procedures specified in AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting and AFI
10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events; (7) ensure the OWS and HQ USAFE/A3W are
info addressees on all OPREPs submitted in accordance with referenced Air Force Instructions.

4.3.1.3. Recalled Weather Technician will: (1) immediately assume the Airfield Services
Element; (2) augment the FMQ-19 as required. (IAW AS SOP 6) (Automatic for hail > ½ and
tornadoes); (3) intensify the METWATCH to keep the OWS informed of all weather changes
and their impact to the base/post, in accordance with duty priorities; (4) prioritize actions taken
in support of the SWAP, in consultation with the OWS; (5) pass all local reports of severe
weather to the OWS via the most practical, expedient means available; (6) provide the OWS any
additional significant weather reports as they pertain to the accuracy of warnings and advisories;
(7) inform the PoAF of the situation (weather expected, timing, etc)

4.4. Relaying Hurricane/Typhoon/Tropical Storm Warnings. Tropical storm warnings
and/or advisories, issued by the 21 OWS, will be relayed through the 65 OSS/CC for
dissemination up the chain of command. The weather flight will provide the necessary forecast
services/products required for the installation commander to determine or declare a Tropical
Cyclone Condition of Readiness (TCCOR) and Hurricane Condition (HURCON). It is important
to note the weather flight does not declare HURCON changes, only installation commanders
have that authority. The Lajes Weather Flight will leverage the 21 OWS TC-TAP products for
planning purposes but will not deviate from the National Hurricane Center forecasts. The Lajes
Weather Flight will inform customers that 48-hour and 72-hour outlooks (or longer if issued)
16                                                    LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012

contain a high degree of uncertainty, are for planning purposes only, and are subject to change.
They will include the forecast error probability statements in discussion bulletins or on the
forecast products.
LAJESFIELDI15-101        2 APRIL 2012                                                    17


                                 Chapter 5
                  DISSEMINATION OF WEATHER INFORMATION

5.1. General. Weather information dissemination procedures must ensure those who need the
information receive the information. These procedures must also ensure weather personnel do
not spend more time communicating than monitoring weather conditions. Units in need of RP
notification are responsible for coordinating with the 65 ABW/Command Post. According to the
Implementation Arrangement between the PoAF and 65 ABW, the PoAF will disseminate the
official surface weather observation to the Lajes Field air traffic control facilities.

5.2. Resource Protection Notification. The OWS will enter weather advisories, watches and
warnings into ADS. The Command Post and Base Operations will further disseminate this
information to customers without access to ADS information systems in accordance with
Attachments 3 and 4. When ADS is inoperative, weather information will be delivered to
customers via phone, fax, or E-mail. When calling, the OWS will telephone the Command Post,
Base Operations and PoAF to confirm receipt of a weather advisory, watch or warning.
18                                                   LAJESFIELDI15-101        2 APRIL 2012


                                 Chapter 6
                     SPACE WEATHER SUPPORT AND SERVICE

6.1. General. The weather flight will monitor space weather impacts on High Frequency radio,
Ultra High Frequency satellite communications, and Global Positioning Systems using products
from the Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA). AFWA space weather products are updated every
six hours.

6.2. Impacts. The other strategic mission of Lajes, the Global High Frequency/VIP
communications, may be impacted by space weather; however, the Network Control Station at
Andrews AFB is responsible for monitoring any potential space weather impacts to its
worldwide operations.

6.3. Space Weather Alerts and Warnings. The weather flight receives space weather alerts
and warnings from AFWA and routinely provides them to aircrews; provides space weather
information to Lajes Field agencies on the 65 ABW daily briefings or as requested; reports any
space weather phenomenon received from aircrews to AFWA for worldwide dissemination; and
requests additional space weather products from the 21 OWS or AFWA, as needed by Lajes
Field agencies.
LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012                                                          19


                                         Chapter 7
                                   RECIPROCAL SUPPORT

7.1. General. The weather flight requires reciprocal support from various base agencies to
provide timely and accurate weather information.

7.2. 65 ABW, Command Post (65 ABW/CP) will:

7.2.1. Disseminate weather advisory, watch and warning notifications to offices outlined in
Attachment 3 and in accordance with established checklists.

7.2.2. Notify weather flight of reported damage to government property resulting from weather
phenomenon (i.e., wind damage to a radome, aircraft mishap), so that data may be gathered for
operational reporting.

7.2.3. Notify weather flight of any space weather support needed for communications systems.

7.2.4. Maintain an after-hours recall roster for the weather flight to facilitate contact should the
primary weather flight's standby cell phone fail.

7.3. 65th Communications Squadron (65 CS) will:

7.3.1.  Provide maintenance for all Air Force standard meteorological equipment,
communications devices and circuits in support of weather flight operations. Since the FMQ-19
and WSR-88D is instrumental to safety of flight, restore them to operational status immediately.

7.3.2. Perform an annual inspection of all meteorological equipment on the airfield with weather
flight chief. Together, they will ensure it is in good condition and see that there are no
obstructions affecting the equipment.

7.3.3. Provide system connectivity (data lines), limited preliminary fault diagnosis, and technical
assistance and expertise in maintenance contract development for weather systems. The 65 CS
recognizes the importance of these weather systems, but does not have the training or manpower
authorizations to provide comprehensive maintenance for these systems.

7.3.4. Establish maintenance response and equipment priorities in coordination with weather
flight.

7.3.5. Obtain approval from the duty forecaster before rendering any equipment inoperative for
scheduled maintenance.

7.3.6. Notify weather flight of any space weather support needed for communications systems.

7.4. 65 ABW, Public Affairs (65 ABW/PA) will:

7.4.1. Act as a liaison between the weather flight and all non-DoD agencies or individuals.
20                                                     LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012

7.4.2. Work with weather flight in educating the base populace on weather issues at Lajes.

7.5. 65 OSS, Airfield Management (65 OSS/OSAA) will:

7.5.1. Disseminate weather advisory, watch and warning notifications as outlined in Attachment
3.

7.5.2.    Submit weather flight input to Flight Information Publications to ensure
currency/accuracy of meteorological service information.

7.5.3. Notify weather flight of any change/impending change to airfield approach minima,
including temporary changes due to loss of approach equipment (e.g. Approach Lighting
System) and supply a copy of updated DoD Flight Information Publications as soon as possible
after release date.

7.6. 65 OSS, Air Traffic Control (65 OSS/OSA) will:

7.6.1. Notify the weather flight when communication outages occur between the ATC tower and
PoAF weather. All interaction with the Air Traffic Control facility will be coordinated through
the PoAF and is governed by the weather Implementation Arrangement.

7.6.2. Contact the weather flight leadership to arrange for weather flight orientation for new
tower personnel. Initial documentation of limited weather certifications will be documented on
AF Form 3622, Air Traffic Control/Weather Certification and Rating Record and signed off by
designated weather examiner.

7.7. 65th Civil Engineer Squadron (65 CES) will:

7.7.1. Provide or arrange for power and air conditioning for the combined weather station
equipment and provide maintenance on AC equipment immediately to prevent weather systems
loss or degradation. Provide generator back-up at AOL, if needed.

7.7.2. Coordinate with weather flight before conducting facility or airfield equipment power
outages.
7.7.3. Assist in the installation of non standard weather equipment. This will largely be building
modifications such as drilling holes for cabling or installing poles for weather sensors.

7.8. American Forces Network (AFN) will:

7.8.1. Announce and/or display severe warnings (Tornados, Hail, Lightning, Winds GTE 45kts)
over radio and television broadcasts.

7.8.2. Provide informational commercials on strong winds at Lajes Field as needed.

7.8.3. Announce general 3-day forecasts, provided by 21st Operational Weather Squadron and
weather flight, over radio and television broadcasts.
LAJESFIELDI15-101       2 APRIL 2012                                                  21

7.9. 65 ABW Plans and Programs (65 ABW/XP) will act as a clearinghouse for all base plans
needing weather flight input and ensure coordination with weather flight is accomplished.




                                          JOSE A. RIVERAGUAD, Colonel. USAF
                                          Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
22                                                  LAJESFIELDI15-101        2 APRIL 2012



                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events, 15 Oct 03

AFI 15-114, Functional Resource and Weather Technical Performance Evaluation, 07 Dec 01

AFMAN 15-111, USAFE Supplement 1, Integrated, Surface Weather Observations, 12 May 10

AFMAN 15-124, Meteorological Codes, 28 Oct 09

AFMAN 15-129, USAFESUP1_I, Air and Space Weather Operations-Processes and
Procedures, 20 Apr 07

65 ABW Policy Letter #004-04, High Wind School Cancellation Notification Procedures and
Actions, 15 Sep 09

Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed

Adopted Forms

AF Form 3622, Air Traffic Control/Weather Certification and Rating Record (LRA), 1 June 1991

AF Form 3803, Surface Weather Observation, 1 August 2000

AF Form 3813, Federal Meteorological Surface Weather Observation (METAR/SPECI),

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

DD Form 175-1, Flight Weather Briefing, 1 October 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ABW – Air Base Wing

ACFT MSHP – Aircraft Mishap

ADS – Automated Dissemination System

AFMAN – Air Force Manual

AFWA – Air Force Weather Agency
LAJESFIELDI15-101           2 APRIL 2012                    23

AMOS – Automated Meteorological Observing System

AOL – Alternate Operating Location

CAT – Crisis Action Team

CMEF – Coronet Mission Execution Forecast

CMETEO – Portuguese Air Base 4 Meteorological Center

DoD – Department of Defense

EOC – Emergency Operations Center

FLIP – Flight Information Publication

FMQ-19 – Fixed Meteorological Equipment-19

HAAZ – Headquarters Azorean Air Zone

IAW – In accordance with

IFE – In flight emergency

ILS – Instrument Landing System

LFI – Lajes Field Instruction

MAJCOM – Major Command

MEFP – Mission Execution Forecast Process

METAR – Aviation Routine Weather Report

MHz–Megahertz (unit of measurement for frequency)

MISSIONWATCH – Mission Meteorological Watch

MSL – Mean Sea Level (height above the average sea level)

NM – Nautical Mile

ORM – Operational Risk Management

OWS – Operational Weather Squadron

PIREP – Pilot Report
24                                                      LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012



PMSV – Pilot to Metro Service

PoAF – Portuguese Air Force

RAPCON – Radar Approach Control

RVR – Runway Visual Range

RVRNO – Runway Visual Range Not Operational

SPECI – Aviation Special Weather Report

SWAP – Severe Weather Action Procedures

TAF – Terminal Aerodrome Forecast

USAFE – United States Air Forces in Europe

UHF – Ultra High Frequency

USAFESUP – United States Air Forces Europe Supplement

UTC – Universal Time Coordinate, also known as Zulu

WSR-88D – Weather Surveillance Radar-1988 Doppler

VC – Vicinity (between 5 and 10 NM from Lajes Field)

VHF – Very High Frequency

Terms

Desired Lead-time -- The amount of time a customer requires in order to prepare for a specific
weather phenomenon.

METAR -- A routine scheduled observation as well as the primary observation code used by the
United States to satisfy requirements for reporting surface meteorological data. METAR
contains a complete report of wind, visibility, runway visual range, present weather and
obscurations, sky condition, temperature, dew point, and altimeter setting collectively referred to
as “the body of the report”. In addition, encoded and/or plain language information that
elaborates on data in the body of the report may be appended to the METAR. The contents of
the remarks will vary according to the mode of operation (i.e., manual, automated, or
augmented).

Mission Execution Forecast (MEF) -- Mission tailored environmental information describing a
specific impact to an operational mission. CWTs conduct deliberate forecast processes to
develop, deliver, monitor and amend mission execution forecasts by fusing perishable data with
LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012                                                            25

operational and strategic level weather forecast products into decision quality information for an
operational end user.

MISSIONWATCH (Mission Meteorological Watch) -- A deliberate process for monitoring
terrestrial weather or the space environment for specific mission-limiting environmental factors.
The MISSIONWATCH process identifies and alerts decision-makers to changes affecting
mission success.

Pilot Report (PIREP) -- A report of in-flight weather provided by an aircraft crewmember.
PIREPs include location and altitude of the aircraft, time of the observation, type of aircraft,
description and extent of meteorological phenomena/elements and are disseminated via NTFS.

Pilot-to-Metro Service (PMSV) -- A UHF radio through which pilots, crewmembers or
flightline maintenance personnel can request updated weather information from the weather
station.

SPECI -- An unscheduled observation completed and transmitted when special criteria have
been observed or sensed. SPECI will contain all data elements found in a METAR plus
additional remarks that elaborates on data in the body of the report. All SPECI reports will be
prepared and transmitted as soon as possible after the relevant criteria are observed.

Terminal Aerodrome Forecast (TAF) --The official weather forecast for a particular
aerodrome or terminal covering a period of up to 24 hours. Forecast elements in the body of the
forecast text refer to the area within 5 nautical miles of the center of the aerodrome complex.
Operationally significant elements outside this area are related to geographical features whenever
possible (i.e. TSTMS OVR MTNS, etc). The term “VC” may be seen in the TAF and refers to
the area between 5 and 10 nautical miles from the center of the aerodrome complex (i.e., VCSH
means showers will occur between 5-10 nautical miles of the aerodrome).

Weather Advisory (WA) -- A special product notifying the end user when an established
environmental condition effecting operations is occurring or is expected to occur.

Weather Warning (WWA) -- A special notice to notify operational commanders when
established weather conditions of such intensity as to pose a hazard to life or property is
occurring or is expected to occur. Weather warnings provide concise information outlining
environmental threats and are used by operational commanders to make force protection
decisions.

Weather Watch (WW)-- A special notice to notify operational commanders of a potential for
environmental conditions of such intensity as to pose a hazard to life or property. Weather
Watches indicate a potential for environmental threats and are used by operational commanders
to make force protection and risk management decisions.
 26                                                      LAJESFIELDI15-101        2 APRIL 2012



                                     Attachment 2
                            RESOURCE PROTECTION CRITERIA

 A2.1. WEATHER ADVISORY CRITERIA.

           CRITERIA                           VALID AREA                    DESIRED LEAD TIME
A2.1.1.    Surface winds of 25 knots or       Area of Lajes Field in the 60 minutes
           greater but less than 45 knots     immediate vicinity of the
                                              runway complex
A2.1.2.     Severe Turbulence                 Within 50 NM of Lajes         30 minutes
                                              Field and under 10,000
                                              feet MSL
A2.1.3.     Low Level Wind Shear              Approach to or take off       None (as observed)
                                              from Lajes Field
A2.1.4.     Crosswind equal to or greater     Area of Lajes Field in the None (as observed)
            than 25 knots but less than 35    immediate vicinity of the
            knots                             runway complex
A2.1.5.     Crosswind equal to or greater     Area of Lajes Field in the None (as observed)
            than 35 knots                     immediate vicinity of the
                                              runway complex
Note: The local weather conditions at Lajes Field and supported agencies' requirements warrant
weather advisories for surface winds of 25 to 44 knots, severe turbulence, low-level wind shear and
crosswinds.



 A2.2. WEATHER WATCH CRITERIA.

           CRITERIA                          VALID AREA                   DESIRED LEAD
                                                                          TIME
A2.2.1.    Tornado, Funnel cloud,             Within 5 NM of Lajes        4 hours
           Waterspout                         Field
A2.2.2.    Surface winds of 45 knots or       Area of Lajes Field in the 4 hours
           greater                            immediate vicinity of the
                                              runway complex
A2.2.3. Hail > ½ inch                         Within 5 NM of Lajes         4 hours
                                              Field
A2.2.4. Lightning potential                   Within 5 NM of Lajes         30 minutes
                                              Field
A2.2.5. Rain accumulation > 2 inches in Area of Lajes Field in the 4 hours
          12 hours                            immediate vicinity of the
                                              runway complex
Note: The local weather conditions at Lajes Field do not warrant the standard weather watches for
heavy snow, freezing precipitation, blizzard conditions, duststorms and sandstorms.
  LAJESFIELDI15-101        2 APRIL 2012                                                        27


 A2.3. WEATHER WARNING CRITERIA

         CRITERIA                                VALID AREA               DESIRED LEAD TIME
A2.3.1.  Tornado, Funnel cloud,                  Within 5 NM of Lajes     15 minutes
         Waterspout                              Field
A2.3.2.  Surface winds of 45 knots or            Area of Lajes Field in   2 hours
         greater                                 the immediate vicinity
                                                 of the runway complex
A2.3.3. Hail > ½ inch                            Within 5 NM of Lajes     90 minutes
                                                 Field
A2.3.4. Lightning                                Within 5 NM of Lajes     None (as observed)
                                                 Field
A2.3.5. Surface winds of 65 knots or             Area of Lajes Field in   None (as observed)
          greater                                the immediate vicinity
                                                 of the runway complex
A2.3.6. Rain accumulation > 2 inches in          Area of Lajes Field in   90 minutes
           12 hours                              the immediate vicinity
                                                 of the runway complex
Note: The local weather conditions at Lajes Field do not warrant the standard weather warnings
for heavy snow, freezing precipitation, blizzard conditions, duststorms and sandstorms.
Additionally, supported agencies do not require the standard weather warning for surface winds of
35 to 44 knots due to all necessary actions being completed with the issuance of weather
advisories for surface winds of 25 to 44 knots.
28                                                    LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012


                            Attachment 3
         WEATHER ADVISORY/WATCH/WARNING NOTIFICATION TREE




A3.1. Disseminating Agency Responsibilities.

A3.1.1. All advisories/watches/warnings will be disseminated immediately upon receipt.

A3.1.2. Disseminate all advisories/watches/warnings to the agency under your responsibility
requiring notification.

A3.1.3. Relay advisory/watch/warning extensions, cancellations and amendments to all
originally notified agencies.

A3.2. Receiving Agency Responsibilities

A3.2.1. Establish an internal plan for implementing advisory/watch/warning response actions.

A3.2.2. Review requirements annually and negotiate needed changes in criteria, notification
procedures and desired lead-time with Weather Flight leadership.
                 LAJESFIELDI15-101               2 APRIL 2012                                                                                    29


                                                                Attachment 4
                                                           NOTIFICATION MATRIX
      UNIT             NOTIFIED BY        A1      A2     A3      A4     A5      X1     X2      X3     X4    X5     W1      W2      W3      W4         W5    W6
CMETEO               OSW / 21 OWS          A      A       A      A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
OSS/OSAA             OSW / 21 OWS          A      A       A      A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
AMS/AMCC             OSW / 21 OWS          A      A       A      A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
OSS/OSAT             CMETEO                H      H       H      H       H      H       H      H       H    H       H       H       H       H         H     H
OSS/OSAR             OSAT                  H      H       H      H       H      H       H      H       H    H       H       H       H       H         H     H
AMS/TRO              OSAA                  A                                    S       S       S      S    S       S       S       S       S         S     S
AMS/MOC              OSAA                  A      A       A      A       A      S       S       S      S    S       S       S       S       S         S     S
CES/CEX              OSAA                                                       S       S       S      S    S       S       S       S       S         S     S
SFS/SFO              OSAA                  A                                    S       S       S      S    S       S       S       S       S         S     S
MSG/CC               OSAA                                                       S       S       S      S    S       S       S       S       S         S     S
MDG MTF              OSAA                                                       S       S       S      S    S       S       S       S       S         S     S
OSS/MXZT             OSAA                  A                     A       A      S       S       S      S    S       S       S       S       S         S     S
CES/CEF              OSAA                  A      A       A      A       A      S       S      S       S    S       S       S       S       S         S     S
LRS/LGRF             OSAA                  A                                    A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
LRS/LGRTO            OSAA                  A                                    A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
OSS/CC               OSAA                  A      A       A      A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
Flightline Net       AMS/MOC               A                     A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
OSS/MXZA             Flightline Net        R                     R       R      R       R      R       R    R       R       R       R       R         R     R
OSS/MXZW             Flightline Net        R                     R       R      R       R      R       R    R       R       R       R       R         R     R
DoDDS                MSG/CC                                                      I      I       I       I    I       I       I       I       I        I     I
CS CMOC              SFS/SFO               D                                    D       D      D       D    D       D       D       D       D         D     D
FSS/SVML             SFS/SFO                                                    A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
AAFES                SFS/SFO                                                    O       O      O       O    O       O       O       O       O         O     O
Commissary           SFS/SFO                                                    O       O      O       O    O       O       O       O       O         O     O
FSS/Outdoor Rec      FSS/SVML                                                   D       D      D       D    D       D       D       D       D         D     D
FSS/SVRO Pool        FSS/SVML                                                   D              D       D    D       D       D       D       D         D     D
FSS/SVYC             FSS/SVML                                                   D       D      D       D    D       D       D       D       D         D     D
FSS/SVMP             FSS/SVML                                                   D       D      D       D    D       D       D       D       D         D     D
FSS/SVMX             FSS/SVML                                                   D       D      D       D    D       D       D       D       D         D     D
FSS/SVYY             FSS/SVML                                                   D       D      D       D    D       D       D       D       D         D     D
CES/CEOE             CES/CEF               D                                    D       D      D       D    D       D       D       D       D         D     D
CES/CC               CES/CEF                                                    A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
CONS/LGC             CES/CEF                                                    D       D      D       D    D       D       D       D       D         D     D
ABW/CC               AMS/AMCC                                    A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
ABW/CV               AMS/AMCC                                    A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
MSG/CC               AMS/AMCC                                                   A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
MDG/CC               AMS/AMCC                                                   A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
ABW/SE               AMS/AMCC              A      A       A      A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
AMS/CC               AMS/AMCC              A      A       A      A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
AMS/DO               AMS/AMCC              A      A       A      A       A      A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
AFN                  AMS/AMCC              A                                    A       A      A       A    A       A       A       A       A         A     A
Local Flying Area    AMS/AMCC              F       F      F       F      F       F      F       F      F    F       F       F       F       F         F     F
OSS/DO               OSS/CC                                                     B       B      B       B    B       B       B       B       B         B     B
TV/Radio
Message               AFN                                                                                           T       T                         T     T
           LEGEND
           A = Always Call                     H = Notified of CMETEO weather advisories/watches/warnings   R = Notified via the Flightline Radio network
           B = Call IAW ICC recall             I = Notified only when school is in session                  S = Notified via the Secondary Crash Network
           D = Call during duty hours          O = Notified during operating hours                          T = Television and radio message or display
           F = UHF/VHF radio message for the local flying area
30                                                 LAJESFIELDI15-101     2 APRIL 2012


ADVISORIES
A1: Runway surface wind of 25 knots or greater, but less than 45 knots
A2: Severe Turbulence
A3: Low Level Wind Shear (observed advisory)
A4: Crosswind of 25 knots or greater (observed advisory)
A5: Crosswind of 35 knots or greater (observed advisory)

WATCHES
X1: Tornado, Funnel cloud, Waterspout
X2: Surface winds 45 knots or greater, with or without thunderstorms.
X3: Hail greater than ½ inch
X4: Lightning Watch: Potential for lightning within 5 NM of runway complex
X5: Rain accumulation of 2 inches in 12 hours

WARNINGS
W1: Tornado, Funnel cloud, Waterspout
W2: Surface winds 45 knots or greater, with or without thunderstorms
W3: Hail greater than ½ inch
W4: Lightning Warning: Lightning observed within 5 NM of runway complex
W5: Surface winds >64KTS (observed warning)
W6: Rain accumulation of 2 inches in 12 hours
LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012                                                        31


                              Attachment 5
                   REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORTED AGENCIES

A5.1. ADVISORIES.

Element         Organization     Mission Impact/Action Taken                        Response
Winds 25-44     FSS/Outdoor      Consider canceling scheduled trips.
knots           Recreation
                AMS, TA,         Discontinue LOX servicing, park vehicles into
                AGE              wind, stop maintenance on wings and fuselage
                                 surfaces, discontinue use of high lift vehicles.
                Security         Increase periodic checks of Protection level       Refer to SDCC
                Forces           Resources; notify of unsecured loose objects.      Quick
                                                                                    Reaction
                                                                                    Checklist
                ATOC             Notify Aerial Port Flight Commander/               Refer to QRC-
                                 Supervisor and all Section Supervisors. Secure     17A
                                 building and small objects outdoors, ensure
                                 stair truck stabilizers are in down position.
                                 Exercise ORM principles (limit use of high
                                 profile vehicles, park facing into the wind,
                                 etc).
                MOC              Prepare for aircrew recalls for aircraft           QRC-11
                                 dispersal/evacuation. Transmit via flight line
                                 radio.
                Command          Notify 729 AMS/CC, ABW/SE, 65                      Refer to QRC-
                Post             LRS/LGSFF, 65 OSS/CC/DO.                           40
                CS               Pull all technicians off poles/stop high-level
                                 work.
Element         Organization     Mission Impact/Action Taken                        Response
Crosswinds      FSS,             Refer to advisory/warning for strong SFC
25-34kts and    CES/CEX,         winds.
Crosswinds 35   Fire Dept,
knots or        SFS,
greater         AMS/DO,
                Fuels,
                Vehicle Ops,
                RAPCON,
                ATOC,
                Command
                Post
Element         Organization     Mission Impact/Action Taken                        Response
Severe          Command          Notify AMS/CC & DO for AMC Missions that           QRC-40
Turbulence      Post             are affected. Notify 65 ABW/CC, ABW/CV,
                                 MSG/CC, 729 AMS/CC/DO, ATOC, 65 OSS
                                 CC/DO and all aircraft in local area.
32                                                      LAJESFIELDI15-101           2 APRIL 2012



A5.2. WATCHES.

Element         Organization Mission Impact/Action Taken                            Response
Tornado         ALL          Protect resources, terminate ops, and protect
                                personnel.
Element         Organization Mission Impact/Action Taken                            Response
Winds 45        FSS          Pool evacuated/closed, fitness center prepared to
knots or                        be used as shelter, youth center provides
greater                         transportation, evacuate if necessary to fitness
                                center. Cancellation of all scheduled outings.
                SFS             Increase periodic checks of Protection level        Refer to SDCC
                                Resources; notify of unsecured loose objects.       Quick Reaction
                                                                                    Checklist
                Fire Dept       Personnel put on alert.
                CES/CEX         Advises commanders on severe weather
                                actions/sheltering and is a member of the
                                Emergency Operations Center (EOC).
                TA, AGE         Stop all exterior maintenance, suspend refueling    LCQRC-1
                                ops, patrol flight line/secure loose items, park
                                non-essential vehicles indoors.
                AFN             Transmit message over radio and TV.
                Fuels           Notify all personnel. Shut off main electrical      LCL-LGRFFR-
                                power at Area 5, 7, 18, South Tank Farm and         01
                                Cryogenics Plant and military service station and
                                up channel to Command Post
                Vehicle Ops     Park nonessential vehicles indoors, secure
                                buildings and equipment. Continuously
                                disseminate warning information to operators
                                and passengers.
                ATOC            Notify Aerial Port Flight Commander/Supervisor      QRC-17A
                                and all Section Supervisors. Secure building and
                                small objects outdoors, lock all doors and gates
                                to warehouse. Park high profile vehicles
                                indoors, and stop all flight line ops.
                MOC             Prepare for aircrew recalls for aircraft            QRC-11
                                dispersal/evacuation. Notify Golf 2 of the
                                situation. Transmit via flight line radio.
                Command         Notify AMS/CC & DO for AMC affected                 QRC-40
                Post            missions.
                LRS             Suspend all types of outdoor operations.
                                Inform/implement unit evacuation plans.
                CS              Pull all technicians off poles/stop high-level
                                work.
Element         Organization Mission Impact/Action Taken                            Response
Hail > ½ inch   Command      Notify AMS/CC & DO for AMC Missions that
                Post         are affected. Notify 65 ABW/CC, ABW/CV,
                                MSG/CC, 729 AMS/CC/DO, ATOC, MOC, 65
                                OSS CC/DO and all aircraft in local area.
                MOC             Prepare for aircrew recalls for aircraft            QRC-11
LAJESFIELDI15-101      2 APRIL 2012                                                             33

                              dispersal/evacuation. Notify Golf 2 of the
                              situation. Transmit via flight line radio.
               CS             Shut down TACANs or other equipment with no
                              lightning protection features.
               SFS            Increase periodic checks of Protection level          Refer to SDCC
                              Resources; notify of unsecured loose objects.         Quick Reaction
                                                                                    Checklist
               CES            Advises commanders on severe weather
                              actions/sheltering and is a member of the EOC.
               LRS            Suspend all types of outdoor operations.
                              Inform/implement unit evacuation plans.
Element        Organization Mission Impact/Action Taken                             Response
Lightning      FSS          Pool evacuate/close.
with 5NM
               CES/CEX        Advises commanders on severe weather
                              actions/sheltering and is a member of the EOC.
               Fire Dept      Personnel put on alert/readiness notified.
               Fuels          Stop all refueling, shut off pumps.                   LCL-LGRFFR-
                                                                                    01
               TA, AGE        Cease all exterior maintenance and seek shelter.      LGQRC #2
               MOC            Initiate flight recall. Notify Golf 2. Transmit via   QRC #11
                              flight line radio.
               Command        Notify AMS/CC & DO for AMC Missions that              QRC-40
               Post           are affected. Notify 65 ABW/CC, ABW/CV,
                              MSG/CC, 729 AMS/CC/DO, ATOC, MOC, 65
                              OSS CC/DO and all aircraft in local area.
               CS             Shut down TACANs or other equipment with no
                              lightning protection features.
               ATOC           Cease all outside operations and seek shelter.
Element        Organization Mission Impact/Action Taken                             Response
Rain           Command      Notify AMS/CC & DO for AMC Missions that
accumulation Post           are affected. Notify 65 ABW/CC, ABW/CV,
of 2 inches                 MSG/CC, 729 AMS/CC/DO, ATOC, MOC, 65
within 2 hours              OSS CC/DO and all aircraft in local area.
               SFS          Advise AFN and Command Post of road
                              conditions; increase patrols in housing areas
               LRS            Suspend all types of outdoor operations.
                              Inform/implement unit evacuation plans.
34                                                    LAJESFIELDI15-101         2 APRIL 2012


A5.3. WARNINGS.

Element       Organization   Mission Impact/Action Taken                        Response
Tornado       ALL            Protect resources, terminate ops, and protect
                             personnel.
Element       Organization   Mission Impact/Action Taken                        Response
Winds 45      FSS            Pool evacuated/closed, fitness center prepared
knots or                     to be used as shelter, youth center provides
greater (65                  transportation, evacuate if necessary to fitness
OSS/OSW or                   center. Cancellation of all scheduled outings
21st OWS
initiates
weather
warning)
              SFS            Increase periodic checks of Protection level       Refer to SDCC
                             Resources; notify of unsecured loose objects       Quick Reaction
                                                                                Checklist
              Fire           Personnel put on alert
              Department
              CES/CEX        Advises commanders on severe weather
                             actions/sheltering and is a member of the
                             Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
              AMS, TA,       Stop all exterior maintenance, suspend             LCQRC-1
              AGE            refueling ops, patrol flight line/secure loose
                             items, park non-essential vehicles indoors
              AFN            Transmit message over radio and TV
              Fuels          Notify all personnel. Shut off main electrical     LCL-LGRFFR-
                             power at Area 5, 7, 18, South Tank Farm and        01
                             Cryogenics Plant and military service station
                             and up channel to Command Post
              Vehicle Ops    Park nonessential vehicles indoors, secure
                             buildings and equipment. Continuously
                             disseminate warning information to operators
                             and passengers.
              ATOC           Notify Aerial Port Flight                          QRC-17A
                             Commander/Supervisor and all Section
                             Supervisors. Secure building and small objects
                             outdoors, lock all doors and gates to
                             warehouse. Park high profile vehicles indoors,
                             and stop all flight line ops.
              MOC            Prepare for aircrew recalls for aircraft           QRC-11
                             dispersal/evacuation. Notify Golf 2 of the
                             situation. Transmit via flight line radio.
              Command        Notify AMS/CC & DO for AMC affected                QRC-40
              Post           missions.
              LRS            Suspend all types of outdoor operations.
                             Inform/implement unit evacuation plans.
              CS             Pull all technicians off poles/stop high-level
                             work
LAJESFIELDI15-101        2 APRIL 2012                                                         35



Element          Organization   Mission Impact/Action Taken                       Response
Hail > ½ inch    Command        Notify AMS/CC & DO for AMC Missions that
                 Post           are affected. Notify 65 ABW/CC, ABW/CV,
                                MSG/CC, 729 AMS/CC/DO, ATOC, MOC,
                                65 OSS CC/DO and all aircraft in local area.
                 MOC            Prepare for aircrew recalls for aircraft          QRC-11
                                dispersal/evacuation. Notify Golf 2 of the
                                situation. Transmit via flight line radio.
                 TA, AGE        Stop all exterior maintenance, suspend            LCQRC-1
                                refueling ops, patrol flight line/secure loose
                                items, park non-essential vehicles indoors
                 ATOC           Stop all outside operations, park non-essential
                                vehicles inside.
                 CS             Shut down TACANs or other equipment with
                                no lightning protection features
                 SFS            Increase periodic checks of Protection level      Refer to SDCC
                                Resources; notify of unsecured loose objects      Quick Reaction
                                                                                  Checklist
                 CES            Advises commanders on severe weather
                                actions/sheltering and is a member of the EOC
                 LRS            Suspend all types of outdoor operations.
                                Inform/implement unit evacuation plans.
Element          Organization   Mission Impact/Action Taken                       Response
Lightning with   FSS            Pool evacuate/close.
5NM
                 CES/CEX        Advises commanders on severe weather
                                actions/sheltering and is a member of the EOC.
                 Fire Dept      Personnel put on alert/readiness notified.
                 Fuels          Stop all refueling, shut off pumps.             LCL-LGRFFR-
                                                                                01
                 AMS, TA,       Cease all exterior maintenance and seek         LGQRC #2
                 AGE            shelter.
                 MOC            Initiate flight recall. Notify Golf 2. Transmit QRC #11
                                via flight line radio.
                 Command        Notify AMS/CC & DO for AMC Missions that QRC-40
                 Post           are affected. Notify 65 ABW/CC, ABW/CV,
                                MSG/CC, 729 AMS/CC/DO, ATOC, MOC,
                                65 OSS CC/DO and all aircraft in local area.
                 CS             Shut down TACANs or other equipment with
                                no lightning protection features.
Element          Organization   Mission Impact/Action Taken
Winds 65         SFS            Only responds to incidents with SFS/CC
knots or                        approval.
greater
Hurricane
Category 1 (65
OSS/OSW or
21st OSW
36                                                     LAJESFIELDI15-101          2 APRIL 2012


initiates
weather
warning
                 ABW/CC or      Direct grounding of all vehicle traffic.
                 MSG/CC
                 OSS            Evacuate tower when winds are observed in
                                excess of 109 knots.
                 ATOC           Cease all outside operations, park all vehicles
                                indoors.
Element          Organization   Mission Impact/Action Taken                       Response
Rain             Command        Notify AMS/CC & DO for AMC Missions that
accumulation     Post           are affected. Notify 65 ABW/CC, ABW/CV,
of 2 inches                     MSG/CC, 729 AMS/CC/DO, ATOC, MOC,
within 2 hours                  65 OSS CC/DO and all aircraft in local area.
                 SFS            Advise AFN and Command Post of road
                                conditions; increase patrols in housing areas.
                 LRS            Suspend all types of outdoor operations.
                                Inform/implement unit evacuation plans.
