BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 40-301
65TH AIR BASE WING
                                                                            19 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                             Medical Command

                                                            FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 65 MDG/MDOS                                                      Certified by: 65 MDG/CC
                                                                           (Col William Parker)
Supersedes: AFI40-301_LAJESFIELDSUP,                                                    Pages: 7
            8 November 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 40-3, Family Advocacy Program
and AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 Nov 2009. It provides guidance and instruction on local
implementation policy/procedures. It establishes the Lajes Family Advocacy Program (FAP)
and explains policies and procedures for identification, protection, treatment, and prevention of
family maltreatment. This instruction applies to all Air Force personnel assigned to Lajes Air
Base, all Air Force organizational units, Department of Defense Education Authority (DoDEA)
employees and geographically separated units serviced by Lajes Field. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFM) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.         Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
instruction addresses the lack of a New Parent Support Program (NPSP) at Lajes Field. The
NPSP is not an authorized program per AFMOA/HQ Family Advocacy Division as the MTF is
not authorized any civilian or military staff, to include a nurse beyond a Family Advocacy
Officer. As a result NPSP has been removed as a component of the tracking data base by
AFMOA/HQ. In addition, the Outreach/Prevention Program has been modified to meet the
 2                                                 LAJESFIELDI40-301 19 OCTOBER 2012


needs of community through the Resiliency component of the Mental Health Flight. Finally, due
the isolated, remote location of Lajes Field and limited availability of local resources further
guidance is outlined in regard to the management of family violence and neglect.
1. General: This instruction assigns responsibilities and explains procedures for managing the
FAP. This instruction mandates reporting of all incidents of family maltreatment by all base
organizational units and active duty members.
2. Mission statement: The Lajes Field FAP mission is to build healthy families, resilient
communities to ensure mission readiness by providing education/prevention and therapeutic
interventions of family maltreatment.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. Installation Commander:
        3.1.1. Responsible for implementation and management of the base FAP.
     3.2. The Family Advocacy Committee:
        3.2.1. Establishes all Memorandum of Understanding and/or Memorandum of
        Agreement with local child protective and domestic violence shelter services. Due to
        lack of domestic violence shelters, temporary foster care placement and equivalent child
        protective service programs no MOU’s or MOA’s are possible.
        3.2.2. Establishes and appoints members of the Child Sexual Maltreatment Response
        Team and the High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT). Monitors the activities
        of each team and reviews their policy recommendations ensuring their effectiveness.
        3.2.3. Establishes written guidelines and procedures for local response to child sexual
        maltreatment via the Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT) and ensures
        all personnel are trained in their roles and responsibilities.
        3.2.4. Establishes written guidelines and procedures for local response to high risk for
        violent situations viaHRVRT and ensures all personnel assigned are trained in their roles
        and responsibilities.
        3.2.5. Meets at the call of the chairperson but at least quarterly with at least 2/3 of
        appointed members in attendance.
     3.3. The 65 MTF Commander:
        3.3.1. Will serve as the Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) Chair. Family Advocacy
        does not receive funding support from AFMOA/HQ Family Advocacy Divison, therefore
        the MTF Commander will act as a consultant to obtain resources.
     3.4. The Family Advocacy Officer:
        3.4.1. Duties usually undertaken by civilian staff are conducted by FAO, alternate FAO;
        FAP NCOIC.
        3.4.2. Chairs the Outreach Prevention Management Council (OPMC) quarterly. Ensures
        the FAO and FAP NCOIC review, manage and develop the Family Advcocay Prevention
        Plan (FAPAP) and plan FA outreach activities accordingly.
LAJESFIELDI40-301 19 OCTOBER 2012                                                             3


  3.4.3. Ensures training is conducted for agencies, departments, or individuals affiliated with
  Lajes Field with emphasis on reporting requirements for all incidents of suspected family
  maltreatment directly to the Family Advocacy. Family Advocacy reports all unrestricted
  cases of suspected child maltreatment to the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, 65th
  Security Forces Squadron, in addition to notifying the member’s Commander and/or First
  Sergeant.
  3.5. Commanders and First Sergeants:
     3.5.1. Be sensitive to the clues of possible spouse or child abuse trauma, especially when
     trauma is unexplained or the explanation is inconsistent with the injury.
     3.5.2. Coordinate with the FAO to provide a safe environment for the alleged victim.
     This may include temporarily placing the active duty member in alternate housing and
     implementing a no contact order. When no appropriate alternate housing placements are
     available, and there is a safety risk identified, command will notify the Family Advocacy
     Officer for assistance in establishing a temporary placement.
     3.5.3. Will report all families experiencing domestic violence to the FAP and arrange for
     therapeutic counseling, education and referral assistance as required.
     3.5.4. Will work with FAP to ensure the member is present for interview and treatment
     appointments.
     3.5.5. Will complete annual and refresher training for Commanders and First Sergeants.
  3.6. 65th Security Forces:
     3.6.1. When responding to incidents of alleged family maltreatment will secure the
     safety of the individuals involved.
     3.6.2. If the case involves a domestic incident, ensures the parties involved are separated
     from one another, prior to taking written statements.
     3.6.3. If the case involves child abuse, ensures the child will not be left alone with the
     parents until a Family Advocacy representative is contacted and assesses the situation.
     3.6.4. When responding to reported incidents of family maltreatment, will refer all cases
     to the FAP (after hours referrals will be made to the on-call Mental Health phone). The
     FAO will provide consultation in dealing with abusive or neglectful families.
     3.6.5. Security Forces will contact the member’s commander or first sergeant for all
     incidents of spouse or child maltreatment.
     3.6.6. In cases of suspected child maltreatment and aggravated spouse or partner abuse,
     Security Forces will notify Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI).
     3.6.7. Provide for the necessary medical treatment and documentation of the injuries.
     Security Forces will photograph or make arrangements to have photographs taken of any
     injuries sustained by the victim.
  3.7. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI):
     3.7.1. AFOSI agent will notify the FAO of all cases involving suspected or established
     family maltreatment that come to the attention of the installation AFOSI. In turn, the
 4                                                   LAJESFIELDI40-301 19 OCTOBER 2012


        FAO will notify the AFOSI duty agent as soon as possible upon receipt of information
        concerning family maltreatment. AFOSI will conduct investigations into the incident as
        appropriate per their own regulations and standards and coordinate the investigation as
        they deemed necessary.
     3.7.2. IAW AFI 40-301, AFOSI personnel will notify the FAO when a DCII check reveals
     information regarding previous incidents involving the family in question.
        3.7.3. IAW AFI 40-301, FAO will notify AFOSI immediately in regard to any
        allegations of Child Sexual Maltreatment.
     3.8. Community Agencies:
     3.8.1. Community helping agencies and other base agencies with an interest will complete
     family violence training on an annual basis in coordination with the FAO or NCOIC of
     Family Advocacy.
        3.8.2. Due to limited Family Advocacy staff, formal community assessments will not be
        conducted. IDS, FAC and First Sergeants as well as the USAF Community Assessment
        Survey (when available) will be utilized to aid in identifying prevention needs.
        3.8.3. Local Child Protective Services (CPS) will only be notified when maltreatment
        allegations involve a local national child. Contact information for CPS can be obtained
        from Security Forces and/or Judge Advocate when maltreatment notification is
        warranted.
        3.8.4. There are no Domestic Violence Victim Advocate services available in the local
        community. FAP and Mental Health staff will be the primary referral source for victims.
        3.8.5. All agencies, departments, or individuals affiliated with Lajes Field will report all
        incidents of suspected or established family maltreatment directly to the Family
        Advocacy Clinic. Family Advocacy reports all unrestricted cases of suspected family
        maltreatment to the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, 65th Security Forces
        Squadron, in addition to notifying the member’s Commander and/or First Sergeant. If
        medical attention is needed, Family Advocacy will contact the Medical Provider on call.
4. Prevention:
     4.1. Outreach Program:
     4.1.1. The installation FAP team consists of the FAO and the FA NCOIC and their
     alternates; there are no civilan Family Advocacy Outreach Manager or Intervention
     Specialist authorized positions. Per AFI 44-172 Mental Health, the Resiliency Program has
     now combined the FAP prevention programs (NPSP and Family Advocacy Outreach).
     Prevention services are available and conducted but limited in scope in comparison to a FAP
     with all authorized components. Resiliency visits and training are primarily condicted by
     Mental Health technicians.
     4.1.2. Due to the absence of an authorized Family Advocay Outreach Manger position, the
     FAO, alternate FAO or FA NCOIC will represent FAP to the Integrated Delivery System and
     Communitty Action Information Board.
LAJESFIELDI40-301 19 OCTOBER 2012                                                              5


   4.2. New Parent Support Program (NPSP):
      4.2.1. The 65th Medical Group is not authorized a Family Advocacy Nurse (FAN). Due
      to the lack of a FAN, FA is not authorized a New Parent Support Program (NPSP). If a
      family with children under three years old requires support services, they will be referred
      to the Family Advocacy Officer for arrangement of parenting education/support and
      supportive counseling. The FAO and Mental Health Providers are not authorized to
      conduct supportive home visits to parents IAW AFI 44-172 Mental Health.
5. Maltreatment:
   5.1. Family Maltreatment Intervention:
   5.1.1. The purpose of the maltreatment intervention program is to protect victims of family
   violence from any further abuse, to offer therapeutic services to improve family functioning,
   and eliminate any further incidents of family violence.
      5.1.2. FAP and MTF personnel may provide other services to sex offenders as long as
      services do not focus on deviant arousal patterns. Due to the isolated nature of Lajes and
      limited resources available off base, this will likely necessitate an Early Return of
      Dependents (ERD) or EFMP Reassignment to another location. Situations requiring ERD
      or EFMP Reassignment will require consultation with the command for expediting of the
      process.
   5.2. Central Registry Board (CRB):
      5.2.1. The FAO is responsible for the family maltreatment component of the FAP and
      will serve as coordinator of the board. The Vice Wing Commander will chair the CRB.
      In his absence, the CRB may be chaired by the Mission Support Group Commander.
      5.2.2. Composition of the CRB includes the CRB Chairperson, Staff Judge Advocate,
      Command Chief Master Sergeant, Security Forces Investigation Representative, Office of
      Special Investigations, and the FAO. Squadron Commander or designee of the active
      duty offender/active duty victim are also voting members. If both offender and victim
      are military members, both commanders are invited and both vote.
      5.2.3. The CRB reviews all referrals of family maltreatment and makes incident status
      determinations. Cases are referred to by case number in meeting minutes.
      5.2.4. The CRB meets at the call of the FAO whenever there is a new referral requiring
      determination within 60 days of that referral.
   5.3. Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT)
      5.3.1. The CSMRT consists of the Family Advocacy Officer, and representatives from
      AFOSI and the Staff Judge Advocate. The CSMRT will convene in person or
      telephonically to manage the initial response to all child sexual maltreatment allegations.
      5.3.2. The CSMRT will coordinate to minimize the number of interviews or
      examinations in order to reduce potential emotional trauma to the alleged victim(s).
      AFOSI has jurisdiction in all child sexual maltreatment cases and will determine if and
      when FA interviews will be conducted.
 6                                                 LAJESFIELDI40-301 19 OCTOBER 2012


        5.3.3. The CSMRT will develop and implement plans to ensure the safety of both the
        alleged victim(s) and the alleged offender(s).
        5.3.4. The FAO will provide a report on all CSMRTs to the FAC quarterly.
     5.4. High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT):
     5.4.1. The HRVRT consists of the unit member’s command, Family Advocacy Officer,
     AFOSI, Staff Judge Advocate, Security Forces and other members as deemed necessary on a
     case-by-case basis. The HRVRT manages potentially dangerous situations involving FAP
     clients when members of the family may be in imminent danger of harm by other family
     members or FAP staff may be in imminent danger of harm by a FAP client or ex-client.
     5.4.2. The HRVRT will be activated by the FAO upon notification of potential threat of
     harm. The HRVRT will assess the level of danger and then develop and implement a course
     of action to manage the risk of violence. The HRVRT members have authority to make
     commitments and decisions on behalf of their organizations or agencies.
        5.4.3. The FAO will provide a report on all HRVRTs to the FAC quarterly.
6. Jurisdiction of Family Maltreatment Cases
     6.1. All United States active duty military members and their families assigned to Lajes
     Field will receive services from the 65th Medical Group, Family Advocacy Program when
     maltreatment is suspected.
     6.2. Retired military members, their families, GS or contract employees and their families
     will be seen at the discretion of the FAO, on a space available basis for all allegations of
     child and or partner maltreatment.




                                             JOSE A. RIVERA, Colonel, USAF
                                             65 ABW Commander
LAJESFIELDI40-301 19 OCTOBER 2012                                                    7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Policy Directive 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 10 March 2005
Air Force Medical Operations Guidance, Family Advocacy Program Standards, Dec 2009
Medical Group Instruction 44-120, Family Advocacy Program
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
CRB—Central Registry Board
FAN—Family Advocacy Nurse
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAOM—Family Advocacy Outreach Manager
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
HRVRT—High Risk for Violence Response Team
LRMC—Landstuhl Regional Medical Center
MDGI—Medical Group Instruction
NPSP—New Parent Support Program
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
