BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        LAJES FIELD INSTRUCTION 31-204
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)
                                                                                       30 JANUARY 2009
                                                                    Certified Current on 18 February 2014
                                                                                                 Security

                                                     SECURITY FORCES REPORTS AND ANALYSIS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing site at www.e-
                           publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 65 SFS/S5AR                             Certified by: 65 MSG/CC (Colonel Roderick E. Dorsey, Jr.)
                                                                                           Pages: 8


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic
Supervision. It establishes guidelines and procedures for all Armed Forces Traffic Tickets,
Suspensions/Revocations/Barments and all police-related documentation and enclosures associated with
punitive, administrative and informational offenses with regards to all personnel and their dependents
assigned, attached or under the operational control of the Commander, 65th Air Base Wing (65
ABW/CC), residing on Terceira Island. Some areas of this instruction may also apply to civilian
personnel (base affiliated and non-base affiliated). It is the responsibility of commanders to ensure their
personnel comply with this instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications; route AF
Form 847s from the field through the Lajes Field publications/forms manager. Ensure all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This
instruction requires colleting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974,
authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013 and E.O. 9397.

1. Procedures upon Receipt of DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket. Once an individual
receives his/her pink copy of the DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Citation, he/she will have up to
72 hours (as detailed below) to report the incident to his/her sponsor, supervisor or first sergeant.
   1.1. The Security Forces patrolman will write instructions in detail on the back of his/her pink copy.
   If the incident occurs on a weekday, the individual has 24 hours to report the incident. If the
   incident occurs on a Friday or weekend, the individual has 72 hours or the next duty day to report the
   incident, whichever comes first.
   1.2. DD Form 1408s are referred to the unit commanders for corrective action. Since tickets require
   command action, the individual’s unit or squadron section commander must sign them. First
   sergeants or other personnel may complete the administrative process of the ticket; however, the
   commander must sign the ticket.
 2                                                            LAJESFIELDI31-204 30 JANUARY 2009


        1.2.1. When a ticket is returned back from a unit annotated “No Action Taken”, the ticket is
        referred to the Chief of Security Forces (CSF) for review and action if necessary. “No Action
        Taken” indicates a “not guilty” verdict. A rebuttal letter must accompany the traffic citation
        stating the reasons for the “not guilty” verdict.
        1.2.2. Rebuttal letters can be submitted through the individual’s commander to the CSF for final
        determination. The violator must submit a rebuttal letter articulating his/her position to the CSF
        through Security Forces Administration and Reports (S5AR) within 10 days of receipt of the
        ticket. His/her commander must endorse the letter. The purpose of this endorsement is to ensure
        commander-level involvement. The commander must add comments supporting the violator’s
        guilt or innocence.
        1.2.3. In accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 31-201, Volume 7, Security Forces Administration
        and Reports, S5AR will attempt to obtain a written statement from the patrolman issuing the
        ticket and provide recommendations. The rebuttal package will be forwarded to the CSF for
        his/her annotations and he/she will forward the package to the rebuttal authority, Commander,
        65th Mission Support Group (65 MSG/CC) for final decision. Once the rebuttal authority has
        made a decision, S5AR will notify the violator of the final outcome of his/her ticket rebuttal.
2. Procedures for Receipt and Rebutting an Air Base # 4 Traffic Citation. When an individual
receives an Air Base 4 (AB4) citation, EPA Citation, he/she should report it to his/her commander or
first sergeant within 72 hours or the next duty day.
     2.1. Upon receipt of the citation copy, S5AR will also notify the individual’s commander and first
     sergeant. This is to ensure they are aware of the traffic offense and the possible driving
     revocations/suspensions imposed by AB4.
     2.2. AB4 officials will process the citation and send it to the Security and Defense Control Center
     (SDCC). The on-duty interpreter will contact the violator and have him/her report to the SDCC to
     sign for a translated version. The interpreter will also explain the ticket and give specific
     instructions, if necessary, on any further actions he/she must take with the ticket.
     2.3. IAW AB4 Regulation 108-2, Circulation of People and Vehicles, personnel wishing to contest
     these citations will annotate “rebuttal to follow” on both versions of the citation when signing for
     receipt and have until the date the penalty is imposed to present a rebuttal letter to AB4. If a violator
     desires to rebut an AB4 citation they believe is unjust, they may submit a rebuttal letter through their
     unit commander. The unit commander makes a recommendation of approval/disapproval and
     forwards the letter to S5AR for administrative processing. S5AR will check the letter for accuracy
     and forward the letter to the CSF and, upon concurrence, the letter will be sent to the 65 MSG/CC
     for approval/disapproval at his/her level. Once complete, the package is translated and forwarded to
     65 ABW/CCL (Political Affairs Liaison) for delivery to Headquarters Azores Air Zone (HAAZ) and
     subsequent passage to the AB4 Support Group Commander for consideration. In the case of driving
     privilege suspension, the member must ensure his/her rebuttal letter is forwarded well before the day
     the penalty is imposed, in order to allow ample processing time. This should be done regardless of
     when the member was notified.
3. Procedures upon Receipt of Incident Reports/Report of Investigation. To prevent potential loss
of a person’s vital Privacy Act information, unit commanders will designate key individuals within
his/her unit to sign for incident reports/reports of investigation from S5AR. Incident reports require
command action; therefore, the violator’s unit or squadron section commander must sign them. First
sergeants or other personnel may complete the administrative process of the report; however, the
commander must sign the report.
LAJESFIELDI31-204 30 JANUARY 2009                                                                      3


4. Request for Information. All information will be released as required by AFI 33-332, Air Force
Privacy Act Program. Individuals or agencies desiring to obtain copies of reports (to include
enclosures) or Security Forces blotters will accomplish the following:
   4.1. If the requester desires copies of statements other than his/her own, he/she has to submit a
   request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), as required by DoD 5400.7, as supplemented.
   Contact the Lajes Field records and publications management office at 535-5133 for assistance. In
   cases of property theft off-base, the release of information will only be accomplished if a formal
   complaint was filed with Praia Police.
      4.1.1. Police or government agencies (Drug Enforcement Agency, police departments,
      recruiters, Family Advocacy, etc,) requesting information for official reasons will receive all
      requested information. The request will be made either in person upon proper identification or
      using official letterhead. [Note that this request must be in writing (unless otherwise provided
      for as a routine use published in the Federal Register for this system of records). This
      information is Privacy Act protected and therefore the Privacy Act applies.
      4.1.2. Under section 552a(b)(7) of the Privacy Act (5 USC § 552a), requests by law enforcement
      agencies must be made in writing from the head of the agency or instrumentality, or from
      someone with properly delegated authority, and must specify “the particular portion desired and
      the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought.” Note that intra-agency requests
      under 5 USC § 552a(b)(1) need not be in writing, though disclosure is made on a need-to-know
      basis. Incidentally, note that under 5 USC §552a(c)(1), personnel must keep an accounting of
      the “date, nature and purpose” of each disclosure under section 552a(b) and the “name and
      address of the person to whom the disclosure is made”.] The written request can be mailed or
      faxed.
      4.1.3. The requester is advised to include point of contacts, mailing addresses and phone or fax
      numbers to ensure a prompt response. The requester’s letter will be attached to the case
      files/blotters for a matter of record. Responses can be mailed or faxed back. Maintain a log to
      verify action was completed.
   4.2. Privacy Act Considerations.
      4.2.1. All information distributed to non-governmental or law enforcement third parties will be
      protected in accordance with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program. Copies of all non-
      disclosable information (e.g., all social security numbers, dates of birth and addresses) will be
      blacked out. A copy is made of the blacked-out case file if needed to preclude the possibility of
      being able to read through any markings. Clipping and pasting from the file (if available) on the
      computer is also possible as long as the appropriate text has been sanitized.
      4.2.2. If the requester wants copies of all information concerning other parties not represented or
      involved, he/she will have to submit a request under the Freedom of Information Act, using DoD
      5400.7, unless the other party has previously given written consent.
   4.3. Release of Information where the Government is a Party:
      4.3.1. If the government was involved in an incident or the situation might result in litigation
      against the government, the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) will be consulted prior to any release.
   4.4. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Requests.
      4.4.1. Periodically, S5AR may receive requests from entities requesting the release of
      information citing the Freedom of Information Act per DoD Regulation 5400.7/AF Supplement,
 4                                                           LAJESFIELDI31-204 30 JANUARY 2009


        Air Force Freedom of Information Act Program. Each FOIA case will be expedited as quickly as
        possible. Instructions provided in the case file will be followed. Any questions will be directed to
        the information management/FOIA office.
        4.4.2. All enclosures to a report or blotter (e.g. statements, receipts, pictures, etc.) will be
        afforded the same FOIA considerations if specifically petitioned for by the requester. If pictures
        are requested and only negatives are available, the requester will be informed of the potential
        cost he/she would incur in order to initiate processing of the images.
5. Suspension/Revocation of Base Driving Privileges For Military and Civilian Personnel. Upon
apprehension for a serious driving offense, the violator will receive a preliminary suspension of driving
privileges memorandum that will suspend his/her privileges for 30 days. A package containing case
information to include a 1-year revocation letter and a driving privilege reinstatement letter is then
reviewed through appropriate agencies. The installation commander’s designated official, 65 MSG/CC,
is the final action authority for these packages and signs them. Upon reviewing the package, he/she
decides whether to revoke the individual’s driving privileges or to reinstate them. Revocations received
from other bases or services will be honored and processed in the manner outlined herein.
     5.1. Once the letter is returned with the appropriate signature from the action authority, the
     individual’s commander will be informed of the decision for revocation or reinstatement of driving
     privileges. The individual and his/her supervisor are required to respond to S5AR for issuance of the
     letter where the individual will sign the final letter.
     5.2. If a rebuttal is requested, the individual will be provided with instructions to submit his/her
     rebuttal letter through S5AR to the 65 MSG/CC for driving revocations and the installation
     commander for barments.
     5.3. Once final action is taken and the individual has signed the final letter, the suspension,
     revocation and barment (SRB) listing will be updated by S5AR. The list is then sent out to the
     appropriate agencies.
     5.4. IAW AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, Table 5.1, Suspension/
     Revocation of Driving Privileges.
        5.5.1. The 65 MSG/CC will direct an additional 2-year revocation if an individual is discovered
        driving while their driver’s license or installation driving privileges are under suspension or
        revocation.
        5.5.2. The 65 MSG/CC will direct a 1-year revocation when a violator refuses to submit to or
        failure to complete chemical tests (implied consent).
        5.5.3. A 1-year revocation is mandatory on conviction under the following:
            5.5.3.1. Manslaughter (or negligent homicide by vehicle) resulting from the operation of a
            motor vehicle.
            5.5.3.2. Driving or in physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of
            intoxicating liquor 0.10% or greater. NOTE: At Lajes Field, the minimum blood alcohol
            content to constitute a Driving While under the Influence of Intoxicating Liquors or Drugs
            (DUI) charge is .05%.
            5.5.3.3. Driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of any narcotic or while under the
            influence of any other drug (including alcohol) to the degree rendered incapable of safe
            vehicle operation.
LAJESFIELDI31-204 30 JANUARY 2009                                                                            5


           5.5.3.4. Use of a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony.
           5.5.3.5. Fleeing the scene of an accident involving death or personal injury (hit and run).
           5.5.3.6. Perjury or making a false statement or affidavit under oath to responsible officials
           relating to the ownership or operation of motor vehicles.
           5.5.3.7. Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle belonging to another, when the act does not
           amount to a felony.
       5.5.4. Suspension for a period of 6 months or less or revocation for a period not to exceed 1 year
       is discretionary under the following violations:
           5.5.4.1. Mental or physical impairment (not including alcohol or other drug use) to the
           degree rendered incompetent to drive.
           5.5.4.2. Commission of an offense in another state which, if committed on the installation,
           would establish grounds for suspension or revocation.
           5.5.4.3. Permitting an unlawful or fraudulent use of an official driver’s license.
           NOTES:
           1. When imposing a suspension or revocation because of an off-installation offense, the
           effective date is the same as the date of civil conviction or the suspension or revocation date
           of state or host nation driving privileges. This effective date can be retroactive.
           2. No points are assessed solely for revocation or suspension actions except for implied
           consent violations, base revocations on a conviction by a civilian court, military courts-
           martial, and non-judicial punishment under Article 15 of the Uniform code of Military
           Justice (UCMJ) or a separate hearing as otherwise addressed in this instruction. If revocation
           for implied consent is combined with another revocation such as 1 year for intoxicated
           driving, revocations may run consecutively (total of 24 months) or concurrently (total of 12
           months). Apply the installation commander’s policy systematically and not on a case-by-
           case basis.
           3. Suspension/revocation of government vehicle operator’s driving privileges is automatic
           upon issuance of a preliminary suspension of driving privileges memorandum or final
           revocation of driving privileges memorandum. IAW AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations,
           Security Forces will notify the Operator Records and Licensing Office when individuals have
           their driving privileges suspended, revoked or reinstated. Individuals who have their driving
           privileges suspended or revoked must return their AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor
           Vehicle Operator Identification Card, to the Operator and Licensing Section. Action causing
           the revocation/suspension will be entered in the Licensing Module.
6.    Suspension/Revocation of Exchange/Commissary Privileges for Military and Civilian
Personnel. Upon apprehension for a suspected shoplifting offense, the violator will receive a
Preliminary Suspension of AAFES/Commissary Privileges Memorandum that will suspend his/her
privileges for 30 days. The on-scene patrolman will confiscate all DD Forms 1173, Uniformed Services
Identification Cards. The suspension letter will serve as temporary identification. A package containing
case information is then reviewed through the appropriate agencies. The installation commander’s
designated official (65 MSG/CC) is the final action authority for these packages and signs them.
Revocations received from other bases or services will be honored and processed in the manner outlined
herein.
 6                                                           LAJESFIELDI31-204 30 JANUARY 2009


     6.1. Once the letter is returned with the appropriate signature from the 65 MSG/CC, the individual’s
     commander, sponsor’s commander or sponsoring agency will be informed of the decision for
     revocation or reinstatement of AAFES/Commissary privileges. The individual and his/her supervisor
     or sponsor is required to respond to S5AR for issuance of the letter where the individual will sign the
     final letter. If the 65 MSG/CC decides to revoke AAFES/Commissary privileges, the individual must
     obtain a new DoD identification card from 65 MSS to reflect change of privilege status.
     6.2. If a rebuttal is requested by 65 ABW personnel, the individual will be provided with
     instructions to submit his/her rebuttal letter through S5AR to the 65 MSG/CC for all revocations and
     installation commander for barments.
     6.3. Once final action is taken and the individual has signed the final letter, the SRB listing will be
     updated by S5AR. The list is then sent out to the appropriate agencies.
7. Processing Revocations/Reinstatement of Exchange/Commissary Privileges for Local National
Personnel. Upon arrival at a shoplifting incident, the joint patrol will, in addition to standard
investigative techniques, identify whether the individual has a permanent BX card or an invitational
pass. They will note the name, organization, type of card (A, C, R, or S) or pass and expiration date.
This information will be included in the Security Forces daily blotter. Filing charges against:
     7.1. Portuguese Military Members: As a courtesy to HAAZ, any Portuguese military member
     caught shoplifting or suspected of shoplifting by Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES)
     personnel will be referred to the Commander, AAZ (CAAZ) for disciplinary action, in lieu of filing
     charges in the civilian court system.
        7.1.1. In most situations, this avenue is more effective and timely. Referral to HAAZ shall be
        accomplished by the 65 ABW/CC through the Political Affairs Liaison (65 ABW/CCL).
        7.1.2. Non-Military Members: All non-military members caught shoplifting or suspected of
        shoplifting are to be dealt with according to current AAFES policies.
     7.2. The 65 MSG/CC will review the blotter entry and discuss the incident with the AAFES General
     Manager and 65 ABW/JA to determine if sufficient evidence warrants removal of BX privileges. If
     the 65 MSG/CC determines privileges will be removed:
        7.2.1. For permanent BX cardholders who are a part of the DoD workforce, the 65 MSG/CC
        will generate a letter to the employee advising that their BX privileges have been suspended,
        direct the turn-in of BX cards and state when the employee may request reinstatement.
        Suspension letters will be forwarded to the employee through the supervisory chain. If the
        offender is the sponsor, the employee will be directed to return dependent cards as well.
        7.2.2. Upon generation of the suspension letter, 65 MSG/CC will notify 65 ABW/CCL. 65
        ABW/CCL will annotate same in the cardholder database and notify HAAZ, as appropriate.
        7.2.3. For permanent BX cardholders who are not a part of the DoD work force, 65 ABW/CCL
        will notify HAAZ, by letter, that BX privileges have been suspended and request return to 65
        ABW of all permanent BX cards in the possession of the offender and/or dependents of the
        offender, if the offender is the sponsor. 65 ABW/CCL will request HAAZ notify the offender
        that current and future privileges are suspended and indicate when the employee may request
        reinstatement.
        7.2.4. For invitational pass holders, 65 ABW/CCL will notify HAAZ by letter that privileges
        have been suspended and request HAAZ support by notifying the individual, withdrawing the
LAJESFIELDI31-204 30 JANUARY 2009                                                                          7


       current invitational pass(es), and withholding subsequent reissue of invitational passes for at
       least the period of time stated in 65 ABW/CCL’s notification letter.
   7.3. For card reinstatement, former cardholders may submit a request when any probationary period
   identified in the suspension letter has expired.
       7.3.1. For a permanent BX cardholder who is a part of the DoD workforce, requests must be
       made through the Civilian Personnel Office (65 MSS/DPC). 65 MSS/DPC will forward the
       request to 65 MSG/CC for review/approval.
       7.3.2. For any permanent BX cardholder who is not a part of the DoD workforce, requests must
       be made through HAAZ to 65 ABW/CCL. 65 ABW/CCL will route the request to 65 MSG/CC
       for coordination and 65 ABW/CC for approval.
       7.3.3. Once approval for reinstatement has been given, 65 ABW/CCL will create new cards (if
       required) upon request by HAAZ or 65 MSS/DPC, and forward them for issuance by the
       appropriate organization. In no instance is a BX card issued directly by 65 ABW/CCL to the
       person named on the card.
8. Processing Barments. All barment packages are prepared upon request of the unit, group or wing
commander. S5AR will package all information for coordination through the CSF, 65 ABW/JA, 65
MSG and 65 ABW. IAW AFMAN 31-201 v7, the installation commander is the final action authority
for these packages and will make a determination based upon all information provided. At Lajes Field,
a barment directed by the 65 ABW/CC only applies to facilities. Barment from AB4/Lajes Field
property requires the package be forwarded to Headquarters Azores Air Zone (HAAZ) for their
approval.
   8.1. Once the letter is returned with the appropriate signature from the action authority, the
   individual’s commander, sponsor’s commander or sponsoring agency will be informed of the
   decision for barment of 65 ABW privileges. The individual and his/her supervisor or sponsor is
   required to respond to S5AR for issuance of the letter where the individual will sign the final letter.
   A copy of the letter will be filed with S5AR who will update the current SRB listing and distribute to
   all appropriate agencies.
   8.2. Requests for reinstatement of 65 ABW privileges will be made in writing through S5AR to the
   installation commander. In cases of reinstatement, the individual is required to respond to S5AR for
   issuance of the letter where the individual will sign the final letter. A copy of the letter will be filed
   with S5AR who will then update the current SRB listing and distribute to all appropriate agencies.
8.3. Adopted Forms.

   DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Citation
   AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle OperatorIdentification Card
   AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
   AB4 Citation, EPA Traffic Citation




                                              PAUL J. SUAREZ, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
 8                                                        LAJESFIELDI31-204 30 JANUARY 2009


                                            Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Department of Defense Regulation 5400.7, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program, 15 Oct
2007
Air Force Instruction 24-301, Vehicle Operations,01 Nov 2001
Air Force Manual 31-201 Volume 7, Security Forces Administration and Report, 21 Jan 02
Air Force Instruction 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision,14 Jul 00
Air Force Instruction 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 29 Jan 04
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army Air Force Exchange Services
ABW—Air Base Wing
AFI—Air Force Instruction
BX—Base Exchange
CAAZ—Commander Azores Air Zone
CSF—Chief of Security Forces
DOD—Department of Defense
FOIA—Air Force Freedom of Information Act Program
HAAZ—Headquarters Azores Air Zone
IAW—In Accordance With
MSG—Mission Support Group
MSS—Mission Support Squadron
OPR—Office Personnel Responsible
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
S5AR—Security Forces Administration & Reports
SDCC—Security Defense Coordination Center
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SRB—Suspension Revocation Barment
UCMJ—Uniform code of Military Justice
