                          DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                               48TH FIGHTER WING (USAFE)




                                                                   LAKENHEATHGM2014-36-02

                                                                                     6 August 2014


MEMORANDUM FOR ALL 48TH FIGHTER WING (48 FW) PERSONNEL

FROM: 48 FW/CC

SUBJECT: LAKENHEATHGM2014-36-02, Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTIP)

1. By Order of the Commander, 48th Fighter Wing (48 FW), this is a 48 FW Guidance
Memorandum providing interim guidance concerning Trafficking in Persons (TIP) at RAF
Lakenheath. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are
inconsistent with other 48 FW publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. TIP is the second largest criminal activity in the world. It is defined as the recruitment,
transportation, transfer, harboring or receipt of persons by means of threat, use of force,
coercion, abduction, fraud, deception, abuse, or exploitation. TIP is a grave violation of human
rights and a worldwide criminal threat to security, civil rights, and stability as well as a direct
threat to our national foreign policy goals. Due to the seriousness of the crime, the egregious
results in terms of human tragedy, and the disabling impact on our military readiness, the Air
Force has established a zero tolerance for trafficking in persons.

3. I fully endorse the Air Force’s zero tolerance for TIP and I expect all members to be aware of
the negative impacts TIP could have on our readiness and professional climate.

4. All Airmen who identify suspicious behavior that may indicate TIP activities must report the
activities to their chain of command, Security Forces, AFOSI, or Inspector General. Failure to
report such suspicious behavior is a violation of the UCMJ.

5. My point of contact for TIP-related issues will be the 48 FW Public Affairs office, which can
be reached at DSN 226-5639. This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from
the date of this Memorandum, or upon incorporation into a LAKENHEATH instruction or
supplement, whichever is earlier.




                                                    KYLE W. ROBINSON, Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander, 48th Fighter Wing
