BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             LAKENHEATH INSTRUCTION 32-1002
RAF LAKENHEATH (USAFE)
                                                                               11 AUGUST 2010
                                                              Certified current 7 September 2011
                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                                 REAL PROPERTY FACILITY
                                                                         MANAGERS (PA)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing .af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 48 CES/CEOSC                                                       Certified by: 48 CES/CC
Supersedes: LAKENHEATHI 32-1002,                                          (Lt Col John P. Baker)
            8 January 2002                                                              Pages: 28


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities, and interfaces with policies and procedures contained in Air Force Instruction (AFI)
32-1001, Operations Management. It states the responsibilities of Real Property Facility
Managers and defines procedures they must follow for the proper maintenance, repair, and
alteration of assigned government facilities and real property installed equipment. It applies to
all organizations occupying real property facilities at Royal Air Force (RAF) Lakenheath and
RAF Feltwell. Although some procedures may differ, the intent of the instruction should be
complied with by those organizations that are totally maintained by contract and either pay for or
reimburse Civil Engineering for services provided, e.g. 48th Medical Group, Army/Air Force
Exchange Service (AAFES), Defense Commissary Agency (DECA) and Department of Defense
Dependent Schools (DoDDS). It does not apply to military family housing occupants. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
prescribed by AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/.

This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by Title 10, U.S.C., Section 8013. System of Records notice F033 AF B,
Privacy Act Request File, applies.
 2                                                                    LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision reflects changes to the following major topics throughout the entire publication:
Addition of Legionella procedures to include testing and prevention by the Facility Manager;
Contract by Request (CBR) requirements and authorization; inclusion of the Wing Top 48
program; defining Restorization/Modernization (R&M) versus Sustainment funding; user
requirement to fund cipher locks as equipment. New organizational symbols resulting from
restructuring and revised telephone numbers have also been incorporated throughout the
document.

        1.     Facility Manager Program Objectives. ..................................................................                    2
        2.     General Responsibilities. .......................................................................................          3
        3.     Facility Manager Responsibilities - Appointment, Training and Reassignment. ..                                            4
        4.     Work Requirements. ..............................................................................................          8
        5.     Methods of Initiating Work Requests: ...................................................................                  10
        6.     Other Services. .......................................................................................................   11
        7.     Energy Management and Conservation. ................................................................                      14
        8.     Fire Prevention (see also Attachments 6 and 7). ....................................................                      15
        9.     Customer Feedback and Work Completion Forms. ...............................................                              15
        10.    Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................      15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           17

Attachment 2—SAMPLE OF FACILITY MANAGER APPOINTMENT LETTER                                                                               20

Attachment 3—KEY TELEPHONE NUMBERS                                                                                                       21

Attachment 4—FACILITY MANAGERS’ MAINTENANCE GUIDE                                                                                        22

Attachment 5—FACILITY MANAGERS’ LEGIONELLA TESTING AND PREVENTION
             GUIDE                                                                                                                       24

Attachment 6—FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                25

Attachment 7—FIRE PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                27


1. Facility Manager Program Objectives.
     1.1. Primary Objectives. The primary objectives of the Facility Manager Program are to:
        1.1.1. Ensure organizations and facility managers properly care for and execute their
        duties and responsibilities as users of government property.
        1.1.2. Assist organizations and Facility Managers in carrying out their duties by
        providing information on Civil Engineer (CE) support, priorities, processes, and policies.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                 3


   1.2. Facility Manager Program Overview. In order for this program to be effective, basic
   requirements must be followed:
       1.2.1. An effective program requires active and knowledgeable Facility Managers with
       the support of all facility occupants.
       1.2.2. Commanders are responsible for establishing and enforcing this program in each
       facility assigned to the unit.
       1.2.3. Facility Managers must manage/execute their responsibilities IAW the guidelines
       established in this instruction.
       1.2.4. All military and civilian personnel will support Facility Managers in executing
       their collective responsibilities regarding the use, care, and protection of Real Property.
2. General Responsibilities.
   2.1. Base Civil Engineer (BCE). The BCE, at the direction of the Base Facilities Board, is
   responsible for operating, maintaining, repairing, and constructing Air Force (AF) Real
   Property and Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE) to accomplish the mission most
   economically. The following are more specific BCE responsibilities:
       2.1.1. Assignment, transfer, or termination of the use or occupancy of Real Property
       facilities under the control of RAF Lakenheath.
       2.1.2. Monitor and control space used within buildings and the use of other base Real
       Property assets by AF and associated activities.
       2.1.3. Custody of vacant Real Property facilities for which the obligated organization has
       been given a formal release.
       2.1.4. Maintain capability to correct any emergency condition 24 hours a day.
       2.1.5. Provide reliable utilities to meet readiness requirements, maintain quality of life,
       and satisfy installation needs.
       2.1.6. Provide base support services (i.e. pest control, grounds maintenance, refuse, etc.).
       2.1.7. Accomplish work requirements with available resources quickly and establish
       standards to address quality, customers‘ needs, and mission requirements.
       2.1.8. Establish a system to provide customers with the means to accomplish work
       requirements using their own resources, such as labor, materials, equipment, or funds.
   2.2. Organizational Commanders/Agency Chiefs. Organizational Commanders/Agency
   Chiefs assume responsibility for the care, custody, and protection of all facilities assigned to
   the organization by the Facilities Board. Ownership responsibilities will end only when the
   Base Real Property Office has provided the obligated organization written notice to that
   effect. The following are more specific Organizational Commander/Agency Chief
   responsibilities:
       2.2.1. The Organizational Commander or Agency Chief must designate, in writing, a
       Primary and Alternate Facility Manager for each facility assigned to the organization.
       When practical, Facility Managers should work in the facility or close proximity to the
       facility where they are an appointed manager. A copy of the appointment letter must be
 4                                                 LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


        forwarded to 48 Civil Engineer Squadron – Customer Service (48 CES/CEOSC), and
        should include all information listed on Attachment 2, Facility Manager Appointment
        Letter. In multipurpose facilities, the user with the most floor space is defined as the
        major user. Major users must appoint a Primary and Alternate Facility Manager for the
        overall facility. Other organizations must appoint Alternate Facility Managers responsible
        for their unit‘s portion of the facility. Alternates can process actions for their respective
        units through their Commander and CE, but they should notify the major user/Primary
        Facility Manager of the work requests. By doing so, the Primary Facility Manager will
        be able to keep track of what is planned and being accomplished for the overall facility.
        2.2.2. Commanders must ensure that no facility alterations, additions, or construction are
        accomplished without prior Civil Engineering (CE) approval on AF Form 332, Base
        Civil Engineer Work Request, prescribed by Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 32-1004
        Volume 3, Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance. Civil Engineering
        approves all work in Real Property Facilities, regardless of the method of
        accomplishment. Therefore, work that is to be accomplished by Self-Help or contract by
        requester, i.e. AF Form 9, Request for Purchase, prescribed by AFI 64-102, Operational
        Contracting Program, Government Purchase Card (GPC) etc., requires CE approval.
        2.2.3. Commanders must ensure no change is made in the use of real property without
        approval of the Facilities Board.
        2.2.4. Commanders must ensure Real Property and installed equipment is not removed,
        relocated, altered or otherwise changed, without prior approval from CE.
        2.2.5. Commanders must ensure vacated buildings are left in a clean condition,
        undamaged except for fair wear-and-tear, and adjacent grounds have been properly
        policed, until transferred back to CE.
        2.2.6. CE does not maintain, repair, or construct furniture items, telephones or telephone
        lines, Cable TV, or organizational equipment. These items must be sourced elsewhere,
        such as Base Supply, Communications Squadron, Base Contracting etc.
3. Facility Manager Responsibilities - Appointment, Training and Reassignment.
     3.1. Appointment. A Primary and Alternate Facility Manager is appointed, in writing, for
     each facility or portion of a facility assigned to the organization. The Facility Managers must
     be an Officer, Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO) or civilian equivalent, with at least 12
     months retainability and sufficient authority and ability to perform their assigned duties.
     Alternate Facility Managers may be in the grade of Senior Airman (SrA) and below. Facility
     Managers should serve a minimum term of 12 months to ensure program continuity and
     minimize disruption to facility occupants due to frequent Facility Manager changes. Home
     phone or cell phone numbers for all Facility Managers are required in the event of an
     emergency such as a security breach, fire, or network failure. This information is protected
     by the Privacy Act of 1974 and is used FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.
     3.2. Training. Facility Managers are responsible for completing initial and annual recurring
     training as provided by CE . This is a mandatory computer-based training requirement. This
     training will address Facility Manager responsibilities, as well as CE work procedures,
     priorities, and work methods. In addition to training provided by CE, outgoing facility
     managers are required to brief new managers on the facility-specific details of their program.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                              5


  3.3. Reassignment. Facility Managers are responsible for submitting new Facility Manager
  Appointment Letters to CE Customer Service (48CES /CEOSC) 30 days prior to any change.
  This will allow sufficient time for the outgoing Facility Manager to transfer facility-specific
  training information/documentation to the new Facility Manager.
  3.4. Responsibilities. The Facility Manager is responsible to the Commander for the proper
  care, custody and protection of all Real Property and Real Property Installed Equipment
  (RPIE) under their control. In addition to safeguarding the assigned Real Property and RPIE
  from damage or loss, the Facility Manager is also the Commander‘s representative whenever
  the facility requires CE support.
     3.4.1. Post Facility Manager information where it can be readily seen on facility bulletin
     boards. As a minimum, use a 3 x 5-inch card showing the number of the building, the
     Primary and Alternate Facility Manager‘s full name and grade and a contact phone
     number. For facilities that have authorization to retain cash amounts over $2,000 or
     containing high value storage, annotate the card to read ―In case of emergency, contact
     the Security Forces Law Enforcement Desk.‖ This card should be posted at all entrances
     to the facility.
     3.4.2. Sign for and be responsible for all keys duplicated and issued, including the
     redistribution of keys to other occupants/users. The Facility Manager will conduct an
     inventory of keys with the previous Facility Manager prior to signing for them and will
     be accountable for keys at all times. Use a Key Control Log to account for facility keys.
     3.4.3. Inform all occupants to notify CE immediately of any potential fire/safety hazards
     or any emergencies when they occur by calling 48 CES/CEOSC. Inform occupants to
     give you the Direct Scheduled Work (DSW) number they received from CE so you can
     track progress towards accomplishment of the emergency requirement. Any potential fire
     hazard or fire related emergency, i.e. smell of electrical burning etc., must be reported to
     the Emergency Communications Center (ECC) via 9-1-1. This should not be called in to
     CE Customer Service. Only the Facility Manager is authorized to make routine
     maintenance and repair requests. Facility Managers will train facility occupants on
     emergency reporting procedures/actions in accordance with their specific Emergency
     Action Plan (EAP) annually. Any fire regardless of size (extinguished or not), smell of
     smoke, i.e. smell of electrical burning, light ballast, etc., or requirement for emergency
     medical services or police emergencies must be reported to the Emergency
     Communications Center (ECC) via 9-1-1 if dialing from a DSN telephone or 01638-52-7-
     9-1-1 if dialing from a cell/mobile phone.
     3.4.4. Use and encourage use of the Self-Help Program.
     3.4.5. Ensure all work performed in the building, including the removal of RPIE, is
     accomplished only after approval is granted by CE.
     3.4.6. The Facility Manager is responsible for changing light bulbs, starters and
     emergency lights up to 10 feet high. If lights do not activate after replacement, call 48
     CES/CEOSC to put in a job request. The Facility Manager is responsible for the
     purchase of replacement light bulbs for light fixtures in their facility; these can be
     obtained through GPC or Base Supply purchase.
6                                              LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


    3.4.7. Replace or tighten nails, screws, hinges, catches, screens, drawers, thresholds, stair
    treads, and door handles that may become loosened through use. Hanging of bulletin
    boards etc. will be accomplished by the Facility Manager. Technical assistance and
    loaner tools can be obtained through the 48 Civil Engineer Squadron – Self Help Center
    (48 CES/CEOSM).
    3.4.8. Base Fuels – 48 Logistic Readiness Squadron (48 LRS/LGSF) has an "auto-fill"
    contract to provide heating oil to RAF Lakenheath facilities. This contract‘s delivery
    frequency is set to ensure oil tanks are seldom below half full. However, it is also the
    responsibility of the Facility Manager and Tank Custodian to make sure there is ample
    fuel in the tank. If the fuel level is less than 25 percent, notify Base Fuels to arrange a
    fuel delivery (please verify by properly gauging the tank). Any fuel spills that may
    occur during tank filling will be immediately reported to the Emergency Control Conter
    (ECC) via 9-1-1, and Natural Resource Management Flight (48 CES/CEAN). It is the
    responsibility of the using organization to clean up any fuel spills they are responsible
    for.
       3.4.8.1. IAW AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks, paragraphs 3.4.1. and 3.7.4.,
       tank custodians must be available to receive fuel, Facility Managers are the Tank
       Custodians. Tank training is provided by 48 LRS/LGRF (See Attachment 3 for
       contact information).
       3.4.8.2. Each above-ground fuel storage tank has a pad and/or wall surrounding the
       tank to contain spillage, this structure is referred to as a ―
                                                                    bund‖ or ―  dike.‖ The
       Facility Manager is responsible for making sure the fuel tank bund or dike is free of
       trash or fluids. If you have more than approximately 6 inches of water in your tank‘s
       bund or dike, call CE Customer Service Element to initiate a Direct Scheduled Work
       (DSW) for its removal.
    3.4.9. During inclement weather, ensure sidewalks and entrances are clear of ice and
    snow. Sidewalks should be cleared and/or gritted for a distance of 75 feet from the
    facility. Upon favorable weather grit should be swept from these areas into the streets for
    removal by a street sweeper.
    3.4.10. Facility Managers are responsible for policing of grounds for litter and sidewalks,
    concrete areas for weeds surrounding the facility up to 75 feet. Facility Managers should
    be familiar with the location and operation of utility controls so they can be shut off in
    emergencies.
    3.4.11. Facility Managers are responsible for the security of their facilities. Facility
    Managers must establish a standard procedure for ensuring their facility is secure from
    illegal entry at all times.
       3.4.11.1. Establish a procedure or program to ensure doors and windows are secure
       when closing up and regularly inspect all locks to ensure they are in good working
       order. An insecure building due to a mechanical or structural deficiency constitutes
       an emergency and should be reported to the CE Customer Service Element
       immediately.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                7


         3.4.11.2. Security Forces Squadron (48 SFS) personnel conduct regular security
         checks of all base facilities. If a facility is found unsecured, the Facility Manager will
         be notified and requested to report immediately to the facility to secure it.
     3.4.12. Facility abuse can be defined as any damage or loss which is due to misconduct
     or negligence in the use, care, custody, or safeguarding of real property facilities or
     systems. The building manager, Organizational Commander, Base Civil Engineer, and
     Support Group Commander all play an integral part in identifying, investigating, and
     resolving any possible instances of facility abuse.
         3.4.12.1. When facility damage is discovered, the Facility Manager should
         immediately report it to their Commander who will initiate an investigation. Security
         Forces personnel will complete an incident report and forward a copy to the
         Organizational Commander and Civil Engineer.
         3.4.12.2. The Facility Manager must prepare an AF Form 332 for their Commander‘s
         signature and forward it to the CE Customer Service Element. A cost estimate will be
         accomplished for the work and forwarded to the Organizational Commander.
         3.4.12.3. Once the Organizational Commander has completed the investigation,
         provide a copy of the investigation findings to the Base Civil Engineer with a
         recommendation for the method of repair (Self-Help or CE In-House/Contract
         Labor).
         3.4.12.4. CE will be reimbursed by the organization or individual at fault for all
         expenses to restore the Real Property back to its original state.
     3.4.13. The Facility Manager must maintain a Facility Logbook or File. As a minimum,
     the Facility Logbook or File should contain the following:
         3.4.13.1. Work Request/Service Call Log, along with copies of all AF Form 332 and
         AF Form 1219, BCE Multi-Craft Job Order, prescribed by AFI 32-1001, Operations
         Management. Note: A current listing of all open work for each facility may be
         obtained from CE Customer Service.
         3.4.13.2. Various Facility Manager inspection documentation.
         3.4.13.3. Facility Managers‘ Maintenance Guide (Attachment 4).
         3.4.13.4. Facility Fire Prevention Program Information (fire evacuation plan, fire
         safety training, inspections, write-ups, etc.).
         3.4.13.5. Entry Log for all emergency service calls.
         3.4.13.6. Key Control Log for all keys assigned and issued.
         3.4.13.7. General information (Facility Manager Appointment Letter, safety write-
         ups, status reports etc.)
  3.5. Contractor-Maintained Facilities. Organizations with contractor-maintained facilities
  will provide CE with a liaison for all work requested to be accomplished by the contractor.
  Although the execution of work may differ, the intent is for those facilities to be held to the
  same safety, fire, health and maintenance standards as all other organizations‘ facilities on
  base. All requests for work in the contractor-maintained facilities must be submitted to CE
 8                                                  LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


     for review, coordination and approval, whether it is submitted in the form of a Work Order,
     Direct Scheduled Work or Project Scope Work. Some areas of this instruction do not apply
     to 48 Fighter Wing Medical Group (48 FW/MDG) or contractor-maintained facilities, since
     the actions are encompassed in and executed by the maintenance contractor. However, this
     does not release the Facility Managers or occupants of the facilities from complying with the
     intent of this instruction.
     3.6. Space Management. If you are the Facility Manager of a complex of shops and offices
     that belong to several units, this subject should be stressed to all occupants. Any time
     personnel wish to move an office or ―    swap" areas between two or more units, notify the Civil
     Engineering Real Property Office. Personnel must do this BEFORE any moves are begun
     because the approval of the Space Resources Allocation Panel is required. Each installation
     will normally establish a panel or committee which will convene periodically for such
     purposes. Also, upon vacating a building or space, notify the BCE in order to have a joint
     inspection arranged. A member of the Real Property Office will assist in this inspection. At
     the time of the inspection, turn in all appropriate keys to the Real Property Manager.
4. Work Requirements.
     4.1. Classification of Work Requirements. Work requirements are categorized as
     Maintenance, Repair, or Minor Construction.
        4.1.1. Maintenance. Recurring ‗day-to-day‘, periodic, or scheduled work required to
        PRESERVE Real Property Facilities in such a condition that it may be used effectively
        for their designed purpose. It includes work undertaken to prevent damage to a facility
        which otherwise would be more costly to restore if not accomplished.
        4.1.2. Repair. Work undertaken to RESTORE a failed or failing item of Real Property to
        a condition in which it can be used for its designed purpose.
        4.1.3. Minor Construction. Work required in erecting, installing, or assembling a new
        facility, making an addition, alteration, expansion or extension of an existing facility or
        utility system, or relocating RPIE. This includes all work for anything that was not there
        before, no matter how small. All new work requires an AF Form 332, with blocks 11-13
        signed by the Organizational Commander or Deputy Commander.
     4.2. Types of Work. As a Facility Manager, it is your responsibility to identify and report
     all known work requirements to CE. It is CE's responsibility to estimate, plan, program,
     schedule, and accomplish the requested work in a timely manner in accordance with base
     priorities. Effective communication between the Facility Manager and CE Customer Service
     personnel is vital. Customer Service personnel will assign a Work Order/Tracking Number
     to each work requirement that is turned in and can provide updated status of each work
     request on an as-needed basis. Estimated timelines for processing a given requirement
     depends on funds availability, as well as the type and scope of work requested. Civil
     Engineer work requirements essentially fall into one of five different categories.
     4.3. Direct Scheduled Work Order (DSW). Work requirements that are small in scope,
     normally less than 50 man-hours and/or $2,500 in material cost. DSWs can be initiated
     verbally through the CE Customer Service Desk or in writing using AF Form 332. DSWs
     are individually prioritized as Emergency, Urgent, or Routine.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                9


     4.3.1. Emergency. An Emergency includes any work required to correct an emergency
     condition that is detrimental to the mission or reduces operational effectiveness. It
     includes providing security to areas subject to compromise, eliminating Risk Assessment
     Code (RAC) hazards of 1, Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD) of 1, or protecting high-value
     property and equipment. An Emergency includes, but is not limited to, the total failure of
     the electrical, fire protection, heating and equipment cooling, air conditioning, or water
     and sewer systems. It also covers situations that would result in imminent or catastrophic
     facility damage. A craftsman shall respond within 24 hours of notification of an
     emergency DSW.
     4.3.2. Urgent. Urgent work includes work required to provide security to areas that
     could be compromised, to eliminate Risk Assessment Code (RAC) 2 and 3, Fire Safety
     Deficiency (FSD) of 2, or to protect valuable property or equipment. The Facility
     Manager would normally make urgent requests, and Customer Service personnel will
     make the final determination as to whether or not the requirement is actually urgent. CE
     craftsman should respond to an Urgent DSW within 7 calendar days.
     4.3.3. Routine. Work requirements that are essential and should be handled in a timely
     manner. Routine work has a 30-day commitment.
  4.4. Facility Maintenance Schedules. In facilities maintained by the Small Maintenance
  and Repair Team (SMART team), CE schedules and accomplishes minor maintenance and
  repair requirements on a regularly scheduled basis. On the pre-established schedule, the
  SMART team lead will meet with the Facility Manager and walk through the facility.
  Between facility visits and during the inspection, Facility Managers will list minor
  maintenance and repair requirements for the facility on AF Form 1219. The SMART team
  will respond on their scheduled visit and repair as many AF Form 1219 items as possible.
  Items not accomplished during the visit will be carried over to the next visit. The list of these
  facilities can be obtained at CE Customer Service.
  4.5. Recurring Work (RWP). Recurring work applies to Real Property, Real Property
  Installed Equipment or systems, and other equipment maintained by CE. Recurring work
  consists of operations, recurring maintenance, service work, and other work for which the
  scope and level of effort is known without an earlier visit to the job site each time the work is
  scheduled. It includes all recurring work needed to prevent breakdown of critical facilities,
  equipment, or utilities.
  4.6. Work Orders. Work requirements that require detailed planning, large material
  purchases, and/or a large number of work hours. There are several methods of
  accomplishment for work orders.
     4.6.1. In-House Work Orders. Work requirements over 50 man-hours and/or $2,500 in
     material cost are considered for in-house accomplishment. In-house work orders are
     planned, programmed, and executed through the CE Operations Flight utilizing CE
     craftsmen.
     4.6.2. Self-Help Work Orders. The Self-Help Program gives the facility occupants the
     opportunity to improve or enhance their facility. The Self-Help Center offers a limited
     variety of items to maintain or upgrade facilities. Before any Self-Help work is started,
     customers must obtain formal approval by CE on AF Form 332. Customers will be held
 10                                               LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


      monetarily liable for any corrective or collateral facility work required due to
      unauthorized work. The Self-Help Store also allows facility managers an opportunity to
      draw materials or tools to accomplish minor maintenance. This work does not require an
      AF Form 332 submission. Examples of maintenance and repair are: touch up painting,
      replacing towel bars, toilet paper holders, door stops, door closure, window shades,
      Venetian blinds, curtain rods, faucet handles, bib washers and replacement filters.
      4.6.3. Contract by Requester Work Orders. In some cases, customers can fund and
      contract facility work themselves utilizing their GPC or by funding AF Form 9. Before
      any work can be contracted, customers must obtain formal approval by CE on AF Form
      332. IAW legal host nation agreement between the United States (US)/United
      Kingdom(UK), Contract by Request is rarely authorized. All repair/construction work
      must be coordinated through Defense Estates (DE) to ensure work performed meets all
      statutory requirements (i.e. risk assessment, method statements, skilled persons
      certificates, Construction/Design/Management regulations, etc.). Contract by Request
      Work Orders are typically only approved for equipment purchases or repair/construction
      work which does not require skilled labor, such as simple carpet replacement or painting.
      Customers will be held monetarily liable for any corrective or collateral facility work
      required due to unauthorized work.
   4.6.4. Contract Work Requirements. Work requirements that are beyond the capacity or
   capability of CE in-house forces are considered for contract accomplishment. If approved for
   contract, a work order number will be assigned. Contract work requirements can be
   accomplished through DE. All contract work still has to have the approval of 48 CES via the
   AF Form 332 and routed through DE.
      4.6.5. Project Work Requirements. Projects are work above the capabilities of CE
      Operations (CEO) In-House Labor or Defense Estates‘ small project cell (equivalent to
      Stateside SABER contracts). Projects typically have complex planning or design
      requirements. This work has long lead times, from two to five years on average and is
      managed in the CE Programs Flight (CEP). Work Orders of this type will be converted
      to a Project and given an Automated Civil Engineer System (ACES) project number for
      tracking versus the standard Improved Work Information Management System (IWIMS)
      work order number.
5. Methods of Initiating Work Requests:
   5.1. Emergency/Urgent Work. These types of request can be called into the 48 CES
   Customer Service Element on the Emergency Service Call desk. Emergency Service Call
   provides a 24-hour, 7-day a week capability to respond to emergency conditions. Emergency
   Service Calls are requested verbally by telephone for emergency and urgent repairs. Service
   call phone numbers are listed in Attachment 3.
   5.2. AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request. Facility Managers submit AF Form
   332 to CE Customer Service for all requirements involving new work, major repairs, facility
   alterations/improvements, and minor construction. A formal request is also required for
   routine work, self-help, facility sign requests, key duplication for five or more keys to be cut
   and contract by requester work. Due to funding limitations, not all work requests can be
   accomplished. CE is only funded for Sustainment type work (mainly DSW repair type work
   listed in paragraph 4.3.). Restoration and Modernization work must be funded by either the
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                  11


   user or Wing. Mechanisms such as the TOP 48 work order list are reviewed quarterly at the
   Facilities Board and is designed to involve customers and senior leadership in prioritizing
   their most important work for potential Wing funding/execution. Since all requirements
   cannot be funded, these programs help CE focus its available resources on the Wing‘s
   priorities. When submitting AF Form 332 to CE Customer Service, Facility Managers must:
      5.2.1. Ensure the work request has been properly signed and coordinated on by unit
      representatives. As a minimum, the Facility Manager must sign AF Form 332, Blocks
      11-13, or coordinate in Block 14. When new work is required, the Unit Commander
      must sign the AF Form 332, Blocks 11-13, and the Facility Manager must coordinate in
      Block 14. Additionally, some organizations may require a Unit Facility Manager and/or
      a Group Facility Manager to coordinate on all AF Form 332‘s before bringing requests to
      CE. If the request does not have the correct signatures or coordination, the request will
      be returned to the customer to complete.
      5.2.2. Ensure the work description is clear and complete.
      5.2.3. Ensure all required supporting documentation is provided. This may include
      maps, floor plans, or sketches of areas affected; extracts of any AFI, directive, or
      technical order referenced on the request; fire/safety or other inspection write-ups;
      equipment specifications (power/cooling requirements); and for contract by requester
      work any statements of work or contractor quotes provided. Failure to provide this
      information will delay the processing of your request.
      5.2.4. Ensure the donated resources, Block 10, is filled out correctly. Units may donate
      funds, labor, or materials, or they may be requesting to contract the work themselves with
      CE‘s approval or permission. If donating resources, the unit is donating resources to
      accomplish the work being requested. For example, do not mark the donated funds block
      if your unit is buying a shredder and the request is to provide an outlet for it, unless the
      unit intends to pay for CE‘s electrical work. If the unit isn‘t donating resources, select
      none on the form.
   5.3. AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Request, prescribed by AFI 32-1001 –
   Operations Management. This form is commonly called a "digging permit" because it is
   required prior to any digging. It is also used for any work that may disrupt aircraft or
   vehicular traffic flow, base utility services, protection provided by fire or intrusion alarm
   systems, or routine activities of the Installation. Process the form just prior to the start of the
   work. If delays are encountered or the conditions at the job site change, the form must be
   revalidated and re-approved. The form is valid for 28 days after it has been approved. The
   project must start within 14 days of the approval date. If this requirement is ignored and
   damages are incurred, all costs for repairs will be charged to the responsible party.
6. Other Services.
   6.1. Key Duplication. Requests for key duplication or replacement for up to five keys can
   only be made by the Facility Manager to the 48 Civil Engineer Squadron - Structures Shop
   (48 CES/CEOFS - Building 1106). This service is performed from Monday-Friday on a
   walk-in basis from 1300 to 1400 hours. Due to licensing restrictions, some facility keys may
   only be available through commercial sources and thus substantial delays are possible.
12                                              LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


     6.1.1. If more than five keys are required, submit an AF Form 332 with the exact
     requirements to CE Customer Service. The maximum number of keys that can be made
     is normally limited to 10 per door. If you require more than 10 keys, we will either
     request funding from your organization or provide a source where you can have your
     keys made at your squadron‘s expense.
     6.1.2. Family Housing keys may be duplicated at building 1106. However, some leased
     housing areas have alternate key styles that are not available thought 48 CES; these
     requests will be referred to the Housing Office to allow the customer to obtain duplicates.
     6.1.3. Master Key duplication will only be made upon a receipt of an authorization letter
     signed by the individual‘s Squadron Commander.
  6.2. Security Container Maintenance. Combination changes are the sole responsibility of
  the user. Users must maintain the proper combination change key and ensure personnel are
  trained prior to any attempt to change a combination. Before a user PCSs, they must train a
  replacement on combination. If there is a problem with a security container‘s (safe) lock,
  call the Customer Service Unit (CSU) to request assistance (after normal duty hours for
  containers pertaining to the flying mission only). Do not try to repair it yourself. Prior to
  calling in a request for containers that will not open, ensure the correct combination has been
  tried numerous times and that it has not been changed recently. If after repeated tries the
  container opens, STOP AT THAT POINT please call us and DO NOT CLOSE THE
  CONTAINER. Check the security container‘s AFTO Form 36, Maintenance Record for
  Security Type Equipment, prescribed by TO 00-20F-2, Inspection and Preventive
  Maintenance Procedures for Classified Storage Containers, periodically. Containers should
  be certified every three years. Because security containers are not RPIE, it is the user's
  responsibility to submit a work request when their safe is due an inspection.
 6.3. Sign Fabrication. All requests for Organizational Signs must be submitted to Customer
 Service on an AF Form 332. They will evaluate and validate your requirement and approve
 or disapprove as necessary.
     6.3.1. When submitting a work order for a new sign or to change an existing sign, be as
     specific as possible, giving exact dimensions and precise lettering required. Attaching a
     sketch or drawing will help ensure your requirements are understood.
     6.3.2. Requests for all non-standard signs must be submitted to CE on an AF Form 332
     for review to ensure compliance with base sign standards. The request must have a valid
     regulation reference outlining the wording, dimensions, color, etc. Some temporary
     ―Reserved‖ parking signs may be signed out from the Self-Help Store.
     6.3.3. Interior signs are an organizational responsibility for purchase and installation.
     These signs may be ordered through Base Supply or on a GPC card from a commercial
     manufacturer or supplier.
     6.3.4. Signs, which can be procured through Government Supply Agency (GSA)
     catalogs, safety catalogs, etc., are the customer‘s responsibility to purchase. Examples
     include, but are not limited to, ― No Smoking‖, ―  Do Not Enter‖, and ―  Hazardous Noise
     Area‖ signs.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                               13


     6.3.5. Commercial agencies (Bank, Army/Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) etc.)
     may construct and install exterior signs at their facilities. However, signs must be
     submitted on an AF Form 332 for review to ensure compliance, have appropriate
     coordination, and have CE approval. The requester must pay for these signs. If
     requested to be fabricated by CE, they will be fabricated on a reimbursable basis.
  6.4. Refuse Collection. Facility Managers must notify the Ministry of Defence (MOD)
  Station Warden when refuse collections to dumpsites are not being made or the dumpster is
  full prior to the next emptying cycle.
  6.5. Facility Cleanliness. Facility Managers are responsible for the overall cleanliness of
  the facility and surrounding grounds to include the fuel tank areas. CE has implemented a
  program of other cleaning services to assist organizations in the performance of routine
  housekeeping (general cleaning of bathrooms, sweeping and emptying of trash receptacles).
  Quality Assurance Evaluators (QAE) are to inspect and assess the level of service provided
  by contract cleaners. The Facility Manager should contact the QAE section for any questions
  on the level of service received or to report any unsatisfactory services (see Attachment 3)
  6.6. Entomology Service. The MOD Station Warden provides entomology services for
  insects, bees, rats and mice. Entomology problems can be reported to the RAF Station
  Warden. Problems with rabbits, moles, cats and wild dogs can be reported to CE Customer
  Service who will coordinate a response by the grounds maintenance contractor.
  6.7. Legionella Testing and Prevention. Legionnaire‘s Disease is a type of pneumonia
  which is uncommon but very serious. Legionella Pneumophila is the bacterium which causes
  Legionnaire‘s Disease and the disease is caught by inhaling small droplets of water
  suspended in air which contains Legionella bacteria. Outbreaks of the disease occur from
  purpose-built water systems where temperatures are warm enough to encourage growth of
  the bacteria, for example in cooling towers, evaporative condensers, whirlpool spas, and
  domestic purpose water systems in buildings. The symptoms of Legionnaire‘s Disease are
  similar to influenza - high temperature, coughs, muscle pains, diarrhea, mental confusion,
  headache, leading occasionally to pneumonia. Legionnaire‘s Disease does not spread from
  person to person.
     6.7.1. Control and prevention of Legionella in the United Kingdom is regulated under
     Approved Code of Practice (ACOP) L8. All facilities at RAF Lakenheath and RAF
     Feltwell are managed under a base wide Legionella Management Plan led by a CE
     Legionella Manager who monitors inspection logs to ensure compliance.
     6.7.2. Facility Manager Control Measures. To achieve ongoing control of Legionella,
     thorough flushing of the water system is required alongside any engineering controls.
     Effective control measures will require you to do the following:
         6.7.2.1. Monitor all outlets that are not in regular use.
         6.7.2.2. Record the flushing of all taps including basins, baths, sinks and showers.
         6.7.2.3. Any rooms (or individual water outlets) that are likely to be out of use for
         more than 7 days will need to be flushed on the 7th day and once a week thereafter.
         6.7.2.4. See additional guidance in Attachment 5.
 14                                                 LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


   6.8. Cipher Locks. The Air Force does not classify electromechanical locks, mechanical
   locks, or other automated entry control systems that use number or letter sequence
   combinations as protective devices. These devices are considered a convenience for on-duty
   personnel for controlling entry to high-use controlled areas.
         6.8.1. CE will install, maintain and repair cipher locks only in the following areas:
             6.8.1.1. Any high-use controlled area that the Security Forces Squadron specifically
             states in writing as a high-use ―  Controlled Area‖ requiring a cipher lock (e.g.
             entrances to Command Posts, Real Property installed vault door, etc.).
             6.8.1.2. Any area in which an AFI states that a cipher lock is required.
         6.8.2. Cipher locks currently installed in unauthorized areas will be changed out with a
         standard lock as they require replacement, unless the user undertakes the sole
         responsibility for the maintenance, repair, replacement, or installation cost through CE.
         This will be documented in writing to the Base Civil Engineer.
         6.8.3. CE does not install, maintain, or repair cipher locks in unauthorized areas because:
             6.8.3.1. Cipher locks are not cost effective. These devices are more expensive to
             install, maintain, and repair than standard locks.
             6.8.3.2. CE does not have the in-house capability to install, maintain, or repair large
             quantities of cipher locks. These locks require contractual support, which is less
             timely and more expensive.
             6.8.3.3. When cipher locks fail, they usually require replacement instead of repair
             because the pieces of the lock cannot be purchased separately. Replacement costs of
             a cipher lock range from £130 to £300 British Pounds, not including the contractual
             costs for installation.
         6.8.4. Cipher locks are not to be provided as a substitute for positive key control by the
         Facility Manager and building occupants.
         6.8.5. Cipher locks are considered equipment items and must be purchased/funded by the
         customer.
7. Energy Management and Conservation. Facility Managers are responsible, with support
(if needed) of Energy Manager in CE Asset Management Flight, to establish, promote and
monitor the facility‘s energy conservation program and practices. Energy management and
conservation responsibilities include, but are not limited to:
   7.1. Promoting a positive attitude for energy conservation practices.
   7.2. Establishing procedures to ensure thermostat settings do not exceed temperature
   standards for heating or cooling above or below designated temperatures. Ensure all doors
   and windows are closed when the building is being heated or cooled. Adjust the thermostat
   settings for periods when the building is unoccupied.
   7.3. Establishing procedures to ensure interior and exterior lights are turned off when the
   facility is unoccupied. Ensure entrance and other outside lights are turned off during the day.
      7.4. Check plumbing fixtures for leaks.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                              15


   7.5. Monitor the building occupants‘ energy conservation practices and brief on correct
   practices when required.
   7.6. During periods of water rationing, ensure lawn or flower-watering published time
   frames are adhered to.
8. Fire Prevention (see also Attachments 6 and 7).
   8.1. Facility Managers are responsible to their Commanders for the fire-safe condition of
   their facilities. Facility Managers can obtain specific fire prevention requirements for their
   facilities by accessing the 48 CES web site through the Informative Collaborative
   Environment (ICE) link and navigating to the Fire Department link and accessing the
   Building Managers Fire Prevention Program folder. Refer to Lakenheath Instruction 32-
   2001, The Fire Prevention Program, for specific duties and responsibilities of Facility
   Managers. The Fire Prevention Inspector will schedule an inspection with the Facility
   Manager, at least annually.
   8.2. As a Facility Manager, you should accompany the Fire Inspector on the fire inspection
   of the facility and ensure corrective actions are taken promptly to address any fire hazards or
   deficiencies noted during the inspection. The following is a list of some of the items the Fire
   Prevention Inspector looks for during the inspection process:
       8.2.1. The occupants‘ knowledge of fire reporting and facility evacuation.
       8.2.2. The adequacy and condition of fire suppressants, detectors, alarms and protective
       devices will be inspected. Fire extinguishers will be inspected for adequacy, condition,
       location, accessibility, monthly inspection and documentation of inspections. Fire
       extinguisher inspections should be accomplished within the first two weeks of the new
       month.
       8.2.3. The adequacy and condition of devices and building features to segregate and
       separate special fire hazard occupancy areas (e.g. fire doors, wall, draft stops, etc.).
       8.2.4. The condition of heating fuels handling and similar devices or equipment, which
       can become hazardous if neglected.
       8.2.5. The adequacy of safe practices to prevent fires.
       8.2.6. The control of and proper disposal of smoking materials.
       8.2.7. The condition of electrical equipment and connections.
       8.2.8. All housekeeping practices.
9. Customer Feedback and Work Completion Forms. After completion of work, the
customer can go to the 48 CES website to the Interactive Customer Evaluation link. With
feedback, the customer (or Facility Manager) can evaluate the quality of the work and provide
tools for the Base Civil Engineer to improve service.

10. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineer Work Clearance Request
 16                                             LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1219, Multi-Craft Job Order
AFTO Form 36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment




                                        JAY B. SILVERIA, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 48th Fighter Wing
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                      17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program, 22 December 2008
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, 7 September 2005
AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks, 27 April 1994
AFI 64-102, Operational Contracting Program, 25 July 2005
AFI 91-301, Occupational Safety and Health, 1 June 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 7 July 2004
AFPAM 32-1004V3, Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance, 1 September 1998
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 4 March 2010
LAKENHEATHI 32-2001, The Fire Prevention Program, 6 May 2010
TO 00-20F-2, Inspection and Preventive Maintenance Procedures for Classified Storage
Containers, 1 December 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army/Air Force Exchange Service
ACES—Automated Civil Engineer System
ACOP— Approved Code of Practice
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety & Health
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CE—Civil Engineering
CEAN—Civil Engineering Asset Management - Natural Resources
CEF—Civil Engineering – Fire Protection
CEO—Civil Engineering – Operations Flight
CEOSC—Civil Engineering – Operations Flight – Customer Service
CEOSM—Civil Engineering – Operations Flight – Support Material Acquisition
CSU—Customer Service Unit
 18                                             LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


CWD—Chemical Warfare Defense
DE—Defense Estates
DECA—Defense Commissary Agency
DEROS—Date Eligible to Return from Overseas
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDDS—Department of Defense Dependent Schools
DSW—Direct Scheduled Work
EAP—Emergency Action Plan
ECC—Emergency Communications Center
FSD—Fire Safety Deficiency
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSA—Government Servicing Agency
IAW—In Accordance With
LRS— Logistics Readiness Squadron
MOD—Ministry of Defence (United Kingdom)
NCO—Non-commissioned Officer
PCC—Production Control Center
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RAF—Royal Air Force
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
R&M— Restoration & Modernization
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SMART—Small Maintenance and Repair Team
SrA—Senior Airman
TDY—Tour of Duty
TO—Technical Order
USC—United States Code

Terms
Primary Facility Manager—Person having primary responsibility for specific Real Property.
This person is concerned with the care, custody, and protection of the assigned Real Property.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                           19


They serve as the point of contact for their organization or staff agency for services required
from CE.
Alternate Facility Manager—Person assigned to assume full responsibilities in the absence of
the Primary Facility Manager.
Production Control Center (PCC)—The office in CE responsible for managing the Facility
Manager Program. The PCC contains the Customer Service Unit and the Service Call Function
during duty hours. The PCC also manages all In-House Work Orders.
Customer Service Unit (CSU)—The Customer Service Unit helps customers who need work
done or who need the status of requested work; the single point of contact between the customer
and CE.
Facility Board—A board made up of the Wing Commander, Support Group Commander, Base
Civil Engineer, and the Chief of each major staff function. It provides corporate review and
judgment on Real Property building.
New Construction—Putting a construction where previously there was none (e.g. a new door,
wall, or outlet).
Real Property—Includes lands and interests therein, building, structures, improvement and
appurtenances thereto, warehouses, rights-of-way, easements, and permanently attached
improvements. It does not include machinery, equipment, or tools not affixed to any such lands
or building or removed from them.
Real Property Accountable Officer—Has accountability for all facilities on RAF Lakenheath
and assigned sites.
Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE)—Those items of government-owned accessory
equipment, apparatus, and fixtures permanently attached to, built in, or built on government-
owned Real Property and aiding in its function
Real Property Similar Equipment (RPSE)—Non-RPIE structures and equipment deployed or
permanently assigned to an installation as facility substitutes.
Self-Help Work—Work falling under a CE responsibility but done by the requesting or using
organization with donated labor or materials (or both).
Service Call—A "24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week" service designed to receive, authorize, and
respond to Emergency/Urgent work only. Key telephone numbers are provided at Attachment 3.
 20                                        LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


                                    Attachment 2
           SAMPLE OF FACILITY MANAGER APPOINTMENT LETTER

Figure A2.1. Sample Facility Manager Appointment Letter.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                          21


                                        Attachment 3
                             KEY TELEPHONE NUMBERS

A3.1. General.
   A3.1.1. Fire, Security Forces Desk, Ambulance Service on Base - 9-1-1
   A3.1.2. Wing Safety - 226-2913
   A3.1.3. Fuels Training - 226-1256/1257
   A3.1.4. Fuels Control Center (deliveries) - 226-2220
   A3.1.5. Ministry of Defence (MoD) Station Warden - 226-7361/3688
A3.2. Civil Engineer Key Telephone Numbers.
   A3.2.1. Commander, Operations Flight - 226-1910
   A3.2.2. CSU - Routine Enquiries - 226-6092/5217
   A3.2.3. Emergency/Urgent Call Desk - 226-2255
   A3.2.4. Self-Help Store - 226-2588
   A3.2.5. Real Property - 226-1907/1906
   A3.2.6. Programs Flight - 226-2340
   A3.2.7. Natural Resource Management - 226-3990
   A3.2.8. Fire Protection - 226-2941
   A3.2.9. Quality Assurance Inspections Office (QA) - 226-1815/3153
 22                                               LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


                                           Attachment 4
                     FACILITY MANAGERS’ MAINTENANCE GUIDE

A4.1. As required:
   A4.1.1. Police grounds for litter and weed sidewalks, concrete areas out from building 75
   feet
   A4.1.2. Walkways and stairs are cleared of ice/snow and/or gritted for a distance of 75 feet
   from the facility.
   A4.1.3. Upon favorable weather grit should be swept from these areas into the streets for
   removal by a street sweeper.
   A4.1.4. It is the responsibility of the Facility Manager to obtain all snow removal equipment.
   CE is not responsible for loaning or repairing of tools and equipment.
A4.2. Tighten or replace screws, and oil the mechanism on door hardware and panic bar latches.
   A4.2.1. Fasten loose tread nosing and tighten handrails on stairs.
   A4.2.2. Keep stairs clear of unnecessary objects which may cause accidents.
   A4.2.3. Inspect light fixtures for proper bulb size and replace with proper size if necessary.
   A4.2.4. Ensure fuel tank fill caps are closed and locked on all generators and heating fuel
   tanks.
   A4.2.5. Inspect trash enclosure for cleanliness and serviceability, if trash enclosure is shared
   with other facilities, a rotational inspection schedule should be mutually agreed upon. Report
   all problems with trash collection to CE Customer Service.
A4.3. Monthly:
   A4.3.1. Check windows for damage or loose glass.
   A4.3.2. Inspect for loose and damaged door and window casings.
   A4.3.3. Re-nail loose baseboards or moldings.
   A4.3.4. Drive loose nails and tighten screws on doors and windows as required.
   A4.3.5. Inspect walls and ceilings for loose or broken plaster or gypsum.
   A4.3.6. Inspect tile floors for loose tiles.
   A4.3.7. Tighten loose cabinet fastenings replace missing hardware, oil hinges and lock
   mechanisms.
   A4.3.8. Inspect sidewalks for cracks and sunken walkways. Remove weeds from in and
   around sidewalks.
A4.4. AF Form 1219 for SMART Facility Managers:
   A4.4.1. Routine Maintenance repair work can be annotated on the AF Form 1219. This
   form is used to record minor routine repairs that do not need to be called in at service call.
   The repair work listed under this form will be performed by the CE SMART on a regular
   scheduled basis. All Facility Managers on this schedule will be provided with a building
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                          23


  schedule to plan ahead of the visit. If you have just taken over as Facility Manager and do
  not have a schedule, please contact the CE Customer Service Desk and we will provide you
  with the latest schedule.
  A4.4.2. Reminder, if you have a job that needs immediate attention please call it in. The AF
  Form 1219 is only for Routine work that you feel need not be classified as an Emergency or
  Urgent.
 24                                               LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


                                         Attachment 5
      FACILITY MANAGERS’ LEGIONELLA TESTING AND PREVENTION GUIDE

A5.1. Facility Managers are responsible for ensuring that all taps (hot and cold) are flushed
weekly and that a record is kept in writing in the Legionella Log, which will be initialed and
dated by the person carrying out the tap flushing.
A5.2. Flushing will last for two minutes at a reasonable flow rate.
A5.3. Where water outlets are not used regularly (i.e. every day), flushing will take place once
every seven days.
A5.4. Flushing procedure for showerheads:
   A5.4.1. All showerheads should be cleaned with a suitable solution and flushed through
   every week.
   A5.4.2. Flushing will last for at least two minutes at a reasonable flow rate.
   A5.4.3. The showerhead should be removed and cleaned whilst the shower hose is held close
   to the drain and run waste (this procedure will reduce the production of the aerosol effect).
   A5.4.4. Showerheads should be descaled once per quarter. Note: Use only authorized
   descaling products and never combine the use of the cleaning solution and descaling products
   together as mixing products could be dangerous. Use rubber gloves and follow the
   instructions on the descaling product. Flush thoroughly after operation is complete.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                             25


                                          Attachment 6
                          FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS

A6.1. FACILITY MANAGERS are responsible to their Unit Commanders for the fire-safe
condition of each facility under their jurisdiction.
A6.2. The Facility Manager, alternate or a responsible person appointed by the Facility
Manager, will accompany the Fire Inspector during scheduled fire prevention inspections and
initiate immediate corrective action of fire hazards noted during inspection.
A6.3. If fire hazard discrepancies noted by the Fire Inspector require the services of CE
craftsmen, initiate an AF Form 332 immediately. All AF Form 332's must be coordinated
through the Work Request Review Board to include Self-Help requests.
A6.4. Facility Managers will be expected to have a thorough working knowledge of their duties
and responsibilities for maintaining a fire-safe facility.
A6.5. REMEMBER your five "PRIME" duties:
   A6.5.1. ―
           P‖ Promote fire safety.
   A6.5.2. ―
           R‖ Report all fires.
   A6.5.3. ―
           I‖ Inspect for fire hazards.
   A6.5.4. M‖ Monitor to ensure your people are practicing fire safety.
   A6.5.5. ―
           E‖ Examine their knowledge of fire safety procedures.
A6.6. If a fire occurs, go into your "ACTS":
   A6.6.1. ―
           A‖ Alarm bell, siren, voice.
   A6.6.2. ―
           C‖ Call the Fire Department.
   A6.6.3. ―
           T‖ Take everyone out of danger.
   A6.6.4. ―
           S‖ Show the firefighter where the fire is.
A6.7. If you have any questions concerning fire prevention, call Fire Prevention Branch, Fire
Protection Flight.
A6.8. Fire Prevention: Facility Managers are responsible to their Unit Commander for fire safety
in building under their jurisdiction. Post a copy of this pamphlet in a conspicuous place inside
the bldg. Facility Manager Responsibilities include but are not limited to the following:
   A6.8.1. Fire prevention inspections. AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, prescribed
   by AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, will be used to document all Fire Safety
   Deficiencies (FSD) and fire hazards noted during your fire prevention inspection. Return the
   Fire Prevention Visit Report within the suspense date with all actions taken to correct noted
   deficiencies. If you cannot return the report by the suspense date contact the Fire Prevention
   Branch prior to the suspense date for coordination.
   A6.8.2. Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD) Codes. Refer to AFI 91-301, Occupational Safety and
   Health.
26                                             LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


  A6.8.3. Fire evacuation plans. Develop and post fire evacuation plans for building where
  the means of egress is not visible.
  A6.8.4. Fire extinguishers:
     A6.8.4.1. Facility Managers are responsible to see that fire extinguishers are sealed, kept
     in serviceable condition, and in readily accessible or marked locations at all times.
     Facility Managers must ensure this equipment is not moved, for any purpose other than
     firefighting, and all personnel under their jurisdiction are familiar with the location and
     proper use.
     A6.8.4.2. When fire extinguishers have been used, accidentally discharged, have broken
     seals, require testing, or become inoperative for any reason; the using organization must
     budget for the maintenance and replacement of extinguishers when they become
     unserviceable‖ IAW Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 91-
     501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard.
     A6.8.4.3. Fire extinguishers will not be used for any purpose other than fighting fires.
     They must be protected from damage, securely mounted in an accessible place, and kept
     in good operating condition at all times.
     A6.8.4.4. Unit Commanders having jurisdiction over building and areas, including
     aircraft maintenance and parking areas, will assume responsibility for fire extinguishers
     located in their respective areas. Establish procedures to hold persons liable for damage
     to extinguishers due to negligence or willful acts.
  A6.8.5. Enforce safe smoking habits and make sure that smoking is permitted only in safe
  areas and designated smoking areas. Make sure that receptacles are provided and used in
  areas where smoking is permitted. Facility Managers are responsible to ensure smoking
  receptacles have been emptied daily or more often as needed.
LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010                                                               27


                                          Attachment 7
                          FIRE PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS

A7.1. Check fire extinguishers, fire doors, panic hardware, fire exit lights, and so forth; to make
sure they are all in proper working condition.
   A7.1.1. Pressurized extinguishers:
       A7.1.1.1. Check for accessibility.
       A7.1.1.2. Check for physical damage, corrosion and cleanliness.
       A7.1.1.3. Check the pressure gauge for proper operational pressure.
       A7.1.1.4. The safety pin for proper installation.
       A7.1.1.5. Check the hose for damage and cracks.
       A7.1.1.6. Check the nozzle for obstructions and damage.
       A7.1.1.7. Keep a maintenance log to track all monthly inspections (by user).
   A7.1.2. When a fire alarm sounds, ensure all personnel leave the facility quickly.
   A7.1.3. Enforce sound fire prevention practices, both in and outside of assigned building and
   areas.
   A7.1.4. When a fire lane or fire hydrant is blocked by a vehicle or other obstruction, call
   Security Forces at once.
   A7.1.5. Make sure exits are not blocked in any way.
   A7.1.6. Check for proper signs on doors (such as "DOOR BLOCKED").
   A7.1.7. Check the facility and area for safe housekeeping practices.
   A7.1.8. Use only extension cords of a type and size approved for the use to which they will
   be subjected. Where extension cords are necessary for operating low-amperage equipment
   such as office equipment, desk lamps, etc., the extension cord will be of adequate amperage
   rating and will be continuous lengths without splices. It is recommended that "power strips"
   with circuit breakers be used instead of extension cords.
   A7.1.9. Make sure vegetative growth around the building is policed and trimmed at all
   times.
   A7.1.10. IAW AFOSH STD 91-501, check for improper use and storage of flammable
   liquids. All flammable liquids must be stored in approved flammable storage lockers.
   A7.1.11. Check for improper storage of cleaning compounds.
   A7.1.12. Check for improper use of heating appliances or electrical appliances.
   A7.1.13. Are cigarette receptacle containers kept free of trash?
       A7.1.13.1. Are they the base standard tower type or metal and equipped with self-closing
       lids?
28                                              LAKENHEATHI32-1002 11 AUGUST 2010


     A7.1.13.2. Do they require emptying? (wet cigarette butts down with copious amounts of
     water).
     A7.1.13.3. Is the receptacle half full? (empty when half full).
