BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      LAKENHEATH INSTRUCTION 32-6003
RAF LAKENHEATH (USAFE)                                                                     30 JULY 2007
                                                                        Certified Current on 18 May 2011
                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                            DORMITORY RECOGNITION PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 48 CES/CEHU                                                                 Certified by: 48 MSG/CC
                                                                                (Col Amanda W. Gladney)
                                                                                                  Pages: 3

This instruction implements AFPD 32-60, Housing, and interfaces with LAKI 36-2803, Awards and Rec-
ognition Program. The purpose of the Dormitory Recognition Program is to select RAF Lakenheath’s
“Outstanding Dormitory” and “Outstanding Dormitory Room”, increase senior leadership involvement
with the dormitory program and provide incentive awards to units with superior dormitory programs. It
establishes procedures for a Dormitory Recognition Program for RAF Lakenheath. The 48 Fighter Wing
Command Chief (48 FW/CCC) and the Unaccompanied Housing Office (48 CES/CEHU) will maintain
responsibility for overall management of the program. This instruction applies to all units assigned to 48
Fighter Wing (48 FW) and dormitories on RAF Lakenheath AFB. Refer recommended changes and ques-
tions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recom-
mendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through appropriate chain of command.
Ensure that all records created as a result of prescribed processes prescribed in this publication are main-
tained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil.


1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. 48 FW/CCCA: Provide coordination between dormitory inspection team, 48 CES/CEHU and
   Dormitory Managers. Notify winners of selection and schedule award presentation. Prepare and coor-
   dinate memorandum transferring monetary award to “Outstanding Dormitory” winner. Purchase
   approved award items for “Outstanding Dormitory Room” winner and maintain adequate stock for
   quarterly distribution (see 48 CES/CEHU Dormitory Recognition Handbook).
   1.2. Dormitory Inspection Team: Inspection team consists of one representative from each Group
   (MDG, MSG, MXG and OG). Inspectors will score and total all worksheets and clearly identify “Out-
   standing Dormitory” and “Outstanding Dormitory Room” (See 48 CES/CEHU Dormitory Recogni-
   tion Handbook). Inspectors will provide written comments for discrepancies requiring immediate
2                                                            LAKENHEATHI32-6003 30 JULY 2007


    attention (fire, safety, health hazards and recommendations to improve Quality of Life for residents).
    Forward all worksheets to 48 CES/CEHU by close of business on inspection date.
    1.3. 48 CES/CEHU: Record and enter scores into spreadsheet identifying winners (see 48 CES/
    CEHU Dormitory Recognition Handbook). Address all identified hazards and recommendations with
    Dormitory Managers and applicable First Sergeants.
    1.4. Dormitory Managers: Will escort inspection team to all dormitory buildings and rooms on date
    of inspection and identify one room per dormitory for inspection.

2. Procedures.
    2.1. RAF Lakenheath inspection competition is held in conjunction with Lakenheath Instruction
    36-2803, Awards and Recognition Program. Inspection competition will be held once per quarter.
    Quarterly winners will compete for the Annual “Outstanding Dormitory and Room” winner.
    2.2. 48 FW/CCCA will send an e-mail request to all Group Commanders to request a representative
    for the dormitory inspection team, as well as informing them of the time and date of inspection.
    Ensure 48 CES/CEHU is included in the loop to inform Dormitory Managers of the date they are
    being inspected.
    2.3. Areas of inspection for “Outstanding Dormitory” will include facility exterior, common areas,
    dormitory management and dormitory rooms (see 48 CES/CEHU Dormitory Recognition Handbook).
    Dormitory Manager identifies one room for inspection, each group representative identifies one room
    from their group room of quarter inspection, and inspectors select two other rooms at random. A total
    of four rooms will be inspected in each dormitory.
    2.4. When the dormitory inspections are complete, 48 CES/CEHU will input all scores into master
    score sheet (see 48 CES/CEHU Dormitory Recognition Handbook). In each category there is an over-
    all dormitory building winner who will receive a monetary award, and an overall room winner who
    will receive a choice of furniture items, 3-day pass, certificate and plaque (see 48 CES/CEHU Dormi-
    tory Recognition Handbook). Group dormitory room winners will receive a certificate and plaque.
    These awards will be presented at the RAF Lakenheath Awards Luncheon.
    2.5. A memorandum is produced by 48 FW/CCCA stating the winner, and amount to be transferred
    from the 48 FW/CC withhold account. Letter is signed by 48 FW/CCC and forwarded to the 48 FM/
    FMA funds control desk for processing.
    2.6. All records are kept by 48 CES/CEHU in the transitory file with a one year disposition.

3. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                               ROBERT P. STEEL, Brig Gen, USAF
                                               Commander, 48th Fighter Wing
LAKENHEATHI32-6003 30 JULY 2007                                      3


                                       Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-60, Unaccompanied Housing Management
AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records
LAKI 36-2803, Awards and Recognition Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FOUO—For Official Use Only
MDG—Medical Group
MSG—Mission Support Group
MXG—Maintenance Group
OG—Operations Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
