BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             LAKENHEATH INSTRUCTION 33-301
RAF LAKENHEATH (USAFE)
                                                                           3 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                             ENTERPRISE INFORMATION
                                                            MANAGEMENT SHAREPOINT®

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 48 CS/SCOK                                                       Certified by: 48 MSG/CC
                                                                      (Col Marc R. Vandeveer)
                                                                                       Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management,
and interfaces with Technical Order (TO) 00-33D-3001, AF Enterprise Information Management
(EIM) Procedures for Site Owners and End Users. It outlines procedures for the 48th Fighter
Wing (48 FW) enterprise information management SharePoint® processes. It applies to all
personnel (military, civilian and contractors) assigned to RAF Lakenheath. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, prescribed by Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program; route AF Form 847s from the field
through MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

1. Purpose and Description. This document sets forth guidance and procedures for the 48 FW
EIM-SharePoint® environment and applies to all 48 FW members and mission partners. The
purpose of this environment is to create a standardized electronic collaborative workplace. EIM-
SharePoint® is a common global environment for Airmen to share and acquire information and
knowledge. The mission of EIM is to provide the right information to the right individuals to
support combat and mission operations through a single common platform and standardized
business processes. EIM-SharePoint® will be the primary tool for management of document
libraries, document workspaces and workflows. The EIM-SharePoint® environment is not to be
 2                                                   LAKENHEATHI33-301 3 February 2014


used for storage purposes, such as official files that are required to be maintained on the official
storage drive (O:drive). This instruction covers Roles and Responsibilities, EIM-SharePoint®
Environment, Personally Identifiable Information, and Records Management.
2. Scope.
     2.1. SharePoint® Capabilities. The Higher Head Quarters Web Development department &
     System Administrators USAFE/A6CK provides SharePoint® Standard Edition to provide a
     command-wide capability for creating, searching, displaying, and storing information in a
     collaborative environment.
     2.2. Customer Base. The customer base includes the bases, units, and tenants supported by
     the bases on the USAFE Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) and
     Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet). Organizational SharePoint® sites are
     available for each headquarters directorate, division, and branch; numbered Air Force; wing;
     group; and squadron; as well as major tenant organizations. Base site owners and unit site
     managers can create sub-sites in SharePoint® to support operational needs. Each unit site
     has allocated space to store content in the EIM-SharePoint® environment.
     2.3. Classification. The USAFE NIPRNet SharePoint® environment is only authorized to
     handle up to classification level UNCLASSIFIED. The USAFE SIPRNet SharePoint®
     environment is only authorized to handle up to the classification level SECRET.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. 48th Communications Squadron Commander. The 48th Communication Squadron
     Commander in writing will appoint a primary and alternate(s) base site owners for EIM-
     SharePoint® and forward memorandum to USAFE/A6 Knowledge Operations Branch.
     Local EIM-SharePoint® policy and training requirements will be established to provide
     oversight and management for the EIM-SharePoint® framework (i.e. site managers, end
     users).
     3.2. Base Site Owners (Site Collection Administrators).
        3.2.1. Maintain              top-level         site              collections            for
        https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/48FW/default.aspx
        3.2.2. Create sites; assign permissions, IAW TO 00-33D-3001, AF EIM Procedures for
        Site         Owners and End Users.
        3.2.3. Complete AF Enterprise Information Services (EIS) training curriculum
        administered by the AETC Knowledge Operations Center.
        3.2.4. Establish local training sessions using local operating procedures or requirements.
        Train unit site managers within 90 days of notification of assignment; access will not be
        granted before training requirements are complete.
        3.2.5. Maintain an organized network of site managers along with appointment
        memorandum and training certificates.
        3.2.6. Provide support for maintaining and administering SharePoint® features,
        including daily monitoring, troubleshooting, and performance analysis of the system
        specifically supporting 48 FW capabilities.
LAKENHEATHI33-301 3 February 2014                                                               3


       3.2.7. Site Owners will notify Site Managers to review and move any stagnant
       information before increasing site storage. Follow TO-33D-3001 AF EIM Procedures for
       Site Owners and End Users., paragraph 6.5.1. File Deletion Policy.
   3.3. Site Managers.
       3.3.1. Each base-level unit, staff agencies, and private organization site managers will be
       appointed by their respective commanders in writing. All letters of appointment will be
       submitted to the base site owner (48CS/SCOK). (See Attachment 2 for a sample Unit Site
       Manager Appointment Memorandum.)
       3.3.2. There is no controlled amount of site managers per unit, staff agency or private
       organization and each appointee can be from any existing Air Force Specialty Code
       (AFSC).
       3.3.3. Must complete EIM-SharePoint® training provided by the Base Site Owner
       (48CS/SCOK).
       3.3.4. Will conduct day-to-day administration and support for assigned SharePoint® site,
       to include managing site permissions and information.
       3.3.5. Will assist users on how to use SharePoint® functionality IAW TO 00-33D-3001
       AF EIM Procedures for Site Owners and End Users.
       3.3.6. Will identify content managers for workspaces and sites as required.
       3.3.7. Will provide end user training.
       3.3.8. Will assign permissions to end users for the sites and sub-sites underneath there
       units site.
4. EIM SharePoint® Environment. The USAFE EIM-SharePoint® environment is accessible
at https://usafe.af.mil and base-level sites at https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/48FW/default.aspx .
48CS/SCOK Knowledge Operations provides a standardized electronic collaborative workplace,
using the following business procedures/practices:
   4.1. Permission Levels. See hierarchy attached at Attachment 3.
       4.1.1. The Command Knowledge Operations department functions out of Ramstein Air
       Base and is responsible for providing guidance and procedures pertaining to all
       SharePoint® domains within USAFE.
       4.1.2. Site Collection Administrators function out of the 48 Communication Squadron,
       Knowledge Operations. Site Collection Administrators are responsible for creating sites
       and permission groups for all levels and maintaining full control over the RAFL
       SharePoint® domain.
       4.1.3. The Site Manager permission group can consist of wing, group or squadron level
       personnel in departments such as; Commander Support Staff (CSS) and Commander
       Administrators (CCA). The Site Manager permission holders are also responsible for the
       appointment and tracking of Content Managers, Members and Visitors within their
       purview i.e. wing level offices, group level offices or squadron level offices. This role
       does not own the responsibility of granting full permissions, as that right resides solely
4                                                    LAKENHEATHI33-301 3 February 2014


       with the Site Collection Administrators, but Site Managers will provide justification for
       SharePoint® access if requested by the Site Collection Administrator.
       4.1.4. Content Managers, Members & Visitors typically reside at each level of the base,
       i.e. wing, group, or squadron level, and are responsible for managing sites and sub sites
       under their purview. Permissions levels for this set are limited to read and contribute.
       4.1.5. Content Review. Site Managers will conduct content review and clean up of their
       respective sites and workspaces once every 180 days. Ensure the sites and workspaces
       follow the guidelines established in this instruction. A “Content Review” link is located
       at the bottom of each organizational site and should be annotated upon completion. Most
       importantly, duplicate files and unnecessary working documents need to be managed and
       deleted if deemed obsolete.
    4.2. Search Configuration:
       4.2.1. SharePoint ® permissions can be utilized to control the visibility of specific
       content for the purposes of safeguarding sensitive material potentially located within
       sites, lists, and libraries.
       4.2.2. All content is automatically set for search crawl, however, site managers have the
       ability to prevent site objects from being crawled by adjusting the search visibility setting
       at the site level, or modifying advanced settings at the library or list level. Note:
       Information will not appear in the search results immediately. Information is made
       available to the search engine once it has been indexed. Information indexing occurs
       once a day, thus information will not be available until the next day.
       4.2.3. Site search visibility will be managed by the base site owner using the Search
       Visibility settings under the List Settings.
    4.3. SharePoint® Development. Adding client side scripting to out-of-the-box web parts is
    authorized. For example, adding JavaScript to the content editor web part is allowed.
    4.4. Branding.
       4.4.1. Master page editing is not authorized. USAFE uses the AF EIM site templates
       which restrict the ability to edit master pages. The branding elements provided by AF are
       generic enough to accommodate both USAFE and tenant organizations.
       4.4.2. Themes. Site Owners are not authorized to change portal themes, styles,
       background colors, borders, or other page elements.
    4.5. SharePoint® Designer. Microsoft SharePoint ® Designer is not authorized by Site
    Owners, Site Managers or End users; improper use of designer can cause system
    malfunctions.
    4.6. SharePoint® Web Parts.
       4.6.1. Third party web parts are not authorized. Third party web parts can have hidden
       malicious code and contents and pose a security threat to our network. If a third party
       web part is required, coordinate with Higher Head Quarters Web Development
       department & System Administrators USAFE/A6CK, for approval.
LAKENHEATHI33-301 3 February 2014                                                              5


     4.6.2. All sites will be standardized according to the Site Administrator standards and
     guidance.
  4.7. Deleting Sites and Workspaces.
     4.7.1. To avoid the stagnation of information within the environment, organizations must
     ensure the accuracy and relevance of information within their sites.
     4.7.2. The automatic site deletion feature will be disabled. This will require site owners
     and site managers to monitor the activity on sites and workspaces. Sites and workspaces
     inactive for 90 days or longer should be deleted by the site manager.
  4.8. Site Content & Management.
     4.8.1. All sites will exclude content that falls within the following categories:
     4.8.2. Records Management Official files
     4.8.3. All sites will be limited to content that falls within the following categories:
     4.8.4. Technical Orders (TOs)
     4.8.5. Community of Practice documentation, Shared drive and Restricted drive
     documents, Archived data.
  4.9. EIM SharePoint ® Administration:
     4.9.1. Backups. Full backups are done on a weekly basis (Sunday) and differential
     backups are done daily. Full backup data is retained for 7 days and is deleted only after a
     more recent backup is verified.
     4.9.2. Recycle Bin. Use the SharePoint® built-in recycle bin to restore an accidentally
     deleted file. The data will remain in the recycle bin for 30 days.
     4.9.3. Blocked File Types. Files that may cause system vulnerabilities or security risks
     are blocked and cannot be uploaded to the system. Upload of a blocked file will result in
     a Warning Notice. By default, several standard file extensions are blocked, including any
     file extensions that are treated as executable files by Windows Explorer. See Attachment
     4 for list of blocked file types.
     4.9.4. Default Maximum Upload Size. The default maximum upload size of a file is 50
     MB.
     4.9.5. Storage. Initially each top site is set with 50 MB of storage space. Automatic
     notices are sent to the EIM-SharePoint® Administrators and Site Owners at the 50 MB,
     500 MB, and 1GB thresholds requesting more storage. Site managers will ensure a
     current content review is conducted. Thereafter, storage space is increased at 2GB
     increments. Site Collections may not exceed 100GB due to performance issues. My Site
     storage space is 25 MB.
  4.10. Site Procedures for Site Owners and End Users. All organizational sites will have site
  contact information displayed.
  4.11. USAFE Site Taxonomy. The site taxonomy is per the AF TO 00-33D-3001, AF
  Enterprise Information Management (EIM) Procedures for Site Owners and End Users
  (Chapter 2).
 6                                                 LAKENHEATHI33-301 3 February 2014


5. Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
     5.1. Site owners and site managers need to have a heightened awareness of high-impact PII
     (for example, Social Security Number)) stored and accessed through SharePoint®. Access to
     documents containing PII should never be given to groups of individuals unless each person
     had an official need to know of the information to perform their job. See AFI 33-332,
     paragraph 1.1.4.10 and 1.1.5.
     5.2. Site managers should limit the number of people with administrative privileges in
     SharePoint ® to ensure access and control is not compromised.
6. Records Management. Records play a vital role in managing and operating Air Force
activities. EIM-SharePoint ® is not authorized to store official records and is not an official
records repository. Manage official records in the EIM-SharePoint® environment according to
the Air Force Electronic Records Management (ERM) Solution. Contact your local records
professional for specific office filing procedures.




                                            KYLE W. ROBINSON, Col, USAF
                                            Commander, 48th Fighter Wing
LAKENHEATHI33-301 3 February 2014                                                       7


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program, 22 December 2008
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AETCI 33-303, Communications and Information, 28 February 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
TO 00-33D-3001, AF Enterprise Information Management (EIM) Procedures for Site Owners
and End Users, 15 September 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
EIM—Enterprise Information Management
EIS—Enterprise Information Services
ERM—Electronic Records Management
FOUO—For Official Use Only
GB—Gigabyte
MB—Megabyte
NIPRNet—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OI—Operational Instruction
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
SIPRNet—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
SSN—Social Security Number
TO—Technical Order
8                               LAKENHEATHI33-301 3 February 2014


                       Attachment 2
    SAMPLE UNIT SITE MANAGER APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM
LAKENHEATHI33-301 3 February 2014                                                                                   9


                                                           Attachment 3
                                                PERMISSION LEVEL DESCRIPTION

Table A3.1. Permission Level Descriptions.
                                Visitors            Read-only access to the Web-site(s) in question.
Permission Level Descriptions




                                Members             Have the ability to view, add, and modify content and
                                                    documents to existing lists and libraries. (Contribute, Read)
                                Content Managers    Have the ability to view, add, and modify content and
                                                    documents to existing lists and libraries as well as add and
                                                    customize pages, lists and libraries. Also, has all List &
                                                    Personal Rights and can add and customize pages. (Design,
                                                    Approve, Contribute, Read)
                                Site Managers       Have all content manager rights as well as the right to add,
                                                    modify and delete sites and sub-sites.
                                                     (Manage Hierarchy, Design, Approve, Contribute, Read)
                                Site Owners         Have full administrative control of the SharePoint ® site
 10                                             LAKENHEATHI33-301 3 February 2014


                                       Attachment 4
                            BLOCKED FILE EXTENSIONS

Table A4.1. Blocked File Extensions.
Ade                           Adp                         App
Asa                           Ashx                        Asmx
Asp                           Bas                         Bat
Cdx                           Cer                         Chm
Class                         Cmd                         Cnt
Com                           Config                      Cpl
Crt                           Csh                         Der
Dll                           Exe                         Fxp
Gadget                        Hlp                         Hpj
Hta                           Htr                         Htw
Ida                           Idc                         Idg
Ins                           Isp                         Its
Jse                           Ksh                         Ink
Mad                           Maf                         Mag
Mam                           Maq                         Mar
Mas                           Mat                         Mau
Mav                           Maw                         Mda
mdb                           Mde                         Mdt
Mdw                           Mdz                         Msc
Msh                           Msh 1                       Msh1 xml
Msh2                          Msh2xml                     Mshmxl
Msi                           Msp                         Mst
Ops                           Pcd                         Pif
Prf                           Prg                         Printer
Pst                           Reg                         Rem
Scf                           Scr                         Shb
Shs                           Stm                         Shtml
Soap                          Stm                         url
Vb                            Vbe                         Ws
Wsc                           Wsf                         wsh
