BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             LAKENHEATH INSTRUCTION 41-101
RAF LAKENHEATH (USAFE)
                                                                         13 SEPTEMBER 2010

                                                                                Health Services

                                                        PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION
                                                                            PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 48 MDOS/SGOE                                                     Certified by: 48 MDG/CC
Supersedes: LAKENHEATHI41-101,                                      (Col Kenneth P. McDonnell)
            11 October 2005                                                            Pages: 24


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 41-1, Health Care Programs
and Resources. It outlines responsibilities and procedures for managing the implementation of
provisions for the "Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Programs in Federal
Facilities" (see paragraph 2.1.). It provides guidance for the deployment of Automated External
Defibrillators (AED) for organizations residing on Royal Air Force (RAF) Lakenheath, RAF
Mildenhall and associated detachments. The AED is to be used for an emergency response to
Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) as a means to sustain life in a pre-hospital setting and increase the
chance of survival upon arrival at a Medical Treatment Facility. This instruction shall further
identify and delineate the lines of responsibility and provide general guidelines to ensure an
appropriate response to initiate and maintain such a program. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, prescribed by Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program; route AF Form 847s from the field through
Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/.
 2                                                                LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. 2005
American Heart Association (AHA) Guidelines for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation are updated
throughout the document. Adds terms and definitions including the term and definition for
“HeartSaver AED”. Revises guidelines for Medical Director appointment, revises the name, and
adds several new responsibilities of the PAD Program Coordinator (formerly Training
Coordinator). Clarifies that Site Coordinators should be appointed in writing and a copy of the
letter forwarded to the Medical Director. Adds recommendations that units should consult with
the Wing PAD Action Officer, Medical Director, or PAD Program Coordinator prior to
purchasing AED. Clarifies and adds training requirements. Expands Site Coordinator
responsibilities. Adds guidelines for AED equipment inspection and maintenance. Adds new
section for the 48 MDSS Medical Equipment Repair Center. Adds additional information
concerning AED equipment and supplies. Revises and clarifies the guidelines for AED
locations, and response times.

       1.     Roles and Responsibilities and Legal Considerations. ..........................................                                  3
       2.     Definitions. ............................................................................................................        3
       3.     Program Responsibilities. ......................................................................................                 4
       4.     AED Equipment and Supplies. ..............................................................................                       9
       5.     Maintenance. ..........................................................................................................         10
       6.     AED Placement and Installation. ...........................................................................                     11
       7.     Training. .................................................................................................................     11
       8.     QA. .........................................................................................................................   12
       9.     Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................                     13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                14

Attachment 2—ANNUAL UPDATE OF UNIT PAD PROGRAM RESPONSE PLAN
             MEMORANDUM                                                                                                                       16

Attachment 3—AED-CHAIN OF SURVIVIAL                                                                                                           17

Attachment 4—MAINTENANCE AND POST-USE PROCEDURE LIST                                                                                          19

Attachment 5—AED TREATMENT ALGORITHM                                                                                                          20

Attachment 6—UNIT PAD PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                  21

Attachment 7—AED COORDINATED REPORT FOR THE MEDICAL DIRECTOR                                                                                  22

Attachment 8—TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE (TSR) INFORMATION                                                                                      23

Attachment 9—PROGRAM QA INSPECTION GUIDE                                                                                                      24
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                3



1. Roles and Responsibilities and Legal Considerations.
   1.1. Roles and Responsibilities. Roles and Responsibilities. This document describes the
   roles and responsibilities deemed necessary to ensure the broadest training in the use of and
   application of the AED. The scope of training and use is applicable to all federal employees
   and active duty personnel at RAF Lakenheath, RAF Mildenhall and associated detachments.
   AEDs within the hospital, aboard Emergency Medical Services (EMS) and fire department
   vehicles, and those used by medically certified personnel overseen by a physician are not
   considered part of the Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Program.
   1.2. Legal Considerations for the Use of AEDs. Public Access Defibrillator programs
   establish procedures for dealing with emergency medical situations that present an
   appreciable risk of serious bodily injury or death regardless of the degree of care exercised
   by those responding to the situation. Federal, State, local, and host nation laws may regulate
   these emergency medical situations. The risk of civil liability for failing to follow applicable
   regulations and for acts or omissions that result in harm, are important and ever-present
   concerns that must be addressed in public access defibrillator programs. The installation
   leadership must ensure that all personnel involved in the public access defibrillator program
   or trained on the use of AEDs are aware of the legal considerations surrounding their use.
2. Definitions.
   2.1. Automated External Defibrillator (AED). An automated defibrillator device that is:
       2.1.1. Commercially distributed IAW the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
       2.1.2. Capable of recognizing the presence or absence of ventricular fibrillation or
       ventricular tachycardia, and is capable of determining, without intervention by the user of
       the device, whether defibrillation should be performed.
       2.1.3. Able to deliver an electrical shock (initiated manually by the rescuer) to an
       individual upon determining that defibrillation should be performed.
   2.2. Basic Life Support (BLS). A training program that teaches basic Cardiopulmonary
   Resuscitation (CPR) techniques as well as AED use. This program is geared toward
   healthcare providers.
   2.3. Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation. The act of providing respiratory ventilation and heart
   (cardiac) compression by an external source. This is most commonly provided to an
   individual who is found unresponsive, not breathing and without circulation, and is provided
   by someone capable of performing the required mechanical action.
   2.4. Defibrillation. The application of an electric shock, via a defibrillator, directly through a
   person's chest.
   2.5. Emergency Medical Services (EMS). The term used to describe the rapid response team
   of medically trained personnel to provide emergency medical assistance as necessary. At
   RAF Lakenheath and RAF Mildenhall, EMS and ambulance services are provided by the
   Fire and Emergency Department.
   2.6. Federal Building. A building or portion of a building leased or rented by a federal
   agency, which includes buildings on military installations.
 4                                            LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


     2.7. Harm. For purposes of this document, this term may include physical, nonphysical,
     economic, and noneconomic losses.
     2.8. Heartsaver AED. A training program that teaches CPR, AED use, relief of choking and
     use of barrier devices in adults and children. This program is geared toward non-healthcare
     providers.
     2.9. Perceived Medical Emergency. When circumstances exist whereby the behavior of an
     individual leads a reasonable person to believe the individual is experiencing a life-
     threatening condition that requires an immediate medical response.
     2.10. Pulseless Ventricular Tachycardia. An abnormal cardiac rhythm that is incompatible
     with life if not immediately treated (hereafter referred to as cardiac arrest).
     2.11. Sudden Cardiac Death (SCD). The term used to describe an abrupt cessation of
     normal cardiac function that typically results from ventricular fibrillation or pulseless
     ventricular tachycardia with rapid progression to death if not immediately treated.
     2.12. Ventricular Fibrillation. An abnormal cardiac rhythm that is incompatible with life if
     not immediately treated (hereafter referred to as cardiac arrest).
3. Program Responsibilities.
     3.1. 48th Fighter Wing Commander (48 FW/CC) Responsibilities.
        3.1.1. The 48 FW/CC has the overall responsibility for the RAF Lakenheath PAD
        Program. The Commander or designee will coordinate with the Director of Base Medical
        Services (DBMS), the 48th Medical Group Commander (48 MDG/CC) or designee, to
        ensure the PAD Program meets proper medical objectives.
        3.1.2. Provide the necessary resources to ensure total organizational compliance with the
        PAD program.
        3.1.3. Designate, in writing, an installation PAD Action Officer to provide wing
        oversight for the PAD Program.
     3.2. 100th Air Refuelling Wing (100 ARW/CC) Responsibilities.
3.2.1. The 100 ARW/CC has the overall responsibility for the RAF Mildenhall PAD Program.
The Commander or designee will coordinate with the DBMS, the 48 MDG/CC, or designee, to
ensure the PAD Program meets proper medical objectives.
        3.2.2. Provide the necessary resources to ensure total organizational compliance with the
        PAD program.
        3.2.3. Designate, in writing, an installation PAD Action Officer to provide wing
        oversight for the PAD Program.
     3.3. 48 FW PAD Action Officer Responsibilities.
        3.3.1. Ensure unit commanders who possess an AED for use in the PAD Program
        appoint, in writing, a PAD Site Coordinator.
        3.3.2. Ensure, annually, all 48 FW units possessing an AED for use in the PAD Program
        prepare the Annual Update of Unit Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Program
        Response Plan Memorandum (Attachment 2).
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                         5


     3.3.3. Receive the Annual Update of PAD Program Response Plan from all units and
     track unit compliance with this requirement.
     3.3.4. Forward annual PAD Program Response Plan to the PAD Program Medical
     Director.
     3.3.5. Work with the PAD Medical Director to accomplish facility site assessments prior
     to approval for inclusion in the program, and directs periodic quality assurance (QA)
     visits.
  3.4. 100 ARW PAD Action Officer Responsibilities.
     3.4.1. Ensure unit Commanders that posses an AED for use in the PAD Program appoint,
     in writing, a PAD Site Coordinator.
     3.4.2. Ensure, annually, all 100 ARW units possessing an AED for use in the PAD
     Program prepare the Annual Update of Unit Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Program
     Response Plan Memorandum (Attachment 2).
     3.4.3. Receive the Annual Update of PAD Program Response Plan from all units and
     track unit compliance with this requirement.
     3.4.4. Forward annual PAD Program Response Plan to the PAD Program Medical
     Director.
     3.4.5. Work with the PAD Medical Director to accomplish facility site assessments prior
     to approval for inclusion in the program, and directs periodic QA visits.
  3.5. 48 MDG/CC Responsibilities.
     3.5.1. The 48 MDG/CC has ultimate responsibility for all aspects of the PAD program.
     3.5.2. Appoint, in writing, a physician as PAD Medical Director, and a PAD Program
     Coordinator from within the 48 MDG. The PAD Medical Director should also hold the
     appointment of EMS Medical Director for continuity and coordination of this program.
  3.6. PAD Medical Director Responsibilities.
     3.6.1. Will be a licensed physician proficient in emergency medical services protocols,
     cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), and the use of AEDs.
     3.6.2. Has direct medical and quality assurance oversight over the entire PAD program
     and its participants.
     3.6.3. Ensure that base EMS is aware of the location of all PAD program AEDs on the
     installation, and that EMS personnel who respond to the scene notify the PAD Medical
     Director, or designee, when an AED was employed by a responder.
     3.6.4. Will have general responsibilities that include the establishment and maintenance
     of the AED-Chain of Survival (Attachment 3), Maintenance and Post-Use Procedure
     (Attachment 4), and AED Treatment Algorithm (Attachment 5) guidelines included in
     this document.
     3.6.5. Provide feedback to user Agency Commanders and the installation PAD Action
     Officer. Refers direct action to eliminate program shortfalls to the installation PAD
     Action Officer. Areas of primary concern include non-compliance to this instruction,
6                                            LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


       equipment issues, quality assessment results, compliance to protocols, and training
       deficiencies.
       3.6.6. Coordinate and work closely with the installation PAD Action Officer and/or the
       PAD Program Coordinator on program support, direction, and all issues relevant to this
       program. This includes advising units on appropriate number and placement of AEDs
       and quality assurance.
       3.6.7. Maintain an updated listing of locations (building numbers and room) of all AEDs
       on RAF Mildenhall/Lakenheath (and tenant units on RAF Feltwell) and all assigned PAD
       Site Coordinators for the base.
       3.6.8. The PAD Medical Director, or designated representative, will critically review all
       recorded data cards and actions taken each time an AED is used.
       3.6.9. Review and approve “Annual Update of Unit Public Access Defibrillation (PAD)
       Program Response Plan” memorandum (Attachment 2) from all units within the 48 FW
       and tenant units on RAF Lakenheath and Feltwell to include Army Air Force Exchange
       Services (AAFES), Base Exchange (BX) and Department of Defense Schools (DoDDS),
       and within the 100 ARW and tenant units on RAF Mildenhall. Renewal of the plan will
       occur on an annual basis.
       3.6.10. Maintain the annual response plans on file and ensures that copies of the response
       plan are forwarded to 48 MDG Medical Equipment Maintenance Office.
       3.6.11. Review, approve or deny unit requests to procure AEDs. The population served
       based on risk factors for cardiac arrest such as population number, age distribution, work
       environment and/or distance from emergency response, and the name and model number
       of the AEDs requested will be taken into consideration. AEDs are funded at unit expense.
    3.7. PAD Program Coordinator Requirements and Responsibilities (see Attachment 6).
       3.7.1. Be appointed, in writing, by the 48 MDG/CC.
       3.7.2. The PAD Program Coordinator will, at a minimum, be a current Basic Life
       Support (BLS) Instructor.
       3.7.3. Oversee all training processes for BLS related to the PAD program, including
       training specific to the use of the AED.
       3.7.4. Maintain a master list of all PAD Site Coordinator names, locations, phone
       numbers, and training status. An updated list will be provided to the PAD Medical
       Director and MERC periodically as needed.
       3.7.5. Maintain documentation of personnel trained in AED Heartsaver for the PAD
       program, to include PAD Site Coordinators and Responders for each AED location.
       3.7.6. Conduct site visits at the direction of the PAD Medical Director. Upon request
       from the user organization, the PAD Program Coordinator, in consultation with the
       medical director or designated alternate, will conduct site visits to determine optimal
       locations for and numbers of AED placement.
       3.7.7. Conduct periodic quality assessment (QA) visits. See paragraph 8.
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                          7


  3.8. Unit Commander/Functional Unit Director responsibilities.
     3.8.1. The Unit Commander/Functional Unit Director/Manager has the overall
     responsibility for conduct of the unit‟s PAD Program and ensures through proper
     coordination with the PAD Site Coordinator, and the PAD Medical Director that medical
     objectives are maintained for the PAD Program within the unit.
     3.8.2. Appoint, in writing, a PAD Site Coordinator who will serve as the primary liaison
     between the local organization‟s AED program and the PAD Medical Director. A copy
     of this appointment letter will be forwarded to the PAD Medical Director to be placed on
     file.
     3.8.3. Ensure units prepare the Annual Update of Unit Public Access Defibrillation
     (PAD) Program Response Plan Memorandum (Attachment 2) and it is forwarded to the
     installation PAD Action Officer and the PAD Medical Director.
     3.8.4. Each unit commander is responsible to secure funds for the initiation and
     sustainment of the program. Funding obligations include initial purchase and subsequent
     replacement of the AED(s), AED accessories and supplies, mounting hardware, and AED
     Station placard(s).
     3.8.5. Prior to the purchase of any additional AEDs, the unit Commander/Facility
     Manager should coordinate with the PAD Program Coordinator, PAD Medical Director
     or the installation PAD Action Officer to coordinate a site visit and approval.
     3.8.6. IAW AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, paragraph 7.28.1., all purchases
     must be approved by the Equipment Review Authorization Activity or designated
     representative. If the Government Purchase Card is used, the Base Medical Supply
     Officer must approve.
  3.9. PAD Site Coordinator Requirements and Responsibilities.
     3.9.1. Be a member of the local organization where the AED is deployed, appointed, in
     writing, by the unit commander.
     3.9.2. Be certified in the HeartSaver AED course or equivalent through available
     programs at either the 48 MDG, or the American Red Cross (ARC).
     3.9.3. Immediately after receiving a new AED, register the AED with the 48 MDG
     logistics Medical Equipment Repair Center (MERC) for initial assessment and entry into
     the Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support System.
     3.9.4. Coordinate with MERC for routine periodic inspections of the AED to ensure its
     readiness for emergency use. This includes daily visual check of the status indicator and
     weekly inspections (function test, battery indicator, chest pads, etc) with written
     documentation to validate the weekly inspections.
     3.9.5. Follow the manufacturer‟s suggested routine maintenance protocol for the
     particular AED model. Annual maintenance will be accomplished by the MERC.
     3.9.6. Responsible for replacing the battery if indicated on inspection, and restocking of
     supplies after a unit has been used in an emergency situation.
8                                          LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


      3.9.7. Ensure HeartSaver AED training of the organization‟s identified responders is
      accomplished IAW Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and Air
      Force directives.
      3.9.8. Ensure all personnel are trained in the unit‟s Emergency Response Plan (ERP).
      Each PAD Site Coordinator may use Attachments 2 and 3 as a guide to develop a written
      ERP specific to the unit.
      3.9.9. Will accomplish the following once an AED has been used in an emergency
      situation:
         3.9.9.1. Immediately perform the post-use procedures (Attachment 4).
         3.9.9.2. Complete the AED Coordinated Report for PAD Medical Director
         (Attachment 7).
         3.9.9.3. Forward the completed AED Coordinated Report to the PAD Medical
         Director for review not later than (NLT) 2 business days from the incident date.
         3.9.9.4. Arrange to download the incident data from the actual AED to either the
         PAD Medical Director‟s or the PAD Program Coordinator‟s computer within 48
         hours.
         3.9.9.5. Arrange for Traumatic Stress Response (TSR) debriefing sessions to be
         offered for all individuals involved in providing assistance in an emergency situation
         (Attachment 8).
         3.9.9.6. Before a PAD Site Coordinator/Property Custodian is relieved from duty,
         transferred, separated from service or absent from account for a period longer than 45
         days, an authorized successor will be named and reported to the PAD Program
         Coordinator.
         3.9.9.7. Local work centers can negotiate a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
         with the local RMO.
    3.10. 48 MDSS Medical Equipment Management Office (MEMO)/Medical Equipment
    Repair Center (MERC) Responsibilities.
      3.10.1. All PAD Program AED‟s will be gained in Defense Medical Logistics Standard
      Support (DMLSS) system and will be assigned a local device code. The nomenclature
      must be Public Access Defibrillator.
      3.10.2. AEDs already employed on base and not in DMLSS system records must be
      gained using an Equipment Gain transaction and the aforementioned device codes. The
      PAD Site Coordinator is responsible for bringing this to the attention of MERC.
      3.10.3. Annually, MEMO will receive Unit Response Plan Update Memorandum from
      the PAD Program Medical Director or Program Coordinator. These memoranda will
      confirm the location of AEDs on the installation.
      3.10.4. Keeps an inventory of all AEDs that are installed in any buildings on RAF
      Lakenheath and detachments of any 48 FW organizations.
      3.10.5. Notifies the unit‟s PAD Site Coordinator of required periodic maintenance.
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                          9


      3.10.6. Accomplishes all required annual maintenance actions on each AED assigned to
      RAF Lakenheath and associated detachments.
   3.11. Responder Requirements and Responsibilities.
      3.11.1. Individual within a unit who is trained in HeartSaver AED and who is expected
      to respond to an emergency. Their specific training shall be American Heart Association
      (AHA) HeartSaver AED or American Red Cross (ARC) equivalent.
      3.11.2. Trained responders should follow the protocol in an emergency situation as
      depicted by the „voice prompts‟ of the AED machine or the “AED Treatment Algorithm”
      provided (Attachment 5).
      3.11.3. Notifies their respective PAD Site Coordinator immediately after an event when
      an AED is used.
   3.12. 48 FW/SEG (Ground Safety) Responsibilities.
      3.12.1. Will coordinate with PAD Medical Director for a current list of RAF Lakenheath
      (and tenant units at RAF Feltwell) AED locations and PAD Site Coordinators prior to
      unit annual ground safety inspections.
      3.12.2. Will include PAD AEDs in all applicable unit annual ground safety inspections.
      Ground safety inspectors will ensure AEDs are present in the unit facilities IAW the PAD
      Site List and they will ensure an AED training program has been established.
      3.12.3. Annotate unit discrepancies in annual ground safety reports. PAD discrepancies
      will be provided to the 48 FW PAD Action Officer and the PAD Program Coordinator.
   3.13. 100 ARW/SEG Responsibilities.
      3.13.1. Coordinate with PAD Medical Director for current list of RAF Mildenhall AED
      locations and PAD Site Coordinators prior to unit annual ground safety inspections.
      3.13.2. Include PAD AEDs in all applicable unit annual ground safety inspections.
      Ground safety inspectors will ensure AEDs are present in the unit facilities IAW the PAD
      Site List and they will ensure an AED training program has been established.
      3.13.3. Annotate unit discrepancies in annual ground safety reports. PAD discrepancies
      will be provided to the 100 ARW PAD Action Officer and the PAD Program
      Coordinator.
4. AED Equipment and Supplies.
   4.1. There are various companies that offer different types of AEDs, each with a wide range
   in capabilities and price. For the purpose of standardization with MEMO equipment, the
   designated models on RAF Lakenheath are: Medtronic Lifepak 500, Zoll AED Plus, and
   Welch Allyn AED 10.
   4.2. Any AED other than the ones listed above must be approved by the PAD Medical
   Director prior to implementation on RAF Lakenheath.
   4.3. For facility mounted AEDs, a universal mounting bracket or cabinet along with the
   universal Identification Sign should be purchased. This is necessary to readily identify the
 10                                          LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


   AED location. These cabinets and signs can be purchased through the manufacturing
   company or online.
5. Maintenance.
   5.1. Local Biomedical Equipment Technicians (BMETs).
      5.1.1. Are the focal point of annual maintenance and management of the PAD program
      assets.
      5.1.2. During the initial inspection process, accurately record the serial number,
      manufacturer, and popular model (e.g. Lifepak 500).
      5.1.3. Perform annual preventive maintenance on all PAD program devices in
      accordance with manufacturer‟s specifications and guidelines.
      5.1.4. All maintenance, scheduled and unscheduled, must be annotated in the DMLSS
      system.
   5.2. Unit PAD Site Coordinator Responsibilities.
      5.2.1. Responsible for reporting non-operational units to local BMETs. If a device is
      reported as non-operational, local BMETs will assess the status of the device.
      5.2.2. If it is determined that the fault is the result of operator error, the BMET will
      notify the PAD Program Coordinator of the possible need for refresher training. Any
      calls of this nature will be coded as a “no-defect” work order in DMLSS system to track
      any trends.
          5.2.2.1. If the fault is not operator error and the unit is still under warranty, the
          BMET will coordinate with the manufacturer, or their designated dealer, to return the
          unit for repair or replacement.
          5.2.2.2. If the latter is determined to be the preferred course of action, Medical
          Equipment Management Office (MEMO) must be notified to ensure that the proper
          DMLSS transactions are completed.
          5.2.2.3. If the unit is no longer under warranty, local BMETs must determine if the
          unit can be repaired in-house or if the device should be sent to the manufacturer.
          5.2.2.4. All repair costs will be incurred by the owning unit.
          5.2.2.5. All actions and costs will be recorded in the DMLSS system.
          5.2.2.6. In accordance with the Safe Medical Device Act, all equipment errors must
          be reported to the FDA. The reporting mechanism is available on the Emergency are
          Research Institute (ECRI) website (http://www.ecri.org) and is included as part of
          the Air Force-wide subscription managed by the Air Force Medical Logistics Office.
          Once the online form is completed, the information will be forwarded to the FDA and
          compiled for analysis and tracking.
   5.3. MERC Responsibilities.
      5.3.1. During annual visits to each location, MERC personnel will ensure that all
      facilities are complying with this document as it relates to equipment maintenance. Any
      discrepancies must be included in the MERC trip report.
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                            11


       5.3.2. If a PAD Program AED is found on inspection to have a non-functioning battery
       or expired pads it will be identified by MERC, or other PAD Program personnel, and
       tracked until problems are remedied by purchase of necessary supplies by the unit. These
       instances are to be reported to the PAD Medical Director and installation PAD Action
       Officer as soon as possible.
6. AED Placement and Installation. The essential key to surviving a cardiac arrest is early
defibrillation. Therefore, AEDs must be strategically placed throughout the organization to meet
the optimal response time of 3 minutes or less. The response time interval begins from the
moment a person is identified as needing emergency care to when the AED is at the side of the
victim. Studies have shown that survival rates decrease by seven to ten percent for every minute
that defibrillation is delayed.
   6.1. A facility site assessment should be accomplished to determine the number of AEDs
   necessary as well as their placement within an organization or building. Contact the PAD
   Medical Director or installation PAD Action Officer to coordinate a site visit. A site
   inspection approval checklist will be kept in the PAD Medical Director‟s PAD notebook.
   6.2. Factors to consider in determining AED placement include the following:
       6.2.1. Facility size, complexity, and/or accessibility.
       6.2.2. Number and demographics of employees in the facility.
       6.2.3. Identified “High Risk” environments.
       6.2.4. Number of people that may have public access to the facility on a daily basis.
       6.2.5. Average age of the facility occupants.
       6.2.6. Incidence of heart disease given the population at hand.
       6.2.7. Emergency response protocol that may already be in place for your facility,
       keeping in mind that it is the time to initial shock that really matters.
   6.3. In order to achieve complete area coverage within a building, an AED should be
   positioned no more than 90 seconds travel time (one way).
   6.4. Optimal response time from the identification of a person down to the delivery of a
   shock (i.e. drop-to-shock) should be less than 5 minutes.
   6.5. AEDs should be stored/mounted at a height easily accessible to all individuals. In
   addition, it should be secured in such a way that an audible alarm is activated when the unit
   is removed for use and prevents potential for tampering, theft, and or misuse.
   6.6. Optimally, the AED installation should be integrated into the fire detection system,
   signal transmitter, thereby sending an automatic “Alarm” direct to the installation Fire
   Station. Units are highly encouraged to coordinate with the 48th Civil Engineering /100th
   Civil Engineering, Alarms Maintenance section, to assess whether or not this integration is
   feasible for the particular unit.
7. Training. Overall effectiveness of the PAD program will be improved as the number of
personnel who are fully trained and willing to respond increases. In-house training in groups that
correspond with work groups tends to build a better sense of team and responsibility than would
individual separate training.
 12                                          LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


   7.1. The PAD Site Coordinator will:
      7.1.1. Obtain formal training and certification in the AHA HeartSaver AED or equivalent
      course.
      7.1.2. Obtain training through the 48 MDG Education and Training Office, unit
      personnel who are trained instructors, or the American Red Cross (ARC) . The first two
      training sources are available at no cost to the unit.
      7.1.3. Accomplish the initial formal training within 2 months of appointment as a PAD
      Site Coordinator.
      7.1.4. Frequency of formal recertification will occur every 2 years.
   7.2. The Responder will:
      7.2.1. Obtain formal training and certification in the AHA HeartSaver AED or equivalent
      course.
      7.2.2. Obtain training through the 48 MDG Education and Training Office, unit
      personnel who are trained instructors, or the American Red Cross (ARC).
      7.2.3. Frequency of formal recertification will occur every 2 years.
   7.3. Unit Training Plans.
      7.3.1. Site Coordinators should develop a unit training plan that includes who will be
      trained and serve as responders, which training course will be used, where training will
      take place, and how skills review will be conducted. The Site Coordinator may consult
      with the PAD Medical Director for assistance if needed.
      7.3.2. Informal training should occur on an annual basis to assist personnel with
      maintaining and improving skills in CPR and AED use, understanding procedures for
      medical emergencies within the unit, and disseminating any updates to emergency
      guidelines. Review of the Emergency Response Plan (ERP) meets this requirement.
      7.3.3. Recommend PAD Site Coordinator conduct mock training drills which will be
      coordinated with the PAD Program Coordinator or the PAD Medical Director, so that
      they are present to observe, evaluate, and give feedback.
      7.3.4. Unannounced drills may occur throughout the year at the direction of the PAD
      Medical Director.
      7.3.5. The PAD Site Coordinator and observers/evaluators will submit a copy of an after
      action report to the PAD Program Coordinator and the PAD Medical Director after any
      mock training drills.
8. QA.
   8.1. The PAD Program Coordinator will coordinate with the facility manager prior to QA
   visits. QA visits will be onsite evaluations of two key areas, AED inspection practices and
   user performance (see Attachment 9).
      8.1.1. AED inspections will include AED location, operator inspection practices, chest
      pad expiration dates, and AED accessory supplies.
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                       13


      8.1.2. User performance evaluations will assess emergency reporting procedures, CPR
      technique, and AED application and use.
   8.2. Results of such QA visits will be recorded on a PAD Program QA Inspection Checklist
   (Attachment 9), with a copy provided to the user agency and reported to the PAD Medical
   Director. The original will be placed in the PAD Medical Director‟s PAD Program
   Notebook.
   8.3. The medical director will provide a summary of inspection results to the installation
   PAD Action Officer.
   8.4. All post-use documentation and downloaded data will be reviewed by the PAD Medical
   Director within 72 hours of the incident. The PAD Medical Director, PAD Program
   Coordinator, or installation PAD Action Officer will give feedback to the PAD Site
   Coordinator concerning any discrepancies or comments.
9. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   9.1. Prescribed Forms.
      Lakenheath Form 1, AED Coordinated Report for the Medical Director
   9.2. Adopted Forms.
      AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
      AF Form 4368, Scheduled Maintenance and Certification Label




                                          JAY B. SILVERIA, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 48th Fighter Wing
 14                                        LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program, 22 December 2008
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 41-201, Managing Clinical Engineering Programs, 25 March 2003
AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 30 June 2006
AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions, 22 March 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, 15 April 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FW/CC—-48th Fighter Wing Commander
MDG—-48th Medical Group
MDG/CC—-48th Medical Group Commander
MDSS—-48th Medical Support Squadron
AAFES—-Army Air Force Exchange Services
AED—-Automated External Defibrillator
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
AHA—-American Heart Association
ARC—- American Red Cross
BLS—-Basic Life Support
BMETs—-Biomedical Equipment Technicians
BX—-Base Exchange
CPR—-Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
DBMS—-Director of Base Medical Services
DMLSS—-Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support
DoDDS—-Department of Defense Schools
ECRI—-Emergency Care Research Institute
EMS—-Emergency Medical Services
FDA—-Food and Drug Administration
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                   15


IAW—-In Accordance With
MEMO—-Medical Equipment Management Office
MERC—-Medical Equipment Repair Center
MOU—-Memorandum of Understanding
OI—-Operating Instruction
OSHA—-Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PAD—-Public Access Defibrillator
QA—-Quality Assessment/Quality Assurance
RAF—-Royal Air Force
SCA—-Sudden Cardiac Arrest
SCD—-Sudden Cardiac Death
TSR—-Traumatic Stress Response
 16                                  LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                 Attachment 2
 ANNUAL UPDATE OF UNIT PAD PROGRAM RESPONSE PLAN MEMORANDUM

Figure A2.1. Annual Update of Unit PAD Program Response Plan Memorandum
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                         17


                                          Attachment 3
                                 AED-CHAIN OF SURVIVIAL

A3.1. Early Access.
   A3.1.1. Call/Activate 9-1-1
   A3.1.2. Assess scene safety.
   A3.1.3. Assess responsiveness. Tap shoulder and shout, "Are you OK?"
   A3.1.4. Activate emergency response plan, and call for the AED.
A3.2. Early CPR (for one rescuer).
   A3.2.1. Assess Airway. Perform head tilt, chin lift to open airway.
   A3.2.2. Assess Breathing. Look, listen, and feel. If breathing is absent, use a protective
   airway mask and deliver two rescue breaths.
   A3.2.3. Bare patient‟s chest and locate CPR hand position by placing the heel of one hand in
   the center of the chest, between the nipples.
   A3.2.4. Perform CPR until an AED arrives.
   A3.2.5. Compress and release chest 30 times (Rate: 100 compressions per minute).
   A3.2.6. Ventilate. Give 2 rescue breaths.
   A3.2.7. Continue CPR until AED arrives; 30 compressions/2 breaths. Check for signs of
   circulation (breathing, coughing, and/or movement) after 5 cycles. (2 minutes of CPR).
   A3.2.8. Be sure to push hard and push fast when delivering chest compressions.
A3.3. Early Defibrillation.
   A3.3.1. When AED arrives:
   A3.3.2. Place the AED near the head of the patient‟s left side and assure that an AED
   rescuer remains on the same side in order to safely operate the unit.
   A3.3.3. Stop CPR
   A3.3.4. Turn on the AED.
   A3.3.5. Prepare the “bare” chest if not yet done.
   A3.3.6. Cut or tear away clothing.
   A3.3.7. If chest hair is excessive, shave or clip.
   A3.3.8. If chest wall is wet, dry it before placing electrode pads.
   A3.3.9. Follow the AED's verbal and visual prompts.
   A3.3.10. Apply electrodes.
   A3.3.11. Do not touch patient and allow the AED to analyze.
 18                                           LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


   A3.3.12. If a shock is indicated, ensure all personnel are clear of patient by showing a visible
   sign of clearing the patient and a spoken indication of clearing the patient. Shout “I‟m Clear,
   You‟re Clear, We‟re all Clear!” Deliver shock by pressing the illuminated shock button.
   A3.3.13. Continue care per the AED Treatment Algorithm.
A3.4. Early Advanced Care (Life Support).
   A3.4.1. Have a designated person wait for EMS providers at the front entry of main building
   and help guide them through security doors to the patient.
   A3.4.2. Individuals working on a patient should communicate information to the EMS
   providers such as:
   A3.4.3. Victim/patient “down-time.”
   A3.4.4. Any known medical problems or allergies.
   A3.4.5. Time victim was found.
   A3.4.6. Events preceding incident (if known).
   A3.4.7. Treatment already rendered: such as number of shocks delivered.
   A3.4.8. Assist EMS personnel as needed.
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                             19


                                         Attachment 4
                 MAINTENANCE AND POST-USE PROCEDURE LIST

A4.1. Regular Maintenance. See User's Guide for complete maintenance schedule.
   A4.1.1. Daily. Visual Check of status indicator light. Verify the light settings that indicate
   the unit is ready to use. Consult your User's Guide for the specifics regarding the meaning of
   your lighting configuration.
   A4.1.2. Weekly:
      A4.1.2.1. Check the Status Indicator. Verify the light settings that indicate the unit is
      ready to use.
      A4.1.2.2. Ensure all supplies, accessories and spares are present and are in operating
      condition.
      A4.1.2.3. Inspect the exterior and pad connectors for signs of damage.
      A4.1.2.4. Check expiration dates of chest pads and supplies.
A4.2. Responder. AED Post-use Procedure. The Site Coordinator/Responder will do the
following after any AED use:
   A4.2.1. Notify Medical Director via the written "AED Coordinated Report for Medical
   Director.”
   A4.2.2. Contact MERC to download the device information recorded during its use and
   deliver it to the Medical Director with the report listed above.
   A4.2.3. Conduct employee TSR debriefing if deemed necessary.
   A4.2.4. Restock any used electrode pads, batteries, razors or gloves. Inspect unused supplies
   for any damage or expiration dates.
   A4.2.5. Remove and replace battery in the AED and perform a Battery Insertion Test (BIT),
   according to unit manual, prior to replacing the AED back into service.
   A4.2.6. Inspect the exterior and pad connectors for dirt or contamination.
   A4.2.7. Clean the AED. Review specific User's Guide for list of appropriate cleaning agents.
   A4.2.8. Check the Status Indicator. Verify the light settings that indicate the unit is ready to
   use. Consult your User's Guide for the specifics regarding the meaning of your lighting
   configuration.
   A4.2.9. Ensure all supplies, accessories and spares are present and are in operating
   condition.
   A4.2.10. Check expiration dates and any obvious signs of damage to the unit.
   A4.2.11. Validate medical device sticker AF Form 4368, Scheduled Maintenance and
   Certification Label, prescribed by AFI 41-201, Managing Clinical Engineering Programs.
 20                                     LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                  Attachment 5
                        AED TREATMENT ALGORITHM

Figure A5.1. AED Treatment Algorithm.
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                    21


                                       Attachment 6
                      UNIT PAD PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION

A6.1. Identify.
   A6.1.1. Identify Site Coordinators- Primary and Alternate
   A6.1.2. Unit Commander or Director Generate Appointment Letter for Site Coordinators
   and give copy to Medical Director
   A6.1.3. Identify personnel as responders
   A6.1.4. Ensure Training for Site Coordinators and responders
A6.2. Determine.
   A6.2.1. Number and location of placement for AEDs in consultation with Medical Director
   or PAD Program Coordinator
   A6.2.2. Internal Medical Emergency Response Plan (ERP)
   A6.2.3. Method for contacting EMS (911)
   A6.2.4. Unit AED and ERP Training Program
   A6.2.5. Method and procedures for AED maintenance checks (daily, weekly, post-use, and
   annual)
   A6.2.6. Method for placing AED back into service after use in an incident
   A6.2.7. Method for quality improvement
A6.3. Order.
   A6.3.1. Approved AED
   A6.3.2. Order AED Wall Sign and Inspection Record Tag
   A6.3.3. Order additional AED Accessory Kit
   A6.3.4. Register newly acquired AED with medical logistics
A6.4. Write.
   A6.4.1. Internal Medical Emergency Response Plan
   A6.4.2. AED Maintenance Procedures
A6.5. Contact.
   A6.5.1. Medical Director or PAD Program Coordinator when ready to implement unit PAD
 22                                     LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                    Attachment 7
          AED COORDINATED REPORT FOR THE MEDICAL DIRECTOR

Figure A7.1. Aed Coordinated Report For The Medical Director.
LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              23


                                          Attachment 8
                TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE (TSR) INFORMATION

A8.1. What is TSR Management? It is a comprehensive system of crisis intervention designed
to assist individuals and groups affected by traumatic events (natural disasters, terrorist events,
suicides, death - either accidental or intentional).
A8.2. What events might precipitate a request for TSR services? Many types of events have
the potential to produce individual and community traumatic stress. Events include large scale
disasters (tornadoes, bombings, hurricanes, etc.) and small-scale disasters (suicide, death or near-
death of coworker, workplace violence event, etc.). TSR services will be provided after traumatic
events to help those who have experienced the events. The goal is to assist those affected by
traumatic events to cope with the normal stress reaction in an effective manner. These actions are
intended to minimize the impact of exposure to these events and prevent or mitigate permanent
disability if possible.
A8.3. What is the procedure for requesting TSR services? The office of record for TSR
services is the Mental Health Clinic (226-8603). Please address any inquiries about TSR services
to the Mental Health Team.
 24                                          LAKENHEATHI41-101 13 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                         Attachment 9
                           PROGRAM QA INSPECTION GUIDE

A9.1. AED INSPECTION PRACTICES
AED location (optimal location for responses, signage, security)

Operator Inspection Practices (daily and weekly checks, documentation)

Chest Pad Expiration Dates

AED Accessory Supplies (availability and accessibility)
A9.2. AED USER PERFORMANCE
Emergency Response Plan (written protocol, knowledge of procedures)

CPR Technique and Training (knowledge and currency)
AED Application and Use
