BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              LAKENHEATH INSTRUCTION 24-301
RAF LAKENHEATH (USAFE)
                                                                                     6 JULY 2012

                                                                                   Transportation

                                                   GOVERNMENT MOTOR VEHICLE (GMV)
                                                       ACCIDENT AND ABUSE PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 48 LRS/LGRV                                                        Certified by: 48 MSG/CC
                                                                              (Col Scott I. Benza)
Supersedes:    LAKENHEATHI23-101,                                                        Pages: 10
               3 November 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Management, Operation
and Use of Transportation Vehicles. It describes the responsibilities of all personnel whenever
damage occurs or is discovered on government motor vehicles (GMV). It provides
responsibilities to all unit commanders, 48th Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Management
Flight (48 LRS/LGRV), Vehicle Control Officers and Vehicle Control Noncommissioned
Officers (VCO/VCNCO), and vehicle operators for the purpose of maximizing the service life of
all vehicles under the functional control of the 48th Fighter Wing (48 FW). Through active
participation in the investigation process, personnel will become more aware of the serious
monetary drain that occurs through unnecessary damage to Air Force assets. In addition,
adherence to the procedures in this instruction will maximize the service life of assigned vehicles
through the establishment of a comprehensive program of controls and penalties to decrease
instances of vehicle damage resulting from accidents, abuse, and misuse. It applies to all units
assigned to the 48 FW. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, prescribed by Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program;
route AF Form 847s from the field through appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
 2                                                        LAKENHEATHI24-301 6 JULY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised to reflect that units are responsible for timely reporting of
vehicle accidents to the Vehicle Management Flight. Also, unit commanders may designate
representatives to release vehicles for repairs.
1. Program Responsibilities.
     1.1. Objective. The objective of this instruction is to provide 48 FW personnel with a
     comprehensive program of controls to extend the service life of assigned vehicles by
     decreasing instances of damage resulting from accidents, abuse, and misuse.
     1.2. Compliance. All squadron commanders and staff agency chiefs are responsible for
     compliance with this instruction. All vehicle operators have primary responsibility to
     prevent accidents, abuse, and misuse. Secondary responsibility rests with the unit VCO or
     VCNCO, who should be inspecting unit vehicles periodically for unreported damage.
     Unreported vehicle damage clearly indicates that unit personnel are not inspecting their
     vehicles properly. Documentation, tracking, and repair of accident and abuse damage is the
     responsibility of 48 LRS/LGRV, or repair through local commercial activities as applicable.
     1.3. Program Managers/Monitors. 48 LRS/LGRV manages the 48 FW Accident, Abuse,
     Incident, and Misuse Program. The appointed VCO or VCNCO within each organization
     will act as liaison between the using organization and 48 LRS/LGRV.
     1.4. Program Review. 48 LRS/LGRV reviews the accident, abuse, incident, and misuse
     program annually.
     1.5. Unit Commanders:
        1.5.1. Ensure a viable accident, abuse, and misuse prevention program is part of the unit
        safety program.
        1.5.2. Ensure all vehicles are utilized only for their intended purpose, and reasonable
        care is exercised during their use to maximize service life.
        1.5.3. Ensure all accident, abuse, and misuse cases are properly investigated within their
        unit. Will be responsible for all damage to vehicles by personnel assigned to their unit.
     1.6. User’s Responsibilities for Unassigned Vehicles. There are times when the using
     organization is different from the organization for which the vehicle is assigned, i.e. U-Drive-
     It (UDI) vehicle from the Vehicle Operations Element, a loaned vehicle from another
     organization, or use by temporary duty (TDY) personnel. Under these conditions, the
     investigation and transfer of unit funds applies to the using organization.
        1.6.1. Resolve all disputes concerning classification of vehicle damage and funds
        transfer.
        1.6.2. Ensure 48 LRS/LGRV is reimbursed for all in-house or commercial repairs caused
        by assigned personnel.
        1.6.3. In those cases where the vehicle is sent to an off-base contractor for repair, ensure
        using unit funds are available to facilitate payment for damages.
LAKENHEATHI24-301 6 JULY 2012                                                                       3


      1.6.4. When TDY personnel are operating the vehicle, 48 LRS/LGRV performs all
      required repairs and no funds will be transferred.
   1.7. Exceptions. This instruction does not apply to those organizations already identified as
   refundable or reimbursable to the 48 LRS, i.e. Office of Special Investigation, Medical
   Group, 372d Training Squadron, Housing, Defense Commissary Agency, etc.
   1.8. Comptroller Squadron.
      1.8.1. The 48 LRS/LGRV will notify the 48 LRS Resource Advisor (RA), who in turn
      will notify the applicable squadron RA. Documentation, along with a journal voucher
      (JV), will be prepared by the squadron RA and provided to the 48th Comptroller
      Squadron Financial Analysis Office (48 CPTS/FMA) for processing.
      1.8.2. The commander of the using organization upon notification of an accident or
      abuse must release the vehicle to 48 LRS/LGRV for repairs. This may be satisfied
      through written or email memorandum to the Vehicle Management and Analysis
      (VM&A) work center. The applicable squadron RA will provide the designated fund cite
      to the 48 LRS RA in order to recoup repair costs.
      1.8.3. Backup documentation for accidents and abuses will include any documents
      submitted by the using organization and the Vehicle Repair Detail Report from 48
      LRS/LGRV, and will include actual repair costs and associated correspondence.
      1.8.4. The 48 LRS RA will process JVs as required for reimbursement of associated
      repair cost. JVs will normally be processed as accidents occur with coordination from
      the 48 LRS RA, which will include all accumulated documentation from squadron RAs
      with the required backup documentation described in paragraph1.8.3.
2. Program Definitions.
   2.1. Accidents. Normally the result of a collision, impact, or abrasion against a fixed or
   moving object involving a GMV, causing damage to the GMV or the object, whether
   immediately noticeable or not.
   2.2. Abuse. When an operator fails to exercise reasonable care. A negligent act or omission
   that results in damage not attributable to fair wear and tear under normal use. Fair wear and
   tear is defined as the deterioration of items attributed to normal usage. Vehicle abuse may
   result in safety hazards, early failure of components, or immediately detectable damage.
   Some examples of vehicle abuse occur when an individual operator or organization:
      2.2.1. Fails to accomplish operator maintenance as outlined in appropriate governing
      directives.
      2.2.2. Fails to report malfunctions, defects, or damage to 48 LRS/LGRV in a timely
      manner, usually within 24 hours or the next duty day.
      2.2.3. Improperly loads, or fails to tie down, or otherwise secure cargo.
      2.2.4. Tampers with governors, or pollution control devices.
      2.2.5. Operates a vehicle with improperly inflated tires, or tires with insufficient tread.
      2.2.6. Fails to adequately protect painted surface from damage or oxidation.
 4                                                        LAKENHEATHI24-301 6 JULY 2012


        2.2.7. Modifies, or otherwise installs add-on equipment without prior written approval
        from 48 LRS/LGRV.
        2.2.8. Operates a GMV with insufficient oil or coolant, or services a GMV with incorrect
        type of fluid, i.e. diesel instead of unleaded gasoline, standard brake fluid where silicon
        should be used, gear oil instead of automatic transmission fluid, etc.
        2.2.9. Operates a GMV in a manner for which it was not designed or intended, i.e. while
        the emergency brake is applied, over-accelerates, changes gears from forward to reverse
        while the vehicle is in motion so as to cause damage, etc.
        2.2.10. Fails to exercise reasonable care when opening doors in high winds. Reasonable
        care would include parking GMV into the wind, and/or properly restraining the doors
        when opened.
        2.2.11. Fails to deliver vehicle or equipment to 48 LRS/LGRV for scheduled service, to
        include scheduled lube and oil filter change, annual safety inspections, Major Command
        (MAJCOM)-directed special inspections, manufacturer recalls, technical service
        bulletins, or time compliance technical inspections.
     2.3. Incidents. Vehicle damage that cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear, or an accident.
     Incidental damage is not within the control of the vehicle operator to prevent. For example,
     damage caused by severe weather conditions, i.e. hail, falling trees, airborne debris, etc, road
     hazards, i.e. rocks, nails, etc., or damage caused by faulty mechanical conditions. All such
     repairs will be performed by 48 LRS/LGRV as routine.
     2.4. Misuse. Vehicle damage that cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear. Normally
     occurs when the vehicle is used for other than its intended purpose, or failure to comply with
     proper operating procedures as outlined in the applicable Technical Order or user’s manual.
     Damage sustained as a result of misuse will normally be processed as vehicle abuse.
3. Program Procedures.
     3.1. Objective. To provide guidance necessary to effectively report, investigate, track and
     repair damage resulting from accidents, abuse, and misuse.
     3.2. Report initiation. The person causing or discovering vehicle damage will notify their
     unit VCO/VCNCO without delay. All vehicle damage will be immediately reported to 48
     LRS/LGRV for classification, i.e. accident, abuse, misuse, or incident, and to prevent further
     damage and/or unsafe operation of the vehicle.
        3.2.1. When involved in a vehicle accident, whether damage is visible or not, the
        operator immediately notifies their VCO/VCNCO, accomplishes all appropriate accident
        reports, and takes the vehicle to 48 LRS/LGRV for a serviceability inspection.
        3.2.2. When vehicle damage is not the result of an accident, or an investigation
        determines that the vehicle operator exercised reasonable care, the damage is considered
        normal wear and tear, and 48 LRS/LGRV accomplishes repairs as routine maintenance.
        There is no transfer of funds.
        3.2.3. When accidental, abusive, or misuse damage has occurred to a vehicle, 48
        LRS/LGRV will request the using organization conduct an investigation. The
        investigation is to determine whether the vehicle operator exercised reasonable care. The
LAKENHEATHI24-301 6 JULY 2012                                                                 5


     commander of the using organization makes the determination whether to conduct a
     Report of Survey in accordance with AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force
     Property. A Report of Survey shall be conducted when the commander suspects gross
     negligence, willful misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use was involved.
  3.3. Accident and Abuse Responsibilities.
     3.3.1. 48 LRS/LGRV.
         3.3.1.1. For vehicles involved in an accident, initiate an accident estimate work
         order. If no damage is discovered, record “no damage”, and forward a “no damage”
         report to the unit VCO/VCNCO.
         3.3.1.2. If damage is discovered, initiate an itemized estimate of required repairs
         utilizing an AF Form 1823, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order, prescribed by AFI
         23-302, Vehicle Management. Both direct and indirect costs will be included to
         determine one-time repair limitations.
         3.3.1.3. Provide written/electronic notification to the commander or designated
         representative of the using organization, the 48 LRS Commander (or designated
         representative), and the base Safety Office (electronic notification is acceptable). A
         copy will be also sent to the unit VCO/VCNCO.
         3.3.1.4. The repair process will commence once the Vehicle Fleet Manager or
         Superintendent has personally inspected the vehicle accident or abuse case. Digital
         pictures will be taken and retained for investigation purposes. 48 LRS/LGRV will
         hold the vehicle for 3 duty days before beginning repairs. The organizational
         commander may request additional time beyond 3 days in order to investigate the
         circumstances surrounding the accident or abuse.
         3.3.1.5. Coordinate with units to ensure funds are available prior to vehicles being
         delivered to local commercial repair facilities. In those cases where the repair cost
         exceeds $3,000, 48 LRS/LGRV will coordinate with base contracting and request
         authority to exceed the single purchase limit allowance set by the Government
         Purchase Card (GPC) Program. If funds are not available, certification by the unit
         RA must be provided. At that time, 48 LRS/LGRV will review manpower
         availability and funding from the fenced account, and prioritize repairs based on these
         factors. The vehicle will have a lower priority than those already processed for
         corrosion control, with the exception of mission essential and emergency response
         vehicles.
         3.3.1.6. Damage will normally be repaired using local commercial sources, and paid
         for by 48 LRS/LGRV using a GPC. In special circumstances, commercial repairs
         may not be in the best interest of the Air Force (determined by 48 LRS/LGRV), and
         will be accomplished in-house.
         3.3.1.7. Notify the using organization when in-house or commercial repairs have
         been completed. Organizations will initiate reimbursement once a JV has been filed.
         3.3.1.8. Upon completion of the repairs, produce two copies of an On-Line Vehicle
         Integrated Management System (OLVIMS) listing itemizing the actual cost of
         repairs. One copy will be forwarded to the using organization as notification of
6                                                   LAKENHEATHI24-301 6 JULY 2012


       material costs being transferred to 48 LRS/LGRV. A second copy will be forwarded
       to 48 CPTS/FMA for reimbursement action for all material costs incurred. For GPC
       payments, a copy of all costs will be produced for full reimbursement to the 48
       LRS/LGRV GPC account.
       3.3.1.9. Track the cost of all required parts and materials, whether accomplished in-
       house or through contract sources, utilizing the OLVIMS.
       3.3.1.10. Ensure only those repairs directly related to the accident, abuse, or misuse
       are accomplished to prevent the unwarranted and excessive transfer of unit funds.
       3.3.1.11. Provide the using organization with an AF Form 20, Repair Cost and
       Reparable Value Statement, prescribed by AFMAN 23-220, upon request when
       pecuniary liability is being assessed.
       3.3.1.12. Establish and maintain an accident and abuse case file for tracking
       purposes.
    3.3.2. Using Organization.
       3.3.2.1. In accordance with established governing directives, each using organization
       shall, through their VCO/VCNCO, make every effort to properly care for all assigned
       government owned, leased or rented vehicles. Furthermore, to maximize service life
       by reducing overall utilization, each using organization must restrict government
       owned, leased or rented vehicles to be used only for official mission-essential tasks.
       3.3.2.2. The commander ordesignated representative of the using organization must
       release the vehicle for repairs within 3 duty days of notification by 48 LRS/LGRV.
       The unit commander can request additional time if needed to investigate the
       circumstances of the accident/abuse. In order to expedite the return of the vehicle to
       the using organization, 48 LRS/LGRV will commence repairs if the unit commander
       has not released the vehicle in the allotted 3 duty days.
       3.3.2.3. Conduct an internal investigation or Report of Survey as deemed appropriate
       by the using organizational commander, for all damage not attributable to fair wear
       and tear in accordance with AFI 31-201, Security Forces Standards and Procedures,
       AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, AFI 91-204, Safety
       Investigations and Reports, and AFMAN 23-220. The investigation will assess and
       specifically address whether the operator exercised reasonable care, determine the
       cause, identify actions necessary to prevent recurrence, and determine whether
       pecuniary liability will be assessed. This report must be signed by the unit
       commander, and maintained with all other accident records.
       3.3.2.4. Damage will normally be repaired utilizing local commercial sources and
       paid for via the 48 LRS/LGRV GPC account. In special circumstances, commercial
       repairs may not be in the best interest of the AF (determined by 48 LRS/LGRV), and
       will be accomplished in-house by 48 LRS/LGRV.
       3.3.2.5. Reimburse 48 LRS/LGRV for in-house or commercial repair costs. Costs
       will be limited to parts and Operating and Maintenance (O&M) costs for in-house
       repairs. For commercial repairs, reimbursement will be for the entire total of repairs,
       to include labor. 48 LRS/LGRV will furnish 48 CPTS/FMFL with an itemized bill
LAKENHEATHI24-301 6 JULY 2012                                                                  7


           reflecting all costs associated with the repairs with a letter stating the using
           organization agrees to reimburse 48 LRS/LGRV. The prepared JV will be sent to and
           processed by 48 CPTS, who will then transfer the obligations from the using
           organization for all repairs to the 48 LRS/LGRV account.
           3.3.2.6. As outlined in AFI 23-302, request an AF Form 20 from 48 LRS/LGRV
           when pecuniary liability will be assessed. Reimbursement to 48 LRS/LGRV will not
           be delayed pending pecuniary liability actions.
           3.3.2.7. Review the billing as reflected on the OLVIMS report, and contact 48
           LRS/LGRV to resolve any billing disputes.
   3.4. Procedures for GMV/Lease Vehicle Misuse and Incidents.
       3.4.1. When 48 LRS/LGRV determines vehicle damage is the result of misuse, as
       defined in this instruction, it shall be processed as a vehicle abuse.
       3.4.2. When 48 LRS/LGRV determines vehicle damage to be incidental, as defined in
       this instruction, it shall be repaired as routine unscheduled maintenance with no transfer
       of funds.
4. Temporary Replacement Vehicles. Temporary replacement vehicles are normally not
provided to the using organization during the investigation or repair of damage resulting from a
vehicle accident, abuse, or misuse.
5. Repair Actions. Repair actions may be delayed if loss of the vehicle will adversely impact
the wing’s mission, existing damage does not impair the safe operation of the vehicle, and when
no further damage will result by delaying the repairs.
6. Repair Priority. Normally, all vehicle accident, abuse, and misuse damage repairs will
receive a routine repair priority by 48 LRS/LGRV. Fire trucks, ambulances and other mission-
essential vehicles may be prioritized as determined by the Vehicle Fleet Manager or
Superintendent.
7. Final Decision. 48 LRS/LGRV is not budgeted for covering the cost of repairing abuse and
accidents, therefore, using organizations will be expected to automatically provide for payment
of costs for accidents or abuses. In those situations where 48 LRS/LGRV and the using
organization cannot reach agreement on who pays for a specific abuse or accident case, the
accident/abuse investigation file will be forwarded to the 48 MSG Commander, who is the final
decision authority to resolve conflicts. The MSG Commander will also decide who pays for
repairs when accidents occur between the different base organizations and the party at fault
cannot be clearly identified.
 8                                                      LAKENHEATHI24-301 6 JULY 2012


8. Management Incentives. The purpose of this program is the appropriate alignment of
budget responsibility for unit controllable events, and to deter vehicle accident and abuse cases,
which jeopardize lives and drain our limited resources. Commander emphasis and direct
involvement is essential to the program’s success.




                                             JOHN T. QUINTAS, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 48th Fighter Wing
LAKENHEATHI24-301 6 JULY 2012                                                      9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation Vehicles, 7 July 2010
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 December 2008
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2008
AFI 23-302, USAFE_SUP_1, Vehicle Management, 15 April 2011
AFI 31-201, Security Forces Standards and Procedures, 30 March 2009
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1823, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—-Air Force Manual
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—-Air Force Records Information Management System
CPTS—-Comptroller Squadron
FW—-Fighter Wing
GMV—-Government Motor Vehicle
GPC—-Government Purchase Card
IAW—-In Accordance With
JV—-Journal Voucher
LGRV—-Vehicle Management Flight
LRS—-Logistics Readiness Squadron
MAJCOM—-Major Command
 10                                              LAKENHEATHI24-301 6 JULY 2012


MEL—-Mission Essential Level
MSG—-Mission Support Group
OLVIMS—-On-Line Vehicle Integrated Management System
O&M—-Operating and Maintenance
RA—-Resource Advisor
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—-Temporary Duty
UDI—-U-Drive-It
VCNCO—-Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VCO—-Vehicle Control Officer
VM&A—-Vehicle Management and Analysis
