BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        LAUGHLIN AIR FORCE BASE
47TH FLYING TRAINING WING                                              INSTRUCTION24-101

                                                                               11 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                         Transportation Command

                                                                      PASSENGER MOVEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.com for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 47 MSG/LGRT                                                          Certified by: 47 MSG/LG
                                                                           (Capt Daniel R. Kresge)
Supersedes:    LAFBI 24-101, 21 October                                                    Pages: 9
               2009


This Laughlin Air Force Base Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-1,
Personnel Movement. This supplement provides policies and procedures necessary for the proper
screening, processing and manifesting of all passengers arriving at or departing Laughlin AFB
airfield. It also outlines and addresses organizational responsibilities relative to the operation of
the 47th Flying Training Wing’s passenger processing facility. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Requests for waivers must be submitted
through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The
use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Deleted sentence from paragraph 2.2.1., renumbered all paragraphs under 2.2., removed on-call
personnel from all applicable paragraphs, removed paragraph 4.5., 10.1., and updated
Attachment 1 (GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION).
1. References: AFI 13-207, Preventing and Resisting Aircraft Piracy (Hijacking), DoD
4500.9R, Part I, Passenger Movement, DoD 4515.13R, Air Transportation Eligibility,
 2                                                  LAUGHLINAFBI24-101 11 OCTOBER 2013


DEPSECDEF memorandum, Establishment of DoD Aircraft Manifest Policy, 21 Dec 2001, and
HQ AETC/LG memorandum, Interim AETC Passenger Processing Policy, 10 Feb 2004.
2. Responsibilities: Everyone involved in the movement of passengers and baggage on DoD-
owned or controlled aircraft has the responsibility to prevent the possible hijacking or sabotage
of an aircraft. Passenger processing and baggage handling personnel must be alert to detect any
unusual conduct of persons entering the terminal area or any suspicious items.
     2.1. Space-required passengers must present valid travel orders and MUST provide
     emergency contact information IAW AFJI 24-114, paragraph 2-3.
     2.2. The Traffic Management Flight (TMF) will:
        2.2.1. Have two (2) personnel to process and manifest all departing passengers.
        2.2.2. Brief all passengers on anti-hijacking procedures.
        2.2.3. Perform an anti-hijacking inspection prior to passenger loading.
        2.2.4. Ensure all passengers on DoD aircraft departing Laughlin airfield are manifested
        properly.
        2.2.5. Escort passengers to the aircraft.
        2.2.6. Advertise the arrival and departure flight schedules to the local population.
        2.2.7. Maintain the space-available passenger sign-up roster.
     2.3. Airfield Management will:
        2.3.1. During duty hours, contact TMF and Security Forces Squadron (SFS) with all
        flight advisory information on arriving/departing flights.
        2.3.2. After duty hours, contact the Command Post when flight information dictates an
        after-hours arrival/departure.
     2.4. The Command Post will:
        2.4.1. Contact TMF after duty hours when arrival/departure flight information is
        provided by Airfield Management.
     2.5. Protocol will:
        2.5.1. Coordinate travel, brief and arrange distribution of baggage for Distinguished
        Visitors (DVs).
        2.5.2. Provide TMF with travel information on DV passengers.
     2.6. Vehicle Operations will:
        2.6.1. Transport all passengers and checked baggage from the Passenger Processing
        Facility to the aircraft.
     2.7. Security Forces will:
        2.7.1. Perform random security checks with, or without, military working dogs.
        2.7.2. Perform all required physical inspections (personnel/baggage searches) when
        circumstances warrant.
LAUGHLINAFBI24-101 11 OCTOBER 2013                                                              3


   2.8. The Aircrew will:
      2.8.1. Ensure they have a manifest prior to departure when carrying passengers.
      2.8.2. Use their discretion to refuse passengers whose physical condition poses a safety
      hazard to themselves or others.
      2.8.3. Allow the DV(s) to board first or according to his or her preference.
3. Arrival Procedures:
   3.1. Arrival Procedures for DV. Protocol will coordinate an arrival party to meet the flight
   and:
      3.1.1. Advise DV of flight line safety procedures, photography restrictions, etc., as
      appropriate.
      3.1.2. Brief DV on the current FPCON and threat level upon arrival at the installation.
      3.1.3. Arrange for offload of baggage and transport to the facility.
   3.2. Arrival Procedures for Passengers Other Than DV. Passengers listed as other than
   DV are required to personally obtain their baggage and arrange for their own transportation.
   3.3. During normal duty hours, Airfield Management will contact TMF directly at DSN 732-
   4695/5178 and SFS at 732-5100. After duty hours, Airfield Management will contact the
   Command Post, which will contact TMF.
   3.4. When aircraft are scheduled to depart Laughlin AFB the same or following day after
   they arrive, either Base Operations or Protocol will provide TMF with the travel information
   on all passengers. If passengers leave the Passenger Processing Facility’s sterile area, they
   will have to be re-screened and re-processed.
4. Departure Procedures:
   4.1. Departure Procedures For DV. (Originating at Laughlin AFB for 47 FTW/CC, etc.).
   Protocol will forward TMF Passenger Travel all member’s travel information in advance.
   During non-duty hours, contact the Command Post, which will contact TMF.
      4.1.1. If a DV or Group/Team requests Military Airlift support, they will contact HQ
      AETC/LGRTT validator at DSN 487-6875 or COMM 210-652-6875.
   4.2. Departure Procedures for Passengers Other Than DV. Each organization will
   appoint by letter a POC responsible for forwarding all member’s travel information in
   advance to TMF Passenger Travel.
   4.3. The following information is required for all travelers:
      4.3.1. Copy of travel orders (front and back) for each traveler. (Note: If all passengers
      are on the same order, one copy is sufficient).
      4.3.2. All flight information (e.g. departure date/time and destination).
      4.3.3. Number of bags and weight per piece (e.g. two checked @ 70 pounds each and
      one carry on @ 40 pounds). Note: For small transport aircraft, such as a C-12 or C-21,
      passengers are only authorized one (1) piece of checked baggage not to exceed 30
      pounds.
 4                                               LAUGHLINAFBI24-101 11 OCTOBER 2013


        4.3.4. Emergency contact information for each traveler (e.g. Rank/Name/Last 4 of SSN,
        Status, Sponsoring Military Service, Full Name, Address including zip code and
        telephone number of emergency contact not traveling with passenger). See Attachment 2
        for sample letter.
     4.4. All travelers (except exempted passengers) will process, in person, at the Passenger
     Processing Facility located within the Personnel Deployment Function (PDF), Building 77.
5. Anti-hijacking Procedures: DoD policy is to prevent entry of unauthorized weapons or
explosives into the Defense Transportation System. Personnel involved in all phases of
passenger processing operations must be keenly aware of any unusual conduct of persons within
the processing facility and alert to the possibility of concealed explosive devices or weapons.
     5.1. Anti-hijacking Briefing. The Passenger Travel Representative will brief all passengers
     (excluding exempted passengers and accompanying parties) on anti-hijacking procedures
     (See attachment 3).
     5.2. Anti-hijacking Inspection. The Passenger Travel Representative will accomplish an
     anti-hijacking inspection prior to passenger loading. The inspection will include the
     screening of hand-carried bags and articles, metal detecting and annotating the passenger
     manifest. When metal detection devices are used, advise passengers to take all metallic
     objects out of their pockets before screening. If metal detectors are not available or are
     inoperable, the passenger will submit to a visual check by opening coats, jackets, etc. If
     anything suspicious is noted, advise the passenger to remove the item for inspection. Local
     Security Forces will perform all required physical inspections (personnel searches) when
     circumstances warrant. See paragraph 9. Passenger Processing Facility Security for more
     detailed information.
     5.3. After completion of the anti-hijacking inspection, passengers selected and manifested
     for departing flights will remain in a sterile area (PDF) until boarding the aircraft.
6. Boarding Procedures:
     6.1. Vehicle Operations will transport all checked baggage from the Passenger Processing
     Facility/PDF to the aircraft. Surveillance must be maintained over baggage from the time
     passengers check it until workers load it on the aircraft.
     6.2. Once processed, Vehicle Operations will transport all passengers from the Passenger
     Processing Facility/PDF to the aircraft. Vehicle Operations will ensure that vehicles used to
     transport passengers remain under constant surveillance. Note: Exempted passengers are
     authorized to make arrangements for transportation of themselves, their party and baggage to
     the aircraft.
     6.3. Passenger Travel Representative will escort passengers to the aircraft. Using the
     passenger manifest, Passenger Travel Representative will review the manifest with the
     aircrew prior to loading of passengers to determine who are duty passengers and traveling on
     leave or pass status. The original copy of the manifest goes to the aircrew.
     6.4. The aircrew has the authority to refuse passengers whose physical condition poses a
     safety hazard to themselves or others and also undesirable passengers (intoxicated, bad odor,
     unacceptable dress, etc.) if necessary.
LAUGHLINAFBI24-101 11 OCTOBER 2013                                                               5


   6.5. The aircrew has the discretion to leave people/baggage behind if there is insufficient
   room.
7. Space-Available Travel: All space-available passengers must present the appropriate
documents to be eligible for air travel.
   7.1. Airfield Management or Base Operations will provide TMF Passenger Travel all flight
   advisory information to include plane arrival and departure schedules on a daily basis.
   Updates to the travel schedules will also be provided as they occur.
   7.2. TMF Passenger Travel will advertise the arrival and departure schedules to the local
   population by way of public webpage and posting information in Building 77.
   7.3. Registers and Sign-Up Procedures:
      7.3.1. TMF Passenger Travel will maintain a single-available register and all space-
      available passengers accepted for airlift from Laughlin AFB must have been selected
      from the register’s roll.
      7.3.2. To compete for space-available travel, eligible personnel must sign up on the
      space-available roster in person at TMF Passenger Travel Section (Bldg 77, Room 169)
      and present all required documentation. The sponsor of a family group may sign up other
      family members.
      7.3.3. Required documentation for prospective space-available passengers includes:
          7.3.3.1. Leave orders. For personnel on active duty, the effective date of the orders
          must be the same day as the day of sign up or earlier. Leave orders includes regular
          leave orders, environmental and morale leave (EML) orders, if traveling under the
          EML program and emergency leave orders.
          7.3.3.2. Identification Cards (DD Form 2AF, CAC – Common Access Card, DD
          Form 2-Retired and DD Form 2-Reserve).
          7.3.3.3. Emergency point of contact information.
      7.3.4. Reservations shall not be made for any space-available passenger. Travel
      opportunity shall be afforded on an equitable basis to officers, enlisted personnel, civilian
      employees and their accompanying dependents without regard to rank or grade, military
      or civilian or branch of Uniformed Service.
      7.3.5. Normally, space-available roll call will take place 1 ½ hours before aircraft block
      time. Passengers are called based upon their category of travel and date and time of sign
      up. This is a first-in-first-out procedure. Ref DoD 4515.13-R for more information about
      categories and sign-up procedures.
   7.4. Rules for Space-Available Passengers. The passenger:
      7.4.1. Is authorized two (2) pieces of checked baggage not to exceed 62 linear inches
      each and a combined weight of 66 pounds of baggage. (Note: Family members may
      pool their baggage allowances.) For small transport aircraft, such as a C-12 or C-21,
      passengers are only authorized one (1) piece of checked baggage not to exceed 30
      pounds.
 6                                              LAUGHLINAFBI24-101 11 OCTOBER 2013


        7.4.2. Is authorized one (1) piece of carry-on baggage not to exceed 45 linear inches and
        able to be placed under the passenger’s seat.
        7.4.3. If active duty military, may travel on pass in the continental United States
        (CONUS).
        7.4.4. May refuse a seat on any aircraft. Passengers will not lose their place on the
        space-available register for refusing a particular mission.
8. Baggage Processing. TMF Passenger Travel must ensure all passengers accepted for travel
will have on each piece of checked baggage DD Form 1839, Baggage Identification Tag, or
commercial equivalent, and AF Form 94, Baggage Claim Tag, showing the origin and
destination of the passenger. AF Form 94 will be annotated with the passenger’s manifest line
number and number of pieces of baggage (i.e., #98, 1 of 3).
     8.1. Inspected baggage will be placed in a secure area away from passengers prior to
     loading. Baggage accessed by passengers after initial inspection will be inspected again.
     8.2. Passenger Travel Representative will ask passengers to take items out of purses or bags
     for ease of inspecting. Passenger Travel Representative may wear gloves for protection
     during baggage inspection (not mandatory).
9. Passenger Processing Facility Security:
     9.1. Passenger Processing Facility with X-ray machines. Presently, this is not an option
     at Laughlin AFB.
     9.2. Passenger Processing Facilities without X-ray machines.              The hand-held
     magnetometer (more suitable for Laughlin AFB) will be used for passenger inspection. TMF
     will obtain a hand-held magnetometer from SFS to perform inspection. During inspection, if
     it is determined a passenger has a weapon, explosive, etc., inform Security Forces
     immediately.




                                             BRIAN E. HASTINGS, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
LAUGHLINAFBI24-101 11 OCTOBER 2013                                                 7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-207, Preventing and Resisting Aircraft Piracy (Hijacking), 21 Jun 2010
DoD 4500.9R, Part I, Passenger Movement, Nov 2010
DoD 4515.13R, Air Transportation Eligibility, Nov 1994
DEPSECDEF memorandum, Establishment of DoD Aircraft Manifest Policy, 21 Dec 2001
HQ AETC/LG memorandum, Interim AETC Passenger Processing Policy, 10 Feb 2004
Adopted Forms
DD Form 2S (Blue) U.S. Armed forces Identification Card (Retired), Oct 1993
DD Form 2S (Green), U.S. Armed forces Identification Card (Reserve), Oct 1993
DD form 1839, Baggage Identification Tag, Sep 1980
AF94, Baggage Claim Tag, 1 Jan 78

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
CAC—Common Access Card
CONUS—Continental United States
DEPSECDEF—Deputy Secretary of Defense
DoD—Department of Defense
DV—Distinguished Visitors
EML—Environmental and Morale Leave
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
PDF—Personnel Deployment Function
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
TMF—Traffic Management Flight
 8                                              LAUGHLINAFBI24-101 11 OCTOBER 2013


                                          Attachment 2
     SAMPLE FORMAT FOR EMERGENCY POINT OF CONTACT INFORMATION

(Prepared on letterhead)

                                                                                             Date
MEMORANDUM FOR 47 MSG/LGRT

FROM:

SUBJECT: Emergency Point of Contact (POC) Information

In accordance with HQ AETC/LG letter, dated 3 September 2003 (Passenger Manifesting
Policy), the following emergency POC information is provided:

       a.   Rank/Name/Last 4 of SSN (Typed Traveler’s Information)
       b.   Status (Active Duty, Reserve, Retired, Dependent, Civilian employee)
       c.   Sponsoring Service, Agency, or Employer: (Air Force, Army, etc)
       d.   Name and telephone number of emergency contact not traveling with passenger:
            (Typed complete contact information, e.g., full name, address including zip code, and
            telephone number)




                                             (Signature)
                                             (Typed Name, Grade and Title of preparer)
LAUGHLINAFBI24-101 11 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 9


                                             Attachment 3
                             PASSENGER ANTI-HIJACKING BRIEF

Introduction: Good morning or afternoon, My name is XXXX and I will be giving you an Anti-
Hijacking Briefing. Commanders at all levels have been tasked to ensure preventative measures
are taken to minimize access to the aircraft by potential hijackers. For this reason, all passengers
boarding DoD military aircrafts are briefed on “what is considered a federal crime and what are
considered prohibited items aboard an aircraft.”

1. First of all, it is a federal crime to:

     a. Carry concealed weapons aboard aircraft.

     b. Interfere with flight crews (including flight attendants).

     c. Transport explosives aboard aircraft.

     d. Attempt to seize or actually seize aircraft by threats, force or violence.

     e. Possess or use narcotic drugs, including marijuana, aboard the aircraft.

     f. Convey false information concerning the above criminal acts.

2. Your prohibited items include, but are not limited to, the following:

     a. Black powder, blasting caps, detonating fuses, dynamite, explosive projectiles, flares,
unauthorized ammunition, or any other explosive. Also included are visible refillable fuel and
butane lighters.

    b. All caustic or corrosive materials must be transported IAW provisions of TM 38-250,
AFR 71-4, CFR 49, and the International Air Transport Association’s Dangerous Goods
Regulations.

     c. Personal knives, scissors, or any objects with blades over 3" may not be carried in the
passenger compartment of the aircraft. Planeload Commanders will secure all oversize knives
before boarding the aircraft.

3. Air Force policy is to prevent entry of unauthorized weapons or explosives into the Defense
Transportation System. Personnel involved in all phases of passenger processing operations
must be keenly aware of any unusual conduct of persons within the processing facility and alert
to the possibility of concealed explosive devices or weapons. Report unattended baggage found
in the facility to Security Forces. A concerted effort must be made to prevent the hijacking of
DoD military or military contractor aircraft by detecting potential hijackers before they board the
aircraft.
Thank you for your time and have a great flight.
