BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           LAUGHLIN AFB INSTRUCTION 21-102
47TH FLYING TRAINING WING
                                                                            6 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                    REPAIR AND CALIBRATION OF TEST,
                                                      MEASUREMENT AND DIAGNOSTIC
                                                                        EQUIPMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 47 FTW/MXMD                                        Certified by: 47 FTW/MX (Mr. Michael
                                                                                    Johnson)
Supersedes:   LAUGHLLINAFBI21-102,                                                   Pages: 8
              22 Jun 2008


This instruction outlines responsibilities and procedures applicable to the Laughlin AFB
Precision Measurement and Equipment Laboratory (PMEL) and all organizations requiring
support from the Laughlin AFB PMEL. All unit commanders, maintenance officers,
superintendents, supervisors, and Test, Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE)
Coordinators are responsible for compliance with this instruction. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Paragraphs 4.3, Test, Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Coordinator
added annual training dates; 6.1, corrections completely revised; 6.2, Master ID listing changed
frequency of listings and required PAMS access; 6.3, corrections completely revised; 11.1,
Delivery of TMDE renamed and updated; 11.2, Pickup of TMDE deleted and combined with
11.1 Delivery and Pickup of TMDE; and 12.5, Unscheduled/initial calibration documents revised
AFTO Form 350 requirements.
 2                                                LAUGHLINAFBI21-102 6 OCTOBER 2011


1. Non-Air Force Agencies: Non-Air Force agencies, requiring support from the PMEL, will
adhere to the same guidelines and criteria as specified in applicable Air Force directives to
include items such as owner/user responsibilities, forms and labels used, calibration intervals,
scheduling procedures and calibration technical orders used.
2. Test, Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Coordinator:
     2.1. Each work center requiring support must appoint a primary and alternate TMDE
     Coordinator. Work centers will forward one copy of the appointment letter to the PMEL
     within seven calendar days of any changes.
     2.2. The TMDE Coordinator serves as the link between the owning work center (OWC) and
     the PMEL. They obtain calibration support for their activity, keep the OWC informed of the
     status of its TMDE, and provide advice to their supervisors. The TMDE Coordinator is the
     focal point for all matters involving calibration support and is normally the only contact
     individual for the PMEL. For this reason, the primary TMDE Coordinator must be a day
     shift worker.
     2.3. Primary and alternate TMDE Coordinators shall attend TMDE Coordinator training
     annually. TMDE training is provided every Wednesday at 1300 hours unless otherwise
     scheduled by the PMEL Scheduler. The PMEL scheduler will track training in the PMEL
     Automated Management System (PAMS) database.
     2.4. At a minimum, TMDE Coordinators shall be familiar with the contents of TOs 33K-1-
     100-1, 33K-1-100-2, 0020-14, 00-25-234, 33-1-27, 33-1-32 and any applicable Calibration
     Measurement Summary (CMS).
     2.5. TMDE Coordinator File:          The TMDE Coordinator shall maintain a TMDE
     Coordinator file that includes:
        2.5.1. Current letter of appointment for primary and alternate TMDE Coordinators listing
        dates trained
        2.5.2. Current OWC Master ID listing
        2.5.3. Current OWC Master Equipment Schedule
        2.5.4. Test equipment hand-receipts from the PMEL
        2.5.5. Current copy of this instruction
        2.5.6. Current copies of any customer handout(s) that might be provided by the PMEL
        NOTE: Not required in the PMEL’s TMDE Coordinator file
3. Technical Data: The PMEL is not required to maintain technical data other than 33K-series
calibration procedures for customer-owned TMDE. The OWC is responsible for obtaining and
maintaining operation and maintenance technical data for their TMDE. The PMEL will notify
the OWC if customer-owned technical data is required. If the technical data is not received
within 3 duty days of the request, the TMDE will be returned to the OWC and deleted from the
Master ID until such time the OWC can provide the required technical data.
4. Schedules and Master ID Listing
LAUGHLINAFBI21-102 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                            3


   4.1. Schedules: The Schedule is produced monthly and lists the TMDE that is overdue
   calibration and any TMDE due calibration within the next 45 days. The TMDE Monitors are
   required to gain direct access to the PMEL Automated Management System (PAMS) via the
   PMEL Scheduling Section, in order to run and print the Schedules.
   4.2. Master ID Listing: The Master ID Listing is produced quarterly and lists all OWC
   TMDE supported by the PMEL. The TMDE Monitors are required to gain direct access to
   the PMEL Automated Management System (PAMS) via the PMEL Scheduling Section, in
   order to run and print this Master ID Listing. The TMDE Coordinator should pay special
   attention to those items that have no scheduled calibration intervals (NPC, NCR, CBU, ICO)
   as these items will never appear on the TMDE Overdue/Due Scheduled Calibration schedule.
   The TMDE Coordinator should verify the ID number, part number, serial number, and date
   due calibration of all TMDE on the Master ID Listing. This can be accomplished by
   comparing the Master ID Listing with the equipment data plate and calibration label. The
   date due calibration on the calibration label is normally assumed to be correct. If the due
   date does not agree with what is on the Master ID Listing, contact the PMEL Scheduler to
   resolve the discrepancy.
   4.3. Corrections: All necessary corrections identified by the TMDE Coordinator will be
   emailed to the PMEL Scheduler to be corrected.
5. Deleting TMDE: For an OWC to delete TMDE from their Master ID Listing, the PMEL
requires a letter of justification (a sample copy of this letter may be obtained from the PMEL
Scheduler) from the OWC, signed by TMDE Coordinator, and endorsed by the Flight Chief or
equivalent (i.e., Branch Chief). Once deleted, the PMEL Scheduler will file the letter in the
OWC file for future reference.
6. Re-adding TMDE: TMDE that has been deleted for any reason requires a letter signed by
the squadron commander or equivalent (i.e., Division Chief) to be re-added to customer’s Master
ID Listing (a sample copy of this letter may be obtained from the PMEL Scheduler).
7. Overdue TMDE: Air Force directives, as well as those of other services, require that TMDE
be removed from service once the calibration cycle has expired.
8. PMEL / PMEL Material Control Hours of Operation
   8.1. Any changes to operating hours/days will be advertised as early as possible to minimize
   inconvenience for PMEL customers.
   8.2. PMEL: Operating hours for the PMEL are 0700 to 1600 hours during normal duty days
   (Monday through Friday, excluding holidays and authorized down days).
   8.3. PMEL Material Control (Scheduling): Hours of operation for customer pickup and
   drop off of TMDE are 0800 to 1100 hours during normal duty days (Monday through Friday,
   excluding holidays and authorized down days). OWC requests for TMDE status,
   unscheduled equipment maintenance, and initial calibration of TMDE shall be made during
   these hours.
9. Delivery and Pickup of TMDE
   9.1. Delivery and Pickup: TMDE Coordinators shall ensure prompt delivery of all
   scheduled TMDE to the PMEL by its date due calibration or no earlier than 7 calendar days
   before its date due calibration. TMDE shall also be picked up within 7 calendar days. If
 4                                                   LAUGHLINAFBI21-102 6 OCTOBER 2011


     TMDE Coordinators have items overdue or awaiting customer pickup statuses exceeding 7
     days, an email will be sent to their respective supervisors. After 14 days, an email shall be
     sent to the OWC’s Squadron or Division Commander. If the delinquency persists after 21
     days, the item shall be deleted from the OWC’s TMDE account and not reinstated unless a
     re-addition letter is completed and signed by the OWC’s Squadron or Division Commander.
     The justification letter must state the exact reason why the TMDE should be re-added to the
     OWC’s Master Inventory.
     9.2. TMDE Coordinators shall control equipment hand-receipts and promptly pick up
     completed TMDE from the PMEL. Hand-receipts must be presented to the PMEL Scheduler
     in order to pick up equipment. Strict control is required to ensure the return of TMDE to its
     rightful owner. If a hand-receipt is lost, a letter signed by the Flight Chief or equivalent (i.e.,
     Work Center NCOIC) requesting release of the TMDE must be submitted to the PMEL in
     place of the hand-receipt (a sample copy of this letter may be obtained from the PMEL
     Scheduler).
10. Unscheduled TMDE and Initial Calibration
     10.1. Unscheduled TMDE: TMDE that requires repair/calibration at other than its
     scheduled date due calibration. TMDE Coordinators will contact the PMEL Scheduler to
     coordinate delivery of the unscheduled TMDE to the PMEL. The TMDE Coordinator will
     deliver the unscheduled TMDE to the PMEL on the assigned day.
     10.2. Initial Calibration: TMDE that is new or reissued from supply and requires
     calibration. TMDE Coordinators will contact the PMEL Scheduler to coordinate delivery of
     the TMDE requiring initial calibration to the PMEL. The TMDE Coordinator will deliver
     TMDE requiring initial calibration to the PMEL on the assigned day.
     10.3. Initial Calibration Accompanying Documentation: All documentation that came
     with the TMDE from supply or manufacturer (maintenance manuals, condition tags,
     certificates of calibration, warranty slips, etc.) will be brought in with the TMDE at the time
     the item is scheduled in for calibration. The PMEL may refuse to accept the TMDE until
     appropriate documentation is provided.
     10.4. Locally Purchased TMDE: OWCs will comply with the requirements of TO 00-20-
     14 prior to the local purchase of TMDE.
     10.5. Unscheduled/Initial Calibration Documentation: The AFTO Form 350, Repairable
     Item Processing Tag, is mandatory for all TMDE requiring unscheduled and/or initial
     calibration. Blocks 2, 3A, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15A, 17, 18, 18A, 19, 21, 23, and 24 of the
     AFTO Form 350 are to be completed. Block 14, discrepancy, will be filled out completely,
     stating the discrepancy and providing the name and phone number of the individual who is
     knowledgeable on the discrepancy. “Broke” or “doesn’t work” is typically not a valid
     discrepancy. Be as specific as possible on the condition of the TMDE (i.e., “requires initial
     calibration,” or “test set displays error codes 120, 130 and 140 when power is applied,” etc.).
11. On-site Calibrations: If on-site calibration/repair of TMDE is required, contact the PMEL
Scheduler and explain what work is required and when it needs to be accomplished. The
Laboratory NCOIC will determine if onsite support is required. On-site calibration is limited to
items that cannot be delivered to the PMEL due to size or other limiting factors. Except as noted
in Para 18, personnel weighing scales do not warrant on-site calibration.
LAUGHLINAFBI21-102 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                                  5


12. Priority Calibrations
   12.1. TMDE that is overdue/initial calibration will not typically be accepted for priority
   calibration or repair.
   12.2. Before initiating a priority request, work centers should consider alternate methods of
   accomplishing tasks or borrowing similar equipment items from another OWC. The PMEL
   Scheduler can assist in identifying OWCs with similar equipment. The PMEL technicians
   can assist in suggesting alternate methods of measurements.
   12.3. All priority calibration requests will adhere to the guidelines outlined in this instruction
   and TO 00-20-14. The TMDE Flight Chief or the Laboratory NCOIC is the approving
   authority for TMDE acceptance of OWC priority requests.
   12.4. When priority calibration or repair is required, the TMDE Coordinator shall submit a
   letter of request signed by the appropriate OWC supervisor to the PMEL (a sample copy of
   this letter may be obtained from the PMEL Scheduler). The OWC is highly encouraged to
   contact the PMEL prior to submitting a written request to minimize potential delays.
   12.5. Emergency Calibration or Repair: One-of-a-kind TMDE that is inoperable or due
   calibration and for which a critical job is at a work stoppage. A letter of justification signed
   by the OWC maintenance supervision or equivalent (i.e., Division Chief) shall
   accompany the TMDE. The PMEL shall accept emergency TMDE any time and
   immediately place it into work status. The PMEL may require an OWC technician familiar
   with the TMDE to accompany the TMDE and remain at the PMEL to provide technical
   assistance until the work is completed. The OWC or using organization will pick up the
   TMDE immediately upon notification of completion. Note: the TMDE hand-receipt will
   be required. See TO 00-20-14, paragraph 3.7, for more detailed information.
   12.6. Mission Essential Calibration or Repair: One-of-a-kind or one-deep TMDE that is
   part of an OWC deployment package or is critical to daily peacetime operations, or TMDE
   assets falling below critical availability levels. A letter of justification signed by the OWC
   flight chief or equivalent (i.e., Branch Chief) shall accompany the TMDE. The PMEL
   shall accept mission essential TMDE any time during duty hours and schedule it as the next
   item into work status. The OWC or using organization will pick up the TMDE within 1
   hour of notification of completion. Note: the TMDE hand-receipt will be required. See TO
   00-20-14, paragraph 3.7, for more detailed information.
   12.7. Routine Calibration or Repair: TMDE not categorized as emergency or mission
   essential. See TO 002014, paragraph 3.7, for more detailed information.
13. Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO)
   13.1. The PMEL and OWC will comply with the TCTO requirements in AFI 21-101, Para
   7.2.6.1, General Management of TCTOs, and TO 00-5-15, AF Time Compliance Technical
   Order Process.
   13.2. When the PMEL is identified as the performing work center for TMDE requiring
   TCTO compliance, the PMEL Scheduler will accomplish the following:
      13.2.1. Identify the affected         OWCs      and   the   number     of   items    requiring
      modification/inspection.
 6                                              LAUGHLINAFBI21-102 6 OCTOBER 2011


        13.2.2. Contact the PMEL supply liaison. The PMEL supply liaison will obtain the
        number of items stocked in base supply requiring modification/inspection.
        13.2.3. Coordinate meeting with the Maintenance Directorate Quality Assurance office,
        affected OWCs, and the PMEL supply liaison. The meeting will provide an overall plan
        for implementation of the TCTO.
     13.3. Timely coordination with all involved is a must. All TMDE that is not
     modified/inspected by the TCTO suspense date will be considered unserviceable; non-
     compliance could degrade mission accomplishment.
14. Abuse of TMDE: The PMEL may return TMDE suspected of abuse to the OWC without
action. The TMDE Flight Chief or Laboratory Chief will prepare a letter identifying suspected
abuse and forward it to the appropriate OWC supervisor or higher authority for action. The
owning organization may be required to fund repairs. Any TMDE without an attached AFTO
Form 350 identifying obvious external and/or suspected internal damage may be viewed as
abuse.
15. Oxygen and Liquid Oxygen (LOX) TMDE: Work centers owning oxygen/LOX TMDE
will comply with TO 37C11-1-1 or 15X-1-102 (LOX) before delivering the TMDE to the PMEL
for calibration. TMDE not in compliance with these TOs will not be accepted by the PMEL and
will be returned to the OWC.
16. Personnel Weighing Scales: The PMEL will support and calibrate scales as directed in TO
33K-1-100-1, page 3-10, paragraphs 1 thru 7, Scales and Balances. OWCs (specifically
Hospital/medical scales and Commander’s Support Staff Fitness Program (FP) Scales) will
comply with the instructions defined in TO 33K-1-100-1, paragraphs 1 and 2 Scales and
Balances. Only those personnel weighing scales used for life support, in flight medicine
sections, and those used to weigh personnel for the Fitness Program are authorized PMEL
support. Personnel weighing scales other than what has been specified in this paragraph will not
be supported by the PMEL even though they may have the same part or model number.




                                            MICHAEL R. FRANKEL, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
LAUGHLINAFBI21-102 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                              7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 21-113, Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL) Management, 23 March 2011
DOD 4000.19I, Interservice and Inragovernmental Support, 8 September 1995
TO 00-20-14, Air Force Metrology and Calibration Program
TO 00-20-2, Maintenance Data Documentation
TO 00-25-234, General Shop Practice Requirements for the Repair, Maintenance and Testing of
Electronic Equipment
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Material Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System
TO 15X-1-102, General Care and Cleaning of Oxygen Gages and Oxygen Device Related Test
Equipment
TO 2J-1-105, USAF Calibration and Measurement and Work Unit Code Manual for Jet Engine
Systems
TO 32B14-3-1-101, Operation and Service Instructions for Torque Indicating Devices
TO 33-1-19, General Care, Use and Maintenance of Pressure, Vacuum and Compound Gauges
TO 33-1-27, Logistical Support of Precision Measurement Equipment
TO 33-1-31, Use of Equivalent or Substitute Tools or Test Equipment in Repair of General
Purpose Test and Associated Equipment
TO 33-1-32, General Instructions for Input Wiring of Electrical/Electronic Support Equipment
TO 33-1-35, Inspect Federal Stock Class Equipment and Install Warning Label
TO 33-1-5, Removal of Batteries from Test Equipment in Storage and/or Shipment
TO 33K-1-100-1, Calibration Procedure for TMDE Calibration Notes, Maintenance Data
Collections Codes and Calibration Measurement Summaries
TO 33K-1-100-2-1, Calibration Equipment Summary
TO 33K-1-100-CD-1, See 33K-1-100-1
TO 37C11-1-1, Maintenance Instructions and Cleaning of Pressure Gages Used on Liquid
Oxygen Systems
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AFTO Form 350, Repairable Item Processing Tag
 8                                            LAUGHLINAFBI21-102 6 OCTOBER 2011


Terms
Laboratory Chief— is the manager responsible for the overall day-to-day operations of the
laboratory.
PMEL Material Control— coordinates support provided by the PMEL, controls customer
equipment within the PMEL, and manages all supply actions. PMEL Material Control is also
typically known as PMEL Scheduling or Scheduling.
TMDE Flight Chief— is the senior on-site manager responsible for the overall PMEL, quality,
and production control functions.
TMDE Coordinator— manages the TMDE for their OWC TMDE account.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CBU—Calibrate Before Use
CMS—Calibration Measurement Summary
FP—Fitness Program
ICO—Initial Calibration Only
LOX—Liquid Oxygen
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer In Charge
NCR—No Calibration Required
NPC—No Periodic Calibration
OWC—Owning Work Center
PAMS—PMEL Automated Management System
PMEL—Precision Measurement and Equipment Laboratory
TMDE—Test, Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment
TO—Technical Order
