BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      LAUGHLIN AIR FORCE BASE
47TH FLYING TRAINING WING                                           INSTRUCTION 32-2001

                                                                                   23 MAY 2013

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                 FIRE EMERGENCY SERVICES PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 47 CES/CEF                                                         Certified by: 47 CES/CC
                                                                                  (Lt Col Katzer)
Supersedes:    47 LAUGHLINAFBI32-                                                       Pages: 14
               2001, 1 June 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Protection, and DOD
Instruction (DODI) 6055.6, Department of Defense Fire and Emergency Services Program,
Department of Labor – Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR), and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards as Air
Force policy unless otherwise directed in DOD or Air Force instructions. This instruction
supplements AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, and provides guidance for
implementing and maintaining a sound fire prevention program and establishes responsibilities,
procedures and practices for effective control and elimination of fire hazards. It applies to all
military personnel, their dependents, civilian personnel, tenants, contractors and concessionaires
that reside or work on Laughlin Air Base and those off base facilities under the jurisdiction of
Laughlin AFB or its supported property. In the absence of Air Force instructions, directives, or
polices on fire prevention criteria, National Fire Protection Association Standards and common
sense apply. Hazardous conditions of a nature for which criteria has not been established, will be
corrected by local actions based upon sound judgment as directed by the Fire Chief. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records      Disposition    Schedule      (RDS)     located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 2                                                       LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changed
office symbol from ISS(P) to CES throughout document. Paragraphs 2.3, 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 5.1, 7.2.2,
7.2.3, 7.2.4, 9.2.2, 9.2.3, 9.2.4, 9.2.10, 9.3.1, 9.3.2, 9.3.3, 9.3.4, 9.5.1, 9.5.2, 9.5.4, 9.5.5, 9.6.2,
9.6.3, 9.6.4. and 9.8 are covered in detail by AFI 91-203 and removed from this document.
1. Responsibilities
     1.1. Installation Commander. The Installation Commander is responsible for the fire safety
     of personnel and property under their control, provided for by the Fire Protection and
     Prevention (FPP) programs contained in this instruction. This responsibility is discharged
     through the Base Fire Marshal and executed by the Fire Chief.
     1.2. Mission Support Group Commander. The Mission Support Group Commander is
     responsible for fire protection of resources under the installation commander’s jurisdiction.
     1.3. Fire Marshal. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) is the Base Fire Marshal. The Base Fire
     Marshal is responsible to the Installation Commander for oversight of the FPP programs and
     provides the Fire Chief the resources available to execute the FPP mission.
     1.4. Chief, Fire Emergency Services. The Fire Chief is responsible for the management and
     operation of the FPP Programs, and as such, responsible to the Fire Marshal for the
     management of fire protection/prevention programs. The Chief:
        1.4.1. Advises and makes recommendations to senior leadership on technical matters
        relating to fire protection and prevention.
        1.4.2. Has full authority during all fire emergency services activities.
        1.4.3. Ensures resources are used efficiently.
        1.4.4. Serves as OPR for environmental and occupational requirements as outlined in Air
        Force Instruction (AFI) 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction.
        1.4.5. Has the authority to commandeer military vehicles, equipment, materials, and
        personnel considered necessary for prompt extinguishment and control of fire or
        mitigation of an emergency event.
     1.5. Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention. The Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention implements
     the FPP program through facility plan reviews, fire prevention inspections, code enforcement
     and fire safety education.
     1.6. Unit Commanders, Functional Managers, Directors and Supervisors.                   Unit
     Commanders, Functional Managers, Directors and Supervisors are responsible for the
     adequacy of fire prevention for all activities and facilities under their jurisdiction.
        1.6.1. Ensures all newly assigned personnel, both military and civilian, receive fire
        prevention training within the first 30 days of reporting to work and properly document
        training IAW that organization’s AFI requirements.
        1.6.2. Ensures sound fire prevention procedures and environmental controls are
        established and in compliance.
LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013                                                                     3


     1.6.3. Immediately initiates corrective action(s) for fire safety deficiencies and fire
     hazards. If not corrected immediately the using organization’s commander prepares an
     Operational Risk Management (ORM) plan that mitigates the impact of the Fire Safety
     Deficiency (FSD). The ORM plan must ensure the safety of all occupants to the
     satisfaction of the Fire Chief. The installation commander must approve the ORM plan.
     1.6.4. Develops an Emergency Action Plan (EAP) for the unit to follow for emergencies
     unique to the unit and not covered in this instruction. The Fire Prevention Office is
     available to help develop the EAP.
     1.6.5. Arranges access to facilities under their jurisdiction for fire prevention visits.
     1.6.6. Appoints facility managers and ensures each facility manager attends facility
     managers training provided by 47 CES/CEO at extension 5256, within 30 days of
     assignment. Appointments for individual briefings may be made by contacting the Fire
     Prevention Office at 298-5036 or 298-5037.
  1.7. Facility Managers. Facility managers are responsible to the unit commander for the
  fire-safe condition of all facilities under their jurisdiction. Facility managers, their alternates,
  or the supervisor of the operation being assessed will accompany the fire inspector during
  fire prevention assessments. Additional guidance is outlined in AFPAM 32-1125v1 para
  11.13. Sample Facility Managers Checklist at Attachment 2.
     1.7.1. Conducts daily visual inspections of all fire extinguishers, exit lights, fire doors,
     and exits to ensure maximum effectiveness in the event of a fire. For facilities not
     occupied on a daily basis, a weekly inspection will satisfy this requirement.
     1.7.2. Ensures all personnel in their facility, including associate units and contractors/
     concessionaires are familiar with the unit commander’s operating instructions and
     contents of this instruction.
     1.7.3. Coordinate with the Fire Prevention Office prior to any drill using the facility’s
     fire alarm system.
     1.7.4. Ensures a closing inspection is performed at the end of each business day, activity
     period, or special operation to ensure the area is left in a fire-safe condition. As a
     minimum, the following items will be checked to ensure they are accomplished:
         1.7.5.1. Discard smoking materials in the proper manner.
         1.7.5.2. Unplug all unnecessary appliances, (i.e. Coffee makers, toasters).
         1.7.5.3. Make a general walk-thru inspection of office/work areas at the end of each
         workday.
         1.7.5.4. Monthly operational and inspection checks of emergency lighting units, and
         exit signs will be accomplished and can be annotated on a computer generated form.
  1.8. Employees. Employees whether military, civilian or contractor, are responsible for the
  fire prevention procedures as outlined in this instruction. Employees will:
     1.8.1. Be trained to recognize and eliminate fire hazards in the workplace.
     1.8.2. Know the hazards associated with their work areas/processes.
 4                                                     LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013


        1.8.3. Know the location and use of emergency and fire protection equipment (i.e. fire
        extinguishers and fire alarm pull stations).
        1.8.4. Know emergency procedures that apply to their job and workplace, including
        building evacuation, fire alarms, and procedures to report a fire or emergency.
     1.9. Contractors/Concessionaires are responsible for fire prevention, protection, and
     compliance with the contents of this and other pertinent instructions while operating on
     Laughlin AFB.
        1.9.1. Will not block any street, roadway, runway, or taxiway without the coordination of
        the Chief, Fire Emergency Services (FES).
        1.9.2. Notify the Emergency Communications Center (ECC), 298-5633, prior to
        deactivation of fire suppression/alarm systems or utility shutdown.
        1.9.3. Construction site gated areas must have accessibility during construction to allow
        the largest fire apparatus to safely enter the site.
2. Training
     2.1. Newcomers. All personnel, military or civilian, assigned to Laughlin AFB should
     receive an initial fire prevention orientation within 30 days of reporting to work. The
     supervisor may conduct briefings and document IAW the organization’s Air Force
     Instructions (AFI) requirement(s).
     2.2. Privatized Family Housing Fire Safety Visit. The Fire Prevention Office offers a free
     Home Fire Safety Visit for residents of Laughlin AFB Privatized Housing. To schedule an
     appointment call the Fire Prevention Office at 298-5036/5037.
     2.3. Fire Prevention Orientation and Fire Extinguisher Demonstrations/Training.
     Supervisors will instruct personnel on fire extinguisher operations upon initial arrival and
     annually thereafter IAW Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standard
     1910.157(g)(1). Fire prevention personnel are available to present fire protection lectures,
     briefings, and fire extinguisher training to any functional or social group on request. Arrange
     for training sessions by notifying the Fire Prevention Office at 298-5036/5037 at least 5 days
     prior to the date required.
3. Major Social Events
     3.1. Major Social Events. A fire prevention inspector shall inspect places of public assembly
     and other base facilities prior to all major events to ensure compliance with Life Safety Code
     requirements. All decorations shall be fire retardant. Sample checklist provided at
     Attachment 4.
        3.1.1. A walk-thru inspection shall be conducted by a fire prevention inspector or a
        certified fire inspector immediately prior to the function.
        3.1.2. Assembly occupancies and facilities hosting major social events shall have trained
        crowd managers as outlined in the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Life
        Safety Code 101. Assembly occupancies shall be provided with a minimum of one
        trained crowd manager or crowd manager supervisor. Where the occupant load exceeds
        250, additional trained crowd managers or crowd manager supervisors shall be provided
        at a ratio of one crowd manager or crowd manager supervisor for every 250 occupants.
LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013                                                                5


      3.1.3. The crowd manager shall receive approved training in crowd management
      techniques provided by the Fire Prevention Office. Contact the Fire Prevention Office at
      298-5036/5037 for additional information.
   3.2. Fireworks. The use of fireworks and theatrical pyrotechnics, flash pots, sparklers, etc.,
   are prohibited on Laughlin AFB without written approval by the installation commander. A
   copy of this approval must be forwarded to the Fire Prevention Office not later than 5 days
   before the event.
4. Mercantile (BX, Commissary, and Concessionaires)
   4.1. Fire Safety Measures. In order to provide a fire/safe environment for our personnel, the
   following procedures must be in effect at all times:
      4.1.1. At no time will main entrances/exits be obstructed in any way.
      4.1.2. At no time will any item be hung from sprinkler heads or piping.
      4.1.3. Aisle clearance must be at least 44 inches.
      4.1.4. Interior decorations must be kept to a minimum and fire resistant.
   4.2. Prior to any special sales/events, notify the Fire Prevention Office for a courtesy
   inspection. Many times this will preclude any problems.
5. Inspections/Assessments
   5.1. Fire Prevention Assessment Process. The fire prevention assessment is a tool used to
   evaluate the unit’s overall fire prevention program and inform unit commanders, facility
   managers and supervisors on the effectiveness of their programs.
      5.1.1. Facility managers or a designated representative will accompany the fire
      prevention inspector on each assessment and initiate immediate corrective action on all
      fire hazards noted at the time of the inspection. If a discrepancy is beyond the control of
      the facility manager, submit an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to
      have the hazard repaired or item replaced.
      5.1.2. If a hazard exists that presents an imminent-danger situation, it will be brought to
      the attention of the supervisor in charge who must take prompt action to eliminate/reduce
      the hazard or cease operations and withdraw exposed personnel. If such situations exist
      and corrective action is not taken, the Chief, FES, Fire Marshal, wing safety, and unit
      commanders will personally observe the operation. If discussions with these individuals
      fail to resolve the problem, the installation commander will be notified and will
      determine if the operation should be continued or terminated.
      5.1.3. After completion of each assessment, the fire prevention inspector will brief the
      individual accompanying them of the conditions in the area inspected.
      5.1.4. AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, informs the facility manager,
      supervisor and unit commanders of fire hazards and deficiencies noted during fire
      prevention assessments. Directions for disposition are pre-printed on the form.
      5.1.5. AFI 32-10141, Planning and Programming Fire Safety Deficiency Correction
      Projects, identifies the roles and responsibilities needed to plan, program, and advocate
      for the resources required to correct FSDs.
 6                                                      LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013


6. Emergency Procedures
     6.1. Fire/Emergency Reporting Procedures. It is the responsibility of all personnel to be
     familiar with fire reporting procedures. See example Emergency Action Plan at Attachment
     3. Timely and accurate reporting of a fire incident can preclude unnecessary injury and loss
     of valuable property.
     6.2. All fires, regardless of size and nature and whether extinguished or not, will be promptly
     reported to the FES.
     6.3. Knowingly making or reporting a false fire alarm is a violation of Air Force directives
     and state statutes.
     6.4. Fire Extinguishers. The facility manager or designated representative will perform
     monthly inspections and maintain a log of all extinguishers assigned to their facility/facilities
     IAW AFI 91-203 Chapter 6.2.1.1.
        6.4.1. Do not remove fire extinguishers from their assigned location, except for
        inspection, maintenance, or to extinguish fires. They will not be blocked, obscured from
        vision, tampered with, or used for any purpose other than firefighting.
        6.4.2. Facility managers and using organizations must budget for the purchase and
        maintenance of facility and vehicle portable fire extinguishers.
        6.4.3. The Fire Prevention Office will maintain 150lb Halon 1211 flightline wheel-type
        extinguishers used for the support of the aircraft. It is the responsibility of the using
        agency to conduct daily inspections and report any fire extinguisher discrepancies to the
        fire prevention office. Unserviceable extinguishers shall be placed on the Out-of-Service
        line behind Bldg 220, Fire Station.
        6.4.4. Handheld fire extinguishers for facilities and aircraft are allocated IAW AFI 91-
        203 and NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers.
     6.5. Evacuation Drills and Procedures. Fire evacuation drills are an integral part of a total
     fire prevention program.
        6.5.1. Various functional directives or individual commander’s requirements determine
        fire drill frequency.
        6.5.2. Facility managers and supervisors may contact the Fire Prevention Office at 298-
        5036/5037 for assistance in conducting fire drill.
     6.6. Authority to Commandeer. The Chief, FES or Senior Fire Officer (SFO) in charge at
     the scene of an emergency may commandeer available military vehicles, equipment,
     materials, and personnel considered necessary for prompt control and extinguishing of fires
     or rescue of personnel. Civilian assistance may be solicited.
     6.7. Fire Hydrants and Fire Department Connections. Only FES personnel will use fire
     hydrants and fire department connections unless approved by the Fire Prevention Office. It
     is the facility manager’s responsibility to ensure fire hydrants and fire department
     connections in their area are free of obstructions. The unit closest to the hydrant/connection
     will be responsible for keeping it clear.
LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013                                                                7


   6.8. Hobbies. Flammable materials or liquids used for hobbies in quarters or billets will be
   limited to size and quantities normally found in hobby kits. This specifically precludes the
   bulk storage of flammables or combustibles. Hobbies that entail the use of open-flame or
   high-temperature heating devices will comply with the following minimum requirements:
      6.8.1. All equipment used must be approved for its particular use.
      6.8.2. Keep open flames well away from combustible materials.
      6.8.3. Ensure the area is thoroughly inspected prior to and after each use.
   6.9. Construction. Construction, modification, or change within an existing facility can only
   be accomplished through submission and approval of an AF Form 332. An approved AF
   Form 332 is required before work begins.
      6.9.1. All AF Form 332’s require Fire Prevention Office coordination. Laughlin AFB has
      implemented an electronic version of the AF Form 332. Contact the Fire Prevention
      Office at 298-5036/5037 for more information.
      6.9.2. A minimum of 3 working days to review such projects will be necessary to ensure
      all fire prevention standards are met.
      6.9.3. Do not paint fire alarm detection/notification devices or sprinkler heads.
7. Emergency Response, Vehicle Control, and Parking
   7.1. Emergency Response and Vehicle Control. When emergency vehicles are responding
   with flashing lights and/or sirens, all non-emergency vehicles will immediately pull to the
   right side of the street and stop until the emergency vehicles have passed. Intersections are
   not to be blocked. All other vehicles will maintain a distance of 300 feet from fire apparatus
   and ground activities. At no time will a fire hose be driven over.
   7.2. Vehicle Parking. Vehicles will not park within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, fire department
   connection, or in a fire lane.
      7.2.1. Government vehicles will not be parked or stored inside buildings or structures
      other than those specifically designated as motor pool, vehicle storage, or maintenance
      garages Exceptions must be approved by the Chief, FES and Wing Safety in writing.
8. Maintenance
   8.1. Fire Protection, Detection, and Suppression Systems. The inspection, testing,
   maintenance, and repair of installed fire detection/suppression systems are the responsibility
   of the appropriate civil engineer shop.
      8.1.1. The Fire Emergency Services flight will be notified prior to shutting down any
      system or section of a system for repairs, maintenance, or testing. The person notifying
      the FES will give name, reason for the system being shut down, and estimated time the
      system will return to service. This information will be logged in the FES daily logbook.
      Contractors will coordinate their actions with the project QAE prior to contacting the
      FES.
      8.1.2. The storage of supplies, equipment, etc., shall be kept at least 18” below the
      horizontal plane created by the sprinkler head deflectors in each area.
 8                                                     LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013


        8.1.3. Access to control valves/panels in riser/mechanical rooms will not be blocked.
        8.1.4. A clear space of 30 inches must be maintained to the front and sides of electrical
        panels/ circuit breaker boxes.
        8.1.5. Position all stacks of materials to ensure an 18-inch clearance around fire detection
        devices, electrical fixtures, and light or heating fixtures and follow manufacturer’s
        instructions.
9. Fire Prevention Controls
     9.1. Control of Smoking Materials. Unsafe smoking practices and improper disposal of
     smoking materials constitutes two of the greatest fire hazards. To eliminate fires of this
     nature, firm control measures must be strictly enforced and observed by all personnel.
     Smoking in Air Force facilities will be governed by pertinent Air Force directives.
        9.1.1. No smoking or introduction of an open-flame device will be permitted in any
        hazardous location, flightline, aircraft parking area, or fuel handling area.
        9.1.2. An adequate number of butt-cans will be provided for all areas where personnel
        are permitted to smoke.
        9.1.3. Saturate butt-cans with water prior to dumping into trash dumpsters.
        9.1.4. Under no circumstances should combustible trash become intermingled with
        smoking materials.
     9.2. Electrical Installation, Appliances, and Heating Equipment. High-amp electrical
     appliances and equipment such as refrigerators, toasters, ranges, microwaves, coffeemakers,
     and similar appliances, will not be operated by extension cords, or surge suppressors. They
     shall be plugged directly into a wall outlet.
     9.3. Welding, Cutting, Brazing, and Open Flame Devices. All welding, cutting, and
     operation of open-flame devices, such as plumbers’ torches, blow torches, etc., conducted
     outside approved shop areas will require prior written approval from the Fire Prevention
     Office. An AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Brazing and Cutting Permit, will be used for this
     purpose. This form will be processed according to the instructions on the form and as
     prescribed in AFI 91-203, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing. All fire/safety precautions
     outlined in AFI 91-203 and NFPA STD 51B will be adhered to during open-flame
     operations. An activity supervisor or project foreman/manager can obtain this permit from
     the Fire Prevention Office during normal duty hours. During non-duty hours, contact the
     Emergency Communication Center at 298-5633.
     9.4. Pyrotechnics. The possession or use of pyrotechnics, fireworks, firecrackers, or similar
     item is prohibited, except for official use in connection with the Air Force mission or
     personnel survival.
        9.4.1. Pyrotechnic or explosive devices found anywhere on this installation will not be
        touched. The explosive ordnance flight from Lackland AFB is the sole authority for the
        removal of such devices and will be notified immediately through the Command Post.
     9.5. Flammable/Combustible Liquids and Gases. Flammable/combustible liquids and gases
     in other than facilities approved and designed for that purpose will be stored in approved
     cabinets AFI 91-203 Chapter 22.
LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013                                                                 9


  9.6. Aisles and Exits. Exit doors will be operational at all times in occupied facilities. Exit
  doors will not be blocked, locked, obscured from vision, or restricted in any way to prevent
  the safe evacuation of occupants. All double doors will have both halves unlocked during
  periods of occupancy.
     9.6.1. Doors designed to be kept closed in a means of egress, such as a door to a stair
     enclosure or horizontal exit, will be self-closing and will not, at any time, be secured in
     the open position (unless connected to the fire alarm system).
     9.6.2. Recycle bins will not obstruct aisle ways, corridors, or exits. Nor will they be
     stored in mechanical rooms, stairwell landings, or stairwells.
  9.7. Dormitories, UOQs, and TLFs. Each individual is responsible for the fire-safe
  condition of his or her room. All dormitories are subject to inspection during the Fire
  Prevention Visit. Normally a 10% sample is inspected during the Fire Prevention Visit.
  Each resident is responsible for maintaining individual quarters in a fire safe condition at all
  times.
     9.7.1. The burning of candles and incense is prohibited. This also includes business and
     mercantile occupancies.
     9.7.2. The excessive use of combustible material for decoration is prohibited. Material
     will not exceed 10 percent of the total ceiling and wall space.
     9.7.3. Occupants will not tamper with installed heat and smoke detectors. If a problem
     arises, contact the CE Service Call desk at 298-5488.
     9.7.4. Storage is prohibited in stairwells and crawl spaces.
  9.8. Controlled Burning. Open burning of trash, brush, or industrial residue is prohibited on
  base unless authorized by the Chief, FES in writing.
     9.8.1. Small controlled ground fires (campfires, bonfires, etc.) are prohibited on base
     unless authorized by the Chief, FES in writing. Above ground outdoor “fire pits” with a
     mesh screens are authorized without written permission.
     9.8.2. Camp or barbecue devices that employ the use of charcoal or flammable liquids or
     gases will not be used inside buildings or within 15 feet of any wall, roof, overhang or
     other combustible material.
     9.8.3. Laughlin AFB shall comply with Val Verde County Burn Bans as mandated by the
     State of Texas and the Val Verde County Commissioners Court.
  9.9. Interior Decorations. All decorations for use in public assembly, recreational, and
  mercantile facilities will be fire retardant. Decorations will not exceed 10 percent of total
  wall or ceiling space.
     9.9.1. Do not hang any decorations from sprinkler heads, pipes, electrical conduit, or
     lighting.
     9.9.2. Use of flocked Christmas trees is prohibited.
     9.9.3. Base facilities may only display artificial Christmas trees. (i.e. Dorms, offices,
     billeting or child development centers).
10                                                  LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013


     9.9.4. Do not use camouflaged netting as interior decorations.
  9.10. Aircraft Hangars. In case of a fire or emergency in a hangar or adjacent building, the
  movement of aircraft will be at the senior fire officer’s (SFO) discretion. Supervisors on duty
  in the hangar or vicinity when a fire alarm sounds will make contact with the SFO to
  determine if aircraft evacuation is required.




                                           THOMAS E. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013                                                     11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction
AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
AFI 32-10141, Planning and Programming Fire Safety Deficiency Correction Projects
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards
AFPAM 32-1125v1, Working in the Operations Management Field
DoDI 4145.19-R-1, Storage and Materials Handling
NFPA 70-B, National Electrical Code
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 3130, General Purpose (11 x8-1/2”)
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Report
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OI—Operating Instruction
UOQ—Unaccompanied Officers Quarters
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
SABER—Simplified Acquisition Base Engineering Requirements
POL—Petroleum Oil and Lubricants
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
IAW—In Accordance With
UL—Underwriters Laboratories
FM—Factory Mutual
 12                                                    LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013


                                          Attachment 2
                INSPECTION CHECKLIST FOR FACILITY MANAGERS

It is the responsibility of each facility manager to ensure the fire-safe condition of his or her
assigned facility at all times. This checklist was developed to assist in accomplishing this task
A2.1. Are exit lights operating properly? If exit signs are equipped with a battery back-up
system, the sign must be tested at least monthly.
A2.2. Are fire extinguishers serviceable and in their proper locations? If out of service, contact
the Fire Prevention Section, ext. 5037. Monthly fire extinguisher inspection must be
documented on AF Form 3130 or on a computer-automated product.
A2.3. Are exits unobstructed and unlocked while the building is occupied?
A2.4. Are fire department connections and equipment unobstructed and unblocked at all times?
A2.5. Post fire and other emergency numbers near all phones in case there is a fire at a
neighbor's home. The fire department can provide 911 emergency number decals to Laughlin
residents. Call ext. 5037.
A2.6. Are all electrical outlets, switches, fixtures, and wiring in good repair?
A2.7. Are flammable and hazardous materials stored properly? When in doubt, call the Fire
Prevention Section, ext. 5037 for proper guidance.
A2.8. Are waste or trash containers checked for proper disposal of smoking materials? Always
use large heavy non-tip over ashtrays.
A2.9. Are butts and ashes wet before dumping them into a wastebasket?
A2.10. Are janitor's closets kept clean and orderly?
A2.11. Is trash removed from the building daily or on established schedule?
A2.12. Do occupants know what action to take in the event of fire?
A2.13. Ensure that the unit fire prevention operating instructions are used to indoctrinate all
newly assigned personnel.
LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013                                                                  13


                                          Attachment 3
           OPERATING CHECKLIST FOR PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY

A3.1. Are all exiting doors unobstructed, working properly, and equipped with approved
hardware?
A3.2. Are all exit lights in operating condition?
A3.3. Are all fire extinguishers operational and unobstructed?
A3.4. Are all range hood exhaust fans in cooking facilities operational and with filters installed?
A3.5. Are spare filters available for replacement so grease filters can be cleaned as needed?
A3.6. Have open flame lighting devices such as candles and decorations, been approved by the
Fire Chief, except for chapel religious service?
A3.7. Have all newly hired employees been indoctrinated in fire prevention practices? All
training must be documented.
A3.8. Are fire alarms pull boxes visible and unobstructed?
A3.9. Is seating neatly arranged and are unobstructed aisles maintained to permit exit in case of
fire?
A3.10. Have all deep-fat fryers been tested and approved for use by the civil engineer or
responsible agent?
A3.11. Are covers available and located by each deep fat fryer for immediate use in case of fire?
A3.12. Are adequate approved self-closing receptacles available for disposal of smoking
materials?
 14                                                   LAUGHLINAFBI32-2001 23 MAY 2013


                                          Attachment 4
                                EMERGENCY ACTION PLAN

This Emergency Action Plan provides procedures to be followed by all personnel in case of fire.
References: AFI 91-301 and AFI 91-203
A4.1. Each facility shall have an emergency evacuation plan.          All emergency exits shall
conform to NFPA standards.
A4.2. Should evacuation be necessary, go to the nearest exit or stairway and proceed to an area
of refuge outside the building. Most stairways are fire resistant and present barriers to smoke if
the doors are kept closed. Do not use elevators.
A4.3. All employees are responsible for fire prevention and should know the proper actions to
take in case of fire.
A4.4. Procedures: Each supervisor will make sure that closing inspections are made at the end
of each duty day to ensure that the office/area has been left in a fire-safe condition.
A4.5. If you discover a fire:
   A4.5.1. Activate the nearest fire alarm.
   A4.5.2. Notify the fire department by dialing 911. Give your location, the nature of the fire,
   and your name.
   A4.5.3. Fight the fire ONLY if: The fire department has been notified of the fire, and the
   fire is small and confined to its area of origin.
   A4.5.4. You have a way out and can fight the fire with your back to the exit
   A4.5.5. You have the proper extinguisher, in good working order, and know how to use it.
A4.6. If you are not sure of your ability or the fire extinguisher's capacity to contain the fire,
leave the area. If you hear a fire alarm, evacuate the area, close windows, turn off gas jets, and
close doors as you leave.
A4.7. Leave the building and move away from exits and out of the way of emergency
operations. Assemble in a designated area approximately 75 feet from the fire area. Supervisors
can determine that you have evacuated the building.
A4.8. Remain outside until fire emergency services or a supervisor states that it is safe to re-
enter.
A4.9. Evacuation Routes
A4.9.1.   Learn at least two escape routes, and emergency exits from your area.
A4.9.2.   Never use an elevator as part of your escape route.
A4.9.3.   Learn to activate a fire alarm.
A4.9.4.   Learn to recognize alarm sounds.
A4.9.5.   Take an active part in fire evacuation drills.
