BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        LAUGHLIN AIR FORCE BASE
47TH FLYING TRAINING WING                                             INSTRUCTION 36-2502

                                                                           11 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                          AIRMAN PROMOTION/DEMOTION
                                                                           PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 47 FSS/FSMP                                                          Certified by: 47 FSS/CL
                                                                          (Mr. Steven P. Huskey)
Supersedes:    LAUGHLINAFBI 36-2502,                                                      Pages: 5
               Senior Airman Below-The-
               Zone Program, 17 April 2007


This instruction further implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-25, Military
Promotion and Demotion, and establishes procedures, policy, and responsibilities that apply to
all squadrons, to include tenant units, on Laughlin Air Force Base. This instruction is provided
to explain and standardize the processing procedures for the Airman Promotion/Demotion
Program. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The revision of this instruction changes 47th Mission Support Squadron (MSS) to 47th Force
Support Squadron (FSS) and Military Personnel Flight (MPF) to Military Personnel Section
(MPS). This revision also removes reference to Commanders Support Staff (CSS) and adds
Career Development section.
1. Objective. To provide an opportunity for exceptionally well qualified Airmen First Class
(A1C) a one-time consideration for promotion to SrA, to be effective 6 months prior to the fixed
 2                                            LAUGHLINAFBI36-2502 11 SEPTEMBER 2012


fully qualified phase point. Selection opportunity is 15 percent of the eligible population in total
time-in-grade (TIG) and time-in-service (TIS) and quality factors.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 47th Flying Training Wing Commander (47 FTW/CC) is the selection authority for
     BTZ. In addition, 47 FTW/CC also prescribes the procedures for large unit boards.
     2.2. The 47th Flying Training Wing Command Chief (47 FTW/CCC) is the Central Base
     Board (CBB) President, or a CMSgt designated by the 47 FTW/CCC.
     2.3. Group superintendents, or their designee in the rank of MSgt or higher, are voting
     members.
        2.3.1. The CBB will consist of the board president, three voting members, and a
        nonvoting recorder in the grade of SrA or higher.
     2.4. The MPS, Career Development element (47 FSS/FSMPD) will distribute SrA BTZ
     quotas and instructions each quarter. Commanders of large squadrons (7 eligible Airmen or
     more) have the option of holding a squadron level board or aggregating their eligibles to the
     CBB. If a squadron level board is to convene it will follow the same procedures outlined in
     this instruction as the CBB. Commanders of all small units (less than 7 eligible Airmen) will
     aggregate their eligibles to the CBB. In cases where there is a large unit (7 or more eligibles)
     and there are not enough eligibles from all the small units to meet the one-quota requirement
     based on 15 percent of the eligible population, the large unit and small units will combine to
     meet at the CBB. The 47 FTW/CC is the convening authority for all BTZ boards. The MPS
     will convene a CBB for the 47 FTW/CC to consider all unit nominees competing for BTZ
     promotion and will notify unit nominees by e-mail, as well as respective commanders/first
     sergeants.
     2.5. The MPS will determine quotas and distribution based on 15 percent of eligibles
     (“eligibles” pertain to Airmen who meet time-in-grade and time-in-service requirements).
     Approval authority for quota distribution is delegated to the Flight Chief, Manpower and
     Personnel Flight (47 FSS/FSM).
     2.6. The MPS will provide each nominee a Record Review Listing (RRL) to verify all data
     is accurate and complete. Instruct individuals that any erroneous data must be corrected by
     the MPS prior to the board convening.
3. Method/Number of Nominations.
     3.1. All unit commanders will use the BTZ eligibility list and an appropriate evaluation
     process. Commanders must review any EPR(s) the Airman may have, his/her Automated
     Records File (ARMs), and discuss nominations with the member’s supervisors/rating chain
     prior to making a nomination decision, regardless if the Airman is meeting a CBB or a large
     unit board. Units may nominate all, some or none of the eligibles listed on section I or II of
     the unit BTZ listing to meet the CBB.
     3.2. The CBB must convene prior to the 25th day of the board month (board months are
     Mar, Jun, Sep, Dec) in order for selection updates to be processed. Every effort will be made
     to schedule the CBB to allow nominees to physically appear before the board. If any
     nominee is unable to appear due to permanent change of station (PCS), temporary duty
LAUGHLINAFBI36-2502 11 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                            3


   (TDY), emergency leave, etc., the board will convene as a “records only” board. The 47
   FTW/CCC will make the final determination if the board will be “records only.”
   3.3. Individuals nominated will only be our very best performers and Airmen. They must be
   positive role models for others and have clearly demonstrated the potential to successfully
   perform at the next higher grade. Commanders will screen out those with negative “Quality
   Force” indicators. If the pool of eligibles doesn’t include Airmen of this caliber, the
   convening authority may not use the full BTZ quota.
   3.4. Areas Considered. The CBB and a large squadron of 7 eligibles or more will judge each
   nominee on performance (AF IMT 1206, decorations, and a BTZ record of individual
   personnel (RIP)), personal appearance, military bearing, education and communication skills
   through responses to knowledge level and subjective opinionated questions pertaining to the
   military, mission, and current events. When assessing education levels, the board members
   will take into consideration Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), training requirements, and
   work schedules; all A1Cs may not have the same opportunity to complete off-duty education.
   Current study references will be determined by the 47 FTW/CCC and identified on an
   attachment included with the nominee notification letter.
NOTE:
1. All Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)/United States Air Force Academy (USAFA)
eliminees are ineligible for BTZ consideration. They are eligible for SrA after 1 year on entry of
active duty (EAD) and once they obtain their 3-skill level
4. Nominee Packages.
   4.1. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, is required for all A1Cs being nominated for
   BTZ consideration. The nomination will be no more than 18 lines in length including sub-
   bullets and headings. The AF IMT 1206 will have the following headings: Leadership and
   Job Performance in Primary Duty, Training, Education, and Self Improvement, and Base and
   Community Involvement. The board will not consider any previous evaluations.
   4.2. Nominee packages include the AF IMT 1206 and copies of citations with order numbers
   for decorations. Nominee packages meeting the CBB will be routed through each group,
   respectively. Groups will turn in nomination packages to the career development office by
   the set suspense date.
5. Scoring Scale/Selection Phase.
   5.1. Selection for BTZ promotion, as with any other enlisted promotion, is based on the
   whole person concept with emphasis on leadership and job performance. Boards will use the
   following maximum point values for assessing each area:
Record Scoring:
Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty: 50 pts
Training, Education, and Self Improvement: 10 pts
Base and Community Involvement: 15 pts

Interview Scoring:
Appearance: 5 pts
Military Bearing: 5 pts
Communication Skills: 5 pts
 4                                           LAUGHLINAFBI36-2502 11 SEPTEMBER 2012


Knowledge Level Board Questions: 10 pts

(In the event of a “records only” board, the interview scoring will be omitted.)

Note: Each board member will ask two knowledge level questions totaling 10 pts. To assist
board members in evaluating the nominee’s communication skills, bearing and composure, the
board president will ask two subjective questions requiring opinionated responses.
Points will be assigned in .5 increments, and then totaled for each nominee. The board member
will then place each nominee in rank order in the “standing” column of the score sheet based on
score totals. The recorder computes the composite score of each nominee by adding the
respective standing columns of the board members. The recorder then lists nominees in order of
merit by ordinal score once the quota is applied.
     5.2. For the CBB, the board president sends a written report to the convening authority with
     an order of merit list of all Airmen considered. Should a large squadron of 7 eligibles or
     more hold a squadron level board; the board president of that board will send a written report
     to the convening authority routed through the 47 FTW/CCC with an order of merit list of all
     Airmen considered. The 47 FTW/CC may approve the board’s merit list (in whole or in part)
     or disapprove the promotion of an Airman whose record does not justify BTZ promotion.
     The     47 FTW/CC may elect not to use the full quota.
     5.3. The 47 FTW/CC or designated representative will notify selectees of their status.
     Squadron commanders will in turn ensure all nominees are notified of their status following
     selectee notification
     5.4. The MPS will project promotions immediately upon receipt of confirmation of
     selections from the 47 FTW/CC for the CBB and large squadron boards. This must be
     accomplished prior to the end of the board month.
6. Alternate Selection. Alternates may be selected in the event a selectee is removed or not
recommended for promotion before the promotion effective date. The MPS will review board
minutes to determine who the first alternate is and notify the 47 FTW/CCC who will coordinate
with the commander of that individual. If the commander recommends the alternate for
promotion, he/she forwards a letter to the MPS. The letter will be routed to the 47 FTW/CC for
signature.
7. Supplemental Consideration. If an eligible Airman was not considered, and the error is
discovered before the promotions are announced, the CBB will be reconvened to consider
eligibles and adjust selections accordingly. If an error is found after the promotions are
announced, the MPS will forward a request for supplemental consideration, by message, to HQ
AFPC/DPPPWM.




                                              THOMAS E. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
LAUGHLINAFBI36-2502 11 SEPTEMBER 2012                                        5


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, 21 June 1993
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program, 31 December 2009
MPFM: 06-57, Senior Airman (SrA) Below the Zone (BTZ) Program, 18 Aug 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CBB—Central Base Board
CCC—Command Chief Master Sergeant
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
LAFB—Laughlin Air Force Base
MPS—Military Personnel Section
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
SrA BTZ—Senior Airman Below-the-Zone
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
