BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            LAUGHLIN AFB INSTRUCTION 48-106
47TH FLYING TRAINING WING
                                                                          14 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                 AIRSICKNESS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
                                                                           (AMP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 47 MDOS/SGGT                                                     Certified by: 47 MDG/CC
                                                                              (Colonel B. Peters)
Supersedes:   LAUGHLINAFBI48-106, 15                                                    Pages: 8
              October 2005


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program. It establishes policies
and procedures for the Airsickness Management Program and Adaptation Training, conducted by
the Flight Surgeon’s Office, Mental Health Clinic and Aerospace and Operational Physiology. It
does not supersede higher headquarters (HHQ) manuals or instructions. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm./

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision outlines what the four phases of Airsickness Management will entail under normal
circumstances. It also introduces a Preemptive Airsickness Management Program for those
individuals identified during Initial Flight Screening (IFS) or self-identified as high risk
candidates for airsickness in T-6 training.
1. INTRODUCTION. Airsickness is a common problem for student pilots (SPs) and it can
interfere with their progression through Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training (SUPT). The
purpose of the AMP is to prevent and treat airsickness during SUPT. This can be done using a
structured AMP protocol which includes education, training and, if necessary, pharmacological
and physiologic intervention. The AMP does not interrupt training. Utilization of AMP is based
on the principle that airsickness detracts from the ability of the student pilot to learn to fly,
 2                                              LAUGHLINAFBI48-106 14 DECEMBER 2011


impairs the SP’s capability to demonstrate their flying skill and interferes with Instructor Pilot’s
(IP) ability to evaluate the SP’s flying proficiency. The AMP is designed to be a confidence
training tool that saves valuable flight training dollars and time by first educating students and
preventing airsickness and assisting those students to adapt to the flight environment.
Airsickness is a manageable problem, but if the program is to be successful it requires
coordination between the flying squadrons, Flight Medicine/Flight Surgeon, Mental Health, and
Aerospace and Operational Physiology Training Flight (AOPTF). Prior to SUPT, those
individuals identified during IFS (or self identified) as high risk candidates for airsickness may
enter a Preemptive Airsickness Management Program with Aerospace and Operational
Physiology after Flight Surgeon approval.
2. DEFINITION. An episode of airsickness is either active or passive. Active airsickness is
defined as having emesis (vomiting). Passive airsickness does not include emesis but, due to the
student’s discomfort or nausea, there is deviation from the mission profile. It is the IP’s
discretion to determine if passive airsickness occurred during the sortie and if that episode
mandated deviation from the mission profile. In most cases, airsickness is brief in duration and
is related to multi-axial accelerations, pulling +/-Gs, and unfamiliar factors (looking for new
landmarks, new flight patterns, new flight profiles, etc.).
3. RESPONSIBILITIES
     3.1. Flight Surgeon (FS): Is ultimately responsible for diagnosis and treatment of all
     airsickness cases. They conduct initial and follow-up airsickness awareness briefings,
     preventative training, and medically evaluate students experiencing airsickness. The
     evaluation is used to eliminate any physiological or illness related causes of the airsickness.
     After any physiological or illness problems have been eliminated, the Flight Surgeon has a
     number of options for treating students. The FS may refer the student to Mental Health for
     evaluation of Manifestations of Apprehension (MOA), behavior modification, stress training
     and biofeedback (if available); prescribe desensitizing medications to selected students in the
     pre-solo phase of training; and/or refer to Aerospace and Operational Physiology for entry
     into Adaptation Training (Barany chair).
     3.2. Mental Health: Conducts behavior modifications training and stress management
     training. Subjects they cover are: stress management, relaxation and breathing exercises,
     thought management, evaluate for MOA and behavioral sleep techniques.
     3.3. Aerospace and Operational Physiology Training Flight: Conducts Adaptation Training
     upon referral from the FS using relaxation techniques and the Barany chair. This is a
     consecutive three-day program in which the student flies before Adaptation Training.
     3.4. Student’s Flight/CC: Communicates with the FS and AOPTF AMP Instructor on
     student’s progress. Make every effort to schedule student in the 1st period of flying to allow
     for a Flight Surgeon’s visit after flying and appointment with AOPTF for Adaptation
     Training. If possible, also allows student a one-hour recovery period for re-hydration,
     relaxation, and practice (breathing/relaxation techniques) after Adaptation Training. If
     deemed appropriate, Flt/CC and/or IPs are encouraged to participate in Student’s Adaptation
     Training (Phase IV).
4. PROCEDURES
LAUGHLINAFBI48-106 14 DECEMBER 2011                                                              3


  4.1. Preemptive Airsickness Management Program: Those individuals who were identified
  during IFS as high risk candidates for airsickness during SUPT (or who self-indentify as
  being prone to airsickness) have the option to be entered into a Preemptive Airsickness
  Program prior to Phase II of SUPT. This action requires FS direction. Students will then
  schedule with Aerospace Physiology and will be entered into a standard three-day Adaptation
  Training program (see 5. Adaptation Training (Phase IV)). AOPTF will document results
  and maintain the records at AOPTF, as well as document in TIMS (Training Integration
  Management System).
  4.2. Phase 0: Prior to any flying, ALL SUPT students receive a briefing per AETC
  Instructor Guide (P-V4A-A-JP-IG) by Aerospace and Operational Physiology on the
  prevention of airsickness. This may include, but is not limited to: education on causes,
  symptoms, and prevention of airsickness in the UPT environment; stress management;
  relaxation breathing and techniques; and nutrition guidance.
  4.3. Phase I: All students experiencing their first episode of airsickness (active or passive)
  will report to the Flight Medicine Clinic (FMC) before their next flight to rule out any
  underlying medical cause of the airsickness. If no medical cause is found, the Flight Surgeon
  will review the airsickness episode with the student to determine if the preventative measures
  were followed and review the techniques discussed in Phase 0. This will be documented on
  AETC Form 4293, to be included in the student’s electronic grade book.
  4.4. Phase II: Upon the second episode of airsickness:
     4.4.1. The student will report to the FMC for medical evaluation and, barring any
     unusual circumstances, will be referred to Mental Health.
     4.4.2. Mental Health will evaluate the student for MOA, and review stress management
     and relaxation techniques. Mental Health will focus on the following areas: breathing
     techniques, muscle tensing exercise, autogenic and imagery skills, proper diet, thought
     management and behavioral sleep techniques.
     4.4.3. The Flt/CC will place the student on the Airsickness Commander’s Awareness
     Program (CAP). Flt/CC should schedule the student to fly in the first period available the
     next day after evaluation by the Flight Surgeon has occurred.
  4.5. Phase III: Upon the third episode of airsickness:
     4.5.1. The student will report to the FMC for medical evaluation and, unless there are
     compelling reasons not to do so, the Flight Surgeon will prescribe medications. The FS
     may, however, prescribe medications during any phase of the AMP.
     4.5.2. During the T-6 pre-solo phase of training the Flight Surgeon has the option of
     treating the student with a combination of Dextroamphetamine Sulfate (5mg) and
     Scopolamine (0.4 mg) (Scop/Dex) IAW AETCI 48-102 and AETCI 36-2205, Volume 4.
     The principle behind its use is to prevent an aversion to flying based solely on
     airsickness. Both Dextroamphetamine Sulfate and Scopolamine pills should be taken
     together one hour prior to flight. If the flight is cancelled or take-off will be three hours
     or more after the student takes the medication, the student will contact the Flight Surgeon
     for instructions. Treatment will be for three consecutive flights during training and
     treatment will end no later than five sorties prior to initial solo (C4102 or earlier). If the
4                                              LAUGHLINAFBI48-106 14 DECEMBER 2011


       three consecutive flights are interrupted (i.e. weather) the student will advise the Flight
       Surgeon in order to obtain a new prescription to allow three consecutive flights on
       medication. If a student is airsick while on Scop/Dex, the FS may elect to ground test the
       student with Scop/Dex prior to the next flight. Flying squadron flight commanders must
       make every effort to maximize continuity on these three sorties in order to derive
       maximum benefit from the medication (e.g. do not schedule the student just prior to a
       weekend or extended break). In no case will students fly more than three sorties while
       taking Scop/Dex without a command approved waiver (waiver requests will be routed
       through the 47 OG/CC). The specific indications for the use of Scop/Dex are left with the
       Flight Surgeon. The student will continue with SUPT syllabus and Airsickness CAP.
       The Flight Surgeon will document when medications are prescribed on AETC Form 4293
       for inclusion in the student’s electronic grade book.
    4.6. Phase IV: If airsickness is experienced after Phase III (fourth episode), all factors will
    be reexamined by the Flight Surgeon with particular attention to motivation for flying and
    possible MOA. Upon referral from the FS, the student will be entered into Adaptation
    Training conducted by the AOPTF AMP Instructor. This phase concentrates on preventative
    education and desensitization training using relaxation techniques and the Barany chair. The
    FS may prescribe Adaptation Training during any phase of the AMP.
5. ADAPTATION TRAINING (PHASE IV)
    5.1. Overview: Adaptation Training is a consecutive three day program with each day
    lasting one to two hours. The program must include three days of flying/spinning as well as
    three consecutive days of spinning (see 5.4 for more scheduling instructions). Each day of the
    program focuses on a different aspect of controlling airsickness. WARNING: All flying for
    the student must be completed prior to spinning. Students participating in Adaptation
    Training are not allowed to fly after spinning in the chair until they have had at least 12
    hours un-interrupted crew rest.
       5.1.1. Day One: Lets the student determine different factors influencing their
       susceptibility to airsickness. It also gives them the chance to practice mechanical
       methods of reducing airsickness.
       5.1.2. Day Two: Focuses on techniques used to relax the body and lower student’s
       airsickness arousal level.
       5.1.3. Day Three: The confidence builder used to enforce the student’s perception they
       have overcome the obstacle of airsickness.
    5.2. Student Responsibility: Practice the relaxation/diaphragmatic breathing techniques
    while both flying and chair flying. Attend all scheduled training sessions at AOPTF each of
    the three days.
       5.2.1. If there is a break in flying while still in the three day program (due to weather,
       scheduling, etc.) the student will complete that day of Adaptation Training. If the student
       does not become airsick on that day’s flight, they will still complete the scheduled three
       day program once referred by the FS.
    5.3. AMP Instructor Responsibilities: Counsel students on relaxation techniques using both
    preventative education and the Barany chair. Tailor instruction to the individual student (the
LAUGHLINAFBI48-106 14 DECEMBER 2011                                                                     5


      student’s initial interview will help to focus and tailor instruction). Discuss with the student
      their emotional, mental and physical state of being throughout the entire day. Focus on high
      stress activities such as emergency procedure stand-up, mission planning, crew briefing,
      SP/IP relationships and most importantly, progress in flying training.
         5.3.1. Instructors will be required to make themselves available for training whenever the
         student’s flying schedule dictates. After normal clinic duty hours (0730-1630) and on
         weekends, the AMP Instructor may be reached via cell phone: 830-765-4843.
      5.4. Flight/CC or IP Responsibility: Communicate with AMP Instructor and FS on student’s
      progress. Schedule the student for the 1st period of flying to allow for the Adaptation
      Training appointment afterwards (and time for the student to report to the FMC if they were
      airsick on their prior sortie). Three consecutive days of spinning plus three days of flying in
      the morning/spinning in the afternoon are ideal for the program to succeed (i.e. if Adaptation
      Training starts on a Thursday, the student will fly/spin on Thursday and Friday; spin on
      Saturday; and fly/spin on Monday to complete the three days of flying/spinning
      requirement). The final spin will be a refresher spin. The same schedule applies for starting
      the three day program on a Friday (fly/spin Friday; spin Saturday and Sunday; fly/spin
      Monday and Tuesday). Therefore, it is best to start the Adaptation Training on a Monday,
      Tuesday, or Wednesday.          Flight Commanders and IPs are welcome to participate in
      Adaptation Training with AMP instructor during spinning by helping the student and
      instructor focus in on those high stress activities (i.e. checklist, boldface, etc.) that may
      stimulate the student’s airsickness.
6. SUBJECTIVE AIRSICKNESS RATING CHART
      6.1. The chart is used to graph and evaluate the student’s response to duration and stimulus.
      It allows the student to rate their level of discomfort to their ability to fly the plane. The
      chart may be used in both the aircraft and/or during Adaptation Training.

Table 6.1. Airsickness Rating Chart.
Airsick Rating          Indication
1-3                     indicates low arousal not interfering with flight
4-6                     indicates a medium arousal, which causes the student to deviate from
                        planned flight (i.e. straight and level flight)
7-9                     indicates a high level of arousal which causes the student to transfer flight
                        control to the IP
10                      student becomes actively sick
7. ADAPTATION TRAINING (SPIN) PROTOCOLS
      7.1. Day One Protocol: The primary objective for day one is for the instructor to familiarize
      themselves with the student, the history of their airsickness, and observe the student’s
      reaction to extensive rotation. This is the diagnostic phase and it includes personal
      behavioral patterns and physiological/psychological symptoms in relation to airsickness. The
      student receives three ten minute spins in the chair with one ten minute break in-between
      each spin.
      7.2. Day Two Protocol: The primary objective of day two is to reinforce the student’s
      understanding of their symptoms that precede uncontrollable airsickness by practicing the
6                                              LAUGHLINAFBI48-106 14 DECEMBER 2011


    deep diaphragmatic breathing and progressive muscle relaxation. The instructor will
    simulate realistic sensations of aircraft scenarios (climb, dive, check 6, loop, etc) in the
    Barany chair and require the student to control their arousal level. The goal for each spin is
    to have the student’s arousal peak at least once per spin in the 7-8 range on the arousal scale.
    Arousal at the higher end of at least once per spin forces the student to control it. When this
    is accomplished, the student will gain confidence and incorporate the techniques in the
    airplane. The student receives three ten minute spins in the chair with one ten minute break
    in-between each spin.
    7.3. Day Three Protocol: The primary object is to reinforce the student’s confidence in their
    techniques. The student receives one ten-minute spin and one two-minute spin in the chair
    with one ten minute break in-between the spins.
    7.4. In order to complete the three day fly/spin requirement, one ten-minute refresher spin
    will be administered (i.e. if student starts Adaptation Training on Thursday, the following
    Monday would be a refresher spin for third fly/spin day.)
8. REFRESHER SPINS
    8.1. Refresher spins are conducted only after the student has completed the three day
    program. These spins are warranted if the student has had an airsickness episode (passive or
    active) in the aircraft. Though with any airsickness episode the student must see the Flight
    Surgeon, they can also self-refer to AOPTF at anytime if they feel a refresher spin is
    necessary. Documentation of the student’s performance during the spin will be annotated in
    TIMS on the AETC Form 4293. Students will be responsible for scheduling refresher spins
    with AOPTF.
    8.2. The Flight Surgeon has the option to refer a student to AOPTF for a refresher spin after
    an extended DNIF or non-flying period (4+ days).
9. AFTER HOURS PROCEDURES
    9.1. If a student has an airsickness episode after normal clinic hours, the Flt/CC may contact
    the on-call Flight Surgeon via the Command Post (x5167). The Flight Surgeon may refer the
    student to AOPTF for the initial three-day program or refresher spin (AOPTF cell phone 830-
    765-4843).




                                              MICHAEL R. FRANKEL, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
LAUGHLINAFBI48-106 14 DECEMBER 2011                                                   7


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AETCI 48-102, Medical Management of Undergraduate Flying Training Students, 16 November
2009
AETCI 36-2205V4, Formal Flying Training Administration and Management, 31 Aug 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AETC Form 4293, Student Activity Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMP—Airsickness Management Program
AOPTF—Aerospace and Operational Physiology Training Flight
CAP—Commander’s Awareness Program
DNIF—Duty Not Including Flying
FS—Flight Surgeon
FMC—Flight Medicine Clinic
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IFS—Initial Flight Screening
IP—Instructor Pilot
SUPT—Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training
MOA—Manifestations of Apprehension
RTFS—Return to Flying Status
SP—Student Pilot
TIMS—Training Integration Management System
 8                                        LAUGHLINAFBI48-106 14 DECEMBER 2011


                                      Attachment 2
                        T-6 AIRSICKNESS DECISION MATRIX

Figure 2.1. T-6 Airsickness Decision Matix.
