BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           LAUGHLIN AFB INSTRUCTION 90-401
47TH FLYING TRAINING WING
                                                                                   6 JULY 2011

                                                                              Inspector General

                                                             RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 47 FTW/IG                                                         Certified by: 47 FTW/IG
                                                                     (Lt Col Gregory Thurgood)
Supersedes:   LAUGHLINAFBI 90-401,                                                      Pages: 8
              14 Oct 2008


In accordance with Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-4, Relations with Congress, this
instruction provides wing guidance and procedures for responding to requests for information or
inquiries from members of Congress and their staffs. It establishes the 47th Flying Training
Wing Inspector General (47 FTW/IG) as the installation agency tasked to respond to
congressional and high-level inquires. Congressional inquiries are a grievance channel open to
all 47 FTW personnel and their family members. The procedures in this regulation are intended
to ensure that complete and accurate responses are released in a timely manner. This instruction
applies to all 47 FTW organizations. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised to include numerous attachments and must be
reviewed in its entirety.
1. 47 FTW/IG Responsibilities.
   1.1. The 47 FTW/IG will be the central POC for all legislative issues affecting the wing.
 2                                                       LAUGHLINAFBI90-401 6 JULY 2011


     1.2. The 47 FTW/IG will:
        1.2.1. Upon receipt of an inquiry, the 47 FTW/IG will immediately coordinate with 47
        FTW/CC, CV, and JA (if necessary) to determine a wing OPR and establish a suspense
        for the response.
            1.2.1.1. Responsibility for drafting replies to congressional inquiries rests with the
            flight, squadron, group commander, or division chief with the functional expertise to
            answer the question.
2. 47 FTW OPR Responsibilities:
     2.1. Assigned wing OPRs will prepare an in-depth response that accurately answers all
     questions or concerns. The 47 FTW/CC or CV will approve/sign all replies to Congressional
     or high-level inquiries. An informational copy of the response will be forwarded to
     SAF/LLI, AETC/IGQ, and 19 AF/CV (if appropriate).
     2.2. Timely response to Congressional or high-level inquiries is a command metric. OPRs
     will ensure responses are provided by the established suspense date. If a final reply
     cannot be forwarded within the established suspense date, immediately notify the 47 FTW/IG
     for assistance. Do not attempt to contact the tasking agency for an extension. Do not wait
     until the suspense due date to request a change in suspense date.
     2.3. Action offices will prepare an Air Force Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, with an
     appropriate response attached. After all internal and lateral coordination is accomplished, the
     response will be hand carried to 47 FTW/JA then to 47 FTW/IGQ. Upon receipt, 47
     FTW/IG will review for accuracy and forward to the Wing Commander for final
     coordination and signature.
3. 47 FTW Unit Responsibilities:
     3.1. 47 FTW/IG will be immediately notified of all incoming Congressional and high-level
     inquiries. Note: This also includes requests for information from other organizations that are
     responding to a Congressional or high-level inquiry regarding a 47 FTW issue.
4. Follow-up Action.
     4.1. If the inquiry reveals an actual deficiency, follow-up action is required. The group
     commander, squadron commander, or division chief and the IG determine if the deficiency is
     a one-time occurrence or if a systemic problem exists.
     4.2. If a systemic problem exists, the IG writes a finding against the appropriate flight,
     squadron, group, or division.
     4.3. The appropriate flight, squadron, group commander, or division chief develops and
     implements corrective action. The commander or division chief’s actions will be staffed
     through the appropriate chain of command.
LAUGHLINAFBI90-401 6 JULY 2011                                              3


  4.4. The 47 FTW/CC is the approval authority for corrective actions.




                                          THOMAS E. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                          Vice Commander
 4                                                    LAUGHLINAFBI90-401 6 JULY 2011


                                       Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution
AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations With Congress
AETCI 90-402, AETC Relations With Congress

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FTW/JA—Flying Training Wing Judge Advocate
AFLOA/JAJM—Air Force Legal Operations Agency Military Justice Division
AFPC/MSH—Air Force Personnel Center High Level Inquiries Division
SAF/AQCX—Secretary of the Air Force Chief of Contact Support Division
SAF/IGQ—Secretary of the Air Force Office of the Inspector General, Inquiries Directorate
SAF/LLI—Secretary of the Air Force Legislative Liaison, Congressional Inquiry Division
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
LAUGHLINAFBI90-401 6 JULY 2011                                                                        5


                                           Attachment 2
                          ANSWERING HIGH LEVEL INQUIRIES

A2.1. High level inquiries normally mean Congressional inquiries but may be generated by
other such levels to include the Department of Defense and the President.
   A2.1.1. The governing directive is AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with Congress.
   A2.1.2. This instruction directs the procedures for handling inquiries locally.
A2.2. Normally, the inquiry is routed through the 47 FTW/IG office with some exceptions.
A2.3. Responses go back to the tasking agency after being coordinated with the group
commander, legal and IG and are approved for release by the wing commander.
A2.4. Rules of engagement.
   A2.4.1. Normal suspense from time of our receipt is 48 hours, which includes time for legal,
   IG and command section coordination. This gives the unit a day to answer and coordinate
   through the group commander. Extensions must be requested through the 47 FTW/IG as soon
   as it is determined the unit needs additional time.
   A2.4.2. READ the inquiry and determine what primary issues needs to be addressed or
   answered. A recommended technique you can use is to make a copy of the letter and
   highlight specific issues as you read through the inquiry. Often the root issues are buried in
   an emotional or wordy letter.
   A2.4.3. Respond to the issues in the following matter:
       A2.4.3.1. The first paragraph should indicate whom the response is to, the complainant’s
       name and the general nature of the complaint.
       A2.4.3.2. The second paragraph should be a brief background. Remember the person
       reading the response doesn’t have your knowledge of the person or the situation.
       A2.4.3.3. The remaining paragraphs should clearly outline the issues as presented in the
       inquiry and present a direct, succinct answer.
   A2.4.4. Use the recommended format in Attachment 4 for the staff summary package.
   Include any background information in the tabs but understand the only thing sent out is the
   double spaced draft response.
   A2.4.5. Be sure to obtain the complainant’s approval to release the information to the
   inquirer, which may include their parents. Even if the individual appeared to be the author of
   the letter, we still get a third party release to protect the information. If the individual will not
   consent, we still draft a response and let the tasking agency know that the information is not
   to be released.
   A2.4.6. Include an electronic copy of the response on it so minor edits can be made as
   needed. The 47 FTW/IG will coordinate with the responding agency before making
   substantial changes. REMEMBER: Keep a copy of the package for reference. Packages
   have been known to disappear and a copy may keep you from having to recreate the entire
   package.
 6                                                      LAUGHLINAFBI90-401 6 JULY 2011


     A2.4.7. Coordinate through the squadron and group commander and then take the response
     to the legal office for their review. Call 47 FTW/IG to let them know legal has the package
     so it can be tracked.
     A2.4.8. You may receive the package directly from the command section for a rewrite.
     Contact 47 FTW/IG when this happens so they can track the progress of the package. Return
     the corrected package to 47 FTW/IG for final review. Include the initial draft with any edits
     with the corrected package.
NOTE: Be sure to update the letter and Staff Summary Sheet with any additional information
you may have received since the original package was drafted.
A2.5. Final words of wisdom.
     A2.5.1. If you receive a high level inquiry, contact the 47 FTW/IG and email or fax a copy
     to their office as soon as possible. The 47 FTW/IG may have additional information and
     needs to know there is an inquiry on base.
     A2.5.2. The answer going out of the 47 FTW will be coordinated through both JA and IG. In
     all cases, the release authority will be the wing commander. The 47 FTW/IG will work to get
     them off base as soon as possible.
LAUGHLINAFBI90-401 6 JULY 2011                                                                       7


                                           Attachment 3
                             SAMPLE THIRD PARTY RELEASE

(Date)
I, (Name, Rank, SSAN), do/do not hereby authorize release of information to (name of the
individual(s) that information will be released), e.g., Congressperson, parents, others requesting
information pertaining to specify subject of the inquiry, e.g., separation, discipline, medical
treatment, etc. If the individual would like to put limits on what is released, they may do so.




_____________                  ____                    ____________________           ____
Signature Block                Date                    Witness Signature Block       Date

NOTES:
1. Third party release is required even if the individual wrote the letter to the Congressperson,
etc. to ensure they know 47 FTW/IG is responding to their correspondence and someone is not
using their name. This protects us from releasing personal information inadvertently.
2. The witness can be anyone in the unit, but preferably an NCO or above in a supervisory
position.
3. Make sure the individual strikes out one of the two options (do/do not). If the individual does
not want the information released, it will still be sent to the tasking organization but not released
to the Congressperson, etc.
 8                                                       LAUGHLINAFBI90-401 6 JULY 2011


                                          Attachment 4
                 STAFF SUMMARY SHEET EXAMPLE INFORMATION

Minimum coordination required:
Group CC - Coord
47 FTW/JA - Coord
47 FTW/IG - Coord
47 FTW/CCE – Log
47 FTW/DS - Coord
47 FTW/CV - Coord
47 FTW/CC - Release
47 FTW/IG – Action
Subject: Congressional, Presidential, etc. Inquiry
Summary:
ISSUE: Respond to inquiry from name of Congressperson with state in, or name of official and
title regarding name of complainant, unit, and general nature of issue, e.g. separation, Article 15,
son/daughter’s well being.
BACKGROUND: Briefly present the events leading to the inquiry. Use tabs to provide
documentation or more in-depth information.
DISCUSSION: Describe the thought process used to arrive at the answer and provide any
additional information in the tabs to support the discussion.
CONCLUSION(s): Address any conclusions that you might draw. If none, leave this section
out.
RECOMMENDATION: 47 FTW/CC approve release of draft response at Tab 1 (item for
approval or signature should always be at Tab 1).


//SIGNED//
Signature block of person who prepared SSS            3 Tabs
1. Draft Response to Congressional Inquiry
2. Third Party Disclosure statement
3. Congressional Inquiry
