                              47th Flying Training Wing

                                         Laughlin AFB TX

                       Equal Opportunity and Treatment Program


AFI 36-2706, Equal Opportunity Program Military and Civilian, Paragraph 1.1 states; It is the
policy of the United States Government, the Department of Defense, and the Air Force, not to
condone or tolerate unlawful discrimination, to include sexual harassment, of any kind. This “Zero
Tolerance” policy ensures that once unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment is alleged,
immediate and appropriate action will be taken to investigate/resolve the allegations and ensure any
proven unlawful behavior stops. Further, appropriate disciplinary action will be taken against any
Airman, military or civilian, who engages in unlawful discriminatory practices.

The wing Equal Opportunity (EO) office provides a safe avenue to address on-/off-base incidents
which may negatively disrupt the installation Human Relations Climate i.e. personality conflicts,
ineffective communication, favoritism, hostile work environments, etc. The Equal Opportunity and
Treatment mission is supported by the 47 FTW Commander, DoD, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The EO office’s primary objective is
ensuring 100% mission effectiveness by eliminating unlawful discrimination against all DoD
military, civil service, retirees, separated, contractors and their family members where the individual
was denied an opportunity, right, privilege or treated disparately based upon any of the following:
Race, Color, Sex, National Origin, Religion, Age (40), Retaliation, Disability (mental/physical),
Sexual Harassment or Genetic Information.

Our office promotes a workplace environment free from personal, social or institutional barriers by
conducting Human Relations Education, Teambuilding, Assessments (Informal/Formal),
Diversity Training and Complaint Processing (Informal/Formal). The EO office, along with the
Investigative Resolution Division, resolves complaints by using various “Lowest Level Resolution”
techniques i.e. Counseling, Facilitations, Mediations, Investigations, Surveys, etc. The EO
complaint/appeal initial filing requirements vary between 15-90 days based upon pertinent data i.e.
complainant DoD status. For Lowest Level Resolution, individuals are expected to comply with the
DoD EOT “Zero Tolerance” policy, eliminate unlawful discrimination immediately, attempt to
resolve the issue directly, seek assistance from a friend, co-worker, chain of command (all levels are
encouraged) or report the incident to the EO Office.




LAUGHLINAFBVA 36-2706A, 8 May 2012 (Per AFI 36-2706) OPR: 47 FTW/EO   RELEASABILITY – There are no releasability
Supersedes LAUGHLINAFBVA 36-2701, 6 July 2011                           restrictions on this publication
