BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    LITTLE ROCK AIR FORCE BASE
19TH AIRLIFT WING (AMC)                                               INSTRUCTION 21-109

                                                                                 1 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                                 AIRCRAFT WASH FACILITY
                                                                           PROCEDURES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 19 MXG/MXGQA                                                       Certified by: 19 MXG/CC
                                                                          (Col Daniel R. Lockert)
Supersedes:    LITTLEROCKAFBI21-109,                                                      Pages: 9
               7 September 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. This instruction applies to
19 Maintenance Group and 314 Maintenance Group. The desired goal is to ensure optimum
utilization of resources with minimum negative impact on our ability to meet flying schedules as
well as scheduled maintenance/inspection flow requirements. The use of the name or mark of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil). Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Revised wash responsibilities for the 19 Airlift Wing and 314 Airlift Wing aircraft. Wash crew
no longer responsible for towing of wash aircraft. Changes made to wash supervisor
responsibilities and owning aircraft unit responsibilities. Revised wash crew supervisor checklist.
Scheduled days for wash facility and airpark cleanup. This document has been substantially
revised and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                               LITTLEROCKAFBI21-109 1 AUGUST 2013


1. General Policy:
     1.1. The 19 Equipment Maintenance Squadron (19 EMS) has the overall responsibility and
     ownership of the wash rack facility. They will appoint a primary and alternate facility
     manager to maintain the hangar, programs, supplies, and equipment. The 19 EMS will
     provide facility support via the aircraft structural maintenance as required to meet aircraft
     wash requirements. The wash rack facility manager will ensure compliance with AMCI 21-
     119, paragraphs 9.1-9.3 and AETCI 21-106, Para 1.5.1-1.5.1.2.
     1.2. At a minimum, the wing corrosion control manager will ensure the requirements of
     AMCI 21-119 and AETCI 21-106 are complied with. This includes:
        1.2.1. Conduct cross-utilization training to ensure wash crew supervisors assigned by the
        19 Maintenance Group and the 314 Maintenance Group are trained on proper wash
        procedures. Training will be documented in the individual’s training records.
     1.3. There will be an aircraft wash crew supervisor assigned from AMC or AETC when their
     respective aircraft are being washed. The wash crew supervisor has overall responsibility
     and authority to ensure all washing and lubrication directives are adhered to. All wash crew
     supervisors will be an SSgt, 7-level or higher, have an aircraft maintenance AFSC, and have
     this training documented prior to assuming the position.
        1.3.1. The wash crew will be comprised of personnel from AETC or AMC when their
        respective aircraft are being washed. Recommended wash crew size is 10 personnel to
        enable wash completion in less than 12 hours. All personnel assigned will be trained in
        aircraft wing and tail walking procedures to help with a tow, on an as needed basis.
        1.3.2. Wash crew personnel will report directly to the wash rack facility while assigned
        to wash rack detail for aircraft washes and for monthly hangar cleanup. They will be
        released to their respective AMU if there is not an aircraft wash for the day. The crew
        will not be assigned to other duties or scheduled for training other than listed in this
        instruction, unless cleared by the wash crew supervisor.
        1.3.3. Members pulled to fill mobility requirements or absent due to unavoidable
        circumstances such as illness will be backfilled by the AMU with a fully qualified
        individual.
        1.3.4. Washes will be programmed in accordance with the 19 MOS/MXOOP Plans,
        Scheduling and Documentation (PS&D) shared resources schedule and published in the
        Weekly Flying and Maintenance schedule.
        1.3.5. Owning AMUs should expect an aircraft wash and lube to be complete within one
        12-hour shift. Completion times are dependent upon the condition of aircraft entering the
        wash rack.
        1.3.6. Any wash that could start over an hour late may be cancelled by the owning AMU
        production superintendent, who will coordinate with owning the PS&D section to
        reschedule the wash. This cancellation policy does not include ISO washes.
        1.3.7. All scheduled ISO washes will start NLT 0900 on day one of the ISO inspection.
     1.4. No vehicles or AGE will be washed in the wash rack unless authorized by the wash rack
     facility manager.
LITTLEROCKAFBI21-109 1 AUGUST 2013                                                               3


   1.5. The wash rack will not be utilized for other aircraft maintenance activities without
   coordinating with the maintenance squadron production superintendent (MIKE 1), the wash
   rack facility manager, and PS&D for use outside of normal wash/comp wash procedures.
   1.6. Aircraft will not be signed off and released by the wash crew supervisor until the facility
   is cleaned, all tools and consumables are inventoried, and lubricants properly stored. This
   will include cleaning the locker rooms, CTK room, office, and wash bay. The AMU is
   responsible for ensuring item such as armor, dual rails, technical data, supplies, troop seats,
   etc are not left in the wash rack and are removed upon wash completion.
      1.6.1. 19 MOS PS&D shall try to schedule 1 day towards the end of each month where
      the wash rack will not have a scheduled wash and will be a scheduled facility
      maintenance.
   1.7. Workplace function requirements for Hangar 233:
      1.7.1. The schedule for the Wash Rack facility is maintained by the 19 MOS PS&D
      work center. Any organization requesting to use this facility must reserve it at least 30
      days in advance through 19 MOS PS&D.
      1.7.2. The sound system in the Wash Rack facility is owned and operated by the 19
      Communications Squadron. Organizations wanting to use this sound system must
      coordinate with them.
      1.7.3. Once the requesting organization has secured a spot on the facility schedule they
      must coordinate unlocking the facility with the 19 EMS/MXMFS Wash Rack NCOIC.
      1.7.4. The Wash Rack facility has a stage & skirt, stairs, and podiums available for use.
      Organizations wanting to use these items for their events must coordinate with the 19
      EMS/MXMFS Wash Rack NCOIC.
2. 19 Equipment Maintenance Squadron Wash Rack Facility Manager Responsibilities:
   2.1. Monitor facilities to ensure they are adequate to meet mission requirements and to
   ensure proper levels of equipment and material funding are available to support a sound
   corrosion control program.
   2.2. Monitor all programs and directives pertaining to the wash rack facility.
   2.3. Ensure all CTK tools and equipment are available and serviceable.
   2.4. Notify PS&D during the shared resources meetings of wash rack facility maintenance
   requirements. This includes items such as general housekeeping, equipment servicing, and
   scheduled maintenance. Manpower requirements will be kept to a minimum and coordinated
   with the AMUs prior to the shared resources meeting.
   2.5. Ensure a corrosion inspection is complied with IAW T.O. 1-1-691. Any findings should
   be documented in aircraft forms and a job called into aircraft structural maintenance.
   Comply with aircraft forms documentation for corrosion inspections and discrepancies found
   once the wash is done. Note: This should not be confused with the post-wash inspection
   performed by the owning organization.
 4                                                LITTLEROCKAFBI21-109 1 AUGUST 2013


3. Wash Crew Supervisor Responsibilities:
     3.1. The aircraft wash crew supervisor is responsible for the overall management of the wash
     crew. This includes, but is not limited to the responsibilities outlined in AMCI 21-119, Para
     8.6, 8.7, and 9 and AETCI 21-106, Para 1.2.4.
     3.2. Ensure all assigned personnel receive required training and initial safety and health
     briefing and document in CFETP (or electronic equivalent/TBA) for E/H combined and J
     model acft, and AF FORM 55 safety briefing for wash rack specific requirements. Ensure
     that required personnel are trained in the use and servicing of the wash rack JLG 44e high lift
     and document training. All wash crew personnel will be briefed on proper use of safety and
     personal protective equipment and wash rack procedures before starting any washes. This
     will be accomplished at the initial assignment briefing. (Note: The wash crew supervisor
     will maintain a CFETP (or electronic equivalent/TBA)/AF FORM 55 for the duration of
     assignment)
     3.3. Ensure aircraft is properly prepared (aircraft grounded, covers installed and taped) and
     washed IAW T.O. 1-1-691, aircraft specific T.O.s and other applicable directives. Contact
     respective AMU production office, MOCC and QA (if required) for any ground found
     discrepancies during preparations. Annotate discrepancy into aircraft forms.
     3.4. Ensure aircraft is lubed, and document forms, as required.
     3.5. Inspect for foreign objects or damage at a minimum of before and after each wash.
     3.6. Ensure wash crew adhere to all safety precautions and technical orders.
     3.7. Conduct a final inspection of all areas of the aircraft utilizing the wash supervisor
     checklist (See Attach 2). Upon proper completion of the checklist, sign and enter employee
     number. Have this checklist available for QA.
     3.8. Ensure the wash crew installs/removes all covers, tape, and drain plugs and
     documentation is complete.
     3.9. Ensure the wash is completed and sign the appropriate write-up in the aircraft or
     equipment records to that effect. Ensure time is taken in G081.
     3.10. Brief the wash crew on after-wash aircraft cleanliness inspection requirements.
     3.11. Notify respective QA (AMC/AETC) upon completion of wash.
     3.12. Notify owning AMUs production superintendent of all aircraft delays or no-shows, any
     unresolved wash crew conflicts, and after each wash for an acceptance inspection. Notify
     Mike 1 of all aircraft delays or no-shows and contact ISO upon completion of ISO washes for
     an acceptance inspection.
     3.13. The responsibility for wash and lube quality assurance evaluations belongs to the wash
     crew supervisor who completed the inspection of aircraft wash and post wash lube.
4. Owning Aircraft Maintenance Unit Wash Responsibilities:
     4.1. AMUs will tow their own aircraft to and from the wash rack. Aircraft must be prepped
     and in place by 7am of the scheduled wash.
LITTLEROCKAFBI21-109 1 AUGUST 2013                                                               5


   4.2. Ensure the aircraft is properly prepped prior to entering the wash rack, to include the
   removal of chain boxes, lowering flaps, flap carriage covers, air deflector doors opened, belly
   band removed (if applicable), T.O.’s removed from floor area storage, loose equipment and
   boxes removed, any panels requiring removal for regular or ISO wash, batteries
   disconnected, applicable engine cowls opened, PMA removed (J Model only) and cargo floor
   rollers on applicable aircraft. Ramp dual rails will be removed to facilitate proper wash and
   corrosion prevention procedures prior to aircraft ISO for C130E/H. The AMU is responsible
   for ensuring items such as armor, dual rails, technical data, supplies, troop seats, etc are not
   left in the wash rack and are removed upon wash completion.
   4.3. Enter wash rack G081 preprints for aircraft wash/wash preparation checklist
   requirements in the aircraft forms.
   4.4. Ensure aircraft wash crew personnel are task-trained and qualified. The wash crew
   supervisor will conduct actual certification and will document in the CFETP (or electronic
   equivalent/TBA).
   4.5. Ensure wash crew personnel attend the initial safety and health briefings.
   4.6. Notify wash crew supervisor of all aircraft delays or no-shows and any unresolved wash
   crew manning issues or conflicts.
   4.7. Ensure ISO aircraft due NDIs, X-ray, ultrasound or eddy current are prepped and in
   place IAW PS&D shared resources schedule by 0400 of day one of the ISO.
      4.7.1. X-rays are conducted prior to the wash and should be accomplished by 0900.
      4.7.2. NDI will notify MOC of scheduled X-ray times, and NO entry into the wash rack
      will be allowed until an “ALL CLEAR” has been provided by the MOC.
   4.8. Enter following discrepancy in the aircraft forms on a red dash prior to the wash:
   “Aircraft post wash cleanliness inspection due”. It is cleared by the owning unit maintenance
   supervision, production supervisor or authorized contractor after completion of the
   cleanliness inspection. (AMCI 21-119 Para 13.1.1.3)
5. Hangar 233 function requirements:
   5.1. DV visits/large events:
      5.1.1. Wash rack facility must be reserved for three days (cleanup/setup/event). Large
      events will require a minimum of 20 personnel provided by the requesting organization
      for setup and teardown/clean-up.
      5.1.2. Requesting organizations are responsible for providing: chairs, tables, bleachers,
      flag and any other displays. CS will also be required for operating sound.
   5.2. Change of Command’s/Awards Banquets/Welcome Home Warrior events:
      5.2.1. Wash rack facility must be reserved for three days (cleanup/setup/event). Such
      events will require a minimum of 10 personnel provided by the requesting organization
      for setup and teardown/ cleanup
      5.2.2. Requesting organizations are responsible for providing: chairs, tables, bleachers,
      flag and any other displays. CS will also be required for operating sound.
6                                           LITTLEROCKAFBI21-109 1 AUGUST 2013


    5.3. Small events:
       5.3.1. Wash rack facility must be reserved for one day. All small events such as:
       Commanders Calls, All Calls and Fun runs will require 1-3 personnel provided by the
       requesting organization for set up and tear down.




                                         BRIAN S. ROBINSON, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
LITTLEROCKAFBI21-109 1 AUGUST 2013                                                        7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008 GM 13 October 2011
AFI 21-101/AMC Sup 1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 14 February 2011
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AETCI 21-106, Corrosion Control, 26 March 2012
AMCI 21-119, Corrosion Control Program, 03 November 2003
T.O. 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace Equipment,
11 May 2011
T.O. 1C-130A-23CL-1, Washing and Cleaning USAF Series All C-130 Aircraft, 01 December
2011
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Air Expeditionary Forces
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Unit
CTK—Consolidated Tool Kit
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
IAW—In Accordance With
ISO—Isochronal
K1—Kilo 1
Mike 1—MXS Production Superintendent
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MOS—Maintenance Operations Squadron
MXG—Maintenance Group
 8                                        LITTLEROCKAFBI21-109 1 AUGUST 2013


MXS—Maintenance Squadron
NDI—Non-Destructive Inspection
NLT—No Later Than
PS&D—Plans Scheduling and Documentation
QA—Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TBA—Training Business Area
T.O.—Technical Order
LITTLEROCKAFBI21-109 1 AUGUST 2013                              9


                            Attachment 2
    AF FORM 2519 (OVERPRINT) - WASH CREW SUPERVISOR CHECKLIST
