BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       LITTLE ROCK AFB INSTRUCTION 31-105
LITTLE ROCK AFB 19TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                 4 MAY 2012

                                                                                     Security

                                                         MILITARY CUSTOMS PROGRAM
                                                                        (EXCEPTED)




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this instruction.


OPR: 19 SFS/S3                                                       Certified by: 19 SFS/CC
                                                                 (Major Timothy K. McCarty)
                                                                                      Pages: 6




This instruction implements DoDI 4000.19, Title 19 USC 1401(i), Title 9 CFR part 94.5 and
Title 7 CFR part 330.400, Plant Protection Act of 2000 and Animal Health Act, AMCI-E 24-101,
Transportation, Military Aircraft-Fleet Service, Defense Transportation Regulation –PartV,
Chapter 507, Military Customs Inspectors-Excepted (MCI-E-E), and outlines the responsibilities
and procedures for the conduct of the customs, agriculture, and health quarantine inspection
program at Little Rock AFB. This instruction applies to the 19th Airlift Wing, 314th Airlift
Wing, 189th Airlift Wing and all other tenant units and personnel requesting, undergoing and
performing US Customs clearance at Little Rock AFB. Ensure all records created, as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication, are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records or as directed by Department of Homeland Security.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
 2                                                   LITTLEROCKAFBI31-105 4 MAY 2012


1. Program Objectives. The 19th Airlift Wing Commander will establish a Military Customs
Program that details; pre-announcement of inbound customs aircraft, Military Customs
Inspector-Excepted response, refuse removal, notification procedures and follow up actions as
requested by US Customs.
     1.1. All personnel performing inspection and refuse duties will complete annual training, as
     required by the Area Port Director, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Memphis TN.
     1.2. Fleet Services personnel for agricultural waste and Military Customs Inspectors-
     Excepted perform duties for the U.S. Customs Office, Little Rock AR.
     1.3. 19 AW/XP is responsible to ensure efforts between responsible agencies are coordinated
     to ensure compliance with established requirements.
2. 19 SFS Responsibilities. 19 SFS/CSF will appoint a program manager who will; maintain
records of certification for all personnel involved in the program, liaison with US Customs
personnel, determine procedures for Military Customs Inspector-Excepted response and perform
self inspections of the program for 19 AW/XP.
     2.1. The Military Customs Program Manager (MCPM) will review CF 55’s monthly to
     determine the status of available inspectors and schedule training as appropriate.
        2.1.1. Military Customs (Exempted) Inspectors (MCI-E-E) will meet the following
        requirements; One year time on station, E-5 or higher and no record of disciplinary
        action.
        2.1.2. The CSF may approve E-4’s to complete inspections. These personnel must have
        completed MCI-E training and have inspections supervised by an E-5 or higher.
        2.1.3. The 19 SFS Unit Security Manager will review the list of approved MCI-E’s
        monthly to ensure the highest standard of reliability. Personnel who have a record of
        alcoholism, drug abuse or other disciplinary action will be removed from the list of
        qualified MCI-E’s. Personnel who have a SIF initiated will be removed from the
        approved MCI-E list.
     2.2. The MCI-E kit will be maintained at the LRAFB Base Defense Operations Center
     (BDOC), and accounted for every shift by the Base Defense Operations Center Controller
     (BDOCC). The MCPM will check the kit monthly to ensure it has an appropriate amount of
     materials (forms, containers etc.) and ensure publications and documents are current.
     2.3. Once per quarter the Military Customs Program Manager will meet with US Customs
     personnel to receive briefings on current issues and feedback on the MCP.
     2.4. The MCPM will update the electronic MCI-E Flight Report with data collected by the
     MCI-E . The MCPM will send the MCI-E Flight Report to the US Customs Little Rock Port
     monthly, or to US Customs or USDA personnel upon request.
     2.5. Items placed in the amnesty box will be turned into SF investigations for proper
     disposition.
3. International Refuse Handling. 19 LRS will provide Aerial Port functions to remove
international refuse from inbound aircraft and ensure destruction of refuse IAW AMCI-E 24-
101, Vol. 10.
LITTLEROCKAFBI31-105 4 MAY 2012                                                                   3


   3.1. Aerial Port Operators will ensure all personnel dealing with international refuse are
   annually trained using a training program that has been approved by the US Customs Little
   Rock Port Director.
   3.2. The MCPM will maintain all training records for a minimum of one year from the end
   of the month in which the training occurred.
4. Pre-Announcement.
   4.1. The on-duty Command Post Controller will perform a daily check for inbound military
   aircraft requiring US Customs clearance. Command Post Controller will notify 19
   SFS/BDOC of the results, including negative results. This notification will be logged in the
   AF Fm 53.
   4.2. Airfield Operations will immediately notify 19 SFS/BDOC when they receive a PPR
   (Prior Permission Required) Request for non-US military aircraft. The notification will
   include; point of departure, type of aircraft, estimated time of arrival, designated parking spot
   (if known), number of personnel on board (if known) and any pre-clearances.
   4.3. 19 SFS/BDOC will notify US Customs, 19 SFS/MWD Kennel Master and 19
   LRS/LGRA (ATOC/ext-7127) as soon as an aircraft is projected in-bound to coordinate
   inspection activities. On the day of arrival of the aircraft the 19 SFS/BDOC will notify the
   SFS Operations Superintendent, NCOIC of Police Services, Military Customs Program
   Manager and OSI. The pre-announcement notifications will be annotated in the AF Fm 53.
5. Inspection/Clearance Procedures. The following procedures will be followed in order to
ensure proper clearance of personnel and equipment;
   5.1. The BDOCC will dispatch a NDMWD team and sufficient personnel to secure the
   aircraft until released by U.S. Customs or the MCI-E. The BDOCC will also confirm 19
   LRS/Aerial Port Operators are aware of the in-bound aircraft and personnel are en-route to
   assist with refuse.
   5.2. The Military Customs Inspector-Excepted (MCI-E-E) will:
      5.2.1. Meet the aircraft upon arrival and obtain all pertinent forms with required
      signatures.
      5.2.2. Ensure the aircraft was decontaminated (sprayed) prior to landing
      5.2.3. Check the aircraft for any insects/animals prior to allowing the rear cargo door and
      troop doors to open. If insects are found in the aircraft, seal the aircraft until the arrival
      of US Agricultural personnel.
      5.2.4. Brief arriving crew members and passengers on requirements for U.S. Customs
      and Agriculture clearance and amnesty box procedures.
      5.2.5. Provide an Amnesty Box and sufficient time for personnel to utilize it.
   5.3. 19 LRS
      5.3.1. Transport all passengers, aircrew and baggage to Bldg 430 while maintaining a
      customs quarantine. Cargo will be transported and inspected in the fenced in cargo yard
      adjacent to Bldg 259.
4                                                    LITTLEROCKAFBI31-105 4 MAY 2012


       5.3.2. Trained personnel will remove refuse from the aircraft and inform the MCI-E-E of
       the mass of the refuse (in Kilograms) that was removed for destruction. The MCI-E-E
       will annotate the number of kilograms of waste that was removed from the aircraft. If no
       trained personnel are available to remove international refuse from the aircraft, notify 19
       SFS/BDOC immediately to request US Customs personnel respond to assist.
           5.3.2.1. Refuse will be double bagged prior to removal from the aircraft. Bags must
           be at least four mil (0.004-inch) and easily identifiable by unique color or tagged with
           ―REGULATED GARBAGE‖.
           5.3.2.2. Refuse will be held in a lockable room in Bldg 267 until removal. All refuse
           will be stored in rigid, tight, covered, leak-proof receptacles. Storage receptacles
           shall be marked with ―REGULATED GARBAGE‖ in at least two inch high letters.
       5.3.3. Refuse must be logged in upon receipt at Bldg 267 and logged out upon
       destruction or removal. Refuse must be removed or destroyed within 24 hours of being
       placed into storage.
       5.3.4. Any spillage will be reported to US Customs immediately.
           5.3.4.1. Maintain a log containing information on amounts and concentrations of
           disinfectants used in order to fulfill Environmental Protection Agency reporting
           instructions. This log will maintain at least; (1) the number of disinfection treatments
           performed, (2) location of the spill and (3) the concentration of bleach used or the
           number of pounds of sodium carbonate used.
           5.3.4.2. The spill log will be maintained for a minimum of three years.
    5.4. After all cargo, personnel and refuse are removed from the aircraft, the MCI-E-E will:
       5.4.1. Inspect cargo pallets for US Customs seals and proper documentation. Annotate
       number of sealed cargo pallets. If cargo pallets are not sealed, immediately stop cargo
       pallet inspections and notify the US Customs Little Rock Port Director, who will respond
       to inspect cargo.
       5.4.2. Collect a customs declaration from each person after baggage is claimed. Ensure
       the declarations are signed.
           5.4.2.1. Ensure all items introduced into the US are depicted on the personal
           declaration and value is displayed in U.S. currency.
           5.4.2.2. Ensure the description of each item including the primary composition of the
           item and any valuable additions (i.e. wood clock with 14kt gold roman numerals).
           5.4.2.3. Ensure alcohol is listed with type, volume and proof, where purchased and
           value.
       5.4.3. Collect the passenger manifest and crew orders to ensure each person turned in a
       customs declaration. Collect a U.S. Agriculture Form 250 from the Aircraft Commander.
       5.4.4. After all personnel are in a suitable inspection quarantine area, ensure each bag is
       claimed by a person and all bags are lined up in an orderly fashion for an NDMWD team
       to complete a sweep of all bags. Any bags left unclaimed will be treated as a suspicious
       package.
LITTLEROCKAFBI31-105 4 MAY 2012                                                                5


     5.4.5. Open and inspect the contents of no fewer than 10% of bags that NDMWD teams
     do not respond to. Ensure each government weapon is listed by serial number on
     individual travel orders. Any weapon not annotated by serial number and type on
     individual travel orders will be confiscated.
     5.4.6. Document all specifics of the inspection utilizing the Customs Inspection Log.
     5.4.7. For infractions concerning narcotics or firearms, seize contraband via AF Fm 52,
     detain suspects, notify U.S. Customs officials and await their arrival.
     5.4.8. For infractions concerning contraband other than narcotics and firearms, notify
     U.S. Customs, then seize the contraband via AF Fm 52 and complete an incident report if
     U.S. Customs agents do not respond. Photograph agricultural contraband and ensure 19
     LRS disposes of it as refuse.
     5.4.9. All documentation for the inspection will be placed into a sealed manila envelope
     and routed to the MCPM. The envelope will have the name of the senior MCI-E-E on
     scene, blotter entry/page number and all information from the Customs Inspection Log
     written on the outside of it.
  5.5. If at any time it is determined a major agricultural or environmental hazard exists,
  immediately notify the fire department and initiate Emergency Management actions.
  5.6. The AF Fm 53/Security Forces Desk Blotter is the primary document utilized to record
  Military Customs Inspections. After the inspection is complete, the Blotter will reflect;
  Arrival and clearance times, place of origin, aircraft tail number, assigned squadron, aircraft
  parking spot, number of crew and passengers, number of bags present/checked, amount of
  trash taken by 19 LRS and which MCI-E-E completed the inspection.




                                           MICHAEL A. MINIHAN, Col, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                              LITTLEROCKAFBI31-105 4 MAY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 52, Evidence Tag
AF Form 53, Security Forces Desk Blotter
PPQ Form 213, Airplane Inspection Record
Customs Form 7507, General Declaration
Customs Form 6059B, Customs Declaration

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AW—Airlift Wing
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
IAW—In Accordance With
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCI—E—Military Customs Inspector
MCI—E-E—Military Customs Inspectors-Excepted
MCPM—Military Customs Program Manager
MWD—Military Working Dog
NDDMWD—Narcotic Detection Military Working Dog
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
MAJCOM—Office of Special Investigations
PPR—Prior Permission Requires
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
