BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     LITTLE ROCK AIR FORCE BASE
19TH AIRLIFT WING                                                      INSTRUCTION 31-102

                                                                                     25 JULY 2013

                                                                                            Security

                                                                        CONTROL OF ANMIALS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 19 SFS/S3O                                                          Certified by: 19 MSG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Tracey L. Watkins)
Supersedes:    LITTLEROCKAFBI31-202,                                                       Pages: 9
               9 April 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense. This instruction establishes local
policies and procedures governing the possession and control of animals and actions necessary to
protect the health and safety of personnel, dependents, and animals on this installation. This
instruction applies to all units, residents, and visitors on this installation. In regards to housing
residents this publication will not conflict with housing closing documents. This instruction
requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by 50 United States Code 797. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims.                 Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been updated with the types, numbers of animals authorized, ownership and
maintenance of small caged animals in privatized housing.
 2                                                   LITTLEROCKAFBI31-102 25 JULY 2013


1. General. All animals brought onto or maintained on the installation are included in the
meaning of this instruction. Military Working Dogs (MWDs) are regulated by AFI 31-202 and
AFMAN 31-219. Possession of an animal on base is a privilege, not a right. Violation of this
instruction may result in permanent withdrawal of the privilege to maintain an animal. The
privilege of maintaining an animal while residing on Little Rock Air Force Base is also
dependent on the animal’s behavior. The privilege may be withdrawn when the animal’s
continued presence constitutes a threat to the health or safety of the community, or if the animal
is determined to be a nuisance.
2. Types, Numbers of Animals Authorized on Little Rock AFB. Note: ownership and
maintenance of dogs and/or cats in privatized housing will be IAW the resident guidelines,
the lease, pet addendum, and the pet policy as reflected in paragraphs below pertaining to
privatized housing:
     2.1. Pet owners residing in privatized base housing will register pets with the base
     veterinarian within five working days of occupying a house or acquiring a pet. Privatized
     housing residents may have no more than two dogs, or two cats, or a combination of one
     dog/one cat at any one time.
     2.2. Litters of puppies or kittens, while not required to be registered, will be relocated prior
     to 120 days of age.
     2.3. In addition to the pets mentioned in para 2.1, privatized housing residents may have up
     to two small caged pets (birds or small animals such as rabbits, gerbils, hamsters, etc.),
     provided they are not a nuisance to the neighborhood or damage government property.
     Rabbits and other such sized four legged, fur bearing animals, should be housed in a four
     square feet (4 SF) cage per animal over four (4) months of age.
     2.4. Wild or exotic animals normally associated with zoo-type confinement or a wildlife
     environment (such as monkeys, skunks, raccoons, etc.) will not be maintained on the
     installation. Any exception to this restriction of animals, other than those listed in 2.6 and
     2.7 below, must be approved by the 19 MSG/CC and/or privatized housing management.
     Under no circumstance will the animal be brought onto the installation until this approval has
     been granted.
     2.5. Personnel living in dormitories or Visiting Airman Quarters are authorized small fish in
     properly maintained aquariums. No other animals are authorized in the vicinity of the
     quarters without the written permission of the 19 MSG/CC or 19 MSG/CD (issuing
     authority).
     2.6. For privatized housing residents: A pet is considered to be a domesticated animal living
     in association with a household. Acceptable pets are limited to dogs, cats, and. caged
     animals IAW 2.1 and 2.3 above. A pet that weighs more than 100 lbs will not be accepted.
     Certain breeds of dogs are not allowed, including Pit Bull (American Staffordshire Bull
     Terrier or English Staffordshire Bull Terrier, Pit Bull Mixes), American Bulldogs,
     Rottweiler, Doberman Pincher, Chow and Wolf Hybrids.
     2.7. Farm animals, with the exception of horses, are not permitted on the installation without
     written permission from the 19 MSG/CC or 19 MSG/CD (issuing authority). Horses are to
LITTLEROCKAFBI31-102 25 JULY 2013                                                               3


   be maintained at the base stables. Farm animals are defined as those animals normally raised
   for profit, such as cattle, sheep, pigs, and chickens.
   2.8. Personnel will not maintain breeding or boarding kennels, aviaries, or other multiple
   animal shelters on Little Rock AFB.
   2.9. Pets are not permitted on the flightline. Service dogs are permitted in public areas so
   long as they are on a leash or harness and in the company of the owner. Military working
   dogs are permitted in all buildings and areas when on official business and accompanied by
   the handlers.
3. Registration of Animals.
   3.1. All dogs and cats maintained by personnel on base must be registered with the base
   veterinarian within 1 week of acquisition, or within 1 week of arrival, or at the age of 3
   months, whichever comes last. However, members bringing service animals or MWDs to
   base lodging are not required to register their service animal with the base veterinarian.
      3.1.1. The official rabies certificate issued by the base veterinary clinic will serve as
      certification of registration. Dog and cat owners must maintain the official rabies
      certificate and be able to produce it upon request to Security Forces, privatized housing
      or Military Public Health. A registration tag will be provided to the owner for placement
      on the animal’s collar, and shall be worn by the animal any time it is outside the owner’s
      quarters. Pet owners must notify the base veterinary clinic when a registered animal dies,
      leaves the area, or ownership changes.
   3.2. Small caged animals, birds, and fish do not require registration.
   3.3. Newly arrived horses on the installation will be subject to a 14-day quarantine at the
   base stables. The quarantine and registration of newly arrived horses will be accomplished
   through the stable manager. The owner will provide a valid health certificate signed by an
   accredited veterinarian and issued within the last 30 days. The health certificate must
   indicate the horse has been tested for Equine Infectious Anemia (EIA) and found to be
   negative within the last 6 months. Immunization requirements for horses maintained on base
   will be in accordance with the established herd health program.
   3.4. Transient animals: Transient animals cannot stay on Little Rock AFB for longer than 30
   days and they will be controlled as follows:
      3.4.1. Personnel residing on base are responsible for pets belonging to guests and will
      ensure the pets do not pose a threat to the health or safety of the community. In this case,
      the two pet rule may be exceeded by no more than two additional animals for a period not
      to exceed 30 days.
      3.4.2. Authorized sponsors of pet shows, rodeos, horse shows or other activities bringing
      transient animals onto the installation will notify the base veterinarian at least 30 days
      prior to the event and provide an estimate of the number and type of animals
      participating. All horses will be accompanied by a certification that the animal has been
      tested for and found to be negative for EIA in the 12 months prior to arrival.
      3.4.3. All transient animals originating outside the State of Arkansas will be
      accompanied by a valid health certificate signed by an accredited veterinarian stating the
      animal meets all requirements of the State of Arkansas. The base veterinarian shall have
 4                                                   LITTLEROCKAFBI31-102 25 JULY 2013


        the authority to deny entry to or cause removal of any animal determined to represent a
        reasonable threat to the health or safety of persons or other animals on the installation.
4. Responsibilities of Animal Owners.
     4.1. Owners are responsible for the actions of their pets and will ensure the following control
     measures are taken:
        4.1.1. Pets will be controlled at all times to prevent them from becoming a nuisance to
        other persons, animals, or property. A nuisance is defined as an animal that causes
        annoyance (including but not limited to prolonged barking, howling, running-at-large,
        bad odors) or damage to private or public property. All animals will be controlled to
        prevent them from biting or causing injury to people or other animals.
        4.1.2. Animals will not be permitted to run-at-large while outdoors except in designated
        pet-friendly parks. When walking an animal or letting it out of a fence or cage for any
        reason, a leash must be used to control the animal. At no time is an animal’s leash to be
        released or tied to an object. At no time will an animal be fenced or caged in the front
        yard of a base residence or common use areas. Keeping an animal on a leash or confined
        within a fence, cage, house, or tied does not absolve the owner of responsibility for the
        animal’s actions. Exception to this rule is hunting dogs that can be properly controlled
        during the squirrel and quail hunting periods. Hunting dogs will not be used during any
        other hunting season.
        4.1.3. Owners are responsible for clean-up of unsanitary wastes deposited by their pets.
        All areas containing animals must be cleaned regularly to prevent unpleasant odors and
        unsanitary conditions.
        4.1.4. Common use areas, such as tennis courts, golf courses, swimming pools,
        enclosures, playgrounds, athletic fields, base track, picnic areas, and school yards are
        OFF LIMITS to pets at all times. Exception: Pets are allowed in clearly marked areas
        designated as pet-friendly parks.
        4.1.5. Pets left unattended in pet-friendly temporary lodging facility (TLF) rooms must
        be kept in a kennel for the protection of the staff personnel.
     4.2. Owners are responsible for the health of their pets. Owners must ensure their pets
     receive adequate shelter, nutrition, and all immunizations as required by state law as well as
     have their pets tested and treated for parasites and other diseases which, in the judgment of
     the base veterinarian, constitute a health threat. The base veterinarian provides the
     authorized immunizations and health examinations concerned with zoonotic disease
     conditions, but medical care for non-zoonotic conditions and injuries is limited. Pet owners
     are responsible for seeking civilian veterinary care in these cases.          Civilians (non-
     dependants) will be required to seek civilian veterinary care.
     4.3. The privilege of animal ownership carries with it the responsibilities of proper care and
     disposition of an animal when the owner departs the installation on a temporary or permanent
     basis. Personnel permanently departing the installation will clear the base veterinary clinic,
     at which time they will be provided their pet’s health records.                 UNDER NO
     CIRCUMSTANCE WILL UNWANTED PETS BE TURNED LOOSE ON THE
LITTLEROCKAFBI31-102 25 JULY 2013                                                              5


   INSTALLATION; instead they will be turned over to an off-base shelter if a home cannot
   be found.
   4.4. In the event of a disease outbreak, quarantine procedures may be imposed by the base
   veterinarian in accordance with the requirements of federal or state health officials.
5. Disposition of dead animals.
   5.1. Owners are responsible for the proper disposal of dead pets. Pets will not be placed in
   household trash for removal. Advice on disposal may be obtained from the base veterinary
   clinic.
   5.2. Dead animals found on the installation (including roads) will be sanitarily disposed of
   by the base civil engineer. Exception: Dead animals found in privatized housing roads or
   common areas will be disposed of by the HP Communities, LLC. Under no circumstances
   will dead animals be buried on the installation.
   5.3. Any animal dying on the installation is subject to a post mortem examination by the
   base veterinarian.
   5.4. Any animal which dies after having bitten or scratched a person must be delivered to the
   base veterinary clinic for appropriate laboratory examination.
   5.5. Disposal of game animals protected by the State of Arkansas will be made in the
   following priorities:
       5.5.1. As directed by the Arkansas State authorities.
       5.5.2. When released by the state authorities; if the owner does not want the animal then
       it becomes state property and must be released through disposition instructions of state
       game and fish authorities. This also applies to seized animals involved in abuse and
       neglect cases.
6. Action Concerning Violations of this Instruction.
   6.1. Letters of warning and orders to remove will be issued by the 19 SFS Reports &
   Analysis office.
       6.1.1. When the owner of an animal is found in violation of any part of this instruction,
       19 MSG/CC or 19 MSG/CD (issuing authority) may issue a letter of warning (LOW) to
       that owner. Owners receiving an LOW must provide to the issuing authority a reply with
       an endorsement from their Commander or First Sergeant stating what action they have
       taken to prevent future violations. The issuing authority must receive the reply within 14
       days calendar days of the receipt of the LOW. Failure to comply with this requirement
       may result in an order to remove the animal from the base.
       6.1.2. 19 MSG/CC and 19 MSG/CD have the authority to order the removal of any
       animal from the installation.
       6.1.3. Failure to properly maintain control over a pet may result in the permanent
       withdrawal of the privilege to possess a pet on base.
       6.1.4. When a letter of warning has not been previously issued and an animal is found by
       the issuing authority to have a vicious propensity, to have attacked in an unprovoked
       manner, to be a prohibited animal, or to have bitten a person with the owner failing to
6                                                 LITTLEROCKAFBI31-102 25 JULY 2013


       produce proof of current rabies vaccination, a presumption exists that the owner will be
       ordered to remove the animal.
       6.1.5. When an animal that was the subject of a previous letter of warning is the subject
       of another violation, a presumption exists that the owner of the animal may be ordered to
       remove that animal from the base.
       6.1.6. All LOWs and orders to remove an animal will be initiated by the 19 MSG/CCE
       and reviewed by 19 AW/JA prior to issuance. The owner may present extenuating
       circumstances as justification for withdrawal of the order to remove, in writing, through
       the Security Forces, to the issuing authority.
       6.1.7. Residents of privatized housing will adhere to the provisions of their lease, the
       resident guidelines, and this instruction.
    6.2. Control of Stray Animals.
       6.2.1. Security Forces will comply with local ordinances and will contact the
       Jacksonville Animal Shelter when a stray animal is found on the installation. The owner
       is responsible for all expenses and requirements for release from the Jacksonville Animal
       Shelter. Jacksonville Animal Shelter will hold stray animals for a minimum for three
       days before disposition. For all other animals (i.e. wild animals and cats) non-housing
       complainants should notify Civil Engineer Customer Service. CE may set up a trap at the
       facility. The Facility Manager will monitor the trap daily and will notify CE Customer
       Service if an animal has been caught. Refer to para. 5.3.3.1 for any stray animals that
       have been involved in bite/scratch incidents.
    6.3. Incidents Involving Animal Bites/Scratches.
       6.3.1. Security Forces must notify the 19th Medical Group Public Health Flight, the base
       Veterinary Service Flight and the privatized housing property manager of all animal
       bites/scratches that occur on base. After notification is made, the animal will be held in
       strict quarantine by the owner or base veterinary clinic for a period of 10 days or other
       appropriate action, as determined by the 19th Medical Group Public Health Flight and the
       veterinary clinic.
       6.3.2. Small house-bound/caged animals need not be quarantined when involved in a
       biting incident; however, the owner may be directed to present the animal to the base
       veterinary clinic for examination.
       6.3.3. When a wild or exotic animal is involved in a biting incident, 19 MDG Public
       Health and the base veterinarian will be notified immediately and Security Forces will
       contact the Jacksonville Animal Shelter to have them capture the animal. UNDER NO
       CIRCUMSTANCE WILL A WILD ANIMAL, TO INCLUDE THOSE KEPT AS
       PETS UNDER COMMAND WAIVER, BE QUARANTINED AS A RABIES
       SUSPECT.
           6.3.3.1. When a stray or loose animal has been involved in a bite/scratch incident it
           will be turned over to the base veterinarian for proper disposition. Under no
           circumstance will the animal be turned over to the Jacksonville Animal Shelter.
    6.4. Animals which are a Nuisance, Menace, Damage Property, or are Abused or Neglected.
LITTLEROCKAFBI31-102 25 JULY 2013                                                            7


     6.4.1. Any person may submit a written complaint to the privatized housing office in
     situations where there is evidence of incidents of an animal creating a nuisance, or being
     a menace, or being abused or neglected. These complaints will be investigated by the
     privatized housing office.
     6.4.2. Complaints of animal abuse or neglect may also be directed to the base
     veterinarian. The base veterinarian will conduct an evaluation of the animal’s condition,
     possible or probable causes, and provide his/her recommendations to 19 MSG/CC. In
     justified cases, administrative follow-up by the veterinarian should include a report of
     findings and subsequent follow-up actions to the 19 MSG/CC. (Violations of this section
     may constitute an offense under state law and possibly subject the offender to prosecution
     in Arkansas State Court)
     6.4.3. Complaints received by SFS for animal control problems in housing will be
     referred to the HP Communities LLC Community Director at 983-9044.
     6.4.4. For Home Day Care Providers Pet Authorizations refer to AFI 34-276 or 19
     SVS/SVYD.




                                          BRIAN S. ROBINSON, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                           LITTLEROCKAFBI31-102 25 JULY 2013


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 Oct 2011
AFI 34-276, Family Chile Care Programs, 1 Nov 1999
Jacksonville Animal Center
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
EIA—Equine Infectious Anemia
LOW—Letter of Warning
LITTLEROCKAFBI31-102 25 JULY 2013                                                         9


                                        Attachment 2
                           VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS

A2.1. Immunization and Test Requirements for Privately Owned Animals on Little Rock Air
Force Base
   A2.1.1. Dogs.
   A2.1.2. Rabies.
      A2.1.2.1. First immunization - 12-16 weeks of age.
      A2.1.2.2. Reimmunization - Annually.
   A2.1.3. Canine Distemper/Hepatitis/Leptospirosis/Parvovirus Complex.
      A2.1.3.1. Initial immunization - Started on an immunization series at 6-8 weeks of age
      and followed through in accordance with standard vaccination practice
      A2.1.3.2. Reimmunization - Annually.
   A2.1.4. Internal parasites. Annual testing with deworming as necessary.
A2.2. Cats.
   A2.2.1. Rabies.
      A2.2.1.1. First immunization - 12-16 weeks of age.
      A2.2.1.2. Reimmunization - Annually.
   A2.2.2. Feline Panleukopenia/Calcivirus/Rhinotracheitis.
      A2.2.2.1. Initial immunization - Started on an immunization series at 6-8 weeks of age
      and followed through in accordance with standard vaccination practice.
      A2.2.2.2. Reimmunization - Annually.
   A2.2.3. Internal parasites. Annual testing with deworming as necessary.
