BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 LITTLEROCK AIR FORCE BASE
19TH AIRLIFT WING                                                 INSTRUCTION 21-103

                                                                           26 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                Maintenance

                                             SEVERE WEATHER ALERT AND ADVERSE
                                              WEATHER FLIGHT LINE SECURING AND
                                                        OPERATION PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 19 MXG/QA                                                      Certified by: 19 MXG/CC
                                                                  (Colonel Daniel R. Lockert)
Supersedes:   LITTLEROCKAFBI21-103,                                                   Pages: 7
              6 April 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, and requirements outlined
in AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction. This instruction
establishes procedures for 19 AW, 314AW, 189AW, flight line personnel attached or assigned to
Little Rock Air Force Base. This instruction defines unit and individual responsibilities for
securing aircraft and support equipment in the event of a severe weather warning. It also
establishes procedures for winter and inclement weather operations. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The following paragraphs have been revised. Para 2.1.1, content changed. 2.2, content changed
2.2.8, content changed. 2.5.2, added to content. Para 2.7.2 content deleted.
 2                                               LITTLEROCKAFBI21-103 26 AUGUST 2013


1. General Responsibilities.
     1.1. Operations, Maintenance, Mission Support Group supervision will:
        1.1.1. Ensure flight line, support, and in-shop personnel are thoroughly briefed on
        requirements and responsibilities in the event of a severe weather watch or warning.
        1.1.2. Ensure all actions required to secure aircraft and Aerospace Ground Equipment
        (AGE) in accordance with the predicted weather severity are accomplished.
        1.1.3. Be prepared to initiate recall actions to ensure required personnel are available to
        effectively evacuate aircraft, save lives and protect government property as directed by
        the wing commander or Crisis Action Team (CAT).
     1.2. Squadron production superintendents and flight line/in-shop supervisors will:
        1.2.1. Take every opportunity to ensure safety of Air Force property and personnel.
        1.2.2. During weather watches and warnings, ensure aircraft not being worked are
        moored, flaps raised, doors, windows and hatches are closed, and fire bottles are secured.
        When aircraft are being worked, fire extinguishers will be properly positioned and not
        secured.
        1.2.3. Ensure all unnecessary equipment/AGE is moved outside the circle of safety, to
        await transportation off the line. As soon as mission permits, all unnecessary
        equipment/AGE will be removed from the flight line to designated storage locations and
        all brake/locking devices engaged. If this cannot be accomplished, the equipment will be
        towed to an area away from the flight line and secured by the best means possible. Power
        units left on the flight line will be rolled up and moved outside the circle of safety. The
        flight line will be cleared of all unnecessary equipment/AGE and fire bottles will be
        chained down under the wing prior to releasing personnel for the weekend regardless of
        weather conditions.
        1.2.4. Production and shop superintendents have the authority to shut down work and
        close their portion of the flight line if, in their opinion, personnel are in immediate danger
        and cannot safely complete assigned work and secure aircraft. The key is "be prepared.”
        Storms can move in with little or no warning!
        1.2.5. Ensure aircraft not on the weekly flying schedule or undergoing maintenance,
        requiring aircraft to be unmoored, are moored in accordance with technical orders
        according to the predicted weather severity. As a minimum, weekly fliers will have nose
        chains installed until crew show. All aircraft will be fully moored prior to releasing
        personnel for the weekend regardless of weather conditions.
        1.2.6. Production superintendents and expediters will plan for the immediate ground
        handling requirements of aircraft not fully parked on assigned spots once lightning is
        beyond a 5 nautical mile radius and or winds are below prescribed limits.
     1.3. The respective Maintenance Operation Center (MOC) controller will, upon the receipt
     of any weather watch advisory or warning for lightning, thunderstorm, wind, or freezing
     precipitation, notify the following:
LITTLEROCKAFBI21-103 26 AUGUST 2013                                                            3


      1.3.1. 19th, 189th and 314th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron production superintendents
      and expediters.
      1.3.2. 19th Equipment Maintenance Squadron and Component Maintenance Squadron
      production superintendents.
      1.3.3. 19 MXG/QA, 314 MXG/QA, and 189 MXG/MXQ.
2. Severe Weather, High Winds, Lightning, Thunderstorm or Freezing Precipitation
Watch and/or Warning.
   2.1. Everyone will:
      2.1.1. When frost, ice, snow, precipitation, high winds or other severe weather watches
      are evident or in effect, supervisors must constantly weigh the hazards inherent in
      performing aircraft maintenance against the necessity to perform or continue the task(s)
      at hand. Operations activities may continue during a weather watch; however, all
      personnel must implement lightning, thunderstorms, or freezing precipitation procedures
      without delay when required. If operational needs or priorities arise, production
      supervisors will evaluate the situation and direct the use of elevated platforms, work
      stands, or other appropriate equipment to accomplish the task.
      2.1.2. Be aware of, and adhere to, specific weather restrictions in applicable technical
      orders, check lists, job guides, operating instructions, and AFI 91-203, Air Force
      Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction.
      2.1.3. Be alert for rapidly changing conditions, thunder, or unreported lightning.
   2.2. Winds at or above 31 knots:
      2.2.1. Comply with procedures listed in paragraph 2.1.
      2.2.2. No maintenance will be performed on top of the aircraft when winds are above 35
      knots. Use of stands will be limited to mission-essential requirements only.
      2.2.3. All loose equipment around facilities will be anchored, secured or placed in the
      building includes: trash receptacles, butt cans, barbeques, etc.
      2.2.4. Keep hangar and building doors closed to the maximum extent possible.
      2.2.5. Anchor all Non-Powered AGE (NPA) to tie-down cables and lock all serviceable
      wheels. NPA that cannot be readily tied-down will have wheels locked and jack-pads
      lowered. If this cannot be accomplished, the equipment must be towed to an area away
      from the flight line and secured by the best means possible.
      2.2.6. Vehicles with towing capabilities will be used to remove all unused support
      equipment from the flight line.
      2.2.7. All shops will comply with specific requirements in applicable technical orders or
      operating instructions.
      2.2.8. Completely moor all aircraft, to include raising flaps, and close APU and landing
      gear doors. If an aircraft is scheduled to fly, it will remain moored up to 1 hour prior to
      crew show, then as a minimum, a nose chain will remain in place until the crew shows.
4                                                LITTLEROCKAFBI21-103 26 AUGUST 2013


       Production supervisors have the option of removing mooring chains early. (19
       EMS/MXMT is responsible for mooring Isochronal (ISO) aircraft on backline)
       2.2.9. Remove support equipment and roll up power cords not in use.
       2.2.10. Ensure all removed aircraft parts and panels are placed inside aircraft, secured
       inside a vehicle or relocated to a building storage area.
       2.2.11. Production superintendents will notify the MOC when flight line severe weather
       securing operations are complete.
       2.2.12. Aircraft in nose hangars will have tails moored.
    2.3. Winds forecast in excess of 45 knots.
       2.3.1. Complete specific requirements listed in paragraphs 2.1. and 2.2.
       2.3.2. All aircraft in hangars 222, 245, 255 and 280 will be down-jacked unless
       maintenance actions prevent this.
       2.3.3. Remove all equipment from the flight line. All squadrons will support
       AGE/equipment removal from the flight line to a secure location.
    2.4. Winds forecast in excess of 50 knots.
       2.4.1. No maintenance will be performed outside when wind velocities exceed 50 knots
       except to secure and prepare for evacuation.
       2.4.2. Aircraft in hangars 222, 245, 255 and 280 will be removed from the hangar when
       wind velocities or gusts are forecasted to reach 50 knots, unless maintenance actions
       prevent this.
    2.5. Lightning warning.
       2.5.1. Complete paragraphs 2.1.-2.1.3.
       2.5.2. No flight line maintenance, aircraft servicing or fuel cell in-tank maintenance will
       be performed when lightning is within 5 nautical miles. All other in-shop activities may
       continue unless prohibited by specific directives. Production Supers can close down
       flight line operations if lightning is observed, but not called within 5 nautical miles by the
       MOC.
       2.5.3. Maintenance personnel will not leave their vehicle to chock or ground the aircraft
       until lightning is reported outside a 5 nautical mile radius by MOC.
       2.5.4. If caught on the flight line during a lightning storm, remain in the aircraft until all
       clear or transportation arrives. Do not walk across the flight line. Wait for
       transportation.
       2.5.5. No maintenance of any kind will be performed on aircraft in hangars 222N/S, 245,
       255N/S, or 280 due to the grounding danger to personnel if the exposed empennage was
       struck by lightning.
LITTLEROCKAFBI21-103 26 AUGUST 2013                                                            5


  2.6. Command Post will:
     2.6.1. Upon notification of local mission or cross-country aircraft return, contact the
     aircraft commander using Little Rock primary Ultra High Frequency (UHF) radio
     frequency 349.4 and/or secondary frequency
     2.6.2. Ensure the aircraft commander understands the aircraft must be stopped one spot
     short of its assigned parking spot and personnel must remain in the aircraft until lightning
     is outside of the 5 nautical mile radius or ground transportation arrives.
     2.6.3. Aircraft commanders can, at their discretion, park on spots when no aircraft are
     parked to the left or right of them.
  2.7. Freezing precipitation and icing conditions.
     2.7.1. If operational needs or priorities arise, and fall protection use is not feasible,
     production supervisors will evaluate the situation and direct the use of elevated platforms,
     work stands or other appropriate equipment to accomplish the task. Supervisory
     personnel will be present during these operations.
     2.7.2. Aircraft flaps will be raised when icing conditions are forecasted, including flaps
     on sealed spares, unless a maintenance condition exists.
     2.7.3. Walkways around buildings and work areas will be clear of snow or ice
     accumulation.
  2.8. Transient Alert (TA) section responsibilities.
     2.8.1. For the Transient Alert section, aircraft moor/mooring is defined as: securing
     aircraft nose landing gear and wings or main landing gears and tail section if applicable
     with aircraft cargo chains and devices or straps unless coordinated and approved different
     by the Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE).
         2.8.1.1. Transient Alert will determine what mooring equipment will be used for
         aircraft when specific airframe technical orders are not on-site, and when specific
         airframe technical orders are on on-site but the correct mooring equipment is not. The
         QAE may at any time disapprove mooring equipment used and request the use of
         another type, example; chains and devices versus straps.
     2.8.2. Moor or hangar transient aircraft and remove AGE and secure fire extinguishers
     when requested and determined by the QAE that the potential for moderate to severe
     weather conditions are probable during TA non-duty hours.
     2.8.3. When the TA section is closed, TA will ensure transient aircraft are moored as
     required per technical data, remove AGE and secure fire extinguishers unless coordinated
     and approved different by the QAE.
     2.8.4. Moor or hangar transient aircraft according to on-site specific airframe technical
     orders.
     2.8.5. In the event of a base weather watch or warning (potential winds at or above 35
     knots or potential hail) during TA operational hours, TA shall comply with the following
     when specific airframe technical orders are not on-site, with the exception of transient C-
     130 aircraft:
6                                        LITTLEROCKAFBI21-103 26 AUGUST 2013


    2.8.5.1. Moor transient aircraft unless coordinated and approved different by the
    QAE.
    2.8.5.2. Moor transient C-130 aircraft in accordance with Little Rock AFB assigned
    C-130 aircraft mooring requirements.
    2.8.5.3. If an aircraft is scheduled to fly, a nose chain/strap will remain in place until
    the crew shows.
    2.8.5.4. If a transient aircraft arrives for a gas and go (minimum ground time) just
    prior to or during a moderate to severe weather watch or warning, moor or tow
    aircraft as requested by the aircraft commander.
    2.8.5.5. When determined by transient alert or when requested by the QAE, TA will
    hangar transient aircraft.
    2.8.5.6. Remove AGE from the flight line when not in use.
    2.8.5.7. Secure fire extinguishers located on the flight line to an aircraft mooring
    point with an aircraft cargo chain or strap when aircraft are not being worked. When
    aircraft are being worked, fire extinguishers will be properly positioned and not
    secured. Aircraft loaded with chaff and flares will have the fire extinguisher at the
    nose of the aircraft and not chained.
    2.8.5.8. Comply with other applicable requirements listed in the entirety of this
    instruction to ensure the protection of all government resources and workforce safety.




                                       BRIAN S. ROBINSON, Col, USAF
                                       Commander
LITTLEROCKAFBI21-103 26 AUGUST 2013                                               7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 Jun 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AW—Airlift Wing
CAT—Crisis Action Team
IAW—In Accordance With
ISO—Isochronal
MOC—Maintenance Operation Center
NPA—Non-Powered (AGE)
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TA—Transient Alert
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
