BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        LITTLE ROCK AFB INSTRUCTION 52-101
LITTLE ROCK AFB 19TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                  8 JUNE 2010

                                                                                      Chaplain

                                                                   WEDDING PROCEUDRES




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this instruction.

OPR: 19 AW/HC                                                          Certified by: 19 AW/HC
Supersedes: LITTLEROCKAFBI52-101,                                     (Lt Col Kenneth Walters)
            13 NOV 06                                                                   Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 52-1. This instruction provides policies and procedures for
active duty, reserve, guard, and/or dependant ID card holders requesting the chapel facility for
their weddings and use of chaplain corps services. This instruction requires the collection and
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authorities to collect
home telephone numbers, and addresses prescribed in this instruction are 5 United States Code,
552a and Executive Order 9397. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Instruction has
been completely restructured to specify roles and responsibilities as distinct from policy and
procedures. A complete review is required to ensure compliance.
1. Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.1. Wing Chaplain.
2                                                    LITTLEROCKAFBI52-101 8 JUNE 2010


       1.1.1. Will assist Jewish, Muslim, and other faith groups not represented on the chapel
       staff clergy with their wedding arrangements.
       1.1.2. May supersede all policies contained within this instruction.
    1.2. Chaplains and/or Officiating Clergy.
       1.2.1. Are responsible to the Wing Chaplain for scheduling of Protestant or Catholic
       weddings respectively.
       1.2.2. Will perform wedding ceremonies within the                  constraints   of   her/his
       denominational, conscience, and counseling requirements.
           1.2.2.1. The chaplain performing the wedding will advise the couple regarding pre-
           marital counseling requirements. There is a pre-marital seminar offered bi-monthly
           that the bride and groom must attend together if using a base chaplain to perform the
           wedding. The bride and groom must attend these sessions, or make arrangements
           with the chaplain for both to meet acceptable pre-marital counseling requirements.
           1.2.2.2. A wedding performed by a Protestant chaplain requires a minimum of two
           month’s advance notice to accomplish pre-marital counseling.
           1.2.2.3. A Catholic wedding normally requires a minimum of six months for pre-
           marital preparation and counseling.
       1.2.3. Will provide the wedding party with a list of wedding coordinators to assist the
       couple with ceremony details.
    1.3. Couples Intending to Have Their Wedding Ceremony in the Base Chapel.
       1.3.1. Either the bride or the groom must have a valid military/dependent ID card to
       schedule a wedding in the base chapel.
       1.3.2. Either the bride or the groom will be required to complete the Wedding Selection
       and Agreement form when requesting to use a base chaplain.
       1.3.3. Must make arrangements to consult with a chaplain prior to scheduling the
       wedding ceremony and rehearsal. This also applies when using civilian clergy to perform
       the wedding ceremony.
       1.3.4. Must provide any decorations used for the ceremony.
       1.3.5. Must provide a valid Arkansas Marriage License prior to the ceremony. For
       information regarding marriage license contact the Circuit County Clerk in Little Rock at
       340-8330.
       1.3.6. Must arrange and pay for any music used in the ceremony. The chapel provides a
       list of available organists to contact if desired.
       1.3.7. Will not use tacks, pins, tape, or anything that will mar or damage pews, walls,
       and/or furnishings.
       1.3.8. Must use dripless candles and place plastic under all the candles and candelabras.
       1.3.9. Is responsible for restoring the chapel to its original condition at the conclusion of
       the reservation period. This includes the removal of all decorations and trash and the
LITTLEROCKAFBI52-101 8 JUNE 2010                                                               3


      cleaning of any stains such as wax drippings. The chapel, or U.S. government, is not
      responsible for damage to decorations, rental equipment, or losses.
      1.3.10. Is responsible for the Wedding Coordinator fee.
   1.4. Wedding Coordinator.
      1.4.1. Will ensure availability, proper facility use, and chapel facility security.
      1.4.2. Will assist with the wedding plans, and provide their expertise during the rehearsal
      and the ceremony as desired by the couple.
      1.4.3. Will meet with the couple prior to the wedding to give them a tour of the facility
      and begin the planning process.
      1.4.4. Will open the chapel for the rehearsal and at the beginning of the reserved two-
      hour period for the wedding ceremony. He or she will turn on the lights and the chapel
      sound system.
      1.4.5. Will arrange all chapel appointments, including altar furnishings, candles, flowers,
      kneelers, cross/crucifix, and other religious items. He/she will assist in arranging
      additional items provided by the wedding party.
      1.4.6. Will coordinate use of dressing room, telephone, restrooms, etc., and will provide
      initial responses to fire, sickness, and other emergencies as they arise.
      1.4.7. Will ensure the chapel carpet and altar are not damaged by dripping wax by
      placing large plastic runners under each candle holder, candelabra, or unity stand (if
      used) before the candles are lighted.
      1.4.8. Will gently snuff out each lighted candle after the ceremony and does not remove
      any candleholders while wax is still molten.
      1.4.9. Will ensure the chapel is clean following the wedding by helping the wedding
      party sweep or vacuum all chapel areas used, rearrange pre-wedding decorations
      appointments as necessary, turn off the sound system and lights throughout the chapel
      complex including bathrooms.
      1.4.10. Will make an inside security check to include a fire check, ensuring all candles
      are extinguished and no fire hazard exists; check that chapel furnishings have not been
      abused or removed; and ensure all windows and doors are locked and secure.
      1.4.11. Will provide any and all discrepancy notifications to the NCOIC, or his/her
      designated representative no later than the next duty day.
   1.5. Photographer must consult with the chaplain/minister concerning the taking of pictures.
2. Policies and Procedures:
   2.1. A visiting chaplain or a duly ordained civilian minister may officiate with the approval
   of the Wing Chaplain. In this case, the couple will consult with the coordinating chaplain for
   wedding scheduling and chapel planning. The civilian minister or chaplain must provide
   evidence of ordination, licensing, or endorsement by his/her denomination and registration
   with the state of Arkansas.
 4                                                    LITTLEROCKAFBI52-101 8 JUNE 2010


     2.2. Taking photography (picture taking) may not exceed the 2-hour period allocated for the
     wedding.
     2.3. Chapels are set aside for religious ceremonies performed by duly ordained ministers
     only. No civil authority, such as a judge or justice of the peace, etc., will perform a wedding
     in the chapel.
     2.4. The Base Chaplain Corps requires the hiring of a wedding coordinator except in rare
     cases, when the chaplain is willing to perform a marriage without assistance. The basic fee is
     normally $ 75.00.
3. Scheduling.
     3.1. If the bride and groom request to use civilian clergy, then paragraph 2.1. will apply.
     3.2. Weddings will be limited to a 2-hour period to accommodate the weddings scheduled
     each weekend. Preparation, decoration, the ceremony, any photography, and clean up must
     be done within this time period.
        3.2.1. Wedding parties may reserve the chapel during the following time periods:
        Saturdays 1000 - 1200 or 1300-1500. The chapel cannot be reserved on Sundays.
        3.2.2. Wedding rehearsals are in 1-hour periods, normally on the day preceding the
        wedding.
4. Facility Usage.
     4.1. The chapel sanctuary, chancel, and nave are to be used for religious activities.
     Decorations and ceremonies will be in accordance with recognized distinctive faith groups
     and denominational religious beliefs and practices.
     4.2. Smoking is prohibited throughout the chapel facility. The chapel designated smoking
     area is behind the facility at the entrance by the kitchen.
     4.3. AFI 52-101, Chaplain Service Responsibilities and Procedures, strictly prohibit the use
     of alcoholic beverages other than for religious rites in chapel facilities.
        4.3.1. Officiating clergy will control any wine used for sacramental purposes.
        4.3.2. Guests or wedding party members found under the influence of alcohol will be
        asked to leave at the discretion of the officiating chaplain. In the absence of a military
        chaplain, the chaplain assistant will ensure compliance.
     4.4. The wedding party and guests will not use or throw rice, confetti, birdseed, flower
     petals, etc. inside or outside the chapel facility. Silk flower petals are permitted inside the
     chapel.
     4.5. Couples and/or families
        4.5.1. Have permission to use aisle runners in the chapel as long as they are removed
        immediately following the ceremony and no permanent marks are left on the chapel
        furnishings or carpet.
        4.5.2. Will not move any chapel furnishings such as pews, organ, piano, altar, altar
        coverings, hanging banners, etc., without the specific permission of the chaplain, chaplain
        assistant personnel, or wedding coordinator.
LITTLEROCKAFBI52-101 8 JUNE 2010                                                                5


   4.6. Will not attempt to schedule receptions at chapel facilities. Couples and families can
   arrange receptions through the Consolidated Club (987-3300).
5. BASE ENTRY Guests not holding valid military ID cards will need permission to enter the
base. The sponsor or designed military ID cardholder must coordinate guest entry by being at
the Vandenberg gate to assist visitors during entry, if needed. Sponsors will call Pass and
Registration, 987-6338, to request a Special Events Application which will include all non-ID
card holders, including children. Pass and Registration will email the application to the sponsor.
The application will require a complete alphabetized list of non-Department of Defense
identification card holders no later than 3-days prior to the wedding. The information on the
application will include: Name; date of birth; driver’s license number, and issuing state, as well
as, sponsor’s name, squadron, contact number, date, times, and location of the event.
       5.1.1. Security Force Pass and Registration can be contacted at 987-6338 for any
       questions about base entry requirements.
6. PRESCRIBED FORMS. Little Rock AFB Form 205, Wedding Selection and
AgreementLittle Rock AFB Form 82, Religious Program/Facility Request
7. ADOPTED FORMS. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             GREGORY S. OTEY, Col, USAF
                                             Commander
 6                                                     LITTLEROCKAFBI52-101 8 JUNE 2010


                                            Attachment 1
              WEDDING COORDINATOR DUTIES AND RESPONSIBLITIES

A1.1. As a wedding coordinator for Little Rock AFB, you are performing an important part in
our ministry of marriage preparation and the celebration of marriage. The following statement
lists the Little Rock AFB Chapel’s expectations for your duties and responsibilities.
A1.2. PRIOR TO THE WEDDING.
     A1.2.1. After being contacted by the couple, offer assistance with questions, concerns, and
     issues regarding the use of the chapel and their wedding.
     A1.2.2. Review the chapel wedding booklet with the couple, addressing any concerns.
     A1.2.3. Offer to meet with the couple to show them the chapel and what the chapel offers for
     their use.
     A1.2.4. Check to see that the couple has completed all necessary paperwork, including
     security forces cover letter and marriage license.
     A1.2.5. Contact the chaplain and musician(s) to discuss the wedding ceremony.
A1.3. REHEARSAL.
     A1.3.1. Arrive fifteen minutes prior to the rehearsal, opening up and preparing the facility
     for the rehearsal.
     A1.3.2. Offer assistance with flowers, candles, guest book, decorations, etc. as needed.
     A1.3.3. Show bride and bridesmaids, groom and groomsmen, their respective changing
     rooms.
     A1.3.4. Secure the facility after the rehearsal is complete.
A1.4. WEDDING DAY.
     A1.4.1. Arrive 15 minutes prior to the couple’s assigned time to open and set up the facility.
     A1.4.2. Greet and assist photographer, florist, and musicians as necessary.
     A1.4.3. Help with corsages, boutonnieres, pew bows and floral arrangements as requested.
     A1.4.4. Ensure ushers are seating guests.
     A1.4.5. Assist in coordinating candle lighting, if applicable.
     A1.4.6. Assist in coordinating the processional (e.g. seating honored guests, cueing wedding
     party, and bride).
     A1.4.7. When the wedding begins, close back doors and remain at the back of the chapel to
     assist with any unforeseen needs.
     A1.4.8. After the ceremony, open the doors and assist with the setting up the receiving line,
     if applicable, or usher the wedding party to the cry room in preparation for pictures.
     A1.4.9. Ensure all personal belongings are removed from the chapel after the wedding.
     A1.4.10. Ensure facility is left clean and secure following the wedding service.
LITTLEROCKAFBI52-101 8 JUNE 2010                                                                7


   A1.4.11. If time allows, assist the chaplain in completing the marriage license.
A1.5. FEES.
   A1.5.1. The coordinator’s fee for the above services will be set at $75.00
   A1.5.2. Other fees may be charged a couple as per the couple’s requests and the
   coordinator’s arrangements.
   A1.5.3. Request that payment for coordinator, musician(s), and donations for the chapel is
   made at time of rehearsal or before.
