BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   LITTLE ROCK AIR FORCE BASE
LITTLE ROCK AIR FORCE BASE                                            INSTUCTION 24-302

                                                                             20 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                  Transportation

                                                VEHICLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE, LOW SPEED
                                                          VEHICLE (LSV) AND OTHER
                                                      GOVERNMENT MOTOR VEHICLE
                                                 CONVEYANCES (OGVMC) PROCEDURES

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 19 LRS/LGLOC                                                      Certified by: 19 MSG/CC
Supersedes: LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302,                                   (Colonel George A. Coggins)
            23 June 2010                                                                Pages: 12


This instruction implements AFPD 24-3, Operation and use of Ground Transportation Vehicles
and establishes policies and procedures for reimbursement of funds, implementing and managing
the vehicle and vehicular equipment accident and abuse program, and addresses definitions,
authority, disposition and reporting procedures for military and GSA vehicles. All accident and
abuse repairs to GSA vehicles will be processed and accomplished IAW established GSA
procedures. This instruction also includes the use of Transportation Vehicles and Vehicular
Equipment, AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, Paragraph 4.20 to provide a quick reference and
clarification for inspection and accountability of Low Speed Vehicles (LSVs) and other
Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances (OGMVCs) on Little Rock AFB. This instruction
applies to the 19th Airlift Wing, 314th Airlift Wing and other tenant units. This instruction does
not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve, or any other associate organization
assigned or attached to Little Rock AFB AR. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
 2                                           LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Paragraph 3. is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The following references
were added; 4. Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances (OGVMC) Abuse Procedures.
Attachment 2 has been updated to reflect current references.
1. Vehicle Accident/Abuse Program:
     1.1. Vehicle and Vehicular Equipment Accident /Abuse Program Management:
        1.1.1. The purpose of this program is to establish local procedures for vehicle
        accidents/abuses, and inform using organizations of our and their responsibility.
        1.1.2. Responsibilities. This instruction applies to the 19th Airlift Wing, 314th Airlift
        Wing, and other tenant units with the exception of the Air National Guard and Air Force
        Reserve. This instruction applies to all squadron commanders, Vehicle Control Officers
        (VCOs), Vehicle Control NCOs (VCNCOs), and vehicle operators. Commander
        emphasis and direct involvement is essential to the program's success. The vehicle
        operator is responsible for preventing vehicle and vehicular equipment abuse/accidents.
        The operator will report any vehicle damage immediately to the VCO/VCNCO. The unit
        VCO/VCNCO shall immediately report discrepancies. Unreported damage to an Air
        Force vehicle indicates that the unit operator or VCO/VCNCO is not inspecting vehicles
        properly. Vehicle maintenance is responsible for documentation and tracking of
        accident/abuse damage.
     1.2. Objective. The ultimate goal of this program is to reduce vehicle and vehicular
     equipment accidents and/or abuses at LRAFB, protect Air Force personnel from injury
     and/or death and eliminate unnecessary expenditure of limited monetary resources.
     1.3. General. Motor Vehicle Accident: Any collision, impact or abrasion against a fixed or
     moving object with a military or GSA motor vehicle. Vehicle Abuse: An act or omission
     that has caused, or may cause damages not attributed to fair wear and tear under normal use
     or accident. Vehicle abuse may result in early failure of components and affect the safe
     operation of the vehicle. The base vehicle management function is funded and staffed to
     provide preventive periodic maintenance and repairs due to fair wear and tear, but not for
     accident and abuse repairs. Money to repair accident and abuse damage must be taken from
     using organization funds.
        1.3.1. The keys to successfully reducing the number of accidents and abuses are to
        encourage commanders to maintain high standards of vehicle operator training and
        discipline and to make base personnel aware of the high costs associated with accident
        and abuse case repairs.
        1.3.2. Scheduled inspections and maintenance are the only way the 19th Logistics
        Readiness Squadron Vehicle Management Flight (19 LRS/LGRV) can ensure a safe and
        serviceable vehicle fleet. These inspections are time-critical and must be completed at
        certain intervals to meet manufacturer and Air Force serviceability criteria. Therefore,
        agencies who fail to meet or reschedule their assigned scheduled maintenance on or
        before their assigned appointment dates will be charged with vehicle abuse.
        1.3.3. The using organization Commander will use their squadron funds to pay for
        repairs attributed to accident or abuse for vehicles and vehicular equipment operated by
LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011                                                           3


      their personnel, to include U-Drive-It and GSA vehicles. Government Purchase Card
      payment authorization is required upon request. After repairs are complete, if prompt
      payment is not received, the vehicle will remain at the contractor possibly incurring
      additional storage charges, which will be paid by the using organization, unless an appeal
      has been filed and the case overturned. The 19 LRS Commander (delegated to the 19
      LRS Operations Officer) will contact the owning organization’s commander/resource
      advisor if timely payment is not made.
2. Vehicle Accident/Abuse Program Procedures:
   2.1. All Government Owned Vehicles (GOV) involved in an accident, or found to have
   damage not previously reported (Abuse/Incident), must be turned into 19 LRS/LGRV as
   soon as possible, but no later than the next duty day. The Vehicle Management Flight will
   initiate an Accident/Abuse Estimate work order and estimate the cost of repairs. Photographs
   will be taken of vehicle damage to aid in further investigation. A letter with attached
   photographs identifying the accident or abuse damage will be signed by the 19th Logistics
   Readiness Squadron Commander (LRS/CC) and routed through the squadron
   commander/chief of the organization assigned the vehicle in question.
      2.1.1. IAW AFI 24-301 (paragraph 4.4.1.2) and this instruction, a Standard Form 91,
      Motor Vehicle Accident Report, and DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card, must be
      completed with all pertinent information and provided upon vehicle turn-in to 19
      LRS/LGRV. The vehicle will not be considered reported to maintenance until the
      vehicle and all forms are properly submitted. The reporting party must record the
      name and rank of the responding Security Force’s individual in block 81 of the Standard
      Form 91.
      2.1.2. The VCO/VCNCO will be notified by e-mail with Attachment 2, Request for
      Release letter and Attachment 3, VCO Vehicle Release Letter. The Legal office will
      receive a copy of these letters if a POV is involved.
          2.1.2.1. The using organization has within 3 duty days from receipt to conduct an
          investigation, and return a signed copy of Attachment 3, VCO Vehicle Release Letter,
          to Vehicle Maintenance for repairs. 19 LRS/LGRV, Vehicle Management and
          Analysis (VM&A) will coordinate transportation of the vehicle to an authorized
          vendor for an estimate of damage(s) after the 72 hour time period has expired, or
          upon receipt of the release letter from the organization, whichever comes first, unless
          the case is appealed and overturned (see Para 3.1.5.).
      2.1.3. Individual liability is to be determined by the Report of Survey (ROS) process
      IAW AFMAN 23-220. Contact the 19 LRS/LGLOC section, at 7-7893 for additional
      information on the ROS process.
          2.1.3.1. The investigator will not hold the position of the unit VCO/VCNCO.
          2.1.3.2. An AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement, will be
          prepared by 19 LRS/LGRV VM&A when requested by the ROS officer.
      2.1.4. The Commander’s Vehicle Accident/Abuse Estimate letter (Attachment 4) will be
      provided within the first 10 calendar days from the vehicle turn-in date and forwarded to
      the organizational commander and VCO/VCNCO by 19 LRS/LGRV VM&A.
4                                        LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011


    2.1.5. The Payment Authorization Approval letter (Attachment 5) will be provided
    within the first 10 calendar days from the vehicle turn-in date and forwarded to the
    organization’s Resource Advisor by 19 LRS/LGRV VM&A. Authorization for these
    repairs must be approved by the GPC cardholder approving official, billing official, or
    Resource Advisor prior to any commitment for contract services or any funds being
    committed. 19 LRS/LGRV VM&A will open an Accident/Abuse Actual repair work
    order, upon receipt of this letter, to begin vehicle repairs.
    2.1.6. Commanders must initiate a DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of
    Property Loss, investigation into the circumstances involving any accident or suspected
    vehicle abuse case where gross negligence is suspected. If the investigation reveals an
    operator’s gross negligence was the proximate cause of damage to a vehicle, commanders
    may assess pecuniary liability for the repair cost in accordance with AFMAN 23-220,
    Para. 8.63.
    2.1.7. If the estimated repair cost exceeds the vehicle's "one-time repair limit," the
    vehicle is considered uneconomically repairable and will not be repaired; however,
    exceptions may be made to meet mission needs. These are determined by the 19 LRS
    Commander (delegated to the 19 LRS Operations Officer); in some circumstances it may
    be necessary to get approval from HQ AMC.
       2.1.7.1. After repairs are completed, the actual repair cost is computed as follows:
           2.1.7.1.1. To the maximum extent possible, vehicle accident/abuse repairs will be
           contracted to local vendors, due to limited manning/resources. There may be
           cases where local vendors can not accomplish repairs due to mil-specific design
           vehicles. If the vehicle is being repaired by 19 LRS/LGRV, the using
           organization is charged with the cost of replacement parts. Funds transfers will be
           accomplished by relative funding documents and credited to the 19 LRS
           Operation and Maintenance (O&M) account. This will be accomplished through
           the 19 LRS/LGRV sending repair costs to the 19 LRS Resource Advisor, who in-
           turn requests funds transfer from the using organization.
           2.1.7.1.2. If the vehicle is repaired by a contractor, the unit is charged with the
           repair cost (parts and labor) and will pay for damages with their unit Government
           Purchase Card (GPC) upon acceptance and inspection by authorized vehicle
           maintenance personnel. The using organization commander or designated
           representative will ensure payment is made to the contractor.
           2.1.7.1.3. In the event the contract repair cost exceeds the $2,500.00 GPC
           threshold. An AF Form 9 (Request for Purchase) will be required. Using
           Organization will be responsible to process the request for repair.
       2.1.7.2. Accident and abuse case statistics will be reported/tracked by 19
       LRS/LGRV.
    2.1.8. Commanders disagreeing with the findings of liability may appeal to the 19 LRS
    Commander (delegated to the 19 LRS Operations Officer) within 10 calendar days from
    the vehicle turn-in date. Additionally, intent to appeal must be coordinated with 19
    LRS/LGRV VM&A prior to the 10th calendar day. If the 19 LRS Operations Officer
    does not support the appeal, the appeal package will be forwarded through the 19 LRS
LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011                                                         5


     Commander, 19th Mission Support Group Commander to the 19th Airlift Wing Vice
     Commander for final determination.
         2.1.8.1. In case of an appeal, the commander of the responsible unit has an additional
         30 days to appeal from the date the appeal is received at 19 LRS/LGRV. If the appeal
         is approved, no transfer of funds will occur. If the appeal is unsuccessful or has not
         been resolved within 60 days of notification, 19 LRS will then contact the financial
         analysis section to make sure the required payment is made.
3. Low Speed Vehicle (LSV) and Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances
(OGVMC) Equipment Management:
  3.1. Self-propelled assets providing a basic passenger and/or light cargo carrying
  transportation capability (i.e., golf carts, ATVs, quad-runners, snowmobiles, etc.) not
  meeting specifications of Title 49 CFR 571.500 FMVSS will be categorized as OGMVCs
  and assigned prime NSN 2340-00-585-7495 in AFEMS, AS 036. Note: Skid steer loaders
  and mini-excavators made by Bobcat or other manufacturers are classified as registered
  vehicles and will be managed as vehicles under the category of Base
  Maintenance/Construction Equipment.
     3.1.1. OGMVCs will be procured and managed as equipment items. Non-REMS
     reportable LSVs will no longer be procured, but existing assets will be managed as
     equipment items.
         3.1.1.1. As equipment (refer to AFMAN 23-110, chapter 22 for policy on
         equipment), OGMVCs and non-REMS reportable LSVs will be loaded in AFEMS
         (NF3) and managed on the CA/CRL (R14).
  3.2. Owning units will supply VM&A with disposition documentation when the
  LSV/OGMVC is removed from the organization’s CA/CRL. The VCO/VCNCO is
  responsible for providing VM&A a copy of the unit’s CA/CRL annually to ensure assets are
  added or removed.
  3.3. Before the organization procures an OGMVC, a purchase request letter, accompanied
  by an approval letter from the group commander, must be routed through Base Ground
  Safety Office (coordination), Contracting (coordination), Vehicle Management Flight
  (coordination), and LRS Equipment Management Section (approval). The purchase request
  letter will be placed into the purchase pending file along with an OGMVC checklist.
     3.3.1. Once the asset is approved and procured by the unit, the equipment custodian will
     be required to add the item to the CA/CRL. The organization must ensure there is an
     equipment account already established to add an asset to the CA/CRL. If an equipment
     account is not established, the organization commander must establish an account along
     with appointment custodian letter. The following actions will be taken by Equipment
     Management Element:
         3.3.1.1. Any LSV/OGMVC that does not have a ―X‖ registration number issued by
         Vehicle Management will be subject to investigation of purchase.
  3.4. After the OGMVC has been added as an asset to the CA/CRL and paperwork is
  processed, the equipment custodian or the VCO/VCNCO must contact the 19 LRS/LGRV.
  Vehicle Management will load and track any scheduled inspections on OGMVCs and non-
 6                                              LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011


     REMS reportable LSVs in the OLVIMS for the purpose of notifying owning organizations
     pending maintenance actions due and ensuring inspections are accomplished (tracking
     purposes only).
        3.4.1. VM&A personnel will place a registration sticker on the left rear of the OGMVC
        once a year after records are reviewed and current.
     3.5. If a detail is already established, the asset will be picked up and added to the account.
        3.5.1. If a detail has not been established, a detail will be loaded and the asset will be
        picked up on account.
        3.5.2. All paperwork including the OGMVC checklist will be filed into the CA/CRL and
        VM&A’s historical jacket file.
     3.6. Salvage Procedures. Owning units will process OGMVCs and non-REMS reportable
     LSVs in the same manner, as local procedures dictate for disposal of other organizationally
     owned government equipment.
4. Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances (OGVMC) Abuse Procedures:
     4.1. OGMVCs and non-REMS reportable LSVs will be maintained IAW manufacturer
     recommended intervals or standards in TO 36-1-191 for a comparative asset, and at a
     minimum will have a complete serviceability inspection, to include all safety related systems,
     at least annually.
     4.2. Along with the warranty documents, the organization will provide VM&A with
     manufacturers’ required maintenance intervals. The maintenance plan will include safety
     inspections, preventive maintenance and repairs.
        4.2.1. Units will be responsible for obtaining all maintenance repairs and annual safety
        inspections. The organization VCO/VCNCO will supply VM&A with receipts or proof
        of safety and maintenance performed.
        4.2.2. All safety and preventive maintenance actions are the sole responsibility of the
        owning unit.
     4.3. Safety inspections and preventive maintenance are the only way Little Rock AFB can
     ensure a safe and serviceable vehicular equipment fleet. These inspections are time-critical
     and must be completed at certain intervals to meet manufacturer and Air Force serviceability
     criteria. Therefore, agencies who fail to meet their annual safety and preventive maintenance
     on or within their assigned month will be charged with vehicular equipment abuse.
        4.3.1. The OGMVC will be removed from service until the using organization is able to
        perform the required annual safety and preventive maintenance service.
        4.3.2. The VCO/VCNCO will be notified by e-mail with Attachment 2, Request for
        Release letter and Attachment 3, VCO Vehicle Release Letter.
        4.3.3. The using organization has within 3 duty days from receipt to conduct an
        investigation, and return a signed copy of Attachment 3, VCO Vehicle Release Letter, to
        Vehicle Management. Using organization will coordinate transportation of the vehicle to
        an authorized vendor for the safety and preventive maintenance service upon receipt of
        the release letter from Vehicle Management.
LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011                                                7


   4.4. Upon OGMVC return to the unit, the unit must provide proof that the safety and
   preventive maintenance was accomplished (proof will be a receipt of maintenance).

5. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Standard Form 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report
DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss

6. Prescribed Forms.

None




                                            MICHAEL A. MINIHAN, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 8                                        LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 24-3, Operation and use of Ground Transportation Vehicles, 06 September 2006
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007
AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 01 November 2008
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 01 July 1996

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFI— Air Force Instruction
GOV— Government Owned Vehicle
GPC— Government Purchase Card
NON—REMS – Non Registered Equipment Management System
ROS— Report of Survey
VCO—- Vehicle Control Officers
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VM&A— Vehicle Management and Analysis
LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011                   9


                            Attachment 2
           ACCIDENT/ABUSE REQUEST FOR RELEASE LETTER
10              LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011


             Attachment 3
     VCO VEHICLE RELEASE LETTER
LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011                       11


                            Attachment 4
      COMMANDER’S VEHICLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE ESTIMATE LETTER
12                    LITTLEROCKAFBI24-302 20 JANUARY 2011


                   Attachment 5
     PAYMENT AUTHORIZATION APPROVAL LETTER
