BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 LITTLE ROCK AIR FORCE BASE
LITTLE ROCK AFB 19TH AIRLIFT WING                                  INSTRUCTION 21-111

                                                                                30 JUNE 2010

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                              CORROSION CONTROL AND PROTECTION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this instruction.

OPR: 19 MXG/QA                                                       Certified by: 19 MXG/CC
Supersedes: LITTLEROCKAFBI21-111,                                            (Col Chris E. Hair)
            22 August 2006                                                              Pages: 6


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1. This instruction establishes procedures for corrosion
control, prevention, and protection of aircraft and equipment for units of the 19th Maintenance
Group and the 314th Maintenance Group personnel. Corrosion control, wash, exterior paint, and
marking of all assigned aircraft and Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) is addressed. This
instruction expands upon policies and procedures as outlined in technical order (TO) 1-1-8,
Application and Removal of Organic Coatings, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace Equipment, and
TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Control, TO 1C-130A-23, System Peculiar Corrosion
Control, TO 1C-130A-23-CL-1, Washing and Cleaning. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Minor changes
include: corrosion inspection and paint scoring completion by the primary OPR only; deletion of
 2                                                  LITTLEROCKAFBI21-111 30 JUNE 2010


TT-L-50 application; deletion of Mil-C-81309 application and deletion of daily corrosion
inspections of all vehicles.
1. General: A definite relationship exists between preventing and controlling corrosion on
aircraft and aerospace ground equipment. At field level, the best and most economical means of
corrosion prevention is frequent cleaning, in conjunction with periodic maintenance, painting
(touch–up), and corrosion inspections.
2. General Responsibilities:
     2.1. Maintenance personnel have the primary responsibility for the prevention, detection,
     and treatment of corrosion on assigned aircraft and AGE. Personnel will identify corrosion
     problems by inspecting all accessible areas during daily maintenance and inspections. When
     corrosion discrepancies are discovered beyond the using organization’s capability to evaluate
     or repair, an aircraft structural maintenance specialist will be consulted. Any detected
     corrosion discrepancies will be loaded in the G081 system and aircraft forms for historical
     tracking and proper disposition.
     2.2. All personnel are to exercise extreme care when removing aircraft panels, fasteners, and
     equipment. Chipped and scratched paint can lead to corrosion. Personnel removing panels
     or doors must ensure seals are serviceable and sealant is applied to panels and fasteners as
     specified in applicable technical orders. Personnel performing maintenance are responsible
     for cleaning the affected areas upon completion of the task. Extreme caution must be taken
     to prevent the use of any unauthorized cleaning compounds that are not listed on the
     qualified products list. The current qualified product list is available at www.afcpo.mil.
     Unauthorized cleaning compounds can cause corrosion or hydrogen embrittlement in aircraft
     structures.
3. Training:
     3.1. All maintenance personnel who work on aircraft, aircraft components, and aerospace
     ground equipment, regardless of AFSC, (excluding AFSC 2A7X3, Aircraft Structural
     Maintenance) will receive corrosion training. Newly assigned personnel will receive
     corrosion prevention and control training during the maintenance orientation program. Each
     unit will schedule personnel to receive corrosion prevention and control training during block
     training. This training will have an annual refresher requirement.
     3.2. Corrosion training course will:
        3.2.1. Be tailored to meet aircraft and equipment needs.
        3.2.2. Provide corrosion identification procedures and techniques.
        3.2.3. Instruct in the use of authorized qualified product listed cleaners for aircraft and
        support equipment.
        3.2.4. Provide for proper selection and use of sealant and corrosion prevention
        compounds.
        3.2.5. Familiarize maintainers with corrosion prone areas on aircraft and support
        equipment.
        3.2.6. Instruct in proper reporting and documentation procedures when identifying
        corrosion.
LITTLEROCKAFBI21-111 30 JUNE 2010                                                                 3


4. 19 MXG Quality Assurance:
   4.1. Quality assurance evaluates maintenance process compliance and equipment conditions,
   with special attention given to corrosion prevention and control.
   4.2. The 19th Maintenance Group Quality Assurance will chair a quarterly corrosion cross
   talk meeting. (See 6.1)
   4.3. All 19 AW aircraft returning from periodic depot maintenance will be have the
   corrosion discrepancies from work card LWC-19AW-24 loaded into G081 and the aircraft
   forms. The discrepancies will also be loaded into the G021 system and forwarded to depot
   for further action by Quality Assurance.
5. Plans and Scheduling: The 19 MOS/MXOOP Plans, Scheduling and Documentation section
schedules, monitors, and coordinates aircraft wash and paint touch-ups with the 314 AW, AMU
production, wash rack, and corrosion facility managers during the shared resources meetings.
Aircraft should be scheduled for wash in accordance with TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion
Prevention and Control. Paint touch-ups are scheduled after the aircraft paint condition is scored
and prioritized.
6. Aircraft Structural Maintenance/Corrosion Shop:
   6.1. The structural maintenance shop chief will co-chair the quarterly corrosion cross talk
   meeting. The meeting will be attended by representatives from all aircraft maintenance units.
   The purpose is not to set policy. It will simply provide a forum for discussing corrosion
   problems, trends, and areas for improvement in prevention and control.
   6.2. All aircraft painted surfaces will be maintained in good condition, distinct in color, and
   present a professional appearance. Touch-up paint will be used to replace peeled or damaged
   paint, accomplishing complete areas to prevent a spotted effect whenever possible.
   6.3. Aircraft will have an entire paint evaluation performed semi-annually to determine
   soundness for corrosion protection and appearance standards. This inspection may be
   accelerated at the paint facility supervisor’s option and may be performed in conjunction
   with aircraft washes or any other periodic inspections, provided the intent of the semi-annual
   evaluation is accomplished. Inspection documents will be kept on file for at least 24 months
   at the paint facility.
   6.4. The owning AMU is responsible for delivering the aircraft to the paint facility at the
   scheduled time. If an aircraft arrives late and all painting cannot be accomplished, the
   aircraft will have to be rescheduled to complete the painting as required.
   6.5. Aircraft/aircraft parts paint touch-up flow:
       6.5.1. Aircraft/aircraft parts must be hangared for at least 6 hours after painting.
       6.5.2. Engine runs will not be accomplished within 30 hours of cure time after painting.
       6.5.3. Aircraft will not be flown for at least 72 hours after painting.
7. Wash Rack:
   7.1. Exterior and interior aircraft cleaning should be accomplished in accordance with the
   cycles established in TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention and Control. The wash
 4                                                    LITTLEROCKAFBI21-111 30 JUNE 2010


     rack manager will ensure proper coordination with 19 MOS/MXOOP Plans, Scheduling and
     Documentation section during the shared resources meetings to avoid scheduling conflicts.
     7.2. For Wash Rack responsibilities see LRAFBI 21-109, Wash Rack Procedures.
8. Electrical /Avionics Systems:
     8.1. During system 41 pressurization maintenance, a visual inspection of the high-pressure
     bleed air ducting system will be accomplished for evidence of corrosion.
     8.2. During system 41 pressurization maintenance, insulation blankets will be removed from
     heating and air conditioning distribution ducts. After insulation blanket removal, the heating
     and air conditioning distribution ducts will be inspected for corrosion.
     8.3. During emergency exit light maintenance, caps will be removed, battery receptacles will
     be inspected for corrosion, and batteries will be replaced with new batteries.
     8.4. Corroded components will be routed for proper corrosion removal and treatment.
     8.5. Aircraft avionics systems and instruments are extremely critical for safety of flight and
     are no less susceptible to corrosion than any other portion of the aircraft. All avionics work
     sections must be familiar with and have available for use, TO 1-1-689, Avionics Cleaning &
     Corrosion Prevention/Control, TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Control, and NAVAIR
     16-1-540, Organizational Unit Intermediate Maintenance Avionics Cleaning and Corrosion
     Prevention Control.
     8.6. It is the responsibility of avionics maintenance personnel to inspect and clean the pins
     and sockets of disconnected electrical connectors, line replaceable units, and
     system/subsystem components for corrosion. When corrosion identified is beyond the
     capability of the shop to correct, request assistance from the aircraft structural maintenance
     shop.
9. Aircraft Refurbishment: The aircraft refurbishment section’s objective is to refurbish the
aircraft to ensure night vision capabilities and for configuration control. An important portion of
the aircraft refurbishment process is to inspect for corrosion, treat, and paint the entire interior of
the aircraft and portions of the exterior of the aircraft. All corrosion discovered during aircraft
refurbishment will be properly removed, treated, and painted according to applicable technical
data.
10. Isochronal Phase Inspection:
     10.1. Work cards will be used to inspect and identify corrosion prone areas. Aircraft
     structural maintenance shop personnel will use the appropriate technical data to treat and
     protect the identified corroded areas.
     10.2. Qualified aircraft structural maintenance personnel will perform aircraft corrosion
     inspection –6 work cards during scheduled phase and periodic inspections.
11. Wheel and Tire Systems: During disassembly and assembly of wheel and tire components,
a complete inspection, cleaning, and routing of wheels for overhaul and repair will be
accomplished as necessary. Special attention will be given to identifying corrosion, deteriorating
paint, and routing for treatment and painting of wheel assemblies.
LITTLEROCKAFBI21-111 30 JUNE 2010                                                             5


12. Hydraulic Systems:
   12.1. During the disassembly and overhaul process of hydraulic components, a complete
   inspection, cleaning, and routing of components will be accomplished.
   12.2. Special attention will be given to high-risk items such as brake assemblies, brake
   swivels, hydraulic tubing, and all main landing gear and nose landing gear components.
13. Aerospace Ground Equipment:
   13.1. AGE personnel, in coordination with structural maintenance personnel assigned to the
   corrosion facility, will evaluate the condition of paint on AGE. Equipment requiring paint is
   prioritized, sanded, prepped, and delivered to the corrosion facility to be painted.
   13.2. All powered and non-powered AGE will have a minimum cleaning cycle of 180 days
   coinciding with periodic inspections. Frequency of cleanings may be accelerated at the
   option of the AGE flight chief or the work center supervisor.
14. Parts Washers: All parts washer cleaning solutions that are used for aircraft parts and
support equipment will conform to the qualified products listing. Unapproved cleaning solvents
will not be used. Using cleaning solvents that have not been adequately tested could cause major
structural damage to Air Force assets.
   14.1. Information collections, Records, and Forms
       14.1.1. Adopted Forms:
              AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
              AF Form 1800, Operators Care and Inspection Guide and Trouble Report.




                                            GREGORY S. OTEY, Col, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                            LITTLEROCKAFBI21-111 30 JUNE 2010


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air And Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
TO 1-1-8, Application and Removal of Organic Coatings, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace
Equipment, 26 June 2009
TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Control, 2 November 2009
TO 1C-130A-23, System Peculiar Corrosion Control, 1 November 2009
TO 1C-130A-23CL-1, Washing and Cleaning, 1 August 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directives
AFSC— Air Force Specialty Code
AGE— Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMU— Aircraft Maintenance Unit
NCO— Non Commissioned Officer
T.O.— Technical Order
