BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  LITTLE ROCK AIR FORCE BASE
19 AIRLIFT WING                                                     INSTRUCTION 48-151

                                                                                15 APRIL 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                           PREVENTION OF HEAT INJURY



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 19 AMDS/SGPB                                                     Certified by: 19 MDG/CC
                                                                       (Col David A. Stanczyk)
                                                                                        Pages: 6


This instruction provides information with local instructions regarding the implementation of Air
Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 48-151, Thermal Injury, at Little Rock AFB. This regulation also
provides guidance in how Little Rock AFB, as the host installation for personnel attending
training administered by AETC, will implement the applicable portions of AETCI 48-101,
Prevention of Heat Stress Disorders. This instruction applies to all US military and civilian
personnel on, or assigned to, Little Rock AFB, all tenant units located on Little Rock AFB, all
guard personnel working at Little Rock AFB, and contractors employed at Little Rock AFB as
specified in individual contracts. Personnel assigned to AETC must also maintain and comply
with the guidance prescribed by AETCI 48-101. The requirements within this instruction do not
apply to off-duty work or dependents, except as guidance. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: 314 AW organizations have been changed to 19 AW organizations, responsibilities
have been updated, and the requirements for support of AETC units have been included.
2                                                LITTLEROCKAFBI48-151 15 APRIL 2011


1. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    1.1. Group and Squadron Commanders: Complete an operational risk management
    (ORM) assessment of proposed activities, using Attachment 5, AFPAM 48-151, Thermal
    Injury, and other heat stress reference information provided in consultation with aerospace
    physiology.
    1.2. Supervisors:
       1.2.1. Supervisors of personnel exposed to heat stress occupationally shall maintain this
       regulation, the AFPAM 48-151, and the AETCI 48-101 Prevention of Heat Stress
       Disorders (AETC units only) in their work centers. Maintenance of these publications
       can be accomplished through the use of a centrally maintained electronic publications
       website (AF e-publishing), a unit’s shared network drive (//X:drive) or an established
       Community of Practice (CoP) website (314 AW Safety CoP).
       1.2.2. Provide information on the meaning of the Wet Bulb Globe Temperature (WBGT)
       index, heat stress categories, and measures to prevent heat stress disorders to all workers
       or other individuals under their control.
       1.2.3. Complete annual training for workers prior to the start of the hot season (by May
       1). Training will include information on how to recognize and understand causes,
       symptoms, first-aid treatment, and prevention of heat injuries (to include work-rest
       cycles). Supervisors of flying personnel should also include training on how heat stress
       affects aircrew performance and appropriate preventive measures. Reference material
       can be obtained from AFPAM 48-151, the 19 AMDS Aerospace Physiology Flight, or 19
       AMDS Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight.
       1.2.4. Training will be documented on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
       Record, or equivalent for military members, and AF Form 971, Supervisors Employee
       Brief, or equivalent for civilians.
       1.2.5. Plan work and rest cycles for personnel occupationally exposed to hot
       environments and ensure adequate acclimatization of new personnel according to
       AFPAM 48-151, Attachment 5.
       1.2.6. Use activity level restrictions in AFPAM 48-151, Attachment 5, to plan and
       conduct outdoor physical conditioning or training for individuals under their control.
    1.3. Medical group Functional Areas:
       1.3.1. Bioenvironmental engineering will:
           1.3.1.1. Provide instruction to other functional areas on proper use of the WBGT
           instruments and report the measurements to the 19 AW Command Post.
           1.3.1.2. Take WGBT measurements as described in section 4 of this regulation.
       1.3.2. Aerospace physiology will:
           1.3.2.1. Provide current resource material to commanders for conducting operational
           risk management (ORM) in heat stress environments. Assist supervisors and group
           and squadron commanders with work classification and preventive measures. Advise
           on preventive measures in the flying environment.
LITTLEROCKAFBI48-151 15 APRIL 2011                                                                3


           1.3.2.2. Prepare educational material for aircrews and the general population (i.e.,
           base paper articles).
           1.3.2.3. Present briefings as requested by any user group on base, detailing heat
           stress, causes, precautions, and treatment.
           1.3.2.4. Brief LRAFB Camp Warlord instructor cadre and participants on risk
           management for heat stress.
       1.3.3. Clinical providers will:
           1.3.3.1. Notify public health when a heat-stress disorder occurs that is associated
           with work or training activities per Chapter 5, AFPAM 48-151.
           1.3.3.2. Complete annual training that includes education on this regulation, focusing
           on establishing recommendations or restrictions for patients (workers or trainees) who
           have been ill.
           1.3.3.3. Educate patients, to include reminders of the dangers of heat in this area and
           measures to avoid heat illness, particularly if a previous illness or medications make
           them more susceptible to heat.
           1.3.3.4. Write patient histories to identify a history or predisposition to heat illness.
           If an illness or medication predisposes an individual to heat illness, issue a temporary
           profile limiting activities in the heat and provide it to their supervisor.
       1.3.4. Health And wellness center (HAWC) will:
           1.3.4.1. Educate physical training leaders on the effects of heat stress disorders with
           physical conditioning.
           1.3.4.2. Refer individuals with risk factors for heat illness to a medical provider for
           evaluation.
   1.4. Weather Support Flight (WSF): Provide predicted and current index of thermal stress
   (ITS), plus national weather service heat indexes and heat advisories to support operational
   mission.
   1.5. Trainees and Workers Subject to Hot Environments: Inform your physical training
   leader or supervisor of conditions that may reduce your tolerance to heat.
2. Assessing Environments for Heat Stress: The WBGT index has been shown to be a better
indicator of human response to heat than the “heat index” provided by the weather service for the
general public.
3. Preventing Heat Stress Disorders During Physical Conditioning (PC) Activities.
   3.1. Fitness Activities
       3.1.1. The fitness assessment cell (FAC) staff administers written questionnaire to
       fitness-testing participants to ascertain any pre-existing conditions that may affect their
       ability to exercise in the heat. Based on their responses, they may be referred to the
       exercise physiologist or a medical provider for further evaluation.
       3.1.2. HAWC staff provide physical training leaders and FAC staff with education and
       training on how to recognize and prevent heat stress disorders.
4                                                 LITTLEROCKAFBI48-151 15 APRIL 2011


       3.1.3. Physical training leaders, in turn, provide heat stress awareness to every
       participant under their supervision. The physical condition and heat illness susceptibility
       of individuals participating in the physical fitness mandatory conditioning program varies
       widely. Therefore, instructors must be aware of those members most susceptible to heat
       stress and tailor physical conditioning accordingly. Institute a buddy system and
       emphasize mutual observation at all times throughout each physical training (PT)
       activity.
       3.1.4. Per AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, physical conditioning conducted in PT
       uniform (shorts and t-shirt) may be performed continuously up to 1 hour in all but heat
       category five. It is recommended that fitness activities are limited to indoor activities in
       heat category five.
       3.1.5. Fitness assessments will not be conducted outdoors when the WBGT is greater
       than 85 degrees or heat index is greater than 99 degrees if WBGT is not available. FAC
       will consult with base bioenvironmental engineering flight or base weather to determine
       environmental conditions.
    3.2. Commander Runs.
       3.2.1. All participants should be aware of the early symptoms of heat so they can tailor
       their effort to avoid overexertion and risk of heat injury.
       3.2.2. Temperatures above 90 degrees and WBGT index values of 85 degrees or higher
       are routinely present during summer afternoons. Accordingly, any command run will be
       scheduled in the mornings from early April to mid October.
       3.2.3. Water will be provided at the starting and ending point (base fitness center), and
       an additional water station may be positioned at the turnaround point.
       3.2.4. Medics equipped with radio communication to the medical control center will
       patrol the route.
    3.3. Deployment Exercises.
       3.3.1. Aerospace physiology staff brief cadre instructors and participants on aspects of
       heat stress in the field. The training includes the body’s reaction to heat, how to prevent
       heat illness, and recognize and treat heat symptoms in yourself and others.
       3.3.2. Wear time of mission-oriented protective posture (MOPP) gear is limited to early
       morning hours during the late spring and summer.
       3.3.3. Plentiful quantities of cool water are provided for deployment exercise
       participants.
       3.3.4. Radio and telephone contact is maintained in the event medical support is needed.
4. MEASUREMENT, DOCUMENTATION, AND NOTIFICATION OF WET BULB
GLOBE TEMPERATURE (WBGT) INDEX:
    4.1. Location. The normal location for routine WBGT measurements will be the concrete
    sidewalk by the bioenvironmental engineering flight (currently building 756). Alternate
    locations, e.g. area adjacent to building 120, may be designated, if representative of the
    outdoor work environment.
LITTLEROCKAFBI48-151 15 APRIL 2011                                                            5


     4.1.1. Remote location monitoring. When an organization conducts operations at an off-
     base location, they have the following options for WBGT monitoring:
         4.1.1.1. Use heat index information available from local weather stations as general
         guidance on heat conditions and take appropriate precautions.
         4.1.1.2. Use WBGT monitoring for a nearby location that represents their location.
         4.1.1.3. Purchase or borrow a field WBGT kit to use during the operation (contact
         bioenvironmental engineering flight at 987-7398 for information). Bioenvironmental
         engineering flight personnel will instruct personnel on the instrument’s proper use.
     4.1.2. During the normal duty week, when the actual or forecast outside temperature
     reaches 85 degrees, bioenvironmental engineering flight or designee will perform WBGT
     measurements at 2-hour intervals beginning at 0800 (0800, 1000, 1200, 1400, and 1600).
     When the WBGT index reaches 85 degrees (heat category 3), increase the WBGT
     measurement frequency to hourly.
     4.1.3. Procedures for non-duty hours. The WBGT normally has reached its highest daily
     value by 1600 and at sundown the WBGT reading normally returns to heat category 1.
     Supervisors will continue to ensure workers take prudent precautions for the last WBGT
     reported. During non-duty hours and weekends, organizations may use publicly available
     heat index guidance, arrange with bioenvironmental engineering flight to borrow or
     purchase a WBGT (see 4.1.1) or arrange for setup of a WBGT at a site that has 24-hour
     coverage (such as the 19 AW Command Post).
  4.2. Documentation of WBGT. Bioenvironmental engineering flight will document the
  ambient outdoor WBGT readings.             These readings will be maintained in the
  bioenvironmental engineering flight binder for 1 year.
  4.3. Notification.      When the WBGT reaches heat category one (or higher),
  bioenvironmental engineering flight (or designated monitor after hours) reports the WBGT
  index and heat stress category to the command post.
     4.3.1. When the WBGT index reaches 85 degrees (Yellow, heat category 3), 19 AW
     Command Post initiates notification checklist and activates the “giant voice” notification
     system and the computer installation warning system.
  4.4. Prevention. Once notified, commanders and supervisors should implement the work
  and rest cycles or training activity level restrictions and other prevention techniques.
  4.5. Procedures to Evaluate Trends in Health-related Illness:
     4.5.1. Supervisors are responsible for completing AETC Form 435, Mishap Data
     Worksheet, on any individual who seeks medical attention for a heat-related illness.
     Copies of the AETC Form 435 will be forwarded to base safety (19 AW/SEG).
     4.5.2. Whenever a military member receives treatment for a heat related-illness at work,
     the primary care manager (PCM) will immediately refer the individual to public health
     where an occupational-illness investigation will be initiated.
     4.5.3. Public health will periodically review the Composite Health Care System (CHCS)
     Ad Hoc report to identify heat-related diagnosis trends. Workplaces with identified
     trends will be notified for additional evaluation and training.
 6                                               LITTLEROCKAFBI48-151 15 APRIL 2011


5. Flightline Operations: To the maximum extent possible, air conditioning carts should be at
the aircraft 30 minutes prior to partial crew show when the Heat Stress Index reaches category 4
(WBGT of 88 degrees Celsius) or higher. If no air conditioning carts are available and the
aircraft is equipped with an operable auxiliary power unit (APU) crews should start and run the
APU to cool aircraft and limit heat exposure during preflight operations in accordance with
aircraft regulatory and/or technical order guidance.
6. Prescribed And Adopted Forms:
     6.1. Prescribed forms: None
     6.2. Adopted forms: AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            MICHAEL A. MINIHAN, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
