BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      LITTLE ROCK AIR FORCE BASE
19TH AIRLIFT WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 31-104

                                                                                        14 MAY 2013

                                                                                              Security

                                                   BASE CURFEW/UNATTENDED CHILDREN



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 19 SFS/S3O                                                           Certified by: 19 MSG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Tracey L. Watkins)
Supersedes:    LITTLEROCKAFBI31-104,                                                        Pages: 5
               25 January 2011


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense. This
instruction establishes policies and procedures designed to impose a curfew within the limits of Little
Rock Air Force Base. In addition, it establishes youth supervision guidelines. This instruction
applies to all military and civilian personnel on Little Rock Air Force Base, including family housing
occupants and visitors. This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 50 United States Code 797. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance
With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW
with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been updated to reflect changes to remove verbiage for specific age groups and
added a reference Table 1.


1. General. The established curfew hours for Little Rock Air Force Base are as follows: 2200-0500
hours Monday thru Thursday, 2400-0500 Friday, Saturday, and the nights before Holidays and 2300-
0500 on Sundays. These hours apply to persons under the age of 18 years, unless emancipated. For
 2                                                      LITTLEROCKAFBI31-104 14 MAY 2013


the purpose of this instruction, where the word “adult” is used, this represents an individual 18 years
of age and over.
2. Procedures. During the curfew times, all persons under the age of 18 found within the limits of
Little Rock Air Force Base and outside of their homes, not accompanied by their legal parent,
guardian, or an individual 18 years of age without consent of parent or legal guardian, will be in
violation of this instruction, unless exceptions in para 3.1.1 apply. The Security Forces (SF) will
prepare an Incident Report; notify the appropriate commander and the Family Advocacy Office
through the 19th Medical Group. All curfew violations will be referred to the 19 AW/JA for
consideration by the Juvenile Misconduct Board (JMB).
     2.1. Persons who are detained for violating this instruction will be held at the Security Forces
     Operations Facility located in building 480 until released to a parent or legal guardian or in their
     absence, an adult relative or neighbor willing to accept responsibility for their custody.
3. Responsibilities. Commanders will ensure assigned personnel having dependents under the age
of 18 understand this instruction through commanders’ calls, intro briefings, staff meetings and other
means as required.
     3.1. Parents are any person having legal custody of a minor as a: natural or adoptive parent, legal
     guardian, and a person to whom legal custody has been given by court order. Parents or legal
     guardians will ensure family members under the age of 18 comply with this instruction and
     respond, when required, to the Security Forces Operations Facility to take custody of their family
     member.
        3.1.1. EXCEPTION: Juveniles returning home from school, city, or church sponsored
        activities may be extended a grace period up to one (1) hour from the termination hour of
        said activity. SF enforcing this exception will consider distance traveled from activity to
        base, weather conditions, and mode of travel. Juveniles engaged in employment need to have
        in their possession a signed letter from their employer and parent or legal guardian
        identifying their place of employment, parents’ name(s), current on-base address, phone
        number, and normal hours of employment. Juveniles privileged under this exception must
        travel the most direct route to their residence. Juveniles who are 16 and 17 years of age
        entering or exiting the installation may proceed directly to or from their on-base residence
        during curfew hours, if traveling via a motor vehicle (no parent/guardian notification will be
        made). If contact is made with a 16 or 17 year old juvenile during curfew hours and that
        person is north of Arnold Drive or outside the normal housing travel channels, it will be
        considered a curfew violation. Civilian juveniles caught violating established laws, i.e.,
        vandalism, theft, damaging property, etc., will be charged with the identified criminal act and
        curfew violation. Military dependents will be referred to the 19 AW/JA for consideration by
        the JMB for further action.
4. Youth Supervision. The ages specified in this instruction are maximum ages based on
demonstrated age-appropriate child behavior norms. Children who do not consistently demonstrate
behavior consistent with these norms should not be given the same degree of self-management
responsibilities. Notwithstanding the guidelines adopted by this base allowing certain activities for
children of certain ages, parents are always expected to exercise reasonable judgment and will be
held responsible for any incidents or mishaps (not considered preventable) which may occur. Adults
who expose children to substantial risks of serious harm may be charged by authorities with
endangering the welfare of a minor.
     4.1. For specifics on youth supervision guidelines see Table 1.
           LITTLEROCKAFBI31-104 14 MAY 2013                                                                                                    3


           Table 1. Youth Supervision Guidelines
Age Of Child        Left Without Sitter in Quarters    Left Without Sitter in      Left Alone Overnight          Outside Unattended          Left In Car Unattended        Child Sit Siblings   Child Sit Others
                    for Two Hours or Less              Quarters for More Than                                    (To Include Playing)
                                                       Two Hours
Newborn             No                                 No                          No                            No                          No                            No                   No
Through Age 4

Age 5 Through       No                                 No; except may walk to      No                            Yes; playground or yard     No                            No                   No
Age 6                                                  and from school                                           with access to adult
                                                                                                                 supervision ***



Age 7 Through       No                                 No; except may walk to      No                            Yes; with access to adult   Yes, except in hot weather;   No                   No
Age 9                                                  and from school                                           assistance***               keys removed and
                                                                                                                                             handbrake applied; 15 min
                                                                                                                                             in other weather; adult
                                                                                                                                             within sight

Age 10 Through      Yes; with ready access (phone      No; except may walk to      No                            Yes                         Yes; keys removed and         Yes, 11 years old    No
Age 11              number to an adult                 and from school                                                                       handbrake applied             or 6th grade
                    supervisor)*/***                                                                                                                                       minimum to 2
                                                                                                                                                                           hours maximum
                                                                                                                                                                           */**

Age 12 Through      Yes                                Yes during daytime hours    No                            Yes                         Yes                           Yes*                 Yes**
Age 14                                                 before curfew; no after                                                                                                                  12 years of age or
                                                       curfew                                                                                                                                   7th grade minimum




Age 15 Through      Yes                                Yes                         Yes; children 15 or           Yes                         Yes                           Yes**                Yes
High School                                                                        freshman in high school
Graduation                                                                         may be left alone overnight
                                                                                   with access to adult
                                                                                   supervision and sponsor
                                                                                   must be in local area***

* Home alone training by youth center
** Red Cross babysitting training or equivalent required
*** Adult supervision is defined as someone who has or assumed responsibility for the child, such as a parent, guardian, care provider, or friend and is located at their on-base residence.
4                                                     LITTLEROCKAFBI31-104 14 MAY 2013




    4.2. Parents, guardians, and caregivers must remember they are responsible for, and will be held
    accountable for, the conduct and well-being of their children on base. Despite the latitude given
    to parents to determine what is appropriate for their children, parents must ensure they stay
    within the bounds of what ethically, medically, and legally would be considered “reasonable and
    prudent.”
    4.3. Children who meet the criteria for the Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP)
    require supervision IAW their special needs regardless of their age.
    4.4. 19th Security Forces will: detain all offenders, transport them to the Security Forces
    operations facility in building 480 for processing. Release offenders to a parent or legal
    guardian, or in their absence, an adult relative or neighbor willing to accept responsibility for
    their custody. All incidents will be documented on AF Form 53/Security Forces Desk Blotter,
    and complete a Security Forces Management Information System (SFMIS) report. Family
    members under the age of 18 who arrive at the gates after curfew hours will be instructed by
    Security Forces to proceed directly to their quarters on base. All SFMIS reports will be
    forwarded to the sponsor’s commander for command action by the Reports & Analysis office.
    4.5. If the offenders parents, sponsors, or legal guardians cannot be contacted/notified, the unit
    commander/first sergeant of the sponsor will be notified, however Security Forces will maintain
    custody of the individual until the sponsor or legal guardian is contacted.
    4.6. Violations will result in incident reports being forwarded to the privatized housing director
    as well as the unit commander and the 19 AW/JA for possible JMB action. Additionally, the
    Family Advocacy Office will be notified, who may in-turn notify the Arkansas Department of
    Health and Human Services.




                                               BRIAN S. ROBINSON, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
LITTLEROCKAFBI31-104 14 MAY 2013                            5


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
JMB—Juvenile Misconduct Board
SF—Security Forces
EFMP—Exceptional Family Member Program
