BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 LITTLE ROCK AIR FORCE BASE
19TH AIRLIFT WING                                                  INSTRUCTION 34-246

                                                                                21 JUNE 2011

                                                                                      Services

                                                                            PRIME KNIGHT



            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 19 AW/CP                                                          Certified by: 19 AW/CP
                                                                        (Major Franklin Rich)
                                                                                       Pages: 5


This instruction implements AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program. It expresses the 19th
Airlift Wing Commander’s policy for Prime Knight Services supporting AMC or AMC-gained
transient aircrews traveling through Little Rock AFB. It applies to Little Rock AFB personnel
who support the base Prime Knight program, including, but not limited to, the following
agencies: Command Post, Vehicle Dispatch/Operations, Food Services, Lodging Services, and
Airfield Management Operations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

1. Purpose. This instruction implements AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, and
provides specific guidance on the implementation of the Little Rock Air Force Base Prime
Knight program.
2. Overview.
   2.1. Prime Knight (PK) is an all-encompassing activity for 19th Airlift Wing units and is
   intended to maximize the mission readiness and effectiveness of transient aircrews at Little
   Rock AFB. The consolidated efforts of Command Post, transportation, food services,
   lodging, and airfield management are critical to ensuring total mission support.
 2                                                  LITTLEROCKAFBI34-246 21 JUNE 2011


     2.2. Prime Knight Support is a mandatory service for all transient aircrews at Little Rock
     AFB. The active involvement of all supporting commanders and their staffs are critical to
     ensuring the success of this program.
     2.3. Command Post is the lead agency for the Prime Knight program at Little Rock AFB and
     will coordinate with the Maintenance Group, Operations Group, and Mission Support Group
     as needed to provide necessary assistance for transient crews from arrival through departure.
     The appropriate group commander will ensure a Prime Knight POC is provided for
     transportation, food services, lodging, and airfield management as a minimum. Each group
     is also responsible for ensuring their staffs are trained and organized to enhance Prime
     Knight Support.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Prime Knight (PK) Program Manager.
        3.1.1. Develop and maintain a base instruction outlining Prime Knight Program
        overview and implementation. Develop and maintain an aircrew brochure to issue to
        transient aircrews outlining Prime Knight Services and procedures for their reference.
        The appropriate group POC is responsible for ensuring their portion of the brochure is
        complete and accurate. Discrepancies/changes should be forwarded to the Command
        Post Prime Knight Manager as quickly as possible to ensure timely updates.
        3.1.2. Command Post will forward copies of aircrew orders to lodging upon receiving
        them from the previous location or from the aircraft commander.
        3.1.3. Command Post will deliver a copy of the lodging location (depicted on a base map
        - where aircrew will go to pick up full Prime Knight package) and Prime Knight brochure
        to Base Operations. Upon arrival at Base Ops, the aircraft commander will receive the
        package from airfield management.
        3.1.4. During crew rest, Command Post will provide assistance to the aircrew regarding
        transportation needs and access to dining/services facilities to the maximum extent
        possible. This assistance will be accomplished in a workload-permitting manner, and
        should not be at the expense of completing normal duties.
        3.1.5. At alert time, Command Post will inform the aircraft commander of mission
        details and arrange for transportation pickup if no U-Drive-It was provided. Command
        Post will follow the standard operating procedures for departing aircrews.
        3.1.6. Airfield management will remind the aircraft commander to complete the Prime
        Knight survey and leave a copy at the drop box in Base Operations.
     3.2. Transportation
        3.2.1. Vehicle Dispatch will provide a crew bus to meet all transient aircrews within 10
        minutes of block time for transport to Base Operations. Command Post will notify
        Vehicle Dispatch of the arrival time and parking location of all transient arrivals.
        3.2.2. Vehicle Operations will provide a U-Drive-It (UDI) for Prime Knight transient
        aircrews. If no UDI is available, Vehicle Dispatch will provide on-call service to the
        transient aircrew to and from the crew’s lodging location and on-base dining
        establishment.
LITTLEROCKAFBI34-246 21 JUNE 2011                                                              3


     3.2.3. If a Prime Knight UDI is not available for pick-up at Base Operations on the
     weekend for transient air crew, Command Post will coordinate transportation
     requirements through Vehicle Operations stand-by personnel.
     3.2.4. After aircrew alert, and in conjunction with paragraph 3.1.5. above, Vehicle
     Dispatch will provide transportation to the departing aircrew using established procedures
     to Base Operations, armory, in-flight kitchen and the flight line as necessary.
  3.3. Food Services
     3.3.1. Food services will provide access to flight meal support on a 24-hour basis, and
     access to food services at on base facilities to the maximum extent possible. During
     periods of increased operations tempo, consideration should be given to extending the
     normal operating hours at base dining facilities.
     3.3.2. Food services will provide in-flight meal menus and service hours for all on base
     dining facilities in the Prime Knight aircrew package.
     3.3.3. Advise the Command Post Prime Knight Manager of changes in order to update
     the brochure in a timely manner.
  3.4. Lodging Services
     3.4.1. Lodging will assign rooms on base or arrange for contract quarters for all transient
     aircrews. Lodging will assign aircrew members into quarters appropriate for grade. To
     the maximum extent possible, assign aircrews to the same area location (same building
     preferred)/hotel. If a crew is divided into multiple buildings on base, no more than two
     stops will be required to pick up all crewmembers.
     3.4.2. Lodging will build a package for aircrew IAW AFI 34-246 containing room keys,
     lodging information, non-availability slip (if applicable), a 19th Force Support Squadron
     insert for on base services, information for dining facilities in the local area, and any
     other pertinent information.
     3.4.3. When the anticipated arrival time has passed, lodging will query Command Post
     on a regular basis to ensure the most current lodging requirements are known. During
     periods of increased operations tempo, more frequent contact with Command Post is
     essential for updating arrival information.
     3.4.4. Lodging will establish express check-in/check-out procedures for aircrews and
     integrate them into office SOPs. These aircrew actions should be incorporated into the
     Prime Knight brochure and briefed to the aircraft commander upon arrival at lodging.
  3.5. Airfield Management
     3.5.1. Airfield management will provide transient aircrews access to Prime Knight
     services in the form of assistance to the aircraft commander in obtaining an arrival
     briefing from Command Post via Base Operations telephones, and providing access to
     Prime Knight brochures and services inserts.
     3.5.2. Airfield management will advise Command Post, services agencies, and
     transportation of potential changes as they learn of them through their interaction with the
     aircrews.
 4                                                 LITTLEROCKAFBI34-246 21 JUNE 2011


4. Measurement and Analysis.
     4.1. The central collection point of completed Prime Knight surveys will be in Base
     Operations. All agencies receiving completed original surveys are required to turn them into
     airfield management at the earliest opportunity, in no case more than one duty day from
     receipt. Airfield management will coordinate with the Command Post Prime Knight
     Manager on a regular basis for collection and record keeping. The Prime Knight Manager is
     responsible for collecting and maintaining the surveys. In no case will completed surveys be
     left with airfield management for more than three days.
     4.2. The Command Post Prime Knight Manager will review the completed surveys and
     distribute copies of the surveys below the grade of satisfactory to the appropriate POC for
     corrective action. Distribution from Command Post to other POCs will be within one duty
     day.
     4.3. Command Post will chart the results of the surveys for review by wing leadership at the
     Wing Commander’s discretion. Areas graded below satisfactory will include an explanation
     provided by the appropriate Prime Knight POC. The owning Group Commander should
     approve remarks before forwarding to the Wing Commander for review. All remarks for the
     previous month are due to Command Post NLT the third duty day of the new month, i.e.
     coordinated May survey comments are due from Prime Knight POCs to the program
     manager, NLT the third duty day in June.




                                             MICHAEL A. MINIHAN, Col, USAF
                                             Commander
LITTLEROCKAFBI34-246 21 JUNE 2011                               5


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar2008
Prescribed Forms
No Forms prescribed by this publication
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
IAW—In Accordance With
NLT—No Later Than
POC—Point of Contact
SOP—Standard Operating Procedure
UDI—U-Drive-it
