BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   LOS ANGELES AIR FORCE BASE
LOS ANGELES AIR FORCE BASE                                           INSTRUCTION 31-110

                                                                              11 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                          Security

                                                   LOS ANGELES AIR FORCE BASE YOUTH
                                                                 SUPERVISION POLICY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 61 SFS/S5P                                                           Certified by: 61 SFS/CC
                                                                           (Major Sarah E. Bragg)
Supersedes:    SMCI 31-110, 29 Apr 2005                                                    Pages: 7


This instruction establishes guidelines for the supervision of children on Los Angeles Air Force
Base in and around Military Family Housing, outdoors on fields and playgrounds, etc., and to
establish an appropriate age for a child to supervise other children. Parents are ultimately
responsible for the safety and welfare of their children and for compliance with this policy. It is
also essential parents develop a safety and emergency plan. See attachment 1, Youth
Supervision Metric Guidelines. In the event of suspected or actual child neglect or abuse,
Security Forces will contact the base Family Advocacy Office. In accordance with local law, it
is illegal to provide a minor with tobacco or alcohol products or for a minor to use tobacco or
alcohol products on Los Angeles Air Force Base. This instruction applies to all personnel
residing in Los Angeles Air Force Base Military Family Housing. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Additionally, if the
publication generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all applicable Reports
Control Numbers in accordance with AFI 33-324. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This format of this publication has been revised to reflect current addresses and office symbols.
 2                                             LOSANGELESAFBI31-110 11 JANUARY 2012


1. Youth Supervision Policy Definitions:
     1.1. Newborn: Ages 0-12 months of age
     1.2. Infant: 12-24 months of age
     1.3. Toddler: 2-3 years of age
     1.4. Preschooler: 4-5 years of age
     1.5. Child: 6 - 12 years of age
     1.6. Teenager: 13-18 years of age
     1.7. Juvenile: Under 18 years of age
     1.8. Maturity: The ability to exercise sound judgment and responsibility on a consistent
     basis.
     1.9. Managing Emergencies: The knowledge and ability to contact emergency services (i.e.
     911, Fire Department, Police Department and Ambulance).
     1.10. Supervision: Assuming responsibility for the safety and well being of others.
     1.11. Frequent Monitoring: Recurring observation of the action or performance of others.
     1.12. Adult Supervision: Someone 18 years or older who has or assumes responsibility of
     observing and monitoring a child for their safety and well being.
     1.13. Unattended/unsupervised: Any juvenile left without an authorized person exercising
     supervision.
     1.14. Certification: Approved baby-sitting training through the Community Center or Red
     Cross.
2. Age Requirements.
     2.1. Children 0-6: Shall not be left alone in quarters; are not allowed to walk alone to and
     from school; may be outside alone, to include playing, at age five with immediate access
     (visual sight or hearing distance) to adult supervision. Base housing residents should be
     aware that “tot playgrounds" are unsupervised and children four years and younger may not
     be left at such locations without adult supervision. (Note: Becoming unaware of the location
     of your child is evidence that frequent monitoring has not been exercised.) Families living
     adjacent to the playgrounds and fields do not assume supervisory duties unless they have
     specifically agreed to do so with the children’s’ parents. Supervision or arrangements for
     supervision are always the parents’ responsibility. They may not be left unattended in an
     automobile. They may not childsit siblings nor others and may not be unattended at
     sponsored events.
     2.2. Children 7-9: Shall not be left alone in quarters; are allowed to walk alone to and from
     school; ay be outside alone, to include playing, with access (visual sight or hearing distance)
     to adult assistance. Families living adjacent to the playgrounds and fields do not assume
     supervisory duties unless they have specifically agreed to do so with the childrens’ parents.
     Supervision or arrangements for supervision are always the parents’ responsibility. They
     may not be left unattended in an automobile. They may neither childsit siblings nor others
     and cannot be unattended at sponsored events.
LOSANGELESAFBI31-110 11 JANUARY 2012                                                             3


   2.3. Children 10-11: May not be left alone in quarters from more than two hours. Children
   must be provided a telephone number and have ready access an adult supervisor. Youth
   supervision training is also required from the Community Center or other certified source.
   Before leaving children alone, it is important to assess their comfort level, maturity, and
   ability to manage emergencies. They may be left alone outside, to include playing and may
   be left unattended in an automobile with the keys removed and handbrake applied. Ten to 11
   year olds are not allowed to childsit others. However, they are allowed to childsit siblings at
   age 11 for no more than two hours. (Must complete youth supervision training from the
   Community Center or other certified source). They are allowed to attend sponsored events
   unattended.
   2.4. Children 12-14: May be left alone in quarters for more than two hours during daytime
   hours, before curfew. They may not be left alone in quarters alone overnight, but may be left
   alone outside and in an unattended automobile. They are allowed to childsit siblings and
   others after completing youth supervision training from the Community Center or other
   certified source. They are allowed to attend sponsored events unattended.
   2.5. Teenagers 15-18: They may be left alone in quarters for more than two hours and left
   alone overnight, not to exceed five consecutive days at age16. Adult supervision must be
   available to make periodic checks. They may be left alone outside and in an unattended
   automobile. They are allowed to childsit siblings and others after completing youth
   supervision training from the Community Center or other certified source. They are allowed
   to attend sponsored events unattended.
3. Youth Supervision Training: Children 11 years and older must receive youth supervision
training before being given the responsibility of supervising children. Training is available
through the Community Center. The Community Center staff will maintain a list of juveniles
authorized to perform supervision of other children. The list must include names, ages,
addresses and phone numbers as well as a privacy act advisory. Children who receive training
through other certified sources (such as the Red Cross) must provide a copy of the documented
course to the Community Center.
4. Curfew: The Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC), section 45.03, restricts minors
(children under the age of 18) during curfew hours from being in public places unless
accompanied by an adult. Nighttime curfew policy hours are enforced seven days a week from
2200-0530. The curfew policy is intended to provide a safer community and better protects
children from becoming victims of crime or becoming involved in delinquent behavior.
Exceptions to the curfew policy apply only when a minor is attending an event, or going to or
returning directly home from an event (such as a youth program activity, movie, school dance,
etc.); involved with an emergency such as a fire, natural disaster, or automobile accident; sent on
an errand by the minor’s parent or guardian; or any minor traveling to and from a place of
employment. Parents are required to notify the appropriate base entry gate that the child will be
returning during curfew hours. In the event parents fail to provide pre-notification of a child's
arrival time, a dependent/civilian misconduct report may be completed.
5. Truancy Policy: Children ages 6-17 years attending a public or private school other than
home study are restricted from being outdoors (including playgrounds, activity fields, etc.) or in
public places without adult supervision during truancy hours. Truancy hours are 0830 to 1330,
Monday-Friday, excluding the child's scheduled school days off.
 4                                          LOSANGELESAFBI31-110 11 JANUARY 2012


6. Violators of the Curfew or Truancy Policy: Violators of the curfew or truancy policies
may be detained and processed through 61 SFS and released to the minor’s parent or guardian.
In the event the parent or guardian cannot be contacted in a reasonable time, the minor will be
turned over to the appropriate commander, director, or first sergeant. If the minor has no
military affiliation, 61 SFS will turn the minor over to the local authorities.




                                           ELLEN M. PAWLIKOWSKI
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Commander
LOSANGELESAFBI31-110 11 JANUARY 2012                                                  5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 Jun 2000
Prescribed Forms
No Prescribed Forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
                                                                ATTACHMENT 2
                                               YOUTH SUPERVISION METRIC GUIDELINES

Note: Parents are ultimately responsible for the safety and welfare of their children. This guideline provides the baseline for child
supervision it should be seen as a starting point for supervising and caring for your children, but not necessarily as an end in itself. We
encourage parents to do more and to always strive for the highest level of care and supervision possible. Violating these guidelines will
be some evidence of an unreasonable lack of proper supervision. A “yes” indicates that a child in that age group can, on average, handle
the noted task. A ”no” means the noted task should not be left to a child of that age, and doing so will be seen as evidence of irresponsible
parenting. Children who do not consistently demonstrate age-appropriate behavior should not be given the self-management
responsibilities of that age group. Parents are responsible for using reasonable judgment. Parents are also responsible for any incident or
mishap that is considered preventable) involving their child or children in their care.

               Left alone        Left alone                                                                                    Unattended
   Age of    without sitter in without sitter in   Left alone     Outside alone (to    Left in Car   Child Sit    Child Sit   at Sponsored
   Child     quarters for two quarters for more    overnight      include playing)     Unattended    Siblings      Others         Event
              hours or less    than two hours
 Newborn           NO                NO               NO                NO                NO           NO            NO           NO
 through
 Age 4
 Age 5             NO         NO except at age        NO         YES playground or        NO           NO            NO           NO
 through                       6 may walk to                          yard with
 Age 6                        and from school                     immediate access
                                                                   (visual sight or
                                                                  hearing distance)
                                                                       to adult
                                                                   supervision **
 Age 7             NO         NO except may           NO         YES with access to       NO           NO            NO           NO
 through                      walk to and from                   adult assistance **
 Age 9                             school
  LOSANGELESAFBI31-110 11 JANUARY 2012                                                                    7



               Left alone        Left alone                                                                                        Unattended
  Age of    without sitter in without sitter in       Left alone        Outside alone (to   Left in Car   Child Sit   Child Sit   at Sponsored
  Child     quarters for two quarters for more        overnight         include playing)    Unattended    Siblings     Others         Event
              hours or less   than two hours
Age 10       YES with ready         NO                   NO                   YES             YES keys YES 11 years     NO           YES
through       access (phone                                                                 removed and old for two
Age 11         number to an                                                                  handbrake  hours max*
                  adult                                                                        applied
             supervisor)*/**
Age 12           YES            YES during               NO                   YES              YES         YES *       YES *         YES
through                        daytime hours
Age 14                        before curfew;
                              NO after curfew
Age 15 up        YES               YES             YES, minors 16             YES              YES         YES *       YES *         YES
to Age 18                                         and older may be
                                                   left alone, not to
                                                        exceed 5
                                                  consecutive days.
                                                  Adult supervision
                                                  must be available
                                                  to make periodic
                                                         checks.

  * Trained by Community Center or other certified source
  ** Adult Supervision is defined as someone who is 18 years or older that has or assumes responsibility for the child, e.g. parent,
  guardian, care provider, friend
