BY ORDER OF THE                                           LOS ANGELES AIR FORCE BASE
BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                     INSTRUCTION 33-104
61ST AIR BASE GROUP
                                                                        29 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                              Communications & Information

                                                   SOFTWARE LICENSES MANAGEMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 61 CS/SCXP                                          Certified by: 61 CS/SCX (Mr. Ivey L.
                                                                                        Hall)
                                                                                   Pages: 10


This instruction implements AFI 33-114, Software Management. It identifies the responsibilities
for managing commercial off the shelf software and licenses and ensuring they are in compliance
with the U.S. Copyright Act and Executive Order 13103. This publication applies to all
personnel who use computer systems and networks supported by the 61st Communications
Squadron. It establishes a Base Software License Manager (BSLM) and a Unit Software License
Manager (USLM) and describes their responsibilities. It applies to commercial-off-the-shelf
software and program office provided applications associated with mission systems. Refer
recommended changes and questions about the publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Major Command
(MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management Systems (AFRIMS), Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims// .

1. Los Angeles AFB Software Licensing Program Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.1. 61 CS/CL Responsibilities. The 61st Communications Squadron Director will
   designate primary and alternate Base Software License Managers (BSLM) to manage the
   base software license programs.
   1.2. Unit Commander and Director Responsibilities. Each unit commander/director will:
2                                                      LAAFBI33-104 29 NOVEMBER 2011


       1.2.1. Appoint a primary and alternate Unit Software License Manager (USLM) to
       administer the software license program for the unit. (NOTE: Consider appointing
       separate license managers for multiple use, special computing enclaves, site-licensed, or
       other software maintained on network servers). See Attachment 2 for template.
       1.2.2. Forward USLM appointment memorandums to the BSLM.
       1.2.3. Ensure outgoing and incoming software license managers conduct a joint physical
       inventory of all software and endorse all inventories and include this transfer action as
       part of unit personnel out processing activities.
       1.2.4. Certify and submit an annual inventory of all unit computer software and licenses.
       Accomplish certification by signing the annual inventory list. Complete this certification
       each year no later than the anniversary date of the USLM’s official appointment.
       1.2.5. Ensure software acquisitions are coordinated through the respective software
       license manager prior to purchase and delivered software is routed through the respective
       software license manager.
    1.3. Base Software License Manager Responsibilities. BSLM will:
       1.3.1. Review host-tenant support agreements to ensure all base units are required to
       participate in the host-base software license program if they use Air Force command,
       control, communications, and computer (C4) systems or are connected to Air Force local
       area networks.
       1.3.2. Conduct on-going software license management awareness program for USLM
       and Client Systems Technicians (CSTs). This includes email notices, briefings, staff
       bulletin posts, etc.
       1.3.3. Perform periodic compliance visits to base units and LAAFB tenant organizations.
       Inspect at least 50 percent of unit accounts annually and inspect each unit at least once
       every two years.
       1.3.4. Maintain a current list of all USLMs.
       1.3.5. Promote the use of automated tools to the maximum extent possible for tracking
       software licenses.
       1.3.6. Verify new acquisitions against the AF and LAAFB Evaluated-Approved Product
       Lists (E-APL).
       1.3.7. Ensure approval is obtained from the designated approval authority (DAA) for any
       software placed on computers or computer systems on the base network.
       1.3.8. Provide software license training for newly appointed USLMs and CSTs. This
       training will include:
          1.3.8.1. Overview of AFI 33-114 and LAAFBI 33-104.
          1.3.8.2. Software license management records maintenance methods.
          1.3.8.3. Basic orientation of software licenses and The Copyright Act.
          1.3.8.4. Information on the approval/purchasing process.
LAAFBI33-104 29 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                  3


     1.3.9. Ensure each unit performs an annual inventory of all software, licenses, and
     corresponding documentation of unit software. Ensure the unit commander endorses and
     forwards a copy to the BSLM.
  1.4. Unit Software License Manager Responsibilities. Each USLM will:
     1.4.1. Become familiar with software license agreements of software used in their
     organization and act as the liaison between PC users and the BSLM.
     1.4.2. Ensure legal acquisition and use of all software and obtain coordination with the
     BSLM, functional system administrators (FSAs), CSTs, users, and/or purchasers using
     the Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS).
     1.4.3. Combine software acquisitions, as applicable.
     1.4.4. Receive and inventory all new software and become familiar with license
     agreements prior to releasing software for installation. Ensure inventory updates are
     provided to the BSLM.
     1.4.5. Perform an annual inventory of all software, licenses, and corresponding
     documentation of unit software. Ensure the unit commander endorses the hard-copy
     report and is briefed on any non-compliance issues.
     1.4.6. Perform a joint inventory of software before transferring responsibility to another
     software license manager. Ensure the unit commander endorses the hard-copy report and
     is briefed on any non-compliance issues.
     1.4.7. Store evidence of license agreements or licenses (user manuals, purchase
     documentation, CD-ROMs, etc.) and physical software media in a secure location (locked
     drawer, file cabinet, room, etc.).
     1.4.8. Maintain a hard or soft copy of the software license inventory and proof of
     purchase/ownership of all government owned/COTS software in use within the unit. The
     use of an automated tool to track this data is acceptable. Proof may consist of invoices,
     contracts, documentation from the supplier, etc. Inventory should include:
        1.4.8.1. Purchase Data – Vendor Name, Purchase Order or Delivery Order Number,
        Description, Version, Cost, Quantity Purchased, License ID Number(s), Funding
        Data, Date Purchased, Expiration/Renew by Dates.
        1.4.8.2. Issued to Data – Organization, POC, Date, Quantity Issued, License
        Number(s).
        1.4.8.3. Quantity Installed Data if different than “Issued to Data” – Organization,
        POC, Date, Total Issued, and License Number(s).
     1.4.9. Identify software that does not have associated licenses, assemble proofs of
     purchase, and purchase replacement licenses from publishers, as needed.
     1.4.10. Circulate software licensing information as needed throughout the organization.
     1.4.11. Perform self-inspections (spot checks) for unauthorized or illegal software.
     1.4.12. Dispose of excess or superseded COTS software. Employ one of the following
     methods (IAW AFI 33-114, para 9.9.).
 4                                                       LAAFBI33-104 29 NOVEMBER 2011


            1.4.12.1. Return the software package to the company that developed the software.
            1.4.12.2. Destroy the software according to the provisions of the licensing agreement
            (NOTE: Document the method of destruction to establish an audit trail).
     1.5. Client System Technician Responsibilities. Each CST will:
        1.5.1. Notify USLMs prior to installing software from shared folders or using installation
        CD-ROMs to ensure sufficient licenses are available. Also notify USLMs prior to
        uninstalling, upgrading, or performing any actions that change the amount or number of
        licensed software products installed on the base network.
        1.5.2. Ensure software is not transferred with hardware when performing automated data
        processing equipment (ADPE) transactions.
        1.5.3. Ensure all installed software is properly licensed with coordination of the USLM.
        1.5.4. Update automated software inventory tool with any new above core software
        installed (See Section 2 for more details).
     1.6. PC User Responsibilities. Each PC user will:
        1.6.1. Assist USLMs with software inventories on PCs as required.
        1.6.2. Coordinate all requests for new software installations with USLM and CST.
        1.6.3. Not make any illegal copies of copyrighted software.
        1.6.4. Work with USLM and CST if personally owned software is required on
        government system. This software must have DAA approval documented in the
        certification and accreditation (C&A) package or the DoD Information Assurance
        Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP). (See DoDI 8510.01, AFI 33-115V1,
        and AFI 33-202)
2. Automated Software Inventory Tool.
     2.1. Registering Software.
        2.1.1. The Configuration Management Office (CMO) of the 61 CS will ensure that the
        Standard Desktop Configurations (SDC), LAAFB core software, and all patches/updates
        are registered in the Software Database.
        2.1.2. CSTs will be responsible for adding new above core software in the database via
        the “Software Registration Utility.”
     2.2. Scanning Desktops
        2.2.1. CMO will perform the automated scan of the desktops on at least an annual basis
        to generate a software inventory report by organization.
        2.2.2. The resulting report generated by the scan will be provided to the USLMs for
        review and certification.
        2.2.3. USLM may request more frequent scans to aid in the inventory process.
     2.3. Certifying Licenses.
LAAFBI33-104 29 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                  5


      2.3.1. USLMs will be responsible for certifying the licenses within their organization.
      Proof of purchase/ownership for licensed software should be scanned and uploaded in the
      Software Licensing Utility of the automated software licensing tool.
      2.3.2. Any software identified in the inventory report that the USLM is unable to provide
      proof of purchase on must be removed or additional licenses purchased.
      2.3.3. The BLSM will be responsible for reviewing the overall inventory and proof data
      for LAAFB to identify excess licenses and ensure all installed software is properly
      licensed.
3. USLM Continuity Folder.
   3.1. Appointment Letter - New appointment letter should be accomplished when changes in
   USLMs or Commanders occur.
   3.2. Training Certificate - Copy of training certificate for both primary and alternate USLM.
   3.3. Guidance - AFI 33-114 and LAAFBI 33-104.
   3.4. Software Inventory - Hard copy or reference a link to where it is located. Make sure the
   USLM is not the only one able to access it.
   3.5. Inspections results and checklists including Unit Self-Inspections, Annual Base
   Inspections, No-Notice Inspections, and Reports
   3.6. Unit Awareness Program - Software license information circulated to the USLMs and
   unit CSTs (emails, briefings, bulletin boards, etc).
   3.7. All other Supporting Documents
4. Software Acquisition Process.
   4.1. Request for software purchases.
      4.1.1. All requests for purchases of software must be submitted through the USLM to
      BSLM for approval via CIPS.
      4.1.2. The BSLM will review existing inventories of the software to determine if excess
      licenses can be redistributed.
      4.1.3. If no existing licenses are available, the BSLM will verify the requested product
      against the AF and LAAFB Evaluated-Approved List (E-APL).
          4.1.3.1. If the software has not been approved for use, the BSLM shall recommend a
          comparable product that is approved. If there is no such product or the USLM
          justifies the requirement for that specific software, a software request worksheet must
          be completed. A current copy of the software request worksheet can be obtained
          from the 61 CS/SCXP Requirements Section. The completion of this worksheet has
          been incorporated into the CIPS process for new software requirements.
          4.1.3.2. If the software is already on the approved lists, the BSLM has
          “approve/disapprove" authority. If disapproved, USLM may appeal to next highest
          level within the CS.
          4.1.3.3. If approved, the CIPS will be finalized and the USLM can order the
          software.
6                                                    LAAFBI33-104 29 NOVEMBER 2011


    4.2. Ordering Software.
       4.2.1. The 61 CS/SCXP will make a recommendation in the CIPS technical solution on
       the appropriate purchase method depending on the software.
       4.2.2. Utilize Enterprise Software Agreements (ESAs) whenever possible.          For
       information on existing ESA, visit https://www.esi.mil.
       4.2.3. Previous guidance dictated that all Microsoft (MS) software be purchased using
       the MS Enterprise License Agreement (MS-ELA). However, a memo dated 29 Mar 2011
       (see Attachment 3) from the AF Chief Information Officer clarified that the MS-ELA is
       not mandatory. Please review the memo for more detailed guidance on ordering MS
       products.
    4.3. Once the Approval Process has been completed, software ordered, and received; the
    BSLM/USLMs shall ensure that all appropriate administrative/inventory actions have been
    taken and that all licensing provisions are being met.




                                          FRANK W. SIMCOX, COL, USAF
                                          Commander
LAAFBI33-104 29 NOVEMBER 2011                                7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33.114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
U.S. Copyright Act and Executive Order 13103
 8                                                      LAAFBI33-104 29 NOVEMBER 2011


                                         Attachment 2
                      USLM APPOINTMENT LETTER TEMPLATE

                                                                                          [DATE]

MEMORANDUM FOR 61 CS/SCXP BASE SOFTWARE LICENSE MANAGER (BSLM)

FROM: [Organization Commander/Director]

SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Software License Manager (USLM)

1. The individuals listed below have been designated as the primary and alternate USLM for
[Organization].

                        RANK/NAME                    OFFICE                PHONE
Primary:

Alternate:


2. This letter supersedes any previous appointment letters on this subject. If you have any
questions, please call our USLM [Name] at [Duty Phone Number].




                                                     [ORG CC/CD NAME]
                                                     [Organization
                                                      Commander/Director]
LAAFBI33-104 29 NOVEMBER 2011                   9


                                Attachment 3
                    MS ELA CLARIFICATION MEMO
10   LAAFBI33-104 29 NOVEMBER 2011
