BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  LOS ANGELES AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                    INSTRUCTION 31-111
LOS ANGELES AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             23 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                         Security

                                                      LOS ANGELES AIR FORCE BASE PET
                                                                     CONTROL POLICY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.epublishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 61 SFS/S5P                                                          Certified by: 61 SFS/CC
                                                                           (Maj Sarah E. Bragg )
Supersedes: SMCI 31-111, 23 JAN 07                                                        Pages: 7


This instruction establishes pet control procedures on Los Angeles Air Force Base (LAAFB) and
applies to all pet owners residing in Military Family Housing. It outlines policies and procedures
on the various types of pets allowed on base, the number of pets authorized per household,
registration and vaccination requirements, the impoundment of stray pets, pet removal, animal
bites, adopt-a-pet program, turn-ins, cruelty to animals, and other violations. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule      (RDS)     located     at    http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm/.
Additionally, if the publication generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all
applicable Reports Control Numbers in accordance with AFI 33-324. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974 authorized by Title 10, U.S.C. 8013. Forms affected by the Privacy Act have an
appropriate Privacy Act Statement or one will be provided upon request. System of records
notice F125 AF SP I, Registration Records (Excluding Private Vehicle Records) apply.
 2                                                               LAAFBI31-111 23 January 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The format this publication has been revised; current addresses and office symbols have been
updated to reflect current office symbols. Added: Pitbull and Rottweiler restriction imposed by
Tierra Vista Communities (TVC).
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Pet owners will obey all rules in this instruction. Repeat offenders may have their pets
     permanently removed from base or may have to vacate privatized housing at the discretion of
     the SMC/CC
     1.2. Security Forces will enforce this instruction.
     1.3. Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation is responsible for the removal of dead animals and the
     contact number is (800) 773-2489.
     1.4. Participating off-base veterinarian vaccination clinics to immunize and license dogs and
     cats is at the owner’s expense. If a pet is found with traceable identification, Security Forces
     will attempt to notify the owner. If a pet is lost without identification, the owner should visit
     the Harbor Animal Care and Control Center, 735 Battery Street, San Pedro CA 90731, (310)
     548-7413. Animals found without identification are held for five days and then become
     available for adoption.
2. Limitations:
     2.1. The following domestic pets are permitted on-base:
        2.1.1. Dogs (See 2.2.1)
        2.1.2. Cats
        2.1.3. Birds
        2.1.4. Fish
        2.1.5. Common caged pets (guinea pigs, hamsters, etc.)
     2.2. Non-domestic animals (wild exotic) such as squirrels, gophers, badgers, raccoons,
     ferrets, venomous snakes, etc., are not permitted pets on base. Questions concerning the
     suitability of pets should be directed to the TVC Housing Office.
        2.2.1. Pitbulls and Rottweilers are not allowed on TVC property unless the animal was in
        housing before 22 Sep 06 (which have been grandfathered). Current residents of TVC
        who own a Pitbull or Rottweiler must have renters insurance for these animals for not
        less than $100,000.00. Additionally, these animals must be leashed and muzzled when
        outside a fenced yard.
        2.2.2. Residents may not acquire any additional prohibited animals and will not breed the
        animals they do have.
     2.3. No more than two pets are permanently permitted in any household. Exceptions must
     be approved by 61 ABG/CC, 483 N. Aviation Blvd., Los Angeles AFB, El Segundo CA
     90245-2808). NOTE: Newborn cat and dog litters under three months old require
     notification and written approval from the TVC Housing Office. Animal litters, must be
LAAFBI31-111 23 January 2012                                                                  3


   dispersed prior to 90 days of age. Pet owners should register all animals over three months
   old through the Harbor Care and Control Center.
3. Control of Pets:
   3.1. Pet owners and custodians will keep their pets from:
       3.1.1. Biting or scratching any person or another pet
       3.1.2. Creating a public nuisance or disturbance
       3.1.3. Destroying property
   3.2. Pets will be controlled by:
       3.2.1. A suitable leash, harness, or by physically holding them
   3.2.2. Keeping them in house
       3.2.3. An enclosed yard or animal chain/leash in good repair with a length that prevents
       contact with anyone walking on sidewalks
       3.2.4. Keeping them in a vehicle for temporary restraint
       3.2.5. Kennels or cages
   3.3. Pet owners will pick up and dispose of all feces left by their pets.
   3.4. Except for Human Service Animals such as seeing-eye dogs, animals are not allowed in
   public facilities or facilities where food is sold, processed, served or stored.
   3.5. Dormitory residents may request to have pets through the 61 ABG/CCF. However,
   animals/pets will be limited to fish and small seed-eating birds.
   3.6. Yards, garages and other premises must be kept free of pet feces accumulation.
   3.7. Pets will not be tethered in front yards.
4. Procedures:
   4.1. Immunizations: Vaccinate all cats and dogs against rabies with a vaccine listed in the
   Rabies Compendium as having three year duration of immunity. Vaccinate cats and dogs
   three months of age and one year later, then every three years thereafter.
   4.2. Licensing and display of Vaccination Tags: Once vaccinated, the veterinarian office or
   animal shelter provides each pet owner with a certificate of vaccination and metal license
   tags. Attach the license tag to a collar and display around the pet’s neck at all times.
   Register all dogs and cats with the TVC Office. This must be done regardless of where the
   pet was vaccinated. Asian potbellied pigs require TVC housing office approval and must be
   registered in accordance with state and local laws.
       4.2.1. All care to include vaccinations, must be done by an off-base veterinarian.
       4.2.2. The certificate of vaccination and metal license tag must be presented at the time
       of registration.
   4.3. Impounding of Pets:
4                                                             LAAFBI31-111 23 January 2012


       4.3.1. A pet found running loose is evidence the pet owner or custodian is not properly
       controlling the pet.
       4.3.2. If a captured pet has a collar with proper license tags, Security Forces shall notify
       the TVC Office. TVC will then verify registration files and Security Forces will attempt
       to notify the owner. Pets without tags will be turned over to the Harbor Animal Care and
       Control Center. All fines or charges are the sole responsibility of the pet owner or
       custodian.
    4.4. Removal of Pets from Base: If a pet is involved in a serious incident or three violations
    of this instruction within a 12 month period, 61 ABG/CC may direct the pet be removed from
    base. If you feel your pet should not be removed, you may request an administrative hearing
    by sending a memorandum to 61 ABG/CC, 483 N. Aviation Blvd. Bldg 272, Los Angeles
    AFB, El Segundo CA 90245-2808, through the Security Forces Reports and Analysis Section
    (61 SFS/S5RA, Los Angeles AFB, El Segundo CA 90245-2808). This request must be
    received by Security Forces within five days of receipt of removal letter. Failure to do so
    constitutes a waiver of your rights to an administrative hearing. Pets will be removed and
    boarded off-base pending the outcome of the administrative hearing. When and/or if 61
    ABG/CC orders the removal of a pet, TVC will send a letter to the owner directing removal.
    Within 24 hours of receipt of the letter, the owner will present proof to TVC the pet has been
    removed. Proof will be in the form of a letter with individual’s commander, director, and/or
    two-letter endorsement. A copy of all documentation will be forwarded to TVC to be filed in
    the individual’s housing folder. Some violations that may cause pet removal are:
       4.4.1. Owners failure to control pet
       4.4.2. Unsanitary conditions (on or off the owner’s premises)
       4.4.3. Failure to vaccinate pet
       4.4.4. Disturbance of the peace
       4.4.5. Destruction of property (can be after one incident).
       4.4.6. Animal bites or scratches (can be removed after one incident)
       4.4.7. Non-registration of pets. NOTE: If necessary, 61 ABG/CC may order occupants
       to vacate base housing if their pets are involved in three violations within a 12 month
       period. TVC is responsible for generating this notice.
    4.5. Animal Bites: Security Forces will immediately investigate all reports of on-base
    animal bites or scratches, (utilize the local animal control personnel if animal is located),
    identify the owner, and report the incident to the 61st Medical Group Public Health Office.
    Regardless of circumstances, owners will be directed to permanently remove all pets that bite
    humans from military family housing per TVC lease agreement.
       4.5.1. 61 MDS will immediately call the law enforcement desk whenever an individual is
       treated for animal bites or scratches and will assist the individual in completing DD Form
       2341, Animal Bite Report-Potential Rabies Exposure.
       4.5.2. If the animal involved in the incident is suspected or known to be rabid, it will
       immediately be quarantined by the Harbor Animal Control Center. All individuals
       involved in the incident and/or are exposed to the animal will be instructed to seek
LAAFBI31-111 23 January 2012                                                                      5


     medical care immediately (Contact the 61 MDS or local emergency care unit). Security
     Forces will notify the 61 MDS Public Health/Rabies Advisory Committee of the incident
     as soon as possible to ensure appropriate preventive medicine protocol is accomplished.
         4.5.2.1. If a dog or cat has a current rabies vaccination and bites or scratches an
         individual, the pet will be placed in quarantine for 10 days at the owner’s residence or
         the Harbor Animal Care and Control Center.
         4.5.2.2. When an unvaccinated animal is involved in a bite/scratch incident, the
         animal will be quarantined for no longer than 10 days by Harbor Animal Care and
         Control Center at owner’s expense. The owner is also required to ensure the animal
         vaccinations are updated prior to continuation of base pet privileges.
         4.5.2.3. The attending veterinarian normally examines the animal within 24 hours of
         the incident.
  4.6. Adopt-a-Pet Program: A variety of animals from purebred to mixed breeds are
  available for adoption at the Harbor Animal Care and Control Center (735 Battery Street, San
  Pedro, CA 90731). Stray animals are kept five days before they can be adopted; animals
  brought in by their owners are available after one hour. During the waiting period, an animal
  will be specifically identified with a Red Alert tag if a person is interested in adopting it.
  After the waiting period, the person may return and adopt the animal. Adoption costs range
  from $40.00 to $100.00. To help prevent pet overpopulation, all animals are sterilized before
  adoption.
  4.7. Turn-ins: A pet that is sick, injured, aged or has a behavior problem may be turned in
  by its owner to the Harbor Animal Care and Control Center 24 hours a day; however, the
  owner is encouraged to investigate alternative placement. The animal will be held for one
  hour and then becomes the property of Los Angeles Animal Services, which cannot
  guarantee finding a home.
  4.8. Security Forces reports: The law enforcement desk will complete either an
  Incident/Complaint Form, and/or Blotter Entry depending upon the severity of the situation
  in question.
  4.9. Provoking of Animals: Parents will control their children so they do not provoke a pet
  into biting or scratching. In these cases, commanders may take administrative action against
  the sponsor of the person provoking the animal.
  4.10. Domestic Pets in Transient Guest Quarters: Pets in transient or guest quarters are not
  authorized except in the designated “pet friendly” unit. Contact the Lodging Office for
  availability of this unit. Consult local listings for facilities that provide storage/quarters for
  pets.
  4.11. Records: The Security Forces Reports and Analysis Section (61 SFS/S5RA) keeps
  records of violations and ensures unit commanders are notified of repeat violations.
  4.12. Cruelty to Animals:
     4.12.1. Any person who overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance,
     cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal is guilty of animal cruelty. Any
     person who abuses or fails to provide the animal with proper food, drink or shelter is also
     guilty and in violation of this instruction.
6                                                                LAAFBI31-111 23 January 2012


       4.12.2. In cases of suspected animal cruelty, TVC will contact Security Forces or the
       Harbor Care and Control Center and personnel will investigate. The owner is responsible
       for all fees necessary for the care of their animal(s).
    4.13. Contractors may not bring pets on Los Angeles AFB unless stipulated in their contract
    agreement. Animals must have all vaccinations and will wear a current rabies tag.
    4.14. Violations: The following will be implemented for incidents involving pets, within a
    12 month period, unless the incident involves injury or property damage. Each incident will
    be documented on a police report and forwarded to TVC to issue the applicable letter from61
    ABG/CC.
       4.14.1. First violation will result in a warning letter
       4.14.2. Second violation will result in a final warning letter
       4.14.3. Third violation will result in the loss of privilege to have pet(s) on the installation
    4.15. Security Forces and Harbor Care and Control Center personnel shall not be held liable
    for injury caused while capturing a stray or vicious animal.
    4.16. Any fines or charges by the Harbor Care and Control Center are the sole responsibility
    of the owner.




                                        ELLEN M. PAWLIKOWSKI. Lieutenant General, USAF
                                        Commander
LAAFBI31-111 23 January 2012                                                          7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 01 Jun 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
