BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 47-101
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                              9 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                         Dental

                                                DENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 DS/CC                                                           Certified by: 56 DS/CC
                                                                         (Col Jeffery F. Baker)
Supersedes:   LUKEAFBI 47-101, 24                                                       Pages: 4
              March 2009


This instruction describes the procedures of the 56th Dental Squadron regarding the scheduling,
prioritization, and delivery of dental care. It implements AFPD 47-1, Dental Services. It
references AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services, and AFI 41-115, Authorized
Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services System (MHSS). This
instruction does not apply to US Air Force Reserve units or members. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Broken appointments clarified in paragraph 6.
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The 56th Dental Squadron Commander is responsible to the 56th Medical Group
   (MDG) Commander for the management of dental activities at Luke AFB and will ensure
   that dental services are provided for all uniformed members to ensure their maximum
   wartime readiness and combat capability.
   1.2. Unit Squadron Commanders are responsible for coordinating periodic dental
   examination appointments with the Dental Service.
 2                                                          LUKEAFBI47-101 9 AUGUST 2011


     1.3. The Chief, Military Personnel Flight will issue dental clearance memorandums to
     military members as required by AFI 36-2102, Base-Level Relocation Procedures.
2. Priority of Dental Care.
     2.1. Dental Emergencies.
     2.2. All active duty personnel in dental class 3 and 4, as defined in AFI 47-101.
     2.3. Active duty personnel on flying status, special operations duty (missileers, controllers,
     space operations personnel), and mobility, and personnel selected for remote or isolated duty.
     2.4. All other active duty personnel.
     2.5. All others according to AFI 41-115. Non-active duty beneficiaries are treated on a
     space-available basis.
3. Dental Examination. Active duty Air Force members are required to have periodic dental
examinations in accordance with the Air Force Dental Readiness Assurance Program
(AFDRAP). Dental exam appointments will be coordinated by squadron representatives and the
56th Dental Squadron’s periodic examination monitor. Active duty members who need
additional examinations may call the dental clinic for an appointment.
4. Emergency Dental Care.
     4.1. Emergency care is authorized for all Department of Defense beneficiaries and is
     available at anytime. During normal duty hours, 0730-1630, patients should contact the
     dental clinic by phone for an appointment. After duty hours patients should contact the
     medical group appointment line (623) 226-2273 (care). The phone menu will enable the
     patient to contact the answering service. The answering service will contact the Dental
     Officer of the Day.
     4.2. Civilian employees are authorized care for injuries received during the performance of
     their duties. After emergency care is rendered, the patient will be referred to the MDG
     Resource Management Office for payment.
5. Dental Sick Call. Dental sick call is a time set aside during normal duty hours to evaluate or
treat dental problems which may be either emergent or non-emergent in nature. Sick call hours
are 0730 and 1300 on duty days. Preferably, these appointments should be made by phone.
Walk-in emergencies will be seen as soon as possible. Walk-in sick calls may be seen or offered
an appointment. Priority will be given to sick-call patients who have called to reserve an
appointment. Follow-up care for other than active duty is usually with a civilian provider at the
patient’s expense.
6. Broken Appointments. Broken appointments waste resources and delay care to other
patients. Failure to cancel an appointment will be reported to the individual’s unit commander.
An appointment is considered broken if the patient fails to show, or is late for their appointment,
and the appointment is filled by another patient. Appointments that are canceled within 2 hours
of the appointment will be considered a broken appointment. Active duty patients in Dental
Class 3 must have their commander or first sergeant contact the clinic to cancel an appointment.
7. Short Tour. Individuals who have received a notification memorandum for assignment to a
remote or isolated area must report to the dental facility within 10 days of notification for a
dental clearance.
LUKEAFBI47-101 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                     3


8. The USAF Dental Health Program. The program will be under the direction of the Dental
Squadron Commander. It will consist of two phases.
   8.1. The Clinical Phase includes care provided in the dental clinic, aimed at protecting the
   teeth and soft tissues in the mouth from disease and trauma. This will include a periodic
   dental examination and, when indicated, a dental prophylaxis, fluoride treatment, mouth
   guards, sealants, and health care instructions.
   8.2. The Community Health Phase includes steps to educate and promote good health in the
   Air Force community.
9. TRICARE Dental Program (TDP). Family members who are enrolled in the Uniformed
Services Active Duty TDP are not entitled to care in military dental clinics for services covered
under the plan. Palliative emergency care is available after which the patient will be instructed
to seek civilian care at their own expense.
10. TRICARE Retiree Dental Plan (TRDP). Retirees and their family members who are
enrolled in the TRDP are not entitled to care in military dental clinics for services covered under
the plan. Palliative emergency care is available after which the patient will be instructed to seek
civilian care at their own expense.




                                             JERRY D. HARRIS, JR., Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
 4                                                      LUKEAFBI47-101 9 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2102, Base-Level Relocation Procedures, 14 June 2010
AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services
System (MHSS), 28 December 2001
AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services, 1 June 2009
AFPD 47-1, Dental Services, 7 September 1993
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFDRAP—Air Force Dental Readiness Assurance Program
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DS—Dental Squadron
MDG—Medical Group
TDP—TRICARE Dental Program
TRDP—TRICARE Retiree Dental Plan
