BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 21-121
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                          14 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                           TRAINING STATUS AND SORTIE
                                                                  UTILIZATION REPORT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 MOS/MXOOP                                                     Certified by: 56 MXG/CC
                                                                     (Col Geoffrey S. Parkhurst)
Supersedes:   LUKEAFBI 21-101,                                                          Pages: 4
              17 April 2009


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. It establishes procedures
for tracking, reconciling and reporting the aircraft flying hours. The Training Status and Sortie
Utilization Report are used for manpower and flying hour programming, as well as Higher
Headquarters (HHQ) reporting. Accurate data is imperative to forecast future manning
requirements and flying hour allocations. This instruction establishes policies and procedures to
streamline aircraft utilization reporting through efficient coordination of wing operating
agencies, and better use of existing maintenance and operation computer networks. It applies to
all USAF aircraft assigned to the 56th Fighter Wing. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision includes renumbering the publication, change the Office of Primary Responsibility,
and updates minor formatting. Removes all references to Tactical Aircrew Scheduling and
Airspace Management System (TASAMS). Deletes Fighter Squadron (FS) flying time monitor
appointment letters requirements.
 2                                                    LUKEAFBI21-121 14 DECEMBER 2011


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Commanders, maintenance officers, and staff agency OIC/NCOICs will ensure
     compliance with this instruction.
2. FS Flying Time Monitors will:
     2.1. Serve as points of contact (POCs) for flying time reporting for their fighter squadrons
     and notify the aircraft maintenance unit (AMU) debrief on all Integrated Maintenance Data
     Systems (IMDS) errors discovered by the flying time monitor.
     2.2. Compare screen #174, provided by AMU debrief daily, against the operations
     scheduling computer, and Graduate Training Integration Management System (GTIMS)
     aircraft histories file, that has been updated with data taken directly from AFTO Form 781,
     ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document. The FS flying time monitor will notify
     debrief of changes made to AFTO Form 781 after initial IMDS input. All errors will be
     reconciled with AMU debrief at the end of each fly day.
        2.2.1. The daily process of data entry, review, and reconciliation is important and shall
        be repeated until the daily flying times and deviation explanations are correct.
     2.3. The GTIMS daily sortie report is a tool for daily accounting of sortie/hour utilization.
     The operations officer or designated representative will review the daily sortie report for
     accuracy, resolve conflicts, and update GTIMS as required.
     2.4. Weekend flying activity inputs will be included in the GTIMS daily sortie report created
     on the first fly day of the following week. Deployments that return on the first fly day of the
     week will have their data included on that day’s report.
     2.5. Review on-line IMDS product for the previous week’s flying for errors. They will also
     coordinate with the AMU debrief section to correct IMDS errors. After review, the FS flying
     time monitor will keep the IMDS product on file until that month’s flying data has been
     verified as correct by 56th Operations Support Squadron (OSS) Current Operations Flight.
     Flying time monitors will complete this weekly review before 1600 hours on the second duty
     day of the following week.
     2.6. Review the monthly Aircraft Utilization Report (AUR) for the previous month’s hours
     and sorties for accuracy prior to 0900L the first workday of the current month. After review
     is complete, file the AUR until the next month’s review.
3. 56 OSS Current Operations Flight will:
     3.1. Serve as the wing POC for flying hour reporting.
     3.2. Receive the flying hour reconciliation spreadsheet daily from 56th Maintenance
     Operations Squadron (MOS) Plans, Scheduling, and Documentation (PS&D) Aerospace
     Vehicle Distribution Officer (AVDO.)
     3.3. Forward the reconciliation spreadsheet to the FS flying time monitors to fix in their
     applicable Maintenance Information System (MIS).
     3.4. Reply to 56 MOS PS&D AVDO when corrections have been made from the FS flying
     time monitors.
LUKEAFBI21-121 14 DECEMBER 2011                                                                 3


   3.5. Maintain a file of monthly AURs, will verify monthly flying hour close-out figures with
   56 MOS PS&D. This verification uses the flying squadron’s operations recap figures (based
   on AFTO Form 781 data) retrieved from GTIMS at the end of the month. Prepare the
   monthly close-out slide for approval of the FW/CC by 1200L the first day of the month and
   send to appropriate agency for incorporation into the 1500 production meeting.
   3.6. Submit a monthly flying hour report received from 56 MOS PS&D AVDO to the major
   command (MAJCOM) for the previous month’s flying hours.
4. 56 MOS PS&D Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer (AVDO) will:
   4.1. Ensure the completeness and accuracy of flying hours; however, the MIS flying hour
   data is the official reporting source.
   4.2. Check maintenance MIS reports daily for the previous day’s flying hours to ensure the
   data is correct, and coordinate any necessary changes between the 56 OSS Current
   Operations Flight and debrief personnel.
   4.3. Submit a monthly flying hour report to the 56 OSS Current Operations Flight for the
   previous month’s flying hours.
      4.3.1. The monthly flying hour report will only include those hours that were reported
      and reconciled in the MIS as of 2400 on the 4th calendar day of the following month.
      Any hours or changes reported after that will be included as late time in the following
      months report.
5. AMU Debrief will:
   5.1. Reconcile with FS flying time monitor daily to ensure flying hours and sorties match.
      5.1.1. Print screen #174 after all debriefs have been input into the MIS, add up the flying
      hours and sorties and fax the screen #174 to the FS flying time monitor to make sure they
      match.
   5.2. Receive the flying hour reconciliation spreadsheet daily from 56 MOS PS&D AVDO, if
   errors are found. Identify and correct errors before the next duty day.




                                            KURT F. NEUBAUER
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 4                                                 LUKEAFBI21-121 14 DECEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting, 9 April 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFTO Form 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Unit
AUR—Aircraft Utilization Report
AVDO—Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer
GTIMS—Graduate Training Integration Management System
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
MIS—Maintenance Information System
MOS—Maintenance Operations Squadron
PS&D—Plans, Scheduling, and Documentation
TASAMS—Tactical Aircrew Scheduling and Airspace Management System
