BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 21-106
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                  17 APRIL 2009
                                                                   Certified Current, 10 July 2014
                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                MAINTENANCE OF DISPLAY AIRCRAFT AT
                                                                          LUKE AFB

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 56 MOS/MXOOP                                                       Certified by: 56 MXG/CC
                                                                       (Col Geoffrey S. Parkhurst)
                                                                                         Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 84-1, Historical Information,
Property, and Art. This instruction provides for the regular maintenance and upkeep of all
display aircraft at Luke Air Force Base. It replaces 56 FW OI 21-10, Maintenance of Display
Aircraft at Luke AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

1. Objectives. This instruction provides the guidance necessary to regularly inspect, clean, and
paint all display aircraft. It also provides guidance to ensure that aircraft are painted in proper
configuration to preserve the history of units assigned to Luke AFB, past and present, and to
honor those individuals who made significant contributions to Air Force history.

2. Responsibilities:

2.1. Inspections will be accomplished according to AFI 84-103, U.S. Air Force Heritage
Program. The Air Park Manager or designated representative will perform the quarterly
inspections. Discrepancies will be annotated in the appropriate aircraft forms and corrective
action scheduled through the appropriate 56th Equipment Maintenance Squadron (56 EMS)
repair shop. In the event a discrepancy requires the expertise of a flightline maintenance
technician, the AMU responsible for Transient Alert duty for that month will be tasked. The
individual accomplishing the corrective action will sign off discrepancies.
2                                                          LUKEAFBI21-106          17 APRIL 2009

2.2. The Air Park Manager will coordinate with 56th Contracting Squadron (56 CONS) to
schedule quarterly washes with a contracted civilian agency. Bio-Environmental Engineers will
ensure contractor utilizes soaps that are biodegradable and that no solvents, thinners, or
hazardous chemicals will to be used on the aircraft while they are positioned in the display area.
Washes will be entered into and signed off in the aircraft forms. The aircraft wash inspections
will be signed off by the Airpark Manager or designated representative

2.3. Manpower needed for out of cycle washing of static aircraft for special events will be
coordinated through Maintenance Group supervision.

2.4. The aircraft forms will be signed out from and returned to 56th Maintenance Group
Quality Assurance (56 MXG/MXQ) for inspections, washes, and annotation of
discrepancies/corrective actions.

2.5. Static display aircraft will be painted by either Structural Maintenance Section or a
contracted civilian company. If necessary, the Air Park manager will coordinate with 56 CONS
to contract a civilian company to paint the aircraft. The Airpark Manager and a Structural
Maintenance Technician will supervise and approve the work of the contractor. The Airpark
Manager will ensure the CMI (Color, Markings, and Insignia) waiver has been approved by the
AETC Command Historians office.

2.6. The 56th Civil Engineer Squadron (56 CES) is responsible for maintenance and upkeep of
grounds, pedestals, signs, and cleaning of the copper tubing model of the SPAD XIII aircraft.

2.7. The forms for each aircraft will be maintained by 56 MXG/MXQ (Quality Assurance).

2.8. This program should be part of the unit’s self-inspection program.

3. Lifting and Transporting Display Aircraft:

3.1. The 56 EMS (Transient Alert/Gold Coast Helicopter) will be responsible for the lifting and
transporting of display aircraft. Artificial runway matting will be used on concrete to prevent
cracking.

3.2. The following organizations will be given seven work days notice of lifting and transport
requirements: 56 EMS (Transient Alert/Gold Coast Helicopter), 56th Fighter Wing Public
Affairs (56 FW/PA), 56th Fighter Wing Safety (56 FW/SEG), 56th Security Forces
(56 SFS/SFO), and 56 CES/CEO. In addition to notification of static aircraft movement, a CES
Heavy Repair technician or superintendent will have to be on site at movement time to ensure
cranes are not positioned improperly thus causing damage to sidewalks and pavement.

3.3. 56 SFS/SFO will arrange for traffic control.

3.4. 56 CES/CEO will ensure air park sprinkler system is off for two days prior to aircraft lift.

3.5. Natural obstructions, lack of proper equipment, and/or unsafe conditions could create
problems when moving and lifting the aircraft from their pedestals. It is the responsibility of the
Transient Alert Supervisor to determine if aircraft can be moved.
LUKEAFBI21-106         17 APRIL 2009                                                              3



3.6. Transportation of aircraft will be done on low traffic days. Towing supervisor will ensure
chock and wing walkers are used to ensure proper towing procedures are met.




                                              KURT F. NEUBAUER
                                              Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander

Attachment:
Glossary of References and Supporting Information
4                                                      LUKEAFBI21-106   17 APRIL 2009



                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References

AFPD 84-1, Historical Information, Property, and Art

AFI 84-103, U.S. Air Force Heritage Program

AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
