BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 48-104
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                  3 AUGUST 2012

                                                                              Aerospace Medicine

                                                       ANIMAL DISEASE PREVENTION AND
                                                                            CONTROL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 MDG/SGPV                                                       Certified by: 56 AMDS/CC
                                                                              (Col Neal R. Taylor)
Supersedes:    LUKEAFBI 48-104, 27 April                                                  Pages: 8
               2009


This instruction implements HQ AETC/SGPM email message, dated 06 May 2003. This
instruction establishes policies, responsibilities, and procedures for the possession and control of
animals, and for the protection of the health and safety of personnel and animals being kept on
Luke AFB. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command and to Air National
Guard Units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes were
made to the requirements for Coggins testing in equines, animal control, and restrictions.
1. References. Required publication is AR 40-905/SECNAVINST 6401.1B/AFI 48-131,
Veterinary Health Services. Additional references are listed in the Attachment 1, Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.
2. Definitions. For the purpose of this instruction, the following terms apply:
 2                                                        LUKEAFBI48-104 3 AUGUST 2012


     2.1. Nuisance: An animal that damages private or public property or annoys individuals or
     the community by actions such as prolonged barking, digging in lawns, getting into trash
     containers, etc.
     2.2. Menace: An animal’s behavior or condition which threatens to cause harm to a person’s
     health or body.
     2.3. Control of Animal:    Restraint practices applied to animals to prevent them from
     becoming a nuisance.
     2.4. Companion Animal: Any privately owned animal (POA) maintained on Luke AFB.
     2.5. Zoonosis: An infection or infectious disease transmissible under natural conditions
     from animal to human.
     2.6. Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF): Also referred to as the VTF or Veterinary
     Services; the Army Veterinary Services located on Luke AFB that is responsible for all
     animal health-related matters on the installation.
     2.7. Veterinary Corps Officer (VCO):       A licensed veterinarian serving as the Army
     Veterinary Corps Officer on Luke AFB.
     2.8. Dangerous Animal:
        2.8.1. Any animal involved in an attack on a person or another animal on this
        installation.
        2.8.2. Any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, cause
        injury, or to otherwise threaten the safety of a human being or domestic animal.
        2.8.3. Any animal trained, tormented, badgered, baited, or used for the purpose of
        causing or encouraging said animal to attack human beings or domestic animals.
        2.8.4. Dangerous animal restrictions do not apply to Military Working Dogs.
     2.9. Feral: A domesticated animal that does not have an owner, and that has returned partly
     or wholly to its wild instincts.
3. Policy.
     3.1. The maintenance of household pets by individuals or families residing on Luke AFB is a
     privilege contingent upon compliance with the requirements and conditions prescribed in this
     instruction. The right of personnel on Luke AFB to protect themselves and their property
     from nuisance or menace from animals has precedence over the privilege of pet ownership.
     3.2. Certain preventive measures are necessary in order to reduce the incidence of disease
     among domestic animals and to minimize the exposure of man to zoonotic diseases.
     Recognized effective measures include registration, certain restrictions on ownership and
     maintenance, administration of appropriate immunizations, and performance of specific
     diagnostic tests and treatment for communicable disease conditions.
4. Responsibilities.
     4.1. It is the responsibility of every organizational commander on Luke AFB to ensure
     personnel under their command are in compliance with this instruction.
LUKEAFBI48-104 3 AUGUST 2012                                                                    3


   4.2. All companion animal owners will be responsible for obtaining required immunizations
   prescribed by this instruction. They will obtain any treatment necessary to keep their
   companion animal from becoming a health hazard to the military community.
   4.3. The VTF will hold outpatient clinics to provide immunization and treatment of diseases
   communicable to humans. Veterinary Services will provide prevention, identification, and
   treatment of zoonotic disease conditions in companion animals on Luke AFB. The VTF will
   maintain base registration records of companion animals being maintained on base property.
      4.3.1. The VTF is a functional element of the Army Veterinary Corps and Army Medical
      Department, and will enforce current Veterinary Command policy and guidance in its
      operation. Furthermore, appropriate Air Force policy and procedure—both Appropriated
      and Non-Appropriated—will be followed as directed.
      4.3.2. Current VTF Standard Operating Procedures will be followed in the operation of
      the VTF.
5. Immunization and Registration of Animals.
   5.1. The VCO, as provided for in AR 40-905/SECNAVINST 6401.1B/AFI 48-131, will
   implement a comprehensive Rabies Control Program to prevent the spread of rabies and
   other zoonotic diseases between animals and from animal to man. Costs of veterinary
   services provided for companion animals will be borne by the sponsor.
   5.2. Immunizations required for dogs.
      5.2.1. All dogs over 8 weeks of age shall have been vaccinated within the last 12 months
      against the following: canine distemper, infectious canine hepatitis, parainfluenza, and
      canine parvo virus.
      5.2.2. Rabies immunizations are required for all dogs 12 weeks and older. The first
      rabies vaccination a dog receives needs to be boostered in 12 months. Every subsequent
      rabies vaccination is good for three years (provided an approved three-year rabies
      vaccination is used).
   5.3. Immunizations required for cats.
      5.3.1. All cats over 8 weeks of age shall have been vaccinated within the last 12 months
      against the following: feline panleukopenia, feline rhinotracheitis, feline calicivirus, and
      chlamydia psittaci.
      5.3.2. Rabies immunizations are required for all cats 12 weeks and older. The first rabies
      vaccination a cat receives needs to be boostered in 12 months. Every subsequent rabies
      vaccination is good for either one or three years (provided an approved three-year rabies
      vaccination is used), depending on the type of vaccine administered.
   5.4. Immunizations required for ferrets.
      5.4.1. All ferrets over the age of 8 weeks of age shall have been vaccinated within the
      last 12 months against the following: distemper. Note the ferret distemper vaccination is
      not the same as canine distemper vaccination.
4                                                         LUKEAFBI48-104 3 AUGUST 2012


       5.4.2. Rabies immunizations are required for all ferrets 12 weeks and older. There are a
       limited number of rabies vaccinations approved for use in ferrets. All rabies vaccinations
       given in ferrets are licensed for only one year, and must be boostered every 12 months.
    5.5. Registration of companion animals maintained on base.
       5.5.1. All companion animal owners will register their animals at the VTF within ten
       (10) working days of the date they are assigned base housing.
       5.5.2. Registration of newly acquired animals will follow these same guidelines.
       5.5.3. In the event an animal registered at the VTF is transferred from the original owner
       to another owner, and remains on Luke AFB, the new owner must register the animal
       within ten (10) working days of acquisition.
       5.5.4. Owners will notify the VTF when their pets are removed from the base (either
       through change of ownership, death of the animal, etc.).
       5.5.5. Proof of current immunizations, defined in this regulation, must be provided
       before companion animals can be registered with the VTF.
       5.5.6. Registration of companion animals will expire when one or more of the required
       immunizations expire, and will not be renewed until immunizations are current.
    5.6. Required immunization and registration of equines.
       5.6.1. All equines stabled at Windriders’ Saddle Club will be currently immunized
       against the following: Eastern and Western equine encephalomyelitis (EEE and WEE),
       equine influenza, rhinopneumonitis, rabies, tetanus and West Nile Virus.       All
       vaccinations must be current within the previous 12 months.
       5.6.2. A negative Coggins (Equine Infectious Anemia or EIA) test is required within 30
       days before entry into the stables quarantine location. Otherwise, a negative Coggins is
       only required if the equine(s) is taken out for any show/event requiring this, or if
       traveling outside of the state of Arizona.
       5.6.3. All equines stabled at Windriders’ Saddle Club must be treated for intestinal
       parasites at a minimum of every three months (quarterly).
       5.6.4. All equines must be cleared through the Windriders’ Saddle Club before entering
       onto Luke AFB property. This will ensure all safety measures—immunizations,
       dewormers, and negative Coggins test—are up to date.
       5.6.5. A health certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian from the state of origin must
       be provided before equines enter onto Luke AFB.
       5.6.6. All equines that meet the above requirements will be held in a specified quarantine
       pen for a minimum of fourteen (14) days before being released into the general herd.
       This is to assure the horse is not harboring any infectious diseases. The VCO or a
       licensed veterinarian must certify the health of the animal at the end of the quarantine
       period before it can be released.
    5.7. The installation commander may refuse base registration for any companion animal or
    equine and order the animal to be removed from base property at any time. Reasons for
    removal may include (but are not limited to): the animal is declared a health or safety
LUKEAFBI48-104 3 AUGUST 2012                                                                      5


   hazard, the animal is not up to date on its vaccinations, or the animal is not properly cared for
   by the owner.
6. Control of Animals.
   6.1. Owners are required to control their animals at all times to prevent them from being a
   nuisance or menace to other persons, animals, or property.
   6.2. Family housing residents must follow Privatized Housing Community Management
   Resident Guide in addition to this regulation.
   6.3. All dogs must be kept on a leash when outdoors. Animals kept in a fenced area from
   which they cannot escape do not need to be kept on a leash. “Voice control” is not
   considered an adequate form of restraint.
   6.4. All companion animal feces must be cleaned up immediately when the animal defecates
   outside of the owner’s assigned quarters/yard area. Pet owners living on base are required to
   clean up their animal’s waste from their yard as often as necessary to prevent unsanitary
   conditions, but no less than daily. Pets are not permitted to excrete on playgrounds or lawns
   of other occupants.
   6.5. Pets must be housed indoors or secured in outside quarters within a fenced area or with
   a chain not less than six feet in length (if a fence jumper). They will not be secured to trees
   or shrubbery. Having a companion animal tied in an unfenced yard is not allowed.
   6.6. Outdoor housing for companion animals will be of the portable type and will be
   removed when the quarters are cleared. All outdoor housing is subject to Privatized Housing
   approval.
   6.7. Compliance with all sanitary regulations and the necessary maintenance of the area
   where the animal is kept is mandatory and the direct responsibility of the owner. Personnel
   owning animals on this installation are responsible for all damages to government property
   caused by their pets.
   6.8. Companion animals are not allowed in government office buildings, the commissary,
   base exchange facilities, base clubs, swimming pools, the hospital, or in dormitories. Service
   dogs and Military Working Dogs are exempt from these restrictions.
   6.9. Pet owners must abide by the quarantine procedures required by AR 40-
   905/SECNAVINST 6401.1B/AFI 48-131 and directives by Veterinary Services and Military
   Public Health in the event of animal bite incidents and/or disease outbreak on Luke AFB.
   6.10. Disposal of deceased pets is the responsibility of the owner. The VTF holds a contract
   with an animal cremation service which may be utilized for a nominal fee.
      6.10.1. Any animal dying of suspicious or unexplained causes, or suspected of harboring
      a zoonotic disease, may be subject to a necropsy at the VTF.
7. Disease Control and Animal Limitations.
   7.1. Pet owners will comply with federal, state, and county laws relating to the humane
   treatment of animals.
      7.1.1. Any suspected cases of animal abuse or neglect in privatized housing should be
      reported to the Privatized Housing Office immediately.
 6                                                         LUKEAFBI48-104 3 AUGUST 2012


        7.1.2. Veterinary Services will investigate matters of animal abuse or neglect on the
        recommendation of the installation commander or representative thereof.
     7.2. Family housing residents must follow Privatized Housing Community Management
     Resident Guide.
        7.2.1. Companion animals will be limited to two (2) walking pets per household, and
        may only be housed in permanent family quarters. Waivers of this limitation requires
        Privatized Housing Community Management Office written approval.
     7.3. Companion animals (to include cats) will not be allowed to run loose on base at any
     time. When outside of the owner’s home, the companion animal must be either on a leash or
     confined in a secure, fenced yard.
        7.3.1. Any animal found at-large will be picked up and impounded with Maricopa
        County Rabies Animal Control (MCRAC). Retrieval of impounded animals is the
        owner’s responsibility. Fees assessed (if any) will be the sole responsibility of the owner.
        7.3.2. An owner who has their animal picked up three or more times while on Luke AFB
        will lose their privilege of owning or otherwise keeping animals as pets on Luke AFB.
     7.4. Companion animals left unattended in a secured, fenced rear yard must be provided
     ample supply of fresh water and a constant shaded area for protection from the sun.
     7.5. Companion animals left unattended in secured fenced yards must not be allowed to
     become a nuisance due to excessive barking.
     7.6. Companion animals that have bitten humans will be quarantined in accordance with
     state and county laws. Any companion animal involved in more than one bite may be
     declared a nuisance.
        7.6.1. The installation commander has the authority to remove any animal from Luke
        AFB at his/her discretion at any time.
     7.7. Sick animals will be treated at the owner’s expense. Zoonoses will be reported to
     Military Public Health or the Veterinary Treatment Facility.
     7.8. Stray animals located within privatized family housing will be reported to the Privatized
     Housing Office. For all other portions of the base, Security Forces will only respond to
     actively aggressive animals.
8. Restrictions.
     8.1. Non-domestic species of animals will not be maintained in Privatized Family Housing
     (to include, but not limited to: skunks, wolves or wolf-hybrids, raccoons, poisonous snakes,
     insects, etc).
     8.2. Domestic species of animals, generally used for food production, will not be maintained
     in Privatized Family Housing. These include chickens, sheep, goats, etc.
LUKEAFBI48-104 3 AUGUST 2012                                                                7


  8.3. Dangerous animals are prohibited from any base housing at Luke AFB. An animal does
  not have to cause injury to be declared dangerous. The following breeds are not permitted at
  Luke AFB in Privatized Family Housing: Akita, Chow, Doberman, Pit Bull, Rottweiler,
  American Staffordshire Terriers, English Staffordshire Bull Terriers, wolf hybrids, or any
  other breed with dominant traits geared toward aggression.
  8.4. Any animal used for breeding purposes is prohibited from base housing at Luke AFB.




                                          JERRY D. HARRIS, JR.
                                          Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                                       LUKEAFBI48-104 3 AUGUST 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations (Animal and Animal Products), 1 January 2011
Title 40, Sec 291, US Code (Admission of Guide Dogs Accompanied by Blind Masters), 6
January 1997
2007 Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention and Control, National Association of State
Public Health Veterinarians
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
EIA—Equine Infectious Anemia
MCRAC—Maricopa County Rabies Animal Control
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
VCO—Veterinary Corps Officer
VTF—Veterinary Treatment Facility
