Administrative Changes to LUKEAFBI 21-1070, Performance Plan

OPR: 56 AMX/AMXS

References throughout to “Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP)” are hereby changed to “Contracting
Officer Representatives (COR)”.
19 JULY 2012
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 21-1070
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                           1 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                                      PERFORMANCE PLAN


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 5        6 AMX/AMXS                                              Certified by: 56 AMX/CC
Supersedes:   LUKEAFBI 21-1070,                                          (Maj James Upchurch)
              7 December 2008                                                          Pages: 17


This instruction establishes procedures for surveying the aircraft maintenance contract for the
21st Fighter Squadron (FS). It implements the requirements of AFI 21-101, AETC SUP, and
Maintenance Management – Maintenance Contract Surveillance. The surveillance procedures
outlined in this operating instruction (OI) are also based on guidance contained in AFI 63-124
and the requirements and specifications of the Performance Work Statement (PWS). This
instruction applies to the 56th Fighter Wing and 56th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (56
AMXS) Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP) section and is designed to provide the QAP an
effective and systematic surveillance method for fairly evaluating the contractor's performance.
This publication does not apply to all Air Force, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and to
Air National Guard (ANG) Units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Revisions include renaming the title from Performance Management Assessment Plan (PMAP)
to Performance Plan (PP). Added Glossary of References and Supporting Information and
changed Attachment 3, QAP Technical Inspections (TI) Categories. Deleted statement under
paragraph 10.3. Operational Request Checks: QAP will ensure contractor enters request checks
in Maintenance Information System (MIS). Updated paragraph 10.3.3., removing Award Fee
compilations. Deleted Notes under the Technical Inspection Requirements.
 2                                                                          LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011



Section A.—Responsibilities and Training                                                                                                  2
        1.     General Information: ..............................................................................................        2
        2.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................    3
        3.     QAP Training: ........................................................................................................     4

Section B.—Performance Assessment Planning & Preparation                                                                                  5
        4.     Surveillance Schedule: ...........................................................................................         5
        5.     Technical Inspections (TI): ....................................................................................           6
        6.     Observation Area Inspections: ...............................................................................              7
        7.     Performance Assessment Results Analysis: ..........................................................                        9
        8.     Other surveillance methods: ..................................................................................            10

Section C.—Performance Assessment Reporting                                                                                              10
        9.     Documentation of Safety Violations: .....................................................................                 10
        10.    Documenting Technical Surveillance: ...................................................................                   10
        11.    Performance Assessment Follow-up (Trend Analysis): ........................................                               12
        12.    Cost Reimbursable Items: ......................................................................................           12
        13.    Contractor Proposals: .............................................................................................       12
        14.    Value Engineering Proposals: ................................................................................             12
        15.    Contractor Support of Mishap Investigations: .......................................................                      13
        16.    Prescribed Forms: ..................................................................................................      13
        17.    Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................      13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           14

Attachment 2—OBSERVATION WORK AREA REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          15

Attachment 3—QAP TECHNICAL INSPECTIONS (TI) CATEGORIES                                                                                   16


Section A.—Responsibilities and Training

1. General Information: The Chief QAP directs the activities of the QAP section and assumes
duties as stated in AFI21-101, AETC SUP. The Functional Commander (FC) and Chief QAP
are responsible for the overall surveillance of the contract and keeping the Contracting Officer
(CO) informed of contract compliance/noncompliance, quality of maintenance, significant
negative trends and technical order compliance.
     1.1. The goal of the QAP section is to ensure surveillance and measurement of contractor
     services are performed in a manner that ensures maximum contribution by the QAP,
LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                3


   successful contract performance and mission accomplishment. The QAP contribution is
   comprised of professional, non-adversarial relationships, which include positive and open
   communications with the CO, FC, and the Contractor. The foundation of this relationship is
   built upon objective, fair and consistent QAP evaluations of contractor performance against
   contract requirements, the ability to discuss inspection results, trends and items of mutual
   interest with the contract. The QAP uses the methods in this OI to achieve this goal.
   1.2. The QAP function is responsible for a wide range of surveillance requirements that
   effectively measure and evaluate the contractor’s performance. Additionally, this OI is based
   on the premise that the contractor, not the government, is responsible for management and
   Quality Control (QC)/Quality Assurance (QA) actions to meet the terms of the contract.
   1.3. QAPs will meet periodically to exchange information and discuss items of importance.
   Topics of discussion will include, but are not limited to, information from staff meetings,
   safety, noted weak/problem areas, inspector problems and any reported customer complaints.
   1.4. Revisions to this OI are the joint responsibility of the Chief QAP, FC and the CO.
   Reassignment of observation area inspection primary and alternate QAP names and updating
   guide review dates do not constitute a revision to this OI.
   1.5. QAPs are the "eyes and ears" of the FC and CO relative to actual contract performance.
   They, however, are not a quality control function. QAPs WILL NOT DIRECT WORK OR
   THE REACCOMPLISHMENT OF WORK, CHANGE THE CONTRACT, OR
   FORMALLY INTERPRET THE CONTRACT. The CO resolves these types of issues.
   1.6. Individual areas of responsibility are identified in this OI, appointment letters and/or
   designated QAP computer drive.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. Functional Commander: AFI 21-101, para. 18.5.1 -18.5.15 details FC responsibilities.
   The FC delegates duties in general, to the Chief QAP except for those that, inherently, cannot
   be delegated.
   2.2. Chief QAP: The Chief QAP or, in his absence, the QAP Chief Inspector, will ensure
   surveillance of contract performance and report noncompliance or abnormalities to the FC
   and the CO. The Chief QAP reviews, evaluates and makes comments and recommendations
   to the CO for contractor proposals. This includes proposals regarding contractor review of
   new or revised DOD, Air Force (AF), MAJCOM and local directives. AFI21-101, para,
   18.6.1.17 details additional Chief QAP responsibilities. Contractor proposals or policy
   letters will be sent to Chief QAP. Chief QAP will review and if viable, will forward to CO
   for approval. (see section 13)
   2.3. QAP Chief Inspector: Serves as Chief QAP in the Chief QAP’s absence and is directly
   responsible to Chief QAP. In addition, the Chief Inspector will:
       2.3.1. Ensures implementation of AFI21-101, AETC SUP.
       2.3.2. Reports noncompliance or abnormalities to the Chief QAP.
       2.3.3. Focuses QAP efforts on the contractor’s QC Program and Training Plan. The
       QAP Chief Inspector emphasizes consistent surveillance and documentation methods
       while accomplishing Technical Inspections (TI) and Observation Guides (OG). The QAP
 4                                                     LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011


        chief inspector will be responsible for the implementation of the Performance Plan (PP)
        by all QAPs.
        2.3.4. Coordinates a monthly-computerized schedule based on this OI's requirements.
        The number of inspections will be based on possessed aircraft or the number of
        historically scheduled inspections. The specific guidance listed in the notes to AFI21-
        101, AETC SUP, Table A17.1 will be followed to ensure the correct numbers of
        inspections are scheduled each month.
        2.3.5. Evaluates QAP qualifications and identifies individuals for specialty and cross-
        utilization training.
        2.3.6. Performs evaluations of QAP training, ensuring a well-trained workforce able to
        meet mission requirements.
        2.3.7. Formulate a monthly summary of QAP surveillance activities. Coordinate with
        the Chief QAP for final review/approval and distribute IAW AFI21-101, AETC SUP.
     2.4. QAP Responsibilities: General QAP responsibilities are detailed in AFI21-101, 18.7.1.1
     – 18.7.1.13. In addition QAPs will:
        2.4.1. Maintain technical competency in their functional areas and maintain proficiency
        in contract surveillance techniques.
        2.4.2. Assist in authoring Observation Area Inspection Guides.
        2.4.3. Accomplish contract surveillance by evaluating and documenting contractor
        performance and inform the Chief QAP, FC and CO when contractor performance does
        not meet standards.
        2.4.4. Perform evaluation of statistical information provided by the contractor that
        concerns contract standards and coordinate findings with the Chief inspector and Chief
        QAP for final validation.
3. QAP Training: Training will be conducted IAW the QAP training plan and consist of the
mandatory requirements identified in AFI21-101, AETC SUP and requirements locally
determined by the chief inspector.
     3.1. Newly assigned QAPs must complete Phase I and II training prior to performing
     surveillance and being documented as a QAP. QAPs are also trained in areas of
     responsibility and duties outside their normal AFSC.              The AETC QAP Course
     (393AETC0066-002) should be scheduled as soon as possible after assignment but not later
     than 90 calendar days. AF/AETC directives and technical orders will be used to complete
     OJT in areas where the individual QAP lacks extensive knowledge. Newly assigned QAPs
     will study the required directives and use the evaluation guide at least twice (2) before being
     certified in a specific area. This is documented on the Observation Guide tracking sheet and
     the Required Reading List posted on the QAP training board. The more knowledgeable
     QAPs will conduct OJT until the new QAP demonstrates satisfactory knowledge of each
     work area and surveillance techniques. Training will be documented in Training Business
     Area (TBA). The CO provides QAPs with refresher training annually.
LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                  5


Section B.—Performance Assessment Planning & Preparation

4. Surveillance Schedule: Program technical and observation surveillance into the schedule to
meet the minimum inspection requirements established in AFI21-101, AETC SUP and
Attachments 2 & 3 of this instruction.
   4.1. The QAP scheduler will be responsible for development and coordination of a monthly
   Observation Area Inspection Guide schedule in accordance with time lines specified in
   AFI21-101, AETC SUP. After development of the ―preliminary‖ schedule, QAP will input
   the dates for observation area inspections. Alternate QAPs should accompany the primary
   QAP on OG at least twice a year.
   4.2. All changes to the signed monthly surveillance schedule will be forwarded to the CO
   and FC, as they occur. Changes made on the signed monthly schedule will include a brief
   justification and will be coordinated through the Chief Inspector to the CO for approval.
   4.3. When additional special inspections are required during the month to meet requirements
   in AFI21-101, AETC SUP, (such as TCTOs, AETC Special Inspections, or Local Special
   inspections, (first 2%), they will be manually added to the QAP inspection schedule. These
   additions will include a brief justification and will be coordinated through the Chief Inspector
   then forwarded to the CO for coordination/approval. Prior to approval of the monthly
   schedule the Chief QAP shall adjust surveillance activities commensurate with contractor’s
   performance and level of risk to the government should the contractor not perform in an
   acceptable manner. Additional inspections added after the monthly schedule has been signed
   by the FC and CO will be ―As Observed‖ reports with the results not being considered when
   determining if contractor achieved contract standards.
   4.4. Any quarterly Observation Area Guide receiving a consecutive unacceptable rating
   may, at the FC’s or Chief QAP’s discretion, be rescheduled the next month. The rescheduled
   inspection will utilize the complete observation area guide with emphasis on those areas that
   caused the unacceptable rating. Any deficiencies will be documented on Luke AFB Form
   324.
   4.5. A minimum of 10 percent of Technical Inspections (TI) will be Quality Control follow-
   up/over-the-shoulder inspections, IAW AFI21-101, AETC SUP and identified as ―QC
   Evals‖ on the monthly schedule. QC inspections may be performed in conjunction with
   other scheduled inspections but documented independently. The Analysis QAP will review
   monthly technical inspection data to ensure broad areas of quality control inspections are
   surveyed. QC inspections are selected randomly by the QAPs performing scheduled
   inspections. The Chief Inspector will periodically monitor these types of inspections to
   ensure an adequate sample is being performed. The Chief QAP reserves the authority to
   determine the area of concern since inspection emphasis may vary from month to month.
   Results will be published in the monthly Summary of Contractor Services Report.
   4.6. It is essential that QAPs accomplish sufficient in-depth inspections in all areas to
   measure the quality of contractor performance and ensure the contractor provides high
   quality maintenance. Surveillance will be accomplished by using Observation Inspection
   Area Guides, by performing Technical/Support Area Inspections and by reviewing higher
   headquarters reports. QAPs will periodically review QC documentation for trends.
   Compliance with contractor-developed plans and regulations will be part of the surveillance.
 6                                                   LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011


     4.7. Duty Hours: Normal duty hours are from 0630-1630 local. Swing shift will normally
     start at 1500 hrs. Contractor’s Mid shift is normally surveyed twice monthly with the days
     being chosen randomly to preclude predictability. Alternative work schedule is authorized at
     the Chief QAP’s discretion.
     4.8. Technical Order (TO) usage: QAPs must use T.O.s while performing maintenance task
     surveillance. The following guidelines will be used to evaluate the contractor’s usage of
     technical orders while performing surveillance:
        4.8.1. Technical Orders must be at the job site and must be reviewed prior to performing
        a task to ensure all safety, warnings and cautions are adhered to and that no changes have
        been made to the task from the last time it was performed. Exceptions to this policy are
        launch checklists; these checklists must be in the immediate area of the parking/launch
        spot.
     4.9. Surveillance Methods: The four methods of surveillance available to the QAP include
     Customer Complaints, Random Sampling, Periodic Surveillance and 100 Percent Inspection.
     QAPs will evaluate the contract using guidance contained in this OI, AFI21-101, AETC SUP
     and terms contained in the contract.
        4.9.1. Customer Complaints: This method provides customer feedback (complaints)
        using Luke QAP Customer Complaint Record. QAPs validate the complaint against
        contract requirements; valid complaints are routed to the contractor for resolution. These
        forms become a permanent part of the QAP surveillance records. Customer Complaints
        are processed IAW paragraph 8.2 of this instruction.
        4.9.2. Performance Assessment: Periodic Surveillance: This method provides periodic
        evaluation of selected task (services) performed by the contractor. These tasks include
        actual aircraft maintenance task (Technical Inspections) and management of
        organizational work centers (Observation Area Inspection). Minimum task and
        frequency of evaluations are identified in AFI21-101, AETC SUP.
            4.9.2.1. QAPs perform scheduled Technical Inspections monthly at the first available
            opportunity, taking in consideration QAP workload. Chief Inspector is responsible for
            ensuring that all inspections are completed no later than the last day of the month.
            4.9.2.2. Observation Area Inspections Guides are scheduled by date. A long-range
            yearly schedule is built to ensure non-predictability of quarterly/semi-annual
            inspections. Exception: Due to the inability to match schedules and to prevent
            predictability, the QC work center evaluations/walk-through may not be scheduled by
            specific date.
5. Technical Inspections (TI): QAPs will perform Technical Inspections as specified in
AFI21-101, AETC SUP, this OI, PWS and the monthly schedule. Inspection type and
frequencies, to include locally determined inspections, are identified in Attachment 3 of this OI.
QAPs perform TIs on all aircraft, engines and support equipment. Technical Inspections are
limited to inspection work cards or T.O. required for the job.
     5.1. Minor Discrepancy Baselines: An non-conforms rating will be assigned when the
     number of minor discrepancies exceeds the baseline of a like inspection contained in the
     Performance Work Statement (PWS). If no like inspections exist an non-conforms rating
LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                               7


   will be assigned when the number of discrepancies exceeds 3. (NOTE: If the baseline for a
   like inspection is less than 3 the like inspection baseline will apply.)
   5.2. Foreign Object (FO) inspections are perform as technical inspections on aircraft,
   engines, equipment and areas per Attachment 3 of this OI.
       5.2.1. FO inspections will be performed       within 30 minutes after contractor has
       performed their FO walk.
       5.2.2. FO inspections will also be performed in the aircraft parking/maintenance areas
       during performance of the regular assigned OG.
       5.2.3. FO within 50 feet of an aircraft flight line parking or engine operating area or
       within 10 feet of an aircraft or engine in a maintenance area (i.e., hangars, phase dock,
       wash rack, etc.) is considered a major discrepancy per AFI21-101, AETC SUP. Major
       FO is any hard object; i.e., screw, wire, washer, cotter key, glass, etc. Large soft FO
       (wood, plastic, or rubber) capable of causing damage should also be considered Major
       FO. All other soft items will be considered a minor discrepancy
   5.3. Contractor’s Training Program: The QAP will perform Technical Inspections to
   effectively monitor compliance with the contractor's training plan to ensure that training
   provided meets applicable qualification and training standards. QAPs will place special
   emphasis on the adequacy of the training provided and rate performance in accordance with
   AFI21-101, AETC SUP.
       5.3.1. Surveillance will include a random monthly over-the-shoulder observance of task
       qualification and certification training, to include training associated with special
       certification tasks and a random monthly over-the-shoulder observance of recurring
       maintenance training requirements. In addition to actually observing the training as it
       takes place, the surveillance will include a review of training documentation, individual
       training records and plans of instruction, if applicable.
   5.4. Weapons ―live‖ munitions loading TIs will be conducted with the technical assistance of
   a 56th Weapons Standardization Crew. All evaluation documentation will be verified and
   document by QAP representative.
6. Observation Area Inspections: To ensure complete and comprehensive surveillance, each
area is covered by an Observation Guide and a General Guide. Observation guides will be
maintained on the designated QAP computer drive and will be reviewed/updated semi-annually
by the QAPs. Areas of responsibility for each Observation Guide will be assigned/appointed by
letter, approved by the Chief QAP. Changes in appointment letter do not constitute a change to
the PP.
   6.1. Changes to Observation Guides: Required updates will be accomplished as needed.
   Sources of material for changes will be current directives, The Inspector General (TIG)
   Briefs, noted weak/problem areas, incoming correspondence, IG reports, etc. The Chief
   QAP will approve all changes to observation guides.
   6.2. General Guide: The general guide contains the minimum requirements listed in AFI21-
   101, AETC SUP and will include requirements to regularly, yet randomly, sample tool and
   equipment management, FO prevention, housekeeping to include flight line, hangar and
   maintenance facilities, sample supply procedures, T.O. maintenance, AFTO forms
8                                                    LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011


    documentation, Maintenance Information System (MIS), conservation, fire prevention,
    environmental protection, Security and aircraft cleanliness.
    6.3. Shop and Support Areas: To ensure a complete and comprehensive surveillance
    program, each area is covered by a specific observation guide as identified in AFI21-101,
    AETC SUP and the local guides identified in Attachment 2 of this OI. Surveillance will be
    accomplished utilizing the appropriate evaluation guide in conjunction with the general
    observation guide.
       6.3.1. A minimum of one work center evaluation will be accomplished behind QC each
       month. The chief inspector will coordinate with QC to obtain information on planned
       QC Area Walk through/Observation Area Inspections and assign a QAP to perform the
       QC Eval as appropriate. The contractors QC guide, the appropriate QAP OG and the
       QAP General Guide will be used in the evaluation. QAP baselines will apply.
    6.4. Aircraft appearance/cleanliness: During applicable observation area inspections a
    random sample of aircraft will be inspected for appearance/cleanliness in accordance with
    PWS. All write-ups will be grouped into one minor write-up on the Observation Guide.
    6.5. Tool control inspections: QAPs will accomplish tool control inspections in conjunction
    with applicable Observation Guides. The QAP will inspect a sampling of dispatchable
    toolboxes and non-dispatchable toolboxes, to survey tool control requirements listed in AFIs,
    AETCIs and contractor regulations. As a minimum, inspections will consist of the
    Composite Tool Kit (CTK) inventory process, lost/missing tools, FO and overage of tools,
    etched tools, shadowed tools, special tools storage and calibration.
    6.6. Local evaluation guides: In addition to mandatory observation guides, locally
    determined guides may be developed IAW AFI21-101, AETC SUP. These guides are
    identified by alpha characters.
       6.6.1. Weekend duty surveillance may be conducted any time the contractor performs
       services; Chief QAP will perform weekend duty. The observation guide will be
       administered once each month by the Chief QAP. NOTE: Chief QAP will perform as a
       minimum one-security check of flight line and hangar areas.
       6.6.2. Government-Furnished Property Surveillance: In order to comply with AFI21-101,
       AETCSUP and the PWS, the QAPs will:
           6.6.2.1. Monitor the current listing (master) of all government-furnished equipment.
           Ensure inventories are updated throughout the contract period. QAPs will validate
           monthly updates from the contractor and maintain validation sheets. The QAP will
           also provide the results of validation to the CO.
           6.6.2.2. Regularly inspect the contractor for signs of waste, abuse, or poor supply
           discipline by random sample of supply management aids; i.e., D04, M-30, D23, D18,
           etc. As a minimum, these supply products will be surveyed during scheduled
           Observation Guides.
           6.6.2.3. Review contractor requests for government property to verify and ensure a
           genuine requirement exists prior to concurring with the request. Ensure items are
           properly coded on the master Government Inventory. ―A checklist may be used as a
           tool for QAP evaluators to insure Government Furnished Equipment (Support
LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    9


           Equipment on the CA/CRL, Ready resale items, Furniture and Computer assets) are
           on hand. QAP may perform partial or complete inventories throughout the year at
           Random intervals.‖
               6.6.2.3.1. Be responsible for inspecting the area submitting the requirement and
               be responsible for the verification. If the primary QAP is not available, the
               alternate will do the verification. In the event both the primary and alternate are
               not available, the chief inspector will delegate the task. Once the items are
               received and added to the master listing, the QAP will validate receipt.
7. Performance Assessment Results Analysis: Major and Minor Discrepancies: Always refer
to AFI21-101, AETC SUP and this OI to ensure consistency when determining major/minor
discrepancies. The QAP will use sound judgment and experience when determining
classification of discrepancies. As a minimum, consider the following as possible major
discrepancies if they fit the criteria listed in Para 10.1:
      Missing tool/unreadable etching/un-etched tool.
      Unserviceable tools (only if replacement is required to preclude potential FO or if the
       quantities reflect mismanagement of the CTK program).
      Missing/un-etched/uncontrolled chits.
      Unattended tools – no oversight by anyone in the area.
      Uncontrolled/un-etched/unmarked Personal Protection Equipment (PPE).
      Uncontrolled rags including bird’s-eye cloth, canopy cloth or any other material used as a
       rag.
      Master contents listing not available for CTK.
      Master contents listing do not match contents of CTK.
      Potential FW&A.
    7.1. While performing Technical Inspections, FO discrepancies are defined as any
    object/extraneous matter (hard or soft), which has the potential to damage or interfere with
    operation of equipment. NOTE: As a general rule, FO found in toolboxes or in support
    equipment is not considered a major discrepancy.
       7.1.1. As a rule, the discovery of FO in an aircraft will always result in an unacceptable
       rating if the FO is near/has the potential to migrate to control rods, cables, actuators,
       hinges and any other operating mechanism or the FO is conductive and has the potential
       to migrate into electrical/electronic components.
NOTE: The above criteria are not all encompassing; therefore, the inspector should take into
account the characteristics of the affected area and the type of aircraft before making a rating
decision.
    7.2. Evaluating Training: In addition to the rating criteria listed in AFI21-101, AETC SUP,
    discovery of the following conditions while performing Training Technical Inspections and
    Observation Guides will be categorized as a major discrepancy; failure of the trainer to
    identify and explain critical elements of a task being taught; failure of trainer to properly
    document aircraft and equipment forms; failure of the trainer to practice/demonstrate proper
    FO control procedures; failure of the trainer to use proper Technical Data; maintenance
    instructor has not received a QC over the shoulder evaluation on at least one task of the
    course being taught; and test compromise.
 10                                                  LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011


8. Other surveillance methods: In addition to Technical and Observation Area Inspections the
QAP uses the following:
   8.1. "As Observed" deficiencies will be documented on Luke AFB Form 324. These reports
   will be non-rated and discrepancies will not be categorized as major/minor. "As observed"
   inspections are unscheduled inspections and or observations, they occur when discrepancies
   or deficiencies are observed or discovered that are not directly associated with a scheduled
   inspection, technical or observation area.
   8.2. Customer Complaint: Inputs for the aircraft maintenance contract will be registered on
   Luke AFB Form 326, Customer Complaint Record (CCR). Pre-filled CCRs will be placed in
   pilot operations areas to expedite and enhance pilot feedback. The Chief QAP or Chief
   Inspector will assign a QAP to validate the customer complaint and will ensure the applicable
   technical order and/or contract reference is properly annotated. The QAP will validate the
   actual occurrence and/or the results of the investigation in the validation block. QAPs will
   sign their name, grade/rank and the date/time the contractor was informed of the complaint in
   the validation block. Give the completed form to the Chief Inspector. The package will be
   suspense and sent to the contractor for action. The Chief QAP will consider the actions taken
   by the contractor and if the response is expected to solve the customer’s complaint, document
   concurrence in the actions-taken-by contractor block, sign and print duty title in the last
   block. Forward finalized copies as follows: copy one to complainant, copy two for QAP
   files, copy three to the contractor and copy four to the CO. If the action fails to address the
   problem or seems inadequate, the Chief QAP will contact the CO for further actions.
   8.3. Document File Inspections: QAPs will evaluate aircraft and engine historical
   documents to include MIS. Always refer to AFI21-101, 18.11.5 – 18.11.5.1 to ensure
   consistency when determining major/minor discrepancies.
   8.4. Reports and data reviews: QAP will review the contractor's reports and maintenance
   data for accuracy and adverse trends, monitor contractor performance and review debrief
   data. Chief QAP or QAP Chief Inspector should attend the Wing or Maintenance Group
   maintenance meeting.

Section C.—Performance Assessment Reporting

9. Documentation of Safety Violations: QAP will only document violations of Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) or Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
(AFOSH) standards that clearly present a potential to damage or injury to government resources.
These violations can be documented as part of the inspection being performed, or if appropriate,
"As Observed". The documentation should clearly indicate the potential to damage government
resources. QAPs do not document violations of OSHA or AFOSH standards that do not present
the potential to damage/injure government resources; these violations will be reported via email
to the CO with CC to the Chief QAP.
10. Documenting Technical Surveillance: Luke AFB Form 324 will be generated for both QC
and performing work center Technical Inspections. QC over-the-shoulder or QC after-the-fact,
inspections will be accomplished with other scheduled inspections where practical. Both
inspections will be documented on separate Luke AFB Form 324 and will be entered in the QAP
LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                               11


computer database separately. Contract references will be entered in all reports. Specific
references for T.O., AFIs, AETCIs, etc., will be entered for each discrepancy cited.
   10.1. Discrepancies discovered during Technical/Observation area inspections will be
   documented on Luke AFB Form 324 with the date the discrepancy(s) was/were discovered.
   Additionally, discrepancies discovered during Technical inspections will be documented on
   the aircraft AFTO Form 781A. At a minimum, repeat discrepancies from Observation area
   Inspections should be identified and annotated on the Luke AFB Form 324. When aircraft
   forms are documented, the QAP will ensure the status-of-the-day block is updated and ask
   the senior, lead man, or supervisor to review the forms and ensure input into MIS is
   accomplished.
   10.2. QAP Report Review: The Chief QAP will review Luke AFB Form 324 daily and brief
   discrepancies of a serious nature to all QAPs. All Luke AFB Form 324s will be routed to the
   contractor for corrective action (5-duty day suspense).
      10.2.1. Only route the failed Luke AFB Form 324 reports to the Functional Commander
      and the Contracting Officer.
      10.2.2. Non-conforms Contractor Corrective Actions: The Chief QAP will coordinate
      with contractor management and discuss reasons for QAP Non-conforms. The contractor
      will be encouraged to reconsider, take appropriate corrective actions and resubmit their
      response. In the event the contractor refuses to take action, the report will be documented
      with the QAP reasons for Non-conforms and the report coordinated with the CO.
   10.3. Operational Request Checks: Items may include extensive maintenance or dynamic
   checks, or may entail fine measurement of allowable tolerances. If QAP notices a potential
   discrepancy, but cannot determine if it is allowable or within tolerances, a Red Dash write-up
   will be entered in the equipment forms for a request check.
      10.3.1. If the result of an operational request check will affect the categorization of a
      Luke AFB Form 324 report (Conforms or Non-conforms for example), the first major
      discrepancy or an additional minor discrepancy over the baseline), the Luke AFB Form
      324 report will be left open pending the results of the request check. Normally the Luke
      AFB Form 324 will not be held open longer than close of business (COB) the next duty
      day. The Chief QAP or Chief inspector will be informed immediately of an open Luke
      AFB Form 324. Do not have the contractor sign the Luke AFB Form 324 until the report
      is categorized, but QAPs will enter all other discrepancies into the applicable equipment
      forms immediately.
      10.3.2. Normally, the QAP discovering the discrepancy will follow up on all operational
      request checks. This may be as simple as reviewing the equipment forms, but the QAP
      should make a determined effort to observe the maintenance evaluation of the
      discrepancy when practical. In no case, however, will the contractor’s production effort
      be delayed by a QAP in an effort to observe a maintenance action without prior approval
      of the CO.
      10.3.3. The Chief QAP/ Chief inspector will inform the CO if an operational request
      check has not been accomplished by COB the next day. If contractor delays will affect
      close out for formulation of monthly reports, with consent of the CO, the report will be
      finalized, to include contractor signature, the operational request check item will be
 12                                                   LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011


       considered a minor discrepancy, rated accordingly and entered into the QAP data base.
       Upon completion of the operational request check, the Luke AFB Form 324 and QAP
       data will be adjusted as necessary.
11. Performance Assessment Follow-up (Trend Analysis): Statistical charts on pass/fail data
for current year QAP Observation Guide rates and Technical Inspection rates will be maintained
on the designated QAP computer drive and this data will be monitored. Failure of the same
Observation Guide or same Technical Inspection for two consecutive inspection periods will
require an initial evaluation by the QAP to determine trends or common items. The Chief QAP
will coordinate with the primary QAP assigned the specific work area Observation Guide or a
QAP delegated by the Chief Inspector. The QAP will coordinate and assess for obvious
contributing factors such as newly assigned personnel, training, manning, parts availability and
mission changes. The specific area or designated QAP will report the results of their assessment,
with any recommendations to the Chief QAP prior to completion of the next inspection period.
If the assessment indicates serious contractor performance problems as determined by the Chief
QAP, a Luke AFB Form 325, Contractor Discrepancy Report (CDR), may be used/routed to the
contractor through the FC to the CO for further action. If satisfactory performance is still not
achieved or a more serious condition exists it may warrant the issue of a Letter of Concern
(LOC). Submission of CDR and LOCs are not limited to support of serious trend analysis. They
may be used as applicable, to support corrective actions to serious incidents that affect safety of
operations, mission degradation and at any time Non-conforms practices do not meet contract
standards.
   11.1. The Chief QAP and CO will evaluate the contractor’s response for conformability of
   corrective action and reasonableness of preventive action.
   11.2. Performance Assessment Report Closure: The Chief QAP and QAP evaluators review
   failed Evaluation Reports, L-3 Vertex Aerospace monthly Quality Summary, and
   56th Maintenance Group Monthly Maintenance Analysis to identify trends and Non-
   conforms performance. QAP will generate a Summary of Contractor’s Services Monthly
   Report, forwarded to the FC and CO for signature, therefore notifying them that all
   contractual obligations have been satisfied.
12. Cost Reimbursable Items: The Chief QAP will appoint a QAP to conduct appropriate
research and validation for all contractor claims/vouchers and travel expenses. The QAP will
ensure the expenses are valid and in accordance with the contract and current Joint Travel
Regulations, the contract and applicable regulatory guidance prior to generation of a Wide Area
Work Flow Form.
13. Contractor Proposals: The QAP will evaluate all contractor proposals affecting their
assigned area. When required, the responsible QAP will formulate a "Government Estimate" for
contractor proposal comparison/evaluation. QAP Government Estimates/evaluations will be
documented and reviewed by the Chief QAP prior to being forwarded to the CO.
14. Value Engineering Proposals: Proposals are designed to evaluate contractor improvement
initiatives that pertain to AF directives or policies. The FC will ensure that the contractor
submitted value engineering change proposals to be evaluated by Chief QAP in accordance with
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and make recommendations for acceptance or non-
acceptance to the CO, who has the final authority.
LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                           13


15. Contractor Support of Mishap Investigations: The QAP will monitor and evaluate the
contractor’s compliance with the PWS, AFI 91-204, local requirements, contractor OI’s and
checklist during mishap investigations. Emphasis will be placed on actions taken during the
initial phase of securing aircraft/equipment data. Discrepancies will be recorded on Luke AFB
Form 324 as an ASOB. Contractor procedures are evaluated by the Wing EET Team during
exercises.

16. Prescribed Forms:

LUKEAFB Form 323, QAP Investigation Worksheet
LUKEAFB Form 324, Routing and Review of QAP Reports
LUKEAFB Form 325, Contract Discrepancy Report
LUKEAFB Form 326, Customer Complaint Record

17. Adopted Forms:

AETC Form 714, Trainer Development Work Order Register
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document
DD250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report




                                          JERRY D. HARRIS, JR.
                                          Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
 14                                               LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, AETC Supplement, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 21 October
2010
AFI 63-124, Performance-Based Services Acquisition (PBSA), 1 August 2005
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
ANG— Air National Guard
CO— Contracting Officer
CTK— Composite Tool Kit
CCR— Customer Complaint Record
CDR— Contractor Discrepancy Report
FAR— Federal Acquisition Regulation
FC— Functional Commander
FO— Foreign Object
FS— Fighter Squadron
MIS— Maintenance Information System
OI— operating instruction
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA— Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PMAP— Performance Management Assessment Plan
PP— Performance Plan
PWS— Performance Work Statement
QA— Quality Assurance
QAP— Quality Assurance Personnel
TI— Technical Inspections
TO— Technical Order
LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                 15


                                      Attachment 2
                  OBSERVATION WORK AREA REQUIREMENTS

                          WORK AREAS                           FREQUENCY   BASE
                                                                           LINE
       General Guide                                              N/A       N/A
  3    Plans and Scheduling                                        M         6
  4    Quality Control                                             Q         6
  5    Documentation                                               M         6
  6    Training Management                                         Q         6
 17    Engine Management                                           M         6
 35    Aircraft Flight Line
35.1   Aircraft Maintenance (Includes Maintenance)                Q         6
35.2   Specialist                                                 Q         6
35.3   Weapons                                                    Q         6
 36    Aircraft Unscheduled/Scheduled Maintenance (Phase)         Q         6
 45    Debrief                                                    Q         6
 46    Environmental Plans & Programs (Haz Waste)                 Q         6
 AA    Weekend Security/Aircraft Recovery                         M         4
 AB    Government Property Control and Facilities Management      M         4
 AC    QC Walk Through Evaluation                                 M         6
 AD    Budget Management                                          Q         3
 AE    Maintenance Supply (COSO)                                  M         3
 AF    Maintenance Support                                        M         3
 AG    Supply Warehouse Area
AG.1   Storage and Issue                                          M         6
AG.2   Stock control / Inventory                                  M         6
AG.3   MICAP / Repair Cycle                                       M         6
AG.4   Doc Control / Equipment Management                         M         6
 16                                        LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011


                                Attachment 3
               QAP TECHNICAL INSPECTIONS (TI) CATEGORIES

Aircraft TI               Engine TI
A/C FO inspection         Blade Blend
Active Forms              Bore-scope
AETC Special Insp         Eng Install
AETC Special Insp         Eng AETC Special
Aircraft lube             Eng Doc File Insp
Aircraft TCTO             Eng MIS
Avionics Sys Maint        Eng TCTO
BPO                       Eng (Qual/Cert) Eng Run/blade blend/borescope
Break Sys Maint
CANN Documentation
Doc File Insp
Drag Chute Maint          AGE/Support Equip TI
Elect Sys Maint           AGE/SE FO
End of firing day         CTK
Engine Bay                Industrial Equip
Enviro Sys Maint          Powered AGE
FCF / OCF                 Test Equip
Flight-line FOD walk      TO Spot Inspection
Flt Control/Maint         Vehicle Insp.
Fuel Servicing
Gaseous Servicing
Ground Handling           Observation Guides
Hanger FO
Installed Eng Run         As Observed (N-Rated)
Intake/Exhaust
Launch
Ldg. Gear Maint
Lox Servicing
Mgmt Insp
MIS
Oil / Hyd Servicing
Phase Forms
Phase Housekeeping
Phase Overall
Preflight
Recovery
Throttle Rig
Thru-flight
Training – Recurring
WAI
LUKEAFBI21-1070 1 FEBRUARY 2011   17


Wash/Corrosion
Wpns Loading
Wpns Sys Maint
Wpns TCTO
Xfer/Accept Insp
(Behind QC evaluations)
