BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                               LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 21-102
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                                       23 FEBRUARY 2012
                                                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 9 July 2012

                                                                                                                                Maintenance

                                                                         TOOL AND EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 MXG/MXQI                                                                                           Certified by: 56 MXG/CC
                                                                                                            (Col Deborah J. Liddick)
Supersedes:   LUKEAFBI 21-102, 15 June                                                                                      Pages: 20
              2009


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance and fulfills the AFI 21-
101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management requirement. This supplement provides
policy, additional guidance, and establishes tool and equipment management procedures. It is
applicable to all industrial shops and flight line work places that support on-equipment and off-
equipment maintenance of aircraft equipment (including life support equipment), components, or
munitions within the 56th Fighter Wing (FW). This publication does not apply to Air National
Guard or Air Force Reserve Command units. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change replaced para 6.2.4 with updated instructions. Fixed an error in Attachment
2 (AFE to Aerospace Ground Equipment Flight).          A margin bar indicates newly revised
material.

       1.     Scope: .....................................................................................................................   2
       2.     Composite Tool Kit (CTK) Custodian: ..................................................................                         3
 2                                                                      LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012


        3.      Tool and Equipment Identification: .......................................................................        3
        4.      Designated CTKs and MILs: .................................................................................       5
        5.      Unique/Special Tools and Equipment: ..................................................................            6
        6.      Inspection Documentation: ....................................................................................    7
        7.      Control, Inventory, and Security Procedures: ........................................................             7
        8.      Warranty and Replacement Tool Management Procedures: ..................................                           8
        9.      Locally Manufactured or Developed Tools and Equipment Procedures: ..............                                  9
        10.     Procedures to Ensure Positive Control of Rags: ....................................................               9
        11.     Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE): .........................................................................        10
        12.     Crash Recovery and Hydrazine Response CTKs: ..................................................                   10
        13.     Special Requirements for Explosion Proof Lights, Lamps, and Lanterns Used in
                Class 1 Hazardous Environment: ...........................................................................       10
        14.     Engine blade blend CTKs and Blue dye: ...............................................................            11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                   12

Attachment 2—CTK EID PREFIXES FOR LUKE AIR FORCE BASE                                                                            15

Attachment 3—SAMPLE INSPECTION DOCUMENT                                                                                          17

Attachment 4—SAMPLE MISSING/REMOVED TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT                                                                          18

Attachment 5—SAMPLE HYDRAZINE RESPONSE VEHICLE CTK LOG                                                                           19

Attachment 6—ENGINE BLADE BLEND KIT CONTENTS LISTING (AUTHORIZED)                                                                20


1. Scope:
     1.1. The scope of this OI is the management of tools and equipment used in flight line work
     places and industrial shops that directly support on-equipment or off-equipment maintenance
     of aircraft equipment, components, or munitions. For the purpose of this OI, tools, functions,
     and equipment that meet the above criteria are referred to as “aircraft maintenance.”
        1.1.1. Industrial shops that do not dispatch tools and equipment outside of their
        respective workcenter (i.e., AIS, PMEL, Pod Shop, Wheel & Tire, Hydraulics) must
        maintain accountability on tools/equipment that are used to perform maintenance on
        aircraft parts (per this OI). Shop MILs are required to conduct 100% accountability
        during annual inventories. All other shop items, used for off-equipment testing,
        diagnostics or repair, that are not accounted for using CTKs or IIBs, are required to be
        located in designated storage locations.
     1.2. Common “non- dispatchable” office, building, and recreational tools and equipment, not
     located in Support Section (tool/equipment issue sections), are NOT considered “aircraft
     maintenance” related even when assigned to a unit with an aircraft maintenance function.
     Using this OI to manage these items is optional.
LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                   3


   1.3. Visiting Air Force units and depot teams performing aircraft maintenance will ensure
   strict compliance with AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management,
   Chapter 10. Additionally, all units performing aircraft maintenance must coordinate lost
   tools, dropped objects, and Foreign Object Damage (FOD) with the 56 FW FOD Prevention
   Office in accordance with (IAW) LAFBI 21-107, Preventing Foreign Object Damage.
   Quality Assurance (QA) will brief factory representatives and depot/contract field teams on
   local tool control procedures before allowing them to perform maintenance on aircraft or
   equipment.
   1.4. Exceptions to this policy or clarifications may be approved by QA in writing and
   maintained in the CTK custodian’s binder and reviewed annually.
2. Composite Tool Kit (CTK) Custodian:
   2.1. The unit/flight commander/chief or equivalent will appoint primary and alternate CTK
   custodians in writing for all sections with aircraft maintenance tools and equipment.
   2.2. The CTK custodian will maintain a continuity binder. As a minimum the binder will
   contain the current CTK custodian appointment letter, CTK approval documentation,
   approved local manufactured/modified tool letters, and any other applicable items such as
   waivers, documentation for permanently removed tools, etc., as required by AFI 21-101 and
   this OI. Documents may be filed in a location other than the continuity binder, as long as a
   DD Form 2861 referencing the alternate location is filed in the continuity binder.
   2.3. The CTK custodian and alternates are responsible for Warranty/Replacement Tool
   Management, Local Manufactured/Modified Tool Program, and Lost Tool/Item Programs
   within their section or shop. The support section supervisor or shop chief may delegate by
   letter additional personnel to assist in these responsibilities (i.e., shift leaders may be given
   access to spare tool bin). If delegated, the appropriate letters will be filed in the CTK
   custodian’s continuity binder. The CTK custodian remains ultimately responsible for overall
   compliance with these programs.
   2.4. The CTK custodian will ensure procedures are in place to control access to tool rooms
   and limit the number of personnel authorized to procure tools. These personnel will be
   designated in writing.
3. Tool and Equipment Identification:
   3.1. All tools and equipment used for aircraft maintenance will be identified with an
   Equipment Identification Number (EID). PPE assigned to non-dispatchable workcenters do
   not require EID’s; however, a designated storage location is required. All EIDs use exactly
   nine alphanumeric characters (letters will be in upper case only) and contain no spaces or
   special characters. The first four characters are specified in Attachment 2; the last five are
   determined by the CTK custodian, (Exception: the letter “O” will not be used in the last five
   characters as it is easily confused with the number “0”).
      3.1.1. CA/CRL equipment items checked out of support sections and used for aircraft
      maintenance will be identified with an EID for accountability purposes.
   3.2. EIDs marked on tools must be clear, legible and easy to read. NOTE: Bar codes
   without the EID annotated on the label are not considered properly marked. Do not etch
   hacksaw blades.
4                                                     LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012


    3.3. All designated CTKs will have their own individual EID assigned. The CTK itself and
    the tools/equipment contained within the CTK will be marked with the same EID with the
    following exceptions:
       3.3.1. Tools incapable of being marked, etched, stamped, or difficult to read when
       marked (too small), which do not meet requirements outlined in paragraph 3.3.4, will be
       identified on the MIL, and in Tool Accountability System (TAS) as not etched. Use of a
       visual identifier (VID) (see paragraph 3.9) should be considered as an additional
       identification aid for tools that cannot be marked with an EID.
       3.3.2. Safety wire spools, if part of the CTK, will be marked with the EID, the diameter
       of the wire if not contained on the label and identified on the MIL and TAS as a
       consumable. When the spool is empty it will be turned in to the owning support
       section/shop for replacement.
       3.3.3. Consumables such as grease, dye, cleaners, etc., will be placed in a suitable
       container. Containers, once emptied, will be turned in to the owning support section/shop
       for disposal, replacement, or refill.
       3.3.4. Small tools placed in a suitable container, holder, pouch, bag, etc., will be marked
       on the MIL with the name, quantity of items + container and type of items (i.e., apex
       container: 8 ea apex’s, + container + lid = 10 pieces, etc.). Small tool containers, holders,
       pouches, bags, etc., must be marked with the EID and have a tag, placard, label, or
       equivalent list provided with the CTK (attached to the item, written on the case or
       attached to the MIL) to allow inventory by the user (i.e., 2ea #10 hex apex, 3ea #8 TT
       apex + container + lid = 7 pieces, etc.). Ensure total of contents including container is
       legible.
       3.3.5. Equipment within a CTK that requires recurring special inspections or calibration
       (i.e., torque wrenches) must have the inspection status loaded in the Tool Accountability
       System against the CTK to which it is installed. Test, Measurement and Diagnostic
       Equipment (TMDE) items may have an individual EID different from the CTK EID. If
       the item EID differs from the CTK EID, the EID and TMDE number (if applicable) must
       be annotated on the CTK’s MIL. TAS must also reflect the EID of the item installed
       within the CTK.
    3.4. If security devices (i.e., cables, locking bar, etc.) are not permanently attached to the
    CTK, mark the items with the EID and add them to the MIL.
    3.5. Tools marked with two different CTK numbers are considered double etched and are
    not authorized. Double etched is considered as any part of a previous EID number that may
    be legible. Tools that have laser etched CTK numbers for enhanced legibility may have the
    non-applicable or old EID numbers removed by etching or lasering a continuous line through
    the old CTK number, (LY541234789). It is not considered double etched if marked with the
    correct EID more than once.
    3.6. Mark all removable CTK locks with associated EID number. Keys will have the CTK
    number annotated on an attached tag, chit, or aircraft streamer (combination of items is at
    unit option). Use spiral-type (split-ring circular) part number 19-100C (National Stock
    Number 5325-01-306-4235), or suitable substitute rings IAW LAFBI 21-107 to attach keys
    to identification tag, chit, or aircraft streamer. Checklist rings, ties or any other method is
LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                               5


   prohibited. List the lock (if removable), key, key ring, and the appropriate tag, chit, and
   aircraft streamer (if equipped) on the MIL as a single line entry with a quantity of one set.
   3.7. Any tool or equipment not assigned to a specific CTK will be identified with its own
   EID number and loaded in TAS. Do not assign the same EID to like items that can be issued
   separately to two or more individuals simultaneously (i.e., if four cans of petroleum are
   annotated on the an Individual Issue Bin (IIB) MIL, then they must be labeled with their own
   distinctive EIDs-PET1, PET2, PET3, PET4). Spare tools, HAZMAT items, PPE and
   consumable items that are not located in an Individual Issue Bin (IIB) or CTK do not require
   EID numbers until dispatched to gaining CTK.
   3.8. Tools assigned to an IIB may have the storage location embedded in the EID. Example
   of locations embedded in the EID is LYCF62B23; the 62 may indicate cabinet “62”, drawer
   “B”, position “23”). The above example is just one method units may use to mark tools with
   position designators. No two separate items in an IIB will have the same EID.
      3.8.1. CTKs/equipment located within an IIB may be marked with its own unique EID
      IAW paragraph 3.3. of this instruction.
   3.9. Use of Visual Identifiers (VIDs) is optional for all tools and equipment to include
   CTKs. The use of VIDs will not interfere or take the place of mandatory markings (EID and
   PMEL identifiers). VIDs are used to speed inventories, component storage placement, and
   reduce “high mix up tools” like speed handles. Some examples follow that can be used
   individually or in combination:
      3.9.1. Tools in common CTKs (i.e., crew chief CTKs) can be indexed with a specific
      label/colored marking in a specific location to uniquely match an index mark in the
      shadow cutout.
      3.9.2. Color-coding may be used as a VID to more easily identify tools in one CTK or
      bin from another.
      3.9.3. VIDs using alphanumeric characters must NOT resemble, interfere, or be easily
      confused with mandatory EIDs and TMDE identifiers.
      3.9.4. VIDs will be removed from tools before being relocated, placed in spare tools, or
      turned-in for reuse or disposal. It is therefore recommended that VIDs not be made
      permanent, i.e., label rather than permanently etched.
   3.10. Personal issue equipment (i.e., reflective belts, cooling neckties, camelbacks, ear
   defenders, etc.) at a minimum will be marked with the individual’s last name, employee
   number, and owning organization (i.e., Smith 01234 756 AMXS/MXACS).
4. Designated CTKs and MILs:
   4.1. Identify consumables, TMDE items, and local manufactured/modified tools on the MIL
   (includes TAS). For dispatchable CTKs include 244s, 3131s, 3126s and MIL and identify
   these items on the MIL.
      4.1.1. An equipment accountability listing (EAL) is acceptable for use as a MIL for
      units/sections using older versions of TAS. All applicable requirements for MIL
      documentation apply to the EAL.
 6                                                     LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012


     4.2. A MIL is required for each designated CTK and IIB. Tool sizes will be listed on the
     MIL to aid in searching for a missing tool (i.e., “large/small safety wire pliers, 9” Phillips
     head screwdriver, ¾” x 5/8” socket, small ¼” ratchet). All tools assigned to the CTK must
     be included on the MIL and loaded into TAS. Exception: Test Stations that are not deployed
     or dispatched do not have to be designated as a CTK (i.e., Avionics Intermediate Shop test
     stations, hydraulic test station, etc.) and therefore do not require a MIL. However, tools used
     to support repairs on the equipment tested by these stations must be designated as a CTK.
     4.3. MILs for IIBs are the same as for CTKs except that each item’s EID contained in the
     IIB must be listed on the MIL.
        4.3.1. Approving authority for the record copy MIL for an IIB is the CTK custodian, or
        support/shop/flight chief. If the IIB contains a CTK with a separately approved MIL,
        indicate a MIL exists for the item. Do not list items on an approved MIL on the IIB MIL.
        Items that do not require a MIL should clearly state all pieces (i.e., 10-100 in-lbs 1/4 inch
        torque wrench + case).
            4.3.1.1. Only CTK custodians are allowed to make pen/pencil changes on a MIL.
        4.3.2. Support Section dispatchable CTK/equipment storage locations may be designated
        as IIBs to accommodate the shop MIL shift inventories and annual inventory
        requirements.
        4.3.3. Units with assigned Support Equipment (SE) (primarily engine related non-
        powered SE) may construct an SE MIL to accommodate annual inventory requirements.
        4.3.4. A shop MIL is required for all shops with tools or equipment used for aircraft
        maintenance (CA/CRL equipment items not covered by paragraph 3.1.1. are optional for
        placement on the shop MIL). List all EIDs on the shop MIL. The support section
        supervisor or shop chief approves the shop MIL. You may use a cover letter and copies
        of current MILs to satisfy the shop MIL. Items not listed on existing MILs must be listed
        on the shop MIL. A TAS listing of all items assigned to the workcenter may be utilized
        as a shop MIL.
5. Unique/Special Tools and Equipment:
     5.1. Unique/Special tools and equipment not checked out or issued on a routine basis (i.e.,
     Johnson bars, jack pad set, etc.) or small unique tool sets issued in containers (i.e., jack pad
     kits, tire inflator kits, job guide boxes, hex driver sets) shall be designated as a CTK, be a
     sub-item of a CTK, or be assigned to an IIB, and the name/number of separate pieces will be
     included on the appropriate MIL.
     5.2. If not designated or assigned to a CTK (issued from an IIB) then a tag, placard, label, or
     equivalent list must be provided with the equipment (typically attached to the item or written
     on the case) to allow inventory by the user at the job site (i.e., torque wrench with case).
     5.3. Equipment and tools with multiple pieces that remain assembled during storage and
     usage (i.e., flashlights, headsets, and communication cords) do not require attached inventory
     lists. Exception: Dust caps, even if attached by lanyards, must be listed on the MIL and if
     issued from an IIB will require the appropriate attached or available list (per paragraph 5.2)
     at the job site for user inventories.
LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                7


   5.4. Electronic devices (LMR’s, e-tools, etc.) will be assigned an EID and controlled through
   TAS.
      5.4.1. Radio/Laptop Batteries are considered consumable. Batteries not tracked in TAS
      must be marked with the owning unit, section, or workcenter id.
   5.5. Maintenance computers (IMDS, technical order, portable computers, etc.) will be stored
   utilizing a method that ensures access to software updates. Units with more computers than
   update stations must ensure a rotation cycle is established to ensure they receive updates.
   Computers will not remain out of the rotation cycle more than 2 duty days; will be stored
   with no users logged in and connected to the local area network to ensure updates to the
   software/digital technical data are accomplished by the network administrators.
6. Inspection Documentation:
   6.1. A detailed serviceability inspection (i.e., rust, illegible etching, accuracy of the MIL,
   etc.) of all established CTKs, IIBs, and replacement tools will be accomplished every 90 days
   or sooner. Do NOT inspect items within the IIB that are designated as CTKs, Technical
   Orders (TO), or items that have their own inspection cycle with this criteria, as they require
   separate inspections (90-day, annual, etc.).
      6.1.1. The flight chief, OIC, or NCOIC may delegate 90-day inspection requirements on
      CTKs to qualified users. If not delegated, these items will be inspected by qualified
      support personnel or the CTK custodians.
      6.1.2. Document inspections in TAS. The nomenclature for the inspection will include
      the frequency of inspection (I.E., 90-day or Annual). Units choosing to use a more
      frequent interval may do so. Document the type inspection using appropriate format
      which identifies the established interval (i.e., “90-Day”).
      6.1.3. CTKs stored and not used (i.e., mobility and deployment CTKs) are inspected as
      part of the annual shop inventory or when the CTK custodian changes. Document the
      annual inspection in TAS. When the CTK is removed from storage for use, load and
      document a 90 day (or sooner) inspection in TAS.
   6.2. The annual shop inventory may be delegated by discretion of the CTK custodian.
      6.2.1. Items with a current prescribed inspection (CTKs, support equipment, and IIBs)
      need not be re-inspected but must be inventoried. Items without a prescribed CTK
      inspection (or not current) must be thoroughly inspected (excludes TOs).
      6.2.2. Annual inventories may begin 30 days prior to the due date and must be completed
      by the due date. The CTK custodian must perform an annual shop inventory within 45
      days of being assigned regardless of when the original annual shop inventory was due.
      6.2.3. Document completion of the annual shop inventory and inspection with a
      memorandum for record noting completion of the inventory and any significant findings.
      Place the letter and the current shop MIL in the CTK custodian’s binder.
      6.2.4. Beginning and end of shift inventories conducted by USAF support functions will
      be documented on a locally approved Beginning/End of Shift Inventory Control Log.
      Foreign Military Service squadrons may use their own internally approved procedures.
7. Control, Inventory, and Security Procedures:
 8                                                     LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012


     7.1. Under no circumstances will the person who signs for a CTK, equipment, or shop be the
     one to sign it back in (this includes CTKs affixed inside vehicles).
     7.2. Detachable pieces that are removed from items to minimize FOD potential (i.e., rubber
     switch covers from Maglites) will be entered in TAS and reflected on the MIL.
     7.3. SNCOs and support section personnel are authorized to perform job site (on-site)
     transfers of tools and equipment. This authority cannot be delegated. Individuals performing
     the on-site transfer are personally responsible for the inventory and ensuring that tool control
     documentation is immediately updated. Prior to CTK use, ensure the applicable support
     section’s TAS data is updated to reflect the change in custodial responsibility.
     7.4. CTKs with wheels that have locking capability will have the wheels locked when not
     being repositioned. CTKs with wheels without locking capability will be secured to prevent
     rolling. Do not secure to aircraft, AGE, or vehicles. CTKs are not required to have wheels
     locked while in support.
     7.5. Dispatchable CTKs will be locked to prevent unauthorized use of tools when not in use.
     Exception: Equipment designated as CTKs such as TMDE, large special purpose tools,
     fixtures and jigs are not required to be locked, but are required to be secured from
     unauthorized access. IIBs for dispatchable tools and equipment must be located in designated
     restricted area of a tool room or building, or must be locked (securable) to preclude
     unauthorized usage.
     7.6. Special CTKs, unique individually issued tools, and Equipment items that cannot be
     locked will be closed and secured when not in use.
     7.7. Local procedures for lost or missing tools and equipment are written into LAFBI 21-
     107.
8. Warranty and Replacement Tool Management Procedures:
     8.1. Snap-On brand warranty tools that are unserviceable will be brought to the Air Force
     Repair and Enhancement Program (AFREP) section and placed in respective unit’s warranty
     bin. Individual units will bring hand receipt for all tools brought and are responsible for
     inventory of said tools. Hand receipts will be kept with unit’s warranty tools while in
     warranty bins (does not apply to 21 and 425 AMUs).
     8.2. Other warranty equipment and tools will be controlled and replaced by the CTK
     custodian.
     8.3. When non-warranty tools break, the CTK custodian will check for stocked items prior to
     ordering or purchasing tools through other base/local channels (Does not apply to 21 and 425
     Aircraft Maintenance Units (AMUs)).
     8.4. All non-warranty tools and toolboxes that are broken, will have the old identification
     markings (if any) removed, be cleaned of any hazardous material/hazardous
     (HAZMAT/HAZ) waste, and be turned in to Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service by
     the CTK custodian, (does not apply to 21 and 425 AMUs).
        8.4.1. All excess or unneeded tools and toolboxes that are serviceable will have the old
        identification markings (if any) removed, be cleaned of any HAZMAT/HAZ waste, and
        will be brought to AFREP for reutilization. Tools will be segregated and identified by
LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                    9


      part number, size and/or stock number, if applicable, (does not apply to 21 and 425
      AMU).
      8.4.2. All serviceable tools retained by AFREP will be placed in a holding area until
      space in the recycle area is available.
   8.5. All tool purchases must be approved by CTK custodian.
   8.6. Tools, equipment, or consumables permanently deleted, or replaced with an item of a
   different size, will have their inlay, shadowed layout, and/or silhouette filled in or adjusted to
   match the new item.
   8.7. Replacement tools will be stored, labeled, and secured in separate bins based on
   type/size (i.e., APEX #8, etc.). A TAS record will mirror quantity on-hand.
   8.8. Replacement tools will not be issued without receipt of the unserviceable tool or
   documentation indicating the tool is lost and reported IAW the lost tool procedures outlined
   in AFI 21-101 and LAFBI 21-107. Replacement tools will be marked with the CTK number
   prior to issue.
9. Locally Manufactured or Developed Tools and Equipment Procedures:
   9.1. QA must coordinate on all locally manufactured or developed tools/equipment not
   identified by and approved by a TO. The group commander or designated representative is
   the approval authority. Requests for approval must include a description along with a
   diagram or picture of the item, intended use, if available list materials required, and
   procedures for building the item (Locally Manufactured tool requests dated prior to May
   2011 are not required to have all the aforementioned items documented). If possible, provide
   an example. Weapons locally manufactured items will follow procedures outlined in AFI 21-
   101.
   9.2. All locally manufactured or developed tools/equipment placed in CTKs will be listed as
   “Mod” or “Local Man” and include either the MXG number assigned to the tool, or a T.O.
   reference if the tool was made per T.O. specifications. This applies to items listed in TOs as
   well as those items approved by QA.
   9.3. Locally manufactured tools/equipment will be reviewed annually, and reviews will be
   documented by the CTK custodian/section chief. A copy of the review will be kept in the
   master CTK folder/ binder and another copy forwarded to QA for filing.
10. Procedures to Ensure Positive Control of Rags:
   10.1. Cloth rags issued to maintenance personnel will be accounted for at all times. Rags
   may be signed out individually or in a bagged group. Dispatchable CTKs containing rags
   will use a self-enclosed pouch identified with an assigned CTK number and quantity plus
   pouch. Clean and dirty rags will be identified and stored in separate containers, and stored in
   a controlled area. Dirty rags will be stored in self-closing containers. The total quantity of
   bulk-stored rags is not required; however, these rags will remain secured and only used in a
   one for one exchange.
   10.2. In-Shop Use Only and Corrosion Control: Cloth rags may be stored in containers
   instead of pouches. Clean and dirty rags will be identified and stored in separate containers.
 10                                                  LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012


   The container lid will be secured with a lock if not maintained in a controlled area. Issue and
   receipt of rags will be tracked in TAS.
11. Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE):
   11.1. The Wing AFE Superintendent will ensure positive control of Night Vision Imaging
   System (NVIS) items. These items include, but are not limited to: NVIS goggles, NVIS kits
   and storage/transportation containers, tape strips for light concealment, light/lens covers,
   batteries, and finger lights. As a minimum, flying squadrons and other user organizations
   possessing NVIS items will establish a program to identify, store, issue, and inventory all
   NVIS items. Inventory procedures will be established to ensure items are accounted for after
   mission accomplishment.
   11.2. Aircrew Flight Equipment sections will follow guidance in AFI 11-301 V1, Luke AFB
   Supplement, Aircrew Flight Equipment Program, for tracking CTKs. TAS is not required
   for AFE sections.
12. Crash Recovery and Hydrazine Response CTKs:
   12.1. Crash recovery/Crash Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery equipment/tools in
   emergency response vehicles will be maintained as a CTK.
   12.2. The CTK MIL will be maintained in the workcenter and a copy will be kept in each
   affected emergency response vehicle.
   12.3. Emergency response vehicle CTKs will be inventoried each duty day during the
   vehicle operator pre-use inspection, and will be documented. A copy of AETC Form 1042,
   CTK Tool Checklist, will be maintained in each emergency response vehicle to document
   use of equipment, inventories, and inspections.
   12.4. Hydrazine Response CTKs:
      12.4.1. Hydrazine response equipment/tools contained within response vehicles will be
      maintained as a CTK.
      12.4.2. Hydrazine response vehicle CTKs will be inventoried and documented at the start
      and end of each shift.
      12.4.3. Hydrazine response vehicle CTKs will be inventoried upon beginning and
      completion of each hydrazine response and aircraft maintenance action. This will be
      documented on the Hydrazine Response Vehicle CTK Log (Attachment 5) and TAS and
      will include location and aircraft tail number. TAS documentation can be accomplished
      upon return to the workcenter.
13. Special Requirements for Explosion Proof Lights, Lamps, and Lanterns Used in Class
1 Hazardous Environment:
   13.1. All portable explosion-proof lights, lamps, and lanterns over 6-volts and used in Class
   1 Hazardous Locations (i.e., open fuel cells) will be inspected every 180 days by qualified
   personnel IAW T.O. 35F5-1-2.
   13.2. CTK custodians will track inspections for portable explosion-proof lights, lamps, and
   lanterns over 6-volts, separately in TAS.
LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                               11


   13.3. Flashlights using 6-volts or under dry cell batteries that are used in Class 1 Hazardous
   environments must be clearly labeled for use in Class 1 Hazardous environment, and be free
   of discrepancies that would compromise their rating.
14. Engine blade blend CTKs and Blue dye:
   14.1. Engine blade blend CTKs and blue dye will only be signed out by qualified personnel.
   Exception: Production Supervisors, SNCOs or OIC may release to or request from other
   AMUs for use of blend kits. Attachment 6 lists items authorized for blade blend kits. Crocus
   cloth cannot be used due to dissimilar metal content.
   14.2. The section will provide the CTK custodian a letter or signed Integrated Maintenance
   Data System printout of certification course code 002833 designating qualified blade blend
   personnel within the unit. The letter will be accessible to support personnel for checkout of
   blade blend kits.




                                            JERRY D. HARRIS, JR.
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 12                                             LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 28 February 2003
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2006 w/IC 16 August
2011
AFI 21-101 AETCSUP 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 21 October 2010
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005AFI 90-821 Luke Supplement 1, Hazard
Communication, 4 March 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AETC Form 1042, CTK Tool ChecklistAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication
AF Form 3126, General PurposeAF Form 3131, General Purpose
AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment RecordDD Form 2861, Cross Reference

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
CTK—Composite Tool Kit
EID—Equipment Identification Number
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
HAZMAT—hazardous material
IAW—in accordance with
IIB—Individual Issue Bin
IPE—Industrial Plant Equipment
LME—Locally Manufactured Equipment
LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 13


LPE—Locally Purchased Equipment
MIL—Master Inventory List
OI—Operating instruction
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
QA—Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TAS—Tool Accountability System
TMDE—Test, Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment
FW—Fighter Wing
VID—Visual Identifiers
SE—Support Equipment

Terms
Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK)—CTK refers to an established set of tools and equipment
consolidated to fit a particular function or work environment. The term CTK is generic and
means the same as consolidated “equipment kit”, “combination kit”, “test set kit”, “tool kit”, etc.
CTKs are established by the CTK custodian and can contain any combination and number of
tools and equipment.
Dispatchable CTK— Tools and equipment that may be used outside the work area or shop for
aircraft maintenance.
Equipment—Includes Support Equipment (SE), Test Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment
(TMDE), Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE), Industrial Plant Equipment (IPE), Locally
Manufactured Equipment (LME), and Locally Purchased Equipment (LPE) used to support the
aircraft maintenance function.
Equipment CTK—A piece of equipment, typically TMDE, that because of its nature requires
an inventory list and marking of individual components assigned to kit.
Equipment Identification Number (EID)—An alphanumeric designation with exactly nine
digits used to identify tool ownership. AFI 21-101 and this OI have specific requirements for
marking all tools and equipment used for aircraft maintenance using specific EIDs, also known
as the worldwide identifier (WWID).
Individual Issue Bin (IIB)—Provides storage for tools, equipment, and CTKs that are available
for individual sign-out. Unlike CTKs each item has its own EID number. The IIB does not need
to be locked and is inventoried at the beginning and end of each shift.
Location, Storage and Inventory Visual Identifiers (VID)—Optional color-coding, indexing,
or other markings used to facilitate inventory verification. Location, storage, and inventory
identifiers may be used in addition to mandatory EID and Precision Measurement Equipment
Laboratory (PMEL) identifiers.
Mark—Means to mark, stamp, etch, label, or otherwise create a visual identification for a tool or
piece of equipment using visible alphanumeric characters.
 14                                                 LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012


Master Inventory List (MIL)—A list of contents for a CTK, or group of CTKs, tools, and
equipment.
Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE)—Equipment required to do a job or task in a safe
manner.
Shop Master Inventory List (Shop MIL)—A MIL for an entire support function or section and
includes all tools and equipment used for aircraft maintenance.
Shop CTK—Tools and equipment that never leave the work area or shop (non-dispatchable).
Shop CTKs may remain open for personnel to use during a shift provided a single person is
responsible for the tool kit.
Special Purpose CTK—Small individually issued tool kit that, because of its size and the nature
of its contents, could preclude shadowing or silhouetting (e.g., launch kits, servicing kits,
cleaning kits, technical order kits, etc.).
LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012                            15


                                   Attachment 2
                CTK EID PREFIXES FOR LUKE AIR FORCE BASE

Figure A2.1. CTK Prefixes for Luke AFB.
 16                                                 LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012




 Propulsion Flight:
Jet Engine Intermediate Maintenance
(JEIM) & Material Support             LYCJ
Test Cell                             LYCT
Non-Powered AGE                       LYCN
Accessory Repair Support              LYCM

TMDE:                                 LYCV

56 Equipment Maintenance Squadron:
Maintenance Flight:

Transient Alert                       LYET
Wheel and Tire                        LYEW
Phase Support                         LYEU, and YCELR109 thru LYCELR114
Bore sight                            LYEX

Aerospace Ground Equipment
Flight:                               LYEG

Armament Flight:

Conventional Maintenance              LYEC
Missile Maintenance                   LYEY
Storage                               LYEH
Mobility                              LYEO
Equipment Maintenance                 LYEQ
Inspection                            LYEI
Line Delivery                         LYEL
Support                               LYEP
CAS-B                                 LYEB

Fabrication Flight:

Metals Technology                     LYEM
Survival Equipment                    LYES
Nondestructive Inspection (NDI)       LYEN
Aircraft Structural Maintenance
(ADM)                                 LYER

Fuels Management Flight:              LYEK

Instruments (ACMI)                    LYRC
LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012                     17


                                   Attachment 3
                       SAMPLE INSPECTION DOCUMENT

Table A3.1. Sample Inspection Document.
 18                                         LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012


                                  Attachment 4
            SAMPLE MISSING/REMOVED TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT

Table A4.1. Sample Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment.
LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012                          19


                                   Attachment 5
             SAMPLE HYDRAZINE RESPONSE VEHICLE CTK LOG

Table A5.1. Sample Hydrazine Response Vehicle CTK Log.
 20                                             LUKEAFBI21-102 23 FEBRUARY 2012


                                     Attachment 6
        ENGINE BLADE BLEND KIT CONTENTS LISTING (AUTHORIZED)

Table A6.1. Engine Blade Blend Kit Contents Listing.
