BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        LUKE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 40-301
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                              9 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                              Medical Command

                                                             FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 56 MDOS/SGOW                                                     Certified by: 56 MDOS/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Shayne C. Stokes)
                                                                                        Pages: 5
Supersedes:    LUKEAFBI 40-301, 24
               August 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 40-3, Family Advocacy Program (FAP)
and AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy and the Family Advocacy Program Standards. It describes
the responsibilities of the FAP agencies and staff. In addition, it also outlines procedures for
administering the FAP. The instruction applies to all active duty members and civilian
employees, including contract employees, of the Air Force assigned to the 56th Fighter Wing and
tenant units. This instruction applies to Air Force Reserve unit and ANG or its members. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been minimally updated. Update of Attachment 1 glossary reference
AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, to current version dated 6 Dec 11. Addition of
Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate to Family Advocacy Committee and Attachment 1 acronyms.
2                                                       LUKEAFBI40-301 9 OCTOBER 2013


1. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    1.1. Wing Commander:
       1.1.1. Ensures a formal written memorandum of understanding (MOU) with Arizona
       Child Protective Services is in place, describing procedures for reciprocal reporting of
       maltreatment allegations.
       1.1.2. Ensures a formal written (MOU) with a local Domestic Violence Hotline is in
       place, describing procedures for reciprocal services offered.
       1.1.3. Develops procedures to ensure immediate protective care for victims of family
       maltreatment.
    1.2. Medical Group Commander: Assumes responsibility for these areas of FAP activity:
       1.2.1. Staffing and training.
           1.2.1.1. Appoints a clinical social worker or clinical psychologist as the Family
           Advocacy Officer (FAO).
           1.2.1.2. Ensures the FAP has enough medical resources and practitioners available to
           run effectively.
           1.2.1.3. Ensures that 56th Medical Group Instructions and published guidelines exist
           to help medical personnel in implementing the FAP.
       1.2.2. Service Delivery.
           1.2.2.1. Assumes responsibility for managing and monitoring health care aspects of
           the FAP.
           1.2.2.2. Furnishes medical guidance to wing FAP information and education
           programs.
           1.2.2.3. Ensures that same-day medical and dental assessments, required treatment,
           and referrals to base and community agencies for victims of suspected maltreatment
           occur.
           1.2.2.4. In cases of sudden or unexplained death of a child, ensures completion of an
           appropriate autopsy, notifies AFOSI and security police; and ensures referral of
           family members to the FAP for immediate screening and supportive services.
       1.2.3. Program Administration periodically reviews, with 56 FW/CV, 56 FW/SJA, and
       FAO policy for resolving discrepancies between a client's legal and clinical treatment
       needs in family maltreatment cases.
    1.3. Family Advocacy Officer (FAO):
       1.3.1. Coordinates with the Arizona Department of Economic Security, Child Protective
       Services, on all suspected cases of child maltreatment.
       1.3.2. Ensures the FAP activities comply with federal, state, and local laws.
       1.3.3. Ensures families receiving services continue to get help if they relocate to other
       military installations, including those served by the Army or Navy medical facilities.
LUKEAFBI40-301 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 3


     1.3.4. Establishes a procedure to notify 56 MDG/CC of all family maltreatment
     associated deaths that occur on or off base.
     1.3.5. Obtains legal guidance from the 56 FW/SJA in situations that might have legal
     ramifications.
     1.3.6. Periodically reviews policy for resolving discrepancies between a client's legal and
     clinical treatment needs in family maltreatment cases with 56 FW/CC (or designee), 56
     MDG/CC (or designee), and 56 FW/SJA (or designee).
  1.4. Wing Staff Judge Advocate:
     1.4.1. Provides consultation services to FAP management teams.
     1.4.2. Provides information about legal rights of family members with exceptional
     medical or educational needs.
     1.4.3. Serves as the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the Air Force
     Victim/Witness Assistance Program.
     1.4.4. Periodically reviews with the 56 FW/CV, 56 MDG/CC, and FAO policy for
     resolving potential conflicts between a client's legal and treatment needs in family
     maltreatment cases.
  1.5. Security Forces Squadron Commander (or Designee):
     1.5.1. Investigates all incidents of family maltreatment not investigated by AFOSI and/or
     civilian investigative agency. Coordinates investigations of family maltreatment with
     AFOSI.
     1.5.2. The Law Enforcement Desk or designated SF section will ensure that FAP gets a
     copy of the blotter daily.
     1.5.3. Ensures that a process is in place so that all incidents of suspected/known adult
     partner maltreatment occurring on Luke AFB in which SF responds results in a minimum
     24-hour separation of the alleged offender and alleged victim.
     1.5.4. Acquires all police reports from the community police departments and brings
     them to the monthly CRB to report the information as it pertains to maltreatment cases.
  1.6. Force Support Squadron Commander: Provides and manages nondiscriminatory
  recreation activities and club programs, including special needs group projects, for children
  with exceptional medical or educational needs and for handicapped children requiring these
  services.
  1.7. Director of the Airman and Family Readiness Center (or Designee):
     1.7.1. Provides services/education to clients seeking assistance with family problems that
     may lead to maltreatment.
     1.7.2. Shares information with Integrated Delivery System on other prevention programs
     and support services.
     1.7.3. Ensures all staff members receive FAP training when hired, and annually
     thereafter.
     1.7.4. Refers all suspected family maltreatment incidents to the FAP.
4                                                    LUKEAFBI40-301 9 OCTOBER 2013


    1.8. Reporting guidelines for maltreatment: All reports of suspected family maltreatment
    will be made directly to Family Advocacy Program office during normal duty hours. After
    duty hours, all reports of suspected family maltreatment will be made to the command post
    for management and referral to the on-call mental health provider as needed.
    1.9. Family Advocacy Committee (FAC): The FAC includes these members: 56 FW/CC
    (or designee), Family Advocacy Officer, Family Advocacy Outreach Manager, Family
    Support Center Director, Staff Judge Advocate (or designee), Chief of Personnel (or
    designee), Chief of Security Police (or designee), AFOSI Detachment Commander, Wing
    Chaplain, Chief of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Program,
    Director of Child Development Center, the Director of Youth Activities, and the Domestic
    Abuse Victim Advocate (DAVA).




                                           MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN
                                           Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
LUKEAFBI40-301 9 OCTOBER 2013                               5


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program (FAP), 6 December 2011
Adopted Form(s)
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADAPT—Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CV—Vice commander
DAVA—Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate
FAC—Family Advocacy Committee
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
FW—Fighter Wing
MDG—Medical Group
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
