BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       LUKE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 31-209
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                            7 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                        Security

                                                                                      CURFEW


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 SFS/S3O                                                         Certified by: 56 SFS/CC
                                                                           (Maj Sean R. Gibbs)
Supersedes:   LUKEAFBI 31-209, 29                                                        Pages: 3
              September 2011


This instruction implements and extends local laws and ordinances. It establishes a curfew for
military family members, civilian family members and civilian guests in the housing and
dormitory areas at Luke Air Force Base. It also establishes control to preclude entry into the
housing and dormitory areas by individuals who have no authority or official business to be in
the area. This instruction applies to all 56th Fighter Wing personnel and tenant units. This
publication applies to all Air Force, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and to Air National
Guard (ANG) units. This publication applies to all persons within the boundary of Luke Air
Force Base (AFB). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This publication may not be
supplemented or further implemented/extended. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. The use of the name or mark of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                       LUKEAFBI31-209 7 FEBRUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been minimally revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes
include acronyms, forms and references. Ages and times of curfew have changed.
1. Identification: All military family members ten years of age and older will have their DD
Form 1173, Uniformed Service Identification and Privilege Card, with them at all times as
required by AFI 36-3026 V1 IP, Identification Cards for Members of Uniformed Services, Their
Eligible Family Members and Other Eligible Personnel.
2. Reference: Glendale Code, Article III, Division 1, Section 26-53.
3. Curfew:
     3.1. Family members or civilians. Family member or civilians of the following ages will
     not be allowed on the streets of Luke AFB, including the housing and dormitory areas, unless
     accompanied by a parent or legal guardian during the hours indicated below:
        3.1.1. Minors under 16 years of age may not be outside unsupervised between 2200 and
        0500. Minors 16-18 years of age may not be outside unsupervised between 0000 and
        0500.
        3.1.2. Civilians 17 years of age or younger are not authorized in dormitories at any time.
     3.2. Exceptions:
        3.2.1. Newspaper employees while delivering papers.
        3.2.2. Family members and their guests returning directly home to base housing after
        attending a special function which was previously sanctioned by the base and coordinated
        with Security Forces. Special functions shall include, but are not limited to, late movies,
        away game sporting events, dances, and special shows or events.
4. Violations. Personnel found in violation of the curfew will be detained.
     4.1. Family Members. Parents will be contacted and requested to respond and receipt for
     the minor.
     4.2. Civilians. Civil authorities will be contacted to assume control of the situation.
5. Report Requirements. For family members and civilian visitors violators, accomplish a
detailed blotter entry. If an offense other than a curfew violation was committed by a family
member, contact civil authorities to assume control of the situation.




                                               MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN
                                               Brigadier General
                                               Commander
LUKEAFBI31-209 7 FEBRUARY 2014                                                              3


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-302, IP V1, Identification Cards for Members of Uniformed Services, Their Eligible
Family Members and Other Eligible Personnel, 17 June 2009
Glendale Code, Article III, Division 1, Section 26-53
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1173, Uniformed Service Identification and Privilege Card

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
ANG—Air National Guard
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
