BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       LUKE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 33-105
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                16 APRIL 2014

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                         TELEPHONE CONTROL OFFICER
                                                                      REQUIREMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 56 CS/SCXPV                                                       Certified by: 56 CS/CC
                                                                 (Maj Raymond H. Chester, Jr.)
                                                                                       Pages: 5




This instruction implements Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-145, Collaboration Services and
Voice Systems Management and AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for
Information Systems and contains local guidelines and procedures for managing Air Force
Telephone Systems at Luke Air Force Base (AFB). It pertains particularly to AFMAN 33-145,
Chapter 4, Legacy Voice Systems and AFMAN 33-152, Chapter 4, Voice Communications
Services. This instruction establishes procedures for requesting telephone service and
communications line connectivity, as well as changes to existing service; explains some of the
services and options available to Luke AFB customers; applies to all government telephone users
on Luke AFB. This publication applies to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and their
units on Luke AFB. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The authorities to waive wing/unit
level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. This publication may not be
supplemented or further implemented/extended. The use of the name or mark of any specific
 2                                                           LUKEAFBI33-105 16 APRIL 2014


manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.


1. Wing and Tenant Unit Commanders.
     1.1. Appoint a primary and alternate Telephone Control Officer (TCO) in writing and
     forward a copy of the Appointment Letter to 56 CS/SCXPV. The unit’s TCO is the
     individual who authorizes and controls long distance toll calls and acts as the focal point for
     reviewing all unit telephone requirements and requests for service before submitting them to
     the 56 CS.
     1.2. 56 CS/SCXPV will provide training to TCOs within 30 days from receipt of an
     Appointment Letter. Work requests will only be accepted by properly appointed TCOs.
2. Unit Telephone Control Officers.
     2.1. Review and submit unit requests for voice network services for installation, removal,
     modification, and relocation of telephone services.
     2.2. When directed by 56 CS/SCXPV, perform and submit an inventory of installed voice
     systems equipment, items, and services. 56 CS/SCXPV may provide each TCO a listing of
     the installed equipment, numbers, and services currently assigned to the TCO’s applicable
     unit or section to facilitate the inventory.
     2.3. Issue telephone Personal Identification Numbers (PIN) to authorized unit personnel and
     maintains documentation of assigned unit PINs obtained from 56 CS/SCXPV.
     2.4. Turn in unit PINs that have been compromised or are no longer required to support the
     mission to 56 CS/SCXPV.
     2.5. When directed by 56 CS/SCXPV, submit unit staff directory updates for inclusion in the
     base telephone directory.
     2.6. Distribute customer education materials provided by 56 CS/SCXPV to unit personnel as
     required.
3. Instructions on Commercial Long Distance Networks.
     3.1. Where FTS-Networx (or designated replacement) is available, the following applies:
     3.2. Luke personnel will use DSN, not commercial long distance carriers, to call other DOD
     activities unless DSN service is not available in a timely manner. Use the DSN system only
     for official business or when in the best interest of the government. DSN is the first choice
     for all new and existing inter-base voice requirements.
     3.3. PINs are mandatory when placing FTS-Networx commercial long distance telephone
     calls to better control and reduce the overall cost the Air Force pays for long distance toll
     calls.
     3.4. Personnel must obtain a telephone PIN from their unit TCO to place official commercial
     long distance telephone calls.
LUKEAFBI33-105 16 APRIL 2014                                                                     3


4. Communications Closets.
   4.1. In accordance with AFI 91-203, para 30.1.1 “Storage is not allowed in electrical and or
   electronic areas. Storage is only permitted in areas approved by the installation Fire
   Emergency Services Flight.” This means telephone terminal blocks, patch panels, wiring,
   key systems, network cabinets, etc., will not be blocked.
   4.2. Should items be blocking communications equipment, 56 CS maintenance personnel
   will make an effort to notify someone in the building to clear the items preventing access. 56
   CS maintenance personnel may refuse trouble shooting any issues in a facility if someone
   cannot be located or personnel refuse to remove the items blocking the communications
   equipment.
5. Customer Voice Equipment/Instruments.
   5.1. All Air Force-owned voice equipment/ instruments will comply with the following
   maintenance guidelines:
   5.2. Only 56 CS maintenance personnel are authorized to install, relocate, modify, or remove
   voice instruments, cabling and services. Non-communications personnel (i.e., customers) are
   prohibited according to 18 U.S.C., § 1362. Communication Lines, Stations or Systems:
      5.2.1. “Whoever willfully or maliciously injures or destroys any of the works, property,
      or material of any radio, telegraph, telephone or cable, line, station, or system, or other
      means of communication, operated or controlled by the United States, or used or intended
      to be used for military or civil defense functions of the United States, whether
      constructed or in process of construction, or willfully or maliciously interferes in any way
      with the working or use of any such line, or system, or willfully or maliciously obstructs,
      hinders, or delays the transmission of any communication over any such line, or system,
      or attempts or conspires to do such an act, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not
      more than ten years, or both.”




                                            MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN
                                            Brigadier General
                                            Commander
 4                                                      LUKEAFBI33-105 16 APRIL 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFMAN 33-145, Collaboration Services and Voice Systems Management, 6 September 2012
AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 1 June 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
18 U.S.C. 1362, Communications Lines, Stations or Systems, 3 January 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFB—Air Force Base
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CC—Commander
CS—Communications Squadron
DOD—Department of Defense
DSN—Defense Switched Network
FTS—Federal Telecommunications Service
PIN—Personal Identification Number
TCO—Telephone Control Officer
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
U.S.C.—United States Code
LUKEAFBI33-105 16 APRIL 2014                                                                5


                                         Attachment 2
                       SAMPLE TCO APPOINTMENT LETTER

(SQUADRON LETTERHEAD)




                                                                            DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR 56 CS/SCXPV

FROM: (Your Organization)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Telephone Control Officers

1. In accordance with LUKEAFBI 33-105, the personnel listed below are appointed Telephone
Control Officers for (list organization):

Last, First, MI             Rank           Extension          Organization/Office Symbol

Primary:
Smith, Joseph               SSgt           856-XXXX           56 CS/SCMM
Email address: joseph.smith3@us.af.mil

Alternate 1:
Jones, John                TSgt            856-XXXX           56 FW/CCC
Email address: john.jones4@us.af.mil

Alternate 2:
Rogers, Henry               Civ            856-XXXX           56 OG/OSAA
Email address: henry.rogers@us.af.mil

2. This memo supersedes _____________________.




                                                  COMMANDER'S SIGNATURE BLOCK
