BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       LUKE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 32-1003
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                   16 JULY 2013

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                                          BASE APPEARANCE


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 CES/CEO                                                          Certified by: 56 CES/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Chad B. BonDurant)
Supersedes:    LUKEAFBI 32-1003, 17                                                       Pages: 4
               April 2007


This instruction extends AFPD 32-10, Installation and Facilities. It provides standardized
guidance, procedures, and responsibilities for base appearance at Luke Air Base. This
instruction applies to all U. S. Air Force Reserve units and members attached or assigned to Luke
AFB. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has minor changes. The changes made to this publication primarily affect
sections 1 and 2. Office symbols and Duty sections have been updated and paragraph 2.5.6.
clarifies the Area of Responsibility for all facility managers.
1. General.
   1.1. Base appearance is a wing program supported by all base organizations.
   1.2. The 56th Mission Support Group Commander (56 MSG/CC) working through the
   direction of the 56 Fighter Wing Commander (56 FW/CC) is the overall focal point to ensure
   compliance with this instruction.
 2                                                          LUKEAFBI32-1003 16 JULY 2013


     1.3. The Deputy Group Commanders (DGC) and tenant unit commanders will ensure the
     grounds surrounding all of their base-wide facilities, as well as all common areas in their
     assigned areas of responsibility (AOR), are maintained IAW this instruction. The DGCs will
     execute their responsibilities through their respective squadron commanders.
     1.4. AAFES and DeCA will ensure all areas assigned under their AOR strictly adhere to the
     standards of this instruction, with special and continuous emphasis on daily litter control.
2. Procedures.
     2.1. Specific Responsibilities:
     2.2. Through the use of in-house personnel the 56 Civil Engineer Squadron (56 CES) is
     responsible for sweeping streets, parking lots (to include AAFES and DeCA parking lots),
     airfield pavements, herbicide treatment, insect control. The grounds landscape contractor is
     responsible for landscape maintenance under contract. The 56 CES/CEOES (Service
     Contracts Office) is responsible for ensuring that the grounds maintenance contractor
     performs all assigned responsibilities satisfactorily. Any base employee that notices a
     discrepancy in the base grounds contract should notify 56 CES/CEOES at extension 6-4717
     for corrective action.
     2.3. Presently, all common areas are maintained by contract. These AORs are managed by
     the 56 CES/CEO, Operations Flight. The 56 CES/CEO will notify DGCs of changes to the
     grounds maintenance contract affecting their AORs. The DGCs or their respective facility
     managers will notify the 56 CES/CEOES of contract maintenance areas where the contractor
     is performing unsatisfactorily. While under contract, recurring problems must be addressed
     to the 56 CES/CEO.
     2.4. DGCs are also responsible for the grounds around unoccupied facilities, which are
     assigned to their respective groups. New facilities under construction, and those facilities
     under renovation where occupants have been forced to relocate, are the responsibility of the
     respective contractor and will be managed by 56 CES/CEN-Engineering Flight.
     2.5. Grounds maintenance contractors’ primary responsibility includes those measures
     required to maintain improved grounds (with Bermuda grass) in a well-groomed, clean, neat,
     and attractive state of appearance, while keeping the desert landscape areas weed free. These
     measures include:
        2.5.1. Lawn mowing (2-4 inches in height), edging, and fertilizing grass.
        2.5.2. Eliminating weeds, chemically or manually, in desert landscape areas. This
        includes weeds growing in pavement or gutters and sidewalk cracks adjacent to mow or
        desert landscaped areas.
        2.5.3. Watering improved area vegetation (grass, trees, etc.).
        2.5.4. The removal and disposal of all natural debris, (tree limbs, dry brush, etc.) and
        man-made debris. Contractor is responsible to empty residential sized trash containers
        located at Fowler Park, Silver Wings Park, and the park east of building 997, and replace
        with new liners.
        2.5.5. Trimming trees, shrubs, hedges, including sprouts and shoots on tree trunks that
        create a safety hazard.
LUKEAFBI32-1003 16 JULY 2013                                                                     3


       2.5.6. All measures mentioned in paragraph 2.5 are currently under contract maintenance
       and accomplished regularly. However, each facility manager has an AOR. These areas
       will extend to the halfway point between adjacent facilities or 50 ft around the building
       where no adjacent facility exists, associated parking lots, and to the centerline stripe of
       roadways.
3. Special Events and DV Visits.
   3.1. Special effort wing-wide cleanups will be directed, as appropriate, by the 56 FW/CC.
   3.2. Action officers sponsoring special events and DV visits will forward routes and
   itineraries to the 56th Fighter Wing Protocol Office, who will forward them to the 56
   CES/CC and 56 MSG/CC at the earliest opportunity. Routes will include street names and
   building numbers to streamline cleanup efforts. Draft itineraries provide a starting point for
   cleanup activities. Each DGC will make a special effort to ensure their assigned AOR and
   group facilities meet the grounds maintenance standards of this instruction for these events.
   3.3. The 56 MSG/CC will obtain corrective action inputs from the 56 FW/CC and 56
   FW/CV. The 56 MSG/CC will notify respective DGCs of cleanup requirements and oversee
   base-wide efforts.
   3.4. The 56 CES/CEO will adjust the grounds maintenance contract schedule as necessary to
   improve base appearance in DV areas. Although the grounds maintenance contractor is
   responsible for all litter and debris removal, it may be impossible to adjust the contract
   schedule to coincide with special events. Therefore, groups must be prepared to dispatch
   crews to their AORs prior to these events.
   3.5. Where practical, all special cleanup efforts will be completed one day prior to scheduled
   event or visit. If the event or visit is scheduled for Monday, litter patrols will be dispatched
   first thing in the morning to collect weekend debris.
4. Inspections.
   4.1. The 56 MSG/CC, or 56 MSG/CD, 56 CES/CC, and 56 CES/CEO will conduct periodic
   inspections of the base for compliance of this instruction and notify the responsible agency of
   any areas needing attention.




                                             MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN
                                             Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
 4                                                      LUKEAFBI32-1003 16 JULY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-10, Installation and Facilities, 4 March 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form(s)
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army & Armed Forces Exchange Services
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—area of responsibility
CC—commander
CES—Civil Engineer
DECA—Defense Commissary Agency
DCG—Deputy Group Commanders
FW—Fighter Wing
MSG—Mission Support Group
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
