BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 10-401
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                      12 JULY 2012

                                                                                          Operations

                                                   USAF OPERATIONS PLANNING PROCESS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 FW/XP                                                               Certified by: 56 FW/XP
                                                                             (Maj Michael S. Hurt)
Supersedes:    LUKEAFBI 10-401, 4                                                          Pages: 22
               December 2007


This instruction establishes the 56th Fighter Wing (FW) Plans Program. It assists plans
representatives in carrying out their duties and responsibilities. It applies to all units assigned to
Luke Air Force Base (LUKEAFB) who are tasked by Luke Operations Plans (OPlans) or who
develop inputs to Luke OPlans. This instruction applies to tenant organizations. This instruction
is UNCLASSIFIED. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command and to Air
National Guard Units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Paragraph 6.8.
56 FW Functional Area Plans Representative (FAPR) will accomplish a Management Internal
Control Toolset (MICT) semi-annual self inspection during the months of July and January in
accordance with the Wing Self Inspection Program. Paragraph 6.3.4. Note: The FAPR may
also annotate the tasked plans review on an Excel document in lieu of annotation and printing of
each tasked plan’s page i, ―Security Instructions/Record of Changes/Review‖. Paragraph
13.3.5.1. The OPR will provide the wing plans and programs office with a Memorandum for
Record (MFR).
 2                                                                                       LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


        1.     References: .............................................................................................................    2
        2.     Program Objectives: ..............................................................................................           2
        3.     Organization Responsibilities: ...............................................................................               3
        4.     Wing Plans and Programs Responsibilities: ..........................................................                         3
Table 4.1.     Key personnel. .......................................................................................................       4
        5.     OPR Responsibilities: ............................................................................................           4
        6.     FAPR Responsibilities (Group/Squadron/Unit): ...................................................                             4
        7.     Plans Administration: ............................................................................................           6
        8.     Plan Format: ...........................................................................................................     7
        9.     Plan Preparation Procedures: .................................................................................               9
        10.    Plan Changes: ........................................................................................................      10
        11.    Posting a Plan Change: ..........................................................................................           11
        12.    Plan distribution. ....................................................................................................     11
        13.    Annual/Biennial Review: .......................................................................................             11
        14.    Wing Plans and Programs Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs): ..................................                                  13
        15.    Operations Security (OPSEC): ..............................................................................                 14
        16.    Preparation of DEFCON Checklists: .....................................................................                     15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             16

Attachment 2—SAMPLE FAPR APPOINTMENT LETTER FORMAT.                                                                                        18

Attachment 3—SAMPLE BIENNIAL REVIEW NOTICE FOR OPLAN.                                                                                      19

Attachment 4—SAMPLE STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT (SAV) REPORT FORMAT.                                                                            21

Attachment 5—SAMPLE REPLY FORMAT FOR STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT (SAV)
             REPORT.                                                                                                                       22


1. References:
     1.1. AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance
     1.2. AETCI 10-401, Contingency Plans Management
     1.3. LUKEAFBI 90-201, Self Inspection Program
2. Program Objectives: USAF operation planning is an integral part of the Air Force at all
echelons. The Wing Plans Program supports two main areas: higher headquarters plans and
publications and local contingencies or programs. A plan is designed to provide a coordinated
effort by several or all agencies to accomplish a specific goal. Many of our plans are designed to
deal with contingencies such as war or disaster. Should they occur, we must be prepared and be
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012                                                                      3


able to rely on our contingency plans to guide us through actions that have to be taken during
these situations.
3. Organization Responsibilities:
   3.1. Group commanders, squadron commanders, tenant unit commanders, and associate unit
   commanders have overall responsibility for maintaining all required plans and carrying out
   tasks outlined for their respective organizations. A listing of unit required plans are found in
   the       56 FW Index of Plans. To receive a copy of a plan, contact the OPR listed on the
   front page of the specific plan or electronically access the 56 FW Plans library.
   3.2. Appointment of Plans Representatives: Commanders will appoint a primary and
   alternate plans officer, NCO, or civilian equivalent who is thoroughly familiar with the unit’s
   operations. This position will be the FAPR and a SECRET clearance is required. Security
   clearances will be validated by the respective security manager and included on the letter of
   appointment. Commanders will ensure the individual has a minimum of 1-year retainability
   when appointing new unit plans representatives. Units will forward the appointment letter to
   56 FW/XP within 10 days of appointment using the format in Attachment 2 of this
   instruction. 56 FW/XP will train all FAPRs. The group and unit FAPR’s will maintain a
   copy of the appointment letter and training certificate in their unit plans continuity binder.
4. Wing Plans and Programs Responsibilities:
   4.1. Review all locally written plans before final publication and distribution.
   4.2. Coordinate and delegate responsibilities for preparation of functional area inputs when
   OPR for a plan. The OPR is determined by the source document requiring the plan or by the
   56 FW/XP if no other guidance indicates the OPR. Normally, the base OPR will be
   functionally aligned with the HQ AETC OPR. When not the OPR, 56 FW/XP is always the
   Office of Controlling Responsibility (OCR) to ensure proper formatting and timeliness.
   4.3. Establish a Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG) composed of plans representatives
   from functional areas and associate units. The WPWG will be formed as required to
   complete or revise plans.
   4.4. Train newly assigned FAPRs within 30 days of receipt of appointment letter.
   4.5. Review current AETC Contingency Plans Listing to ensure base compliance with
   plans requirements.
   4.6. Ensure proper distribution of base plans to tasked organizations. Distribution of
   contingency plans should be in accordance with (IAW) AETC Contingency Plans Listing.
   4.7. Establish an effective base plans review program. Review dates are listed in the 56 FW
   Index of Plans. OPlan reviews are now accomplished biennially unless specified by the
   HHQ directives of that plan.
   4.8. Conduct Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) once per calendar year, or when requested by the
   unit.
   4.9. Manage wing key personnel briefing program to include:
 4                                                             LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


        4.9.1. Initial briefing for wing key personnel on all base-level war and contingency plans
        within 60 days of their appointment. The wing commander designates the follow duty
        positions as wing key personnel:

Table 4.1. Key personnel.

        56 FW/CC          56 FW/CV           56 FW/XP          56 OG/CC          56 OG/CD
        56 MXG/CC         56 MXG/CD          56 MSG/CC         56 MSG/CD         56 MSG/IDO
        56 MDG/CC         56 MDG/CD          944 FW/CC
        4.9.2. Refresher briefings on plans annually.
        4.9.3. Documentation of briefings and attendance.
     4.10. Build a plan's development guide, outlining specific information essential to the
     continuity of plans responsibilities.
     4.11. Prepare an index of all wing plans annually and forward it to AETC AOS/AOW,
     19AF/DOR, and all affected wing and tenant organizations. Forward to FAPRs as updated
     via e-mail.
     4.12. Publish a Synopsis of Plans as required.
5. OPR Responsibilities:
     5.1. Develop plans, annexes, appendices, etc., for which your agency is designated OPR.
     Notify your unit’s group FAPR and the 56 FW/XP for any assistance.
     5.2. Conduct review of plans when notified by the wing plans and programs office.
     5.3. Review changes submitted for each plan and prepare the change documents provided by
     the wing plans and programs office.
     5.4. Prepare a briefing outlining each plan you are OPR for, and if requested, present it to the
     wing key personnel annually. Briefing dates will be determined through coordination with
     the wing command section, 56 FW/XP, and plan OPRs. These are refresher briefings and
     will normally not be required more frequently than once a year.
6. FAPR Responsibilities (Group/Squadron/Unit):
     6.1. Newly assigned FAPRs will:
        6.1.1. Submit an appointment letter to wing plans and programs office within 10 days of
        appointment.       Note:      Each group FAPR is required to maintain appointment
        letters/certificates of all their respective squadron/unit FAPRs.
        6.1.2. Newly appointed FAPRs will review all plans that task their unit within 30 days of
        appointment. Document the initial review on the ―Security Instructions/Record of
        Changes/Review‖ page of the plan. Extra copies of a plan may have the statement
        ―Review documentation of this plan is maintained in the master copy located in
        ____________.‖ Regardless of where plan documentation is listed, the Group Plans
        Office is responsible for the currency of all plans in the group.
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012                                                                       5


   6.2. Maintain and update as needed, appointment letter/memo of commander designated
   group key personnel.
       6.2.1. Provide initial briefings to squadron/unit key personnel on all plans and changes
       that affect their specific functional area within 60 days of assignment. Give additional
       briefings as needed to cover recommended changes to existing plans or to cover new
       plans as they are published. Maintain documentation on all briefings. Contact your
       respective group FAPR or 56 FW/XP if assistance is needed.
   6.3. All FAPRs will:
       6.3.1. Forward names of newly assigned wing key personnel to 56 FW/XP, so they can
       be scheduled for initial plans briefings. Wing key personnel duty positions are identified
       in paragraph 4.9.1.
       6.3.2. Develop and maintain a group/squadron/unit FAPR continuity book IAW
       paragraph 7.3.
       6.3.3. Be a member of the WPWG, when required.
       6.3.4. Ensure, at a minimum, an annual/biennial review is conducted for all plans for
       which your organization is OPR or your unit is tasked within. The page i, ―Security
       Instructions/Record of Changes/Review‖ located in all plans will clarify the specific
       annual/biennial timeline review requirements. Attachment 3 will be used to coordinate
       your plan with all tasked organizations. Forward your results to the 56 FW/XP.
Note: The FAPR may also annotate the tasked plans review on an Excel document in lieu of
annotation and printing of each tasked plan’s page i, ―Security Instructions/Record of
Changes/Review‖. The Excel document must contain the month and year the plan is reviewed,
the signature or initials of the reviewing FAPR, and also the date the review was accomplished.
   6.4. Coordinate plans with subject matter experts within your group/squadron/unit.
       6.4.1. Establish procedures for tracking and documenting plan coordination within your
       group/squadron/unit.
       6.4.2. Coordinate development of plans, annexes, appendices, etc., for which your
       agency is designated OPR.
   6.5. Notify the group FAPR and 56 FW/XP if you intend to produce or change a wing plan
   or annex, or when a higher headquarters directive or plan creates a requirement to develop or
   change. Specify required wing actions by endorsement or memo to the wing plans and
   programs office.
       6.5.1. A fully coordinated working draft will be submitted to 56 FW/XP through your
       group FAPR for review, coordination, and approval prior to publication. Monitor and
       document all actions through appropriate suspense’s and follow-up actions.
   6.6. Ensure adequate instructions, checklists etc., are developed by the group and each
   squadron to implement plans under which the unit is tasked. See paragraph 16 of this
   instruction concerning Defense Condition (DEFCON) checklist preparation. Checklists will
   be reviewed annually and documented. Checklist will be dated and revised within 30 days of
   when a plan is changed or revised.
 6                                                             LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


     6.7. Review checklists to accomplish OPlan compliance, Defense Condition (DEFCON), or
     Force Protection Condition (FPCON) changes, recall procedures, and Commander’s Staff
     Directive (CSD) distribution. Ensure unit specific developed checklists are reviewed
     annually and review is documented.
     6.8. 56 FW FAPR’s will accomplish semi-annual self inspections during the months of July
     and January IAW the Wing Self Inspection (SI) Program. FAPR SI checklists are located on
     the Air Force Portal, within the MICT program and in the 56 FW Plans Guide. FAPRs will
     forward their most recent SI results to 56 FW/XP NLT two weeks prior to their scheduled
     SAV date. Tennant Units located on Luke AFB will still be required to accomplish the paper
     version of the FAPR Self Inspection Checklist located in the 56 FW Plans Guide, and
     forward most recent SI two weeks prior to their scheduled SAV.
     6.9. Each FAPR will maintain a current set of plans for which their unit is tasked. The plans
     can be stored by one of the following means; electronically, on the hard drive, or placed on a
     writable compact disc (CD-R or CD-RW). Ensure wing plans on file are IAW the 56th
     Fighter Wing Index of Plans. Maintain plans IAW plan administration guidance in paragraph
     8.
     6.10. Use a MFR, to show where copies of a particular plan are located. Ensure that the
     MFR is kept current with revisions or replacement of plans. The group FAPR is responsible
     for all plans maintained at the group level.
     6.11. When a group/squadron/unit FAPR is replaced, ensure a new letter of appointment is
     forwarded to group FAPRs and 56 FW/XP within 10 days of appointment. A primary and an
     alternate must be trained by the wing plans and programs office within 30 days of
     appointment.
     6.12. Participate in Wing Plans and Programs SAVs. The primary unit FAPR should be
     present. All group/squadron/unit FAPRs will:
        6.12.1. If possible, confirm the visit with the chief of your unit to allow for an in-brief or
        out-brief from 56 FW/XP.
        6.12.2. The items covered in the SAV will be IAW paragraph 14. thru 14.2.
        6.12.3. During Staff Assistance Visits, items discussed must be documented,
        discrepancies noted, and actions taken and corrected on the spot when possible.
        Highlight recurring discrepancies. The squadron commander (or equivalent) will respond
        in writing to the             56 FW/XP indicating corrective actions taken. Report open
        items to the 56 FW/XP every 30 days until the corrective action is completed. Staff
        Assistance reports will be maintained at the group/squadron/unit level for a period of 2
        years after the last corrective action is completed. Copies of the previous 2 years SAV’s
        and unit SI’s must be kept on file within the Unit’s FAPR Continuity Book, and also
        maintained at the 56 FW/XP office.
7. Plans Administration:
     7.1. The 56 FW/XP and FAPRs will administer the Plans Program.
     7.2. AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, and AETCI 10-401 will be used in plan's administration
     and maintenance.
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012                                                                    7


   7.3. To assist in plan's management, each plans representative will prepare and maintain a
   FAPR Continuity book. This book will be setup with the following sections:
       7.3.1. Section A – Table of Contents/Index.
       7.3.2. Section B – Plans Representative Letter of Appointment and Certificate of
       Training.
       7.3.3. Section C – Wing Plans Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) and Unit Self Inspections
       (SI) reports and/or results/findings. These SAV/SI reports and/or results/findings will be
       maintained for the past two annual inspections from the last corrective action had been
       completed.
       7.3.4. Section D – Luke Plans Guide (Electronic cross-reference is acceptable unless
       tasked with dual roles as both FAPR and OPR)
       7.3.5. Section E – 56th Fighter Wing Index of Plans. The index will indicate plans your
       unit is tasked under and plans for which your unit is the OPR. Units are permitted to
       create other forms or spreadsheets as long as it shows plans the unit is tasked under and
       plans for which the unit is the OPR.
       7.3.6. Section F – Review Documentation for all tasked OPlans using the Security
       Instruction/Record of Change/Review page ―i‖ or excel equivalent, and any unit
       generated checklists review documentation.
       7.3.7. Section G – Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG) listing (most current version).
       7.3.8. Section H – Group/Unit/Agency Key Personnel Briefing/Documentation.
       Memorandums, email sent to all key members listed in the sent box with read receipt, or
       any local documentation.
       7.3.9. Section I – Plans Program Correspondence (letters from 56 FW/XP, trend
       analyses, etc.)
       7.3.10. Section J – Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) Schedule. Once the current year’s
       SAVs are completed, this section may remain empty until 56 FW/XP publishes a new
       SAV schedule.
       7.3.11. Section K – LUKEAFBI 10-401.
       7.3.12. Section L – Wing Synopsis of Plans (most current version).
       7.3.13. Section M, N, O, etc.: Optional sections that may be added to meet specific unit
       continuity requirements. Generally, plans will be located here (all in one tab) or a cross
       reference form, or MFR stating where plans are located.
   7.4. Plans, if printed, will be filed together in a central location and readily accessible by
   primary users and key personnel. Do not inter-mix plans with other programs. All unit
   tasked plans, if printed will also be backed up electronically or saved on a CD-R or CD-RW.
8. Plan Format: Supporting plans are written in the format of the supported plan or as
prescribed in higher headquarters directives. Use the format in the 56 FW Plans Guide or
AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance when developing plans. Annex
designations will be followed to the extent possible. However, Annexes may be realigned as
necessary to comply with Air Force Instructions and Directives. If plan format deviates from the
 8                                                              LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


format outlined in the 56 FW Plans Guide or AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and
Guidance, a statement will be added to the ―Letter of Transmittal‖ identifying the instruction or
directive requiring the changed format.
     8.1. Plan Cover. The cover must show the date of the plan, overall classification, short title,
     long title and OPR. Unclassified plans will have a white cover and classified SECRET plans
     will have a red cover. Any deviation from this must be approved through 56 FW/XP.
     8.2. Letter of Transmittal. Identify plan content, requirement to create supporting plans.
     The need for developing further supporting plans must be specified. Identify instruction or
     directive if deviation from normal plan format is required. The OPR must be identified and
     disposition instructions must be included when the plan supersedes a previous plan. The
     wing commander normally signs the letter of transmittal. If the plan does not task any other
     units the group commander for the unit writing the plan can sign it.
     8.3. Distribution Changes. All plans must include a standard memorandum that units may
     use to notify the plan OPR and the wing plans and programs office of changes in distribution
     requirements. This procedure helps both agencies keep distribution lists current. The
     distribution change memorandum follows the letter of transmittal.
     8.4. Security Instructions and Record of Changes. Security instructions must include the
     long and short titles of the plan and must be the first page following the letter of transmittal.
     State the classification of the plan and any reproduction limitations. A statement of OPSEC
     and COMSEC consideration and a determination of applicability or inapplicability will be
     annotated. (Note: If applicable, OPSEC requires an Annex L to be developed.) Record of
     changes for the plan should be included on the same page as the security instructions or may
     be a separate page published on the back of the security instructions. This page will be
     numbered ―i‖ within the footer.
     8.5. Plan Summary. The plan summary is used for all contingency plans. It provides the
     purpose, conditions for implementation, operations to be conducted, key assumptions,
     operational constraints, time to commence effective operations, command relationships,
     logistics requirements, commanders appraisal of the logistics and personnel feasibility of the
     plan, and consolidated listing and impact assessment of shortfalls or limiting factors.
     Continue with Roman numeral page numbering.
     8.6. Table of Contents. The table of contents will include all elements of the plan.
     Continue with Roman numeral page numbering.
     8.7. Basic Plan. The basic plan consists of five main paragraphs; situation, mission,
     execution, administration and logistics, and command and signal. Additional paragraphs
     may be included to fit particular requirements of the plan. The basic plans should refer to
     each annex that has been prepared; however, information provided in the basic plan is not
     normally repeated in attachments. Page numbering will begin with ―1.‖
     8.8. Attachments.
        8.8.1. Annexes. Annexes contain detailed information for a specific organization or
        subject. Annexes used for the plan will be listed on the final page of the basic plan.
        Annex designations should be followed to the extent possible as outlined in the guide.
        However, annex designations may deviate when necessary to fit specific needs. Pages
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012                                                                    9


       will be numbered with the annex designation listed first, for example page 1 of Annex C
       will be numbered C-1.
       8.8.2. Appendices. Appendices are designed to provide additional or expanded
       information on one or more subjects addressed in the annex. Appendices used for the
       plan will be listed on the final page of the subject annex. Pages will be numbered with
       the annex designation listed first followed by the appendix designation, for example page
       1 of Appendix 1 to Annex C will be numbered C-1-1.
       8.8.3. Tabs. Tabs are a further detailed breakout of an appendix. Tabs used for the plan
       will be listed on the final page of the subject appendix. Pages will be numbered with the
       annex designation listed first followed by the appendix designation, for example page 1
       of Tab A to Appendix 1 to Annex C will be numbered C-1-A-1.
       8.8.4. Exhibits. Exhibits are a further detailed breakout of a Tab. Pages will be
       numbered with the annex designation listed first followed by the appendix designation,
       for example page 1 of Exhibit 1 to Tab A to Appendix 1 to Annex C will be numbered C-
       1-A-1-1.
   8.9. Execution Checklist. The execution checklist (Annex X) summarizes actions required
   to ensure initiation of operations. Execution checklists are required for all plans.
   8.10. Distribution List. The distribution list accounts for all copies of the plan and informs
   users which agencies and headquarters maintain copies of the plan. Distribution of the plan
   will be held to the minimum essential for planning. The distribution list is designated Annex
   Z in a plan. Ensure that 56 FW/XP is included on the distribution list. Distribution of
   Contingency Plans should be IAW AETC Contingency Plans Listing.
9. Plan Preparation Procedures: If your organization is designated OPR for a plan:
   9.1. Initial Step. Notify the wing plans and programs office. Keep in touch with group
   FAPR and the wing plans and programs office during all phases of plan development and do
   not hesitate to ask for guidance.
   9.2. Plans Guidance. Guidance on plan content will normally be contained in:
       9.2.1. Higher headquarters plan you are supporting.
       9.2.2. Air Force instruction.
       9.2.3. Higher headquarters correspondence.
   9.3. Plan Component Responsibilities. Tasked organizations are required to prepare their
   annexes in correct format and submit them to you. Refer to AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2 or
   the         56 FW Plans Guide for further guidance or contact the group FAPR followed by
   the 56 FW/XP office. If you represent a large organization, you may not have the knowledge
   of all facets of your organization. Contact people with expertise in each area and request
   input.
   9.4. Coordination. The key to effective planning is thorough coordination with all affected
   organizations. Remember you only have 60 days to get an existing plan published, which
   includes coordinating, gathering and making changes, getting applicable annexes signed, and
   allowing time for wing plans and programs office to secure the 56 FW/CC’s approval and
   signature. You have 90 days to get a new plan published, which includes coordinating,
 10                                                          LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


   gathering necessary information from tasked groups/squadron/units, getting applicable
   annexes signed, and allowing time for 56 FW/XP to secure the 56 FW/CC’s approval and
   signature.
      9.4.1. Coordinate your draft with all tasked organizations. If you are supporting a higher
      headquarters plan, provide each tasked organization with a copy of the appropriate higher
      headquarters annex, plus a copy of the basic plan. This can be accomplished by:
          9.4.1.1. A coordination meeting of all tasked organizations. In this event, make
          enough copies of your draft and send to appropriate agencies ahead of time to allow
          them enough time to review it before the meeting.
          9.4.1.2. E-mail the draft to tasked organizations if the plan is unclassified. Be sure
          you suspense them for return of the draft with their comments.
          9.4.1.3. Another option is to hand-carry your draft to the tasked organizations.
          9.4.1.4. The OPR will provide wing plans office with an electronic MFR listing
          major changes from the last published plan that is included within the revised plan.
   9.5. Approval and Signature. Once finalized, the OPR will obtain signatures on all
   annexes. The 56 FW/XP will secure 56 FW/CC’s approval and signature on the plan’s letter
   of transmittal and basic plan.
   9.6. Distribution. The wing plans and programs office will return the approved plan to the
   OPR, post it to the 56 FW Wing Plans library, and also post it on the Wing Plans and
   Programs SharePoint page. The OPR will forward it to all FAPRs and all non-Luke units
   and their respective AETC functional OPR’s, IAW and listed in Annex Z of the plan. Notify
   the wing plans office when distribution has been completed. Plan OPRs will keep Annex Z
   current and will issue a change when the list changes. (A pen and ink change is acceptable
   for minor, i.e., one office change – multiple office changes will require a page change.)
   9.7. Plan Suspenses. Plan OPRs and representatives will make every effort to ensure
   suspenses to 56 FW/XP are met. Reviews will be complete in 30 days. Requests for
   extensions will be submitted, in writing, NLT 10 days before established suspense date.
   Please include adequate justification in your request.
   9.8. Master Copy. Plan OPRs will retain the original (master copy) of their plans on file,
   together with all coordination and an electronic word version back up copy.
10. Plan Changes:
   10.1. When to Issue a Change. A plan will be changed, rather than revised, if total
   adjustments (any new or previously changed material) affect less than 40 percent of the plan.
   10.2. Coordination. Coordinate changes with all tasked organizations within Annex A of
   plan.
   10.3. Identifying Changes.
      10.3.1. The date of the change, date of the basic plan, and classification of the plan (if
      classified) must be included in paragraph 1 of the letter of transmittal. A transmittal letter
      is prepared for each change and the change is distributed to all addresses listed in Annex
      Z.
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012                                                                      11


       10.3.2. A copy of the distribution list must be attached to the letter of transmittal. If a
       new Annex Z is included as part of the change, a distribution list is not required. The
       ―MEMORANDUM FOR‖ element should read ―(Distribution Annex Z).‖
   10.4. Change Methods. All changes are made to the plans by wing plans and programs and
   posted to the SharePoint site. Users can download the plans with the changes already
   incorporated.
   10.5. Final Coordination. Submit all changes to 56 FW/XP in final, coordinated form.
   OPRs are sent a change sheet template to fill in the changes required. Plans finalize the
   change sheet and submit the change package to 56 FW/CV for signature.
   10.6. Post distribution. The 56 FW/XP will return the change to the OPR and post it on the
   plans Wing Plans and Programs SharePoint page. The OPR will forward it to all FAPRs and
   non-Luke units IAW Annex Z of the plan. Notify the 56 FW/XP when distribution has been
   completed.
11. Posting a Plan Change: The following procedures will be used to standardize posting of
changes to plans:
   11.1. 56 FW/XP will post an updated version with all changes included on the 56 FW Wing
   Plans and Programs SharePoint site.
   11.2. Use AF Form 310, Document Receipt and Destruction Certificate or AF Form 1565,
   Entry, Receipt, and Destruction Certificate, to transmit classified changes. When AF Forms
   310 or 1565 accompany a classified change, retain a copy with the plan and file it
   immediately after the change transmittal/instruction letter for the change. The other copy
   should be retained with the removed pages until the pages are destroyed. It should be
   complete and retained as the certificate of destruction.
12. Plan distribution. Distribution of wing plans will be kept to a minimum and limited to
those agencies with taskings. If requests for additions/deletions to wing plans distribution lists
are received by plan OPRs, evaluate the need and provide your recommendation to the wing
plans and programs office. This is important, since the wing plans and programs office is
charged with ensuring the number of plans distributed is kept to a minimum. Only those offices
listed in the Distribution List will be issued an official copy. If an office justifies a need for a
copy of the plan by sending a distribution change or a request for a copy through their squadron
or group and the request is approved by their commander and wing plans and programs, their
office will be added to the Distribution List (Annex Z). 56 FW/XP will ensure proper
distribution of base plans to tasked organizations. The assigned plan OPR will distribute final
copies of the plan to all non-Luke units and their respective AETC functional OPR’s and forward
a copy of that distribution message to the wing plans and programs office.
13. Annual/Biennial Review:
   13.1. All plans are required to be reviewed biennially during their anniversary month, or
   more frequently if directed by higher headquarter guidance. This review is to determine if a
   plan is current, if it needs to have a change issued, or if it needs to be revised. OPRs with
   plans that require a more frequent review from a higher headquarters directive will provide
   such documentation to the 56 FW/XP. The following processes should be followed:
12                                                          LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


     13.1.1. The 56 FW/XP will notify the plan OPR when an Annual/Biennial Review
     Notice is due. Notification is to be done prior to the first day of the anniversary month of
     the plan. The entire review process, from start to finish, should be completed within 30
     days.
     13.1.2. The 56 FW/XP and the plan OPR will establish a suspense for all tasked units to
     have the review inputs submitted.
     13.1.3. The 56 FW/XP will forward the Annual/Biennial Review to all group FAPRs.
     13.1.4. The group FAPRs will forward the notice to the tasked units FAPRs within their
     group.
     13.1.5. All tasked units FAPRs will coordinate the review process within their units and
     submit a response, Changes required or No changes required, to their group FAPR.
     13.1.6. The 56 FW/XP will coordinate the review process within the staff agencies and
     tenant units FAPRs. They will submit a response, Changes required or No changes
     required, back to the wing plans and programs office.
     13.1.7. Information will flow in reverse order, from the tasked unit, to the group FAPR,
     to the OPRs group FAPR, and then back to the plan OPR.
     13.1.8. If the plan is determined to still be current, all tasked units will be directed to
     annotate this on the ―Security Instructions/Records of Change/Review‖ page of the plan
     or the optional Excel document in lieu of each tasked plan’s page i.
  13.2. A change will be issued to a plan if changes affect less than 40 percent of the plan. A
  change will not affect the original date of the plan. All letters of transmittal for changes are
  signed by 56 FW/CV. The entire change process, from start to finish, should be completed
  within 45 days.
  13.3. Recommended changes will, at a minimum, contain the page number, paragraph
  number, and specifically what needs to be changed or deleted. If it is more than a word or
  unit/office symbol change, state the paragraph you want to change then state what you want
  the paragraph to say. The following processes should be followed:
     13.3.1. The plan OPR forwards a request for changes to their group FAPR, requesting it
     be forwarded to tasked units within their group, the three other group FAPRs, and wing
     plans and programs office.
     13.3.2. The three other group FAPRs will forward the plan to tasked units within their
     group. 56 FW/XP will forward to staff agencies and tenant units.
     13.3.3. Tasked units will review the plan and provide recommended changes to their
     group FAPR. Staff agencies and tenant units will provide recommended changes to wing
     plans and programs office.
     13.3.4. Information will flow in reverse order, from the tasked unit, to the group FAPR,
     to the OPRs group FAPR, and then back to the plan OPR.
     13.3.5. The OPR will complete a plan change document and submit it to wing plans and
     programs, through their group FAPR.
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012                                                               13


          13.3.5.1. The OPR will provide the 56 FW/XP with a MFR, summarizing major
          changes from the last published plan that is included within the revised plan.
          13.3.5.2. The 56 FW/XP will prepare and submit the plan change package for 56
          FW/CV approval. The package will include the change letter of transmittal, change
          document, and AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet.
          13.3.5.3. The OPR will maintain all changes received until the next anniversary
          review of the plan.
   13.4. A plan revision will be accomplished if changes affect more than 40 percent of the
   plan. A revision will change the original date of the plan. Tasked group coordination and
   annex signatures are required prior to final approval from 56 FW/CC. Request inputs for a
   revision in the same manner as you would for changes. The entire revision process, from
   start to finish, should be completed within 60 days.
      13.4.1. 56 FW/XP will review the draft plan for proper formatting.        Proper plan
      formatting can be found in the 56 FW Plans Guide.
      13.4.2. Once the draft plan has been prepared, wing plans and programs office will
      forward a group commander’s coordination and approval package to the group FAPRs.
      An AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet will be included with each package. These
      packages will be forwarded back to wing plans and programs.
      13.4.3. 56 FW/XP will provide the plan OPR with a single sided copy of the plan on
      which applicable annex signatures will be obtained. An AF Form 1768, Staff Summary
      Sheet will be included for each applicable annex owner. Annexes may be sent out
      individually to speed up the process. Each annex is required to be signed by the owning
      commander or functional area chief charged with overall responsibility for the annex.
      Their deputy may sign ―for‖ the commander or agency chief in their absence.
      13.4.4. 56 FW/XP will secure the 56 FW/CC’s approval and signature for all plans
      issued on Luke AFB.
      13.4.5. 56 FW/XP will convert the approved plan to PDF format and post it on the Wing
      Plans and Programs SharePoint site.
      13.4.6. 56 FW/XP will update 56 FW Index of Plans, 56 FW Synopsis of Plans, and
      notify all      56 FW FAPRs (via e-mail) updated versions are available on the 56 FW
      Wing Plans and Programs SharePoint site.
   13.5. The OPR will be provided the original signed plan package, original Staff Summary
   Sheets, and an electronic copy of the plan. The OPR will maintain all documentation until
   the next anniversary review of the plan.
14. Wing Plans and Programs Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs):
   14.1. 56 FW/XP will conduct annual SAVs for FAPRs using the checklist located within the
   56 FW Plans Guide. During the visit, the 56 FW/XP should, as a minimum:
      14.1.1. In-brief the commander/chief of the unit if available.
      14.1.2. Brief FAPRs on their responsibilities as listed in LUKEAFBI 10-401, and the 56
      FW Plans Guide.
 14                                                          LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


       14.1.3. FAPR group/squadron/unit continuity book contents.
       14.1.4. Outline plans preparation procedures, when appropriate.
       14.1.5. Check to ensure all required plans and changes are on hand and properly
       reviewed, annotated and maintained.
       14.1.6. Review base plans to ensure they are aware of, and can support, specific
       functional area taskings.
       14.1.7. Review checklists/operating instructions in support of taskings for adequacy and
       currency. This includes Crisis Action Team (CAT) unclassified checklists, when
       applicable.
       14.1.8. For those agencies maintaining classified plans and plans-related materials,
       review material to ensure it is current, needed, and properly marked.
       14.1.9. Provide on-the-spot assistance and guidance on plans matters.
       14.1.10. Out brief the commander after the visit, if requested.
       14.1.11. Obtain feedback from the FAPR.
   14.2. The 56 FW/XP will provide the FAPR a written report of the SAV and the suspense
   for a report of corrective action(s), if required. (All SAVs will be designated as
   ―Satisfactory‖ or ―Unsatisfactory.‖) The FAPR will respond IAW paragraph 6.12.3. The
   SAV report will identify date of visit, individual conducting the visit, personnel contacted,
   program support, findings, recommendations, observations, and other comments and
   suspense date for reply. Attachments 4 and 5 contain a sample SAV report and reply letter.
15. Operations Security (OPSEC): Protection of classified/unclassified plans, checklists and
plan's correspondence is vital to security of operations. FAPRs must remain aware at all times of
the need to safeguard information. The following security classifications are provided in
reference to DEFCONs and associated terms:
   15.1. Unless otherwise directed, any reference to the fact that an actual or exercise change in
   readiness condition is being considered, is taking place, or has been accomplished is
   classified SECRET. DEFCON exercise terms will be used in implementing messages
   instead of specific DEFCONs to minimize the possibility of confusing an exercise directive
   with an actual operations directive. All Exercise DEFCON change(s) will be announced via
   a secure means.
   15.2. The association of a DEFCON number or emergency conditions (EMERGCON) with
   its exercise term counterpart is unclassified, e.g., ―DEFCON 3 - ROUND HOUSE,‖ or
   ―Defense Emergency - HOT BOX,‖ unless it references the fact that an actual or exercise
   change in readiness condition is being considered, is taking place, or has been
   accomplished.
   15.3. Defense Emergency and Air Defense Emergency Terms (actual or exercise) and their
   definitions are UNCLASSIFIED.
   15.4. The fact that tests, exercises or drills are being conducted is not classified unless
   instructions are received to the contrary. Any combination of specifics of a readiness
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012                                                                   15


   exercise that would tend to reveal reaction timing, command capabilities or operations plans
   must be classified accordingly.
   15.5. During final coordination, all base OPlans will be reviewed by 56 FW/XP Wing
   OPSEC Program Manager.
16. Preparation of DEFCON Checklists:
   16.1. The primary means to pass classified DEFCON checklist items from the CAT to the
   Unit Control Center (UCC) is via STU-III or STE secure telephone and through
   Commander’s Staff Directives. Alternate means of communication will be through
   group/squadron/unit runners.
   16.2. Expansion of Checklist Actions. Work center checklists initiate each action by a short
   phrase or title. If work centers require greater detail for their operations, then development
   of more detailed instructions are authorized and may be unclassified so long as they contain
   no reference to any DEFCON and the action item itself is unclassified.
   16.3. Classification. Command Readiness Actions/Instructions necessary to attain a
   particular increased DEFCON (actual or exercise) must be classified SECRET whenever
   they are associated with their purpose i.e., the attainment of a DEFCON. For example,
   Command Readiness Actions/Instructions entitled ―DEFCON 3 Actions‖ or ―ROUND
   HOUSE Actions‖ that list actions necessary to attain that condition must be classified
   SECRET.
      16.3.1. Individual subheadings and actions may be unclassified; however, when they are
      compiled and associated with specific DEFCON or exercise terms, the list will be
      classified SECRET. Each checklist action will be classified according to content;
      however, a complete checklist or all readiness actions will not be classified lower than
      CONFIDENTIAL even though all actions are unclassified.
      16.3.2. Even though a checklist may contain no individual classified items, it still
      requires an overall classification if the combined items allude to a specific DEFCON.
   16.4. Marking. Each paragraph and subparagraph of your checklist must be classified
   according to its content. In addition, overall page-marking showing the highest classification
   contained in each page will be stamped at the top and bottom of each page, front and back.
   Leave enough space, in header/footer of the page, to allow for this.




                                            JERRY D. HARRIS, JR.
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 16                                                         LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance, 1 May 1998
AETCI 10-401, Contingency Plans Management, 21 December 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Luke AFB Instruction 90-201, Self Inspection Program, 13 December 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 310, Document Receipt and Destruction Certificate
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt, and Destruction Certificate
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CSD—Commander’s Staff Directive
DEFCON—Defense Condition
EMERGCON—emergency conditions
FAPR—Functional Area Plans Representative
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
FW—Fighter Wing
IAW—in accordance with
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MICT—Management Internal Control Tool
OCR—Office of Controlling Responsibility
OPlan—Operations Plans
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012            17


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SI—Self Inspections
UCC—Unit Control Center
WPWG—Wing Plans Working Group
18                                LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


                   Attachment 2
     SAMPLE FAPR APPOINTMENT LETTER FORMAT.
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012                             19


                              Attachment 3
             SAMPLE BIENNIAL REVIEW NOTICE FOR OPLAN.
20   LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012
LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012                                  21


                              Attachment 4
        SAMPLE STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT (SAV) REPORT FORMAT.
22                                           LUKEAFBI10-401 12 JULY 2012


                              Attachment 5
     SAMPLE REPLY FORMAT FOR STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT (SAV) REPORT.
