     NOTICE OF EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EO) COMPLAINTS
                            PROCESS
 Civilian (appropriated and nonappropriated)                   should contact the EO (Discrimination
 employees or applicants for employment who                    Complaints) Office within 45 calendar days
 believe they have been discriminated against                  of the date the alleged discriminatory event
 because of race, color, national origin, sex,                 occurred or the effective date of the alleged
 religion, age, disability (physical/mental), or               discriminatory personnel action.
 reprisal for prior EO complaint activity

                                              Pre-Complaint Process

     The aggrieved person contacts the EO Office at 623-856-7711 for information on the EO
      process, Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), and options available in resolving their
      concern. The EO counselor assigned to process informal complaints are either full-time EO
      counselors or permanent Luke employee volunteers trained and appointed by the
      Commander on a collateral-duty basis. ADR Mediators are volunteers that have been trained
      in ADR techniques. Neither the counselors nor the mediators are advocates for management
      or the complainant, but serve as an impartial third party.
     The counselor seeks resolution through informal fact-finding inquiries into the discrimination
      claim. The counselor’s inquiry includes talking with individual(s) alleged to have
      discriminated and witnesses with possible knowledge of the complaint issues. The mediator
      seeks resolution through a formal mediation with the parties involved in the claim.
     If resolution is not obtained through counseling or ADR the employee receives the notice of
      right to file with his/her rights to filing a formal complaint.
     The EO Office does not make discrimination findings or decide whether or not complaints
      have merit.

                                            Formal Complaint Process

     Within 15 calendar days of receipt of the notice of right to file, a formal written complaint
      can be filed with 56 FW/EO.
     DoD Investigations and Resolutions Division (IRD) will investigate accepted claims and
      amendments to the claim.
     IRD provides a report of investigation with an analysis of the complaint.
     The complainant can request a hearing by an EEOC Administrative Judge or a final Air
      Force decision.
     The Administrative Judge or the Agency will issue a final decision, which can be appealed to
      EEOC.
     After appeals are exhausted, the complainant can file a civil action.


                                     EQUAL OPPORTUNITY OFFICE
                                       Bldg. 1150, 2nd Fl., Room 2112
                                             Tel: 623-856-7711
                                     Director: Mr. Ronald S. Goodwyn

Luke AFB VA 36-1, 11 October 2011                                (Per AFI 36-2706)       OPR: 56 FW/EO
Supersedes LAFB VA 36-1, 1 November 2008
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
www.e-Publishing.af.mil and Luke AFB SharePoint site at
https://luke.eis.aetc.af.mil/56MSG/CS/56_SCO/SCOK/SCOKP/LUKE%20AFB%20VISUAL%20AIDS%20VA/Forms/AllItems.aspx. for
downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
