BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         LUKE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 10-201
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                           19 NOVEMBER 2013
                                                          Certified Current on 12 September 2014
                                                                                      Operations

                                                     PYRAMID RECALL SYSTEM (PRS) AND
                                                      CRISIS ACTION TEAM PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 FW/XP                                                              Certified by: 56 FW/XP
OCR: 56 FW/CP and 56 FSS/FSOXI                                            (Maj Travis S. Peterson)
Supersedes: LUKEAFBI 10-201,                                                              Pages: 28
            1 May 2009


Authority for this instruction is derived from AETCI 10-202, Contingency Operations and
Preparations and implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-2, Readiness and AFI 36-3803,
Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National Emergencies. This
instruction establishes procedures and responsibilities for the notification, accountability, and/or
recall of personnel and Commander’s Crisis Action Team (CAT) procedures under actual and/or
exercise situations. It applies to all units assigned to the 56th Fighter Wing (56 FW) and tenant
units assigned to Luke AFB to include all active duty Air Force personnel, Luke AFB civilian
personnel, and ANG/Reserve personnel who are Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA)
assigned to the 56 FW. Recall of the 944th Fighter Wing (944 FW) will be directed by their
commander. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes include
publication title change and clarification of Recall and Communication Alert procedures as
 2                                                                           LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


related to accountability; specifically the back page of the PRS has been revised. In addition,
AFPAAS and At Hoc procedures have been added.

        1.      General. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Recalls and Communication Alerts. ......................................................................                       4
        3.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        8
        4.      Accountability Procedures and Personnel Strength/Accountability Reporting: ....                                               13
        5.      CAT Operations. ....................................................................................................          14
        6.      CAT Equipment Requirements: .............................................................................                     15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                17

Attachment 2—SAMPLE RECALL ROSTER (FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)                                                                                     19

Attachment 3—COMMANDERS NON-AVAILABILITY LETTER                                                                                               22

Attachment 4—FIRST SERGEANTS NON-AVAILABILITY LETTER                                                                                          23

Attachment 5—CAT RECALL PYRAMID                                                                                                               24

Attachment 6—SAMPLE RECALL STRENGHT REPORTING SLIDE                                                                                           25

Attachment 7—FORCE ACCOUNTABILITY TOOL TEMPLATE                                                                                               27


1. General.
     1.1. Definitions.
        1.1.1. AF key civilian position, IAW AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work, is
        “[a] federal civilian position in the United States or US territories that must be filled
        during a national emergency or mobilization, and which, if vacant, would seriously
        impair the functioning of a federal agency or office”. A position should not be identified
        as key unless the position would be very hard to fill and no alternative arrangement is
        available to meet the requirement during mobilization.
        1.1.2. AF emergency-essential civilian position, IAW AFI 36-507, is “[a] civilian
        position located overseas or that would be transferred overseas during a crisis situation,
        or which requires the incumbent to perform temporary duty assignments overseas during
        a crisis in support of a military operation”.
        1.1.3. Luke AFB key civilian position for recall purposes is one identified by a
        commander as being essential for unit functionality during a recall. Depending on the
        purpose of the recall, positions identified as key may vary. Commanders should be aware
        that civilian employees who are called back to work for any purpose are entitled to be
        paid a minimum of two hours overtime.
        1.1.4. Leave, Pass, and TDY are defined in AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program.
        Group Control Centers (GCCs), Unit Control Centers (UCCs), or Unit Control Managers
        (UCMs) must ensure members meet the stated criteria when determining duty status.
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                               3


         1.1.4.1. 56th Force Support Squadron Customer Support (56 FSS/FSMPC), is the
         point of contact for duty status inquiries.
     1.1.5. IAW AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, para 3.1. Personnel.
     Active duty units will not count ANG and Reserve personnel unless gained by the unit as
     a result of mobilization (i.e. IMA gained).
  1.2. Concept of Operations. The primary way of recalling personnel is a Pyramid Recall
  System (PRS). The purpose of the PRS is to provide for immediate recall, alerting, and/or
  accountability of personnel. The 56 FW/CC or designated representative will direct recall of
  Luke AFB personnel in response to wartime contingencies, natural disasters, or peacetime
  exercises. Recalls begin with direction from the 56 FW/CC or designated representative to
  the Command Post (CP). The CP then notifies group/detachment commanders, Emergency
  Operations Center (EOC), Crisis Action Team (CAT), tenant units, and Installation Personnel
  Readiness (IPR), as applicable. The group/detachment commanders notify their UCCs or
  UCMs and squadron commanders under their control. The Wing Staff Agency Chiefs notify
  personnel under their control who notify specific persons in their section. All UCCs will use
  the strength reporting tool or appropriate notification process (refer to para. 4).
     1.2.1. IAW AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program and Planning
     and Operations, para 2.5.12. [GCCs and] UCCs provide response and recovery support
     to the Incident Commander as directed by the EOC and mission support to the
     Installation Commander as directed by the CAT. The EOC and CAT resolve any
     conflicting requirements. UCCs provide a focal point within an organization to maintain
     unit C2, relay information to and from unit personnel, provide expertise to the EOC or
     Incident Commander, and leverage unit resources to respond to and mitigate the incident.
     Unit Commanders will assign knowledgeable personnel to the EOC, [UCM, GCC,] and
     UCC to facilitate mission accomplishment.
     1.2.2. All Groups, Squadrons, applicable Tenant Units and applicable Staff Agencies
     will maintain a GCC, UCC or UCM in accordance with LUKEAFBI 10-2501,
     Emergency Management Planning and Operations, paragraph 2.7.
         1.2.2.1. All GCCs, UCCs or UCMs, once activated, will not stand down until
         directed by CP per direction of the 56 FW/CC or designee.
     1.2.3. It is the responsibility of each organization to develop and keep a current PRS that
     will allow immediate recall of personnel. Each unit’s roster will be updated NLT than
     the 5th day of every month. All recall rosters must contain, as a minimum: current date,
     name, grade, residence address, residence telephone number, cellular phone/pager
     number (if applicable), a header which identifies the organization, and a Privacy Act
     statement. Rosters will be marked “For Official Use Only”. Attachment 2 contains an
     example PRS roster. Reverse side of the roster will contain the information in
     Attachment 2.
         1.2.3.1. Ensure Luke AFB key civilians are identified for recall by their organization
         and placed on organizational recall rosters.
     1.2.4. Individuals who are notified or recalled directly by the CP are responsible for
     keeping the CP informed of their location. In the event they will not be available, they
     will immediately inform the CP of their alternate’s name, location, and contact numbers.
 4                                                   LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


        Individuals are responsible for briefing their replacements on duties to be performed and
        will notify the CP of any changes to key personnel rosters.
        1.2.5. Squadron Commanders and First Sergeants will submit a non-availability letter to
        their respective group commander, CP, and Security Forces if designated alternates will
        not be available. Attachments 3 and 4 contain example letters that may be sent
        electronically.
2. Recalls and Communication Alerts. Recalls provide commanders the ability to call in
personnel to duty.       Communication Alerts provide commanders the ability to pass
information/instructions and direct 100% accountability without recalling personnel to duty.
During any Recall/Comm Alert, group commanders are responsible for notifying squadron
commanders as applicable and IAW Attachment 2. Personnel reporting to duty for recall
purposes will wear operational (utility) uniform vice UOD.
     2.1. Recall ALPHA. Used to recall all Luke AFB personnel to report to their respective
     duty location. All units initiate a recall with 100% notification and accountability IAW the
     PRS.
        2.1.1. All active duty personnel, Luke AFB civilian personnel, and IMAs gained by 56
        FW units are recalled immediately to their duty stations using the PRS. Include
        personnel on leave, crew rest, shift, or on authorized pass. All assigned personnel must
        physically report for duty as soon as possible. All personnel will be en route within 30
        minutes of recall notification.
        2.1.2. Recall tenant units immediately to their duty stations using the PRS.
        2.1.3. Activate the Crisis Action Team (CAT), IPR, all GCCs, UCCs or UCMs. All
        functional areas routinely conducting 24-hour operations or requiring crew rest (i.e.,
        security forces, fire department, pilots, medical providers, and controllers) may be
        recalled or placed on telephone standby as determined by their respective commander.
        2.1.4. Resource Augmentee Duty (READY) Augmentees currently performing security
        duty will be recalled and accounted for by the Security Forces Squadron. Other
        personnel with READY security responsibilities who are not currently assigned to SFS
        will be recalled and accounted for by their normal duty organization. Once accounted for
        they will immediately report to the Security Forces Squadron.
     2.2. Recall BRAVO. Used to recall 56 FW personnel to report to their respective duty
     location. All directed units initiate a recall with 100% notification and accountability IAW
     the PRS and the exceptions listed below.
        2.2.1. All active duty personnel, Luke AFB key civilian personnel, and IMAs gained by
        56 FW units are recalled immediately to their duty stations using the PRS.
            2.2.1.1. Do not contact personnel on shift work or crew rest; account for them, but
            allow them to report to duty for their normal shift. Deviations per scenario are at
            commander discretion.
            2.2.1.2. Do not contact personnel on leave or TDY, but account for them.
            2.2.1.3. Do not recall tenant units or 944 FW personnel.
        2.2.2. Do not activate the CAT unless otherwise directed.
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                5


     2.2.3. Do not activate READY augmentees unless otherwise directed.
  2.3. Recall CHARLIE. Used to recall a specific group, squadron, or agency to report to
  their respective duty location. All directed units initiate a recall with 100% notification and
  accountability IAW the PRS, or as directed by unit commander.
     2.3.1. Installation Commander will direct the CP to recall applicable group
     commander(s) and/or staff agencies to report to their duty location. CP will contact
     personnel, as directed by installation commander, to report for duty as soon as possible.
     All personnel will be en route within 30 minutes of recall notification.
         2.3.1.1. Group commanders and/or staff agencies will recall required
         squadrons/agencies to their duty station using the PRS. If directed, the IPR, GCCs,
         UCCs or UCMs will stand up immediately upon notification of a Recall CHARLIE.
     2.3.2. Installation Commander will direct the CP to recall applicable tenant units to
     report to their duty location.
     2.3.3. Do not activate the CAT unless otherwise directed.
     2.3.4. Do not activate READY augmentees unless otherwise directed.
  2.4. Recall DELTA. Used to recall active duty military personnel to report to their
  respective duty location. All directed units initiate a recall with 100% notification and
  accountability IAW the PRS and the exceptions listed below.
     2.4.1. All active duty personnel and IMAs gained by 56 FW units are recalled
     immediately to their duty stations using the PRS. Contacted personnel must physically
     report for duty as soon as possible. All personnel will be en route within 30 minutes of
     recall notification. The IPR, GCCs, UCCs or UCMs will stand up immediately upon
     notification of a Recall Delta.
         2.4.1.1. Do not contact personnel on shift work or crew rest; account for them, but
         allow them to report to duty for their normal shift. Deviations per scenario are at
         commander discretion.
         2.4.1.2. Do not contact personnel on leave or TDY, but account for them.
         2.4.1.3. Do not contact Luke AFB civilian personnel.
         2.4.1.4. Do not recall tenant units or 944 FW personnel.
     2.4.2. Do not activate the CAT unless otherwise directed.
  2.5. Recall ECHO (Comm-Out). Used to recall personnel whenever the wing sustains an
  overall communications failure or if the nature of the threat and need for security dictate and
  must be used in conjunction with ALPAH, BRAVO, CHARLIE, or DELTA recalls.
  Squadrons and duty sections should group their personnel into cells by location where
  personnel live. The process directs individuals to walk or drive to the next individual’s
  residence to pass the information on concerning the recall.
  2.6. Communication Alert. Used to pass information/instructions or direct 100%
  accountability of Luke AFB personnel or specific group/squadron/tenant unit(s) without
  recalling personnel to their respective duty location. Notification of a Communication Alert
  is for accountability purposes unless further accompanied by message traffic. Examples of a
6                                                   LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


    Communication Alert are: personnel accountability, placing personnel on telephone standby,
    Pyramid Recall System tests, or any other information the FW/CC needs relayed. UCCs or
    UCMs will be activated at commander discretion; Communication Alerts will be tracked via
    commanders in the absence of a UCC or UCM.
       2.6.1. Communication Alert ALPHA. The same procedures used in Recall Alpha
       without requiring personnel to report for duty. If activated, GCC, UCCs, or UCMs report
       to duty station and will track message traffic. IPR will report to duty location for
       reporting requirements or when directed by the commander. All units will initiate 100%
       notification and accountability IAW the PRS.
           2.6.1.1. All active duty personnel, Luke AFB civilian personnel, and IMAs gained by
           56 FW units are contacted using the PRS. The last person contacted in the chain will
           contact the first person in the chain and state who was and was not contacted and their
           status. Contact information will flow back to the squadron commander (if no UCC or
           UCM activated), UCCs or UCMs, through the GCCs, and to the IPR.
           2.6.1.2. Contact tenant units using the PRS. The last person contacted in the chain
           will contact the first person in the chain and state who was and was not contacted and
           their status. Contact information will flow back to the squadron commander (if no
           UCC or UCM activated), UCCs or UCMs through the GCCs, and to the IPR. If GCCs
           are not activated, group commanders will report status to IPR.
           2.6.1.3. All functional areas routinely conducting 24-hour operations or requiring
           crew rest (i.e., security forces, fire department, pilots, medical providers, and
           controllers) will be contacted.
           2.6.1.4. Do not activate the CAT unless otherwise directed.
           2.6.1.5. Do not activate READY augmentees unless otherwise directed.
       2.6.2. Communication Alert BRAVO. The same procedures used in Recall BRAVO
       without requiring personnel to report for duty. If activated, GCCs, UCCs, or UCMs
       report to duty station and will track message traffic. IPR will report to duty location for
       reporting requirements or when directed by commander. All directed units will initiate
       100% notification and accountability IAW the PRS and the exceptions listed below.
           2.6.2.1. All active duty personnel, Luke AFB key civilian personnel, and IMAs
           gained by 56 FW units are contacted using the PRS. The last person contacted in the
           chain will contact the first person in the chain and state who was and was not
           contacted and their status. Contact information will flow back to the squadron
           commander (if no UCC or UCM activated), UCCs or UCMs through the GCCs, and
           to the IPR. If GCCs are not activated, group commanders will report status to IPR.
           2.6.2.2. Do not contact personnel on shift work, crew rest, leave, or TDY, but
           account for them. Deviations per scenario are at commander discretion.
           2.6.2.3. Do not contact tenant units or 944 FW personnel.
           2.6.2.4. Do not activate the CAT unless otherwise directed.
           2.6.2.5. Do not activate READY augmentees unless otherwise directed.
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                               7


     2.6.3. Communication Alert CHARLIE. The same procedures used in Recall
     CHARLIE without requiring personnel to report for duty. If activated, GCCs, UCCs or
     UCMs report to duty station and will track message traffic. IPR will report to duty
     location for reporting requirements or when directed by commander. All directed units
     will initiate 100% notification and accountability IAW the PRS, or as directed by unit
     commander.
         2.6.3.1. Installation Commander will direct the CP to contact applicable group
         commander(s) and/or staff agencies.
         2.6.3.2. Group commanders and/or staff agencies will contact required
         squadrons/agencies using the PRS. The last person contacted in the chain will contact
         the first person in the chain and state who was and was not contacted and their status.
         Contact information will flow back to the squadron commander (if no UCC or UCM
         activated), UCCs or UCMs, through the GCCs, and to the IPR. If GCCs are not
         activated, group commanders will report status to IPR.
         2.6.3.3. Installation Commander will direct the CP to contact applicable tenant units.
         The last person contacted in the chain will contact the first person in the chain and
         state who was and was not contacted and their status. Contact information will flow
         back to the squadron commander (if no UCC or UCM activated) , UCCs or UCMs,
         through the GCCs, and to the IPR. If GCCs are not activated, tenant commanders
         will report status via group commander or direct to IPR as applicable.
         2.6.3.4. Do not activate the CAT unless otherwise directed.
         2.6.3.5. Do not activate READY augmentees unless otherwise directed.
     2.6.4. Communication Alert DELTA. The same procedures used in Recall DELTA
     without requiring personnel to report for duty. If activated, UCCs or UCMs report to
     duty station and will track message traffic. IPR will report to duty location for reporting
     requirements or directed by commander. All directed units will initiate 100% notification
     and accountability IAW the PRS and the exceptions listed below.
         2.6.4.1. All active duty personnel and IMAs gained by 56 FW units are contacted
         using the PRS. The last person contacted in the chain will contact the first person in
         the chain and state who was and was not contacted and their status. Contact
         information will flow back to the squadron commander (if no UCC or UCM
         activated), UCCs or UCMs, through the GCCs, and to the IPR. If GCCs are not
         activated, group commanders will report status to IPR.
         2.6.4.2. Do not contact personnel on shift work, crew rest, leave, or TDY, but
         account for them. Deviations per scenario are at commander discretion.
         2.6.4.3. Do not contact Luke AFB civilian personnel. Do not recall tenant units or
         944 FW personnel.
         2.6.4.4. Do not activate the CAT unless otherwise directed.
         2.6.4.5. Do not activate READY augmentees unless otherwise directed.
  2.7. CAT Recall. The Crisis Action Team is a specialized group of personnel designated by
  the commander to monitor, control, coordinate, and/or direct actions in the 56 FW. The
 8                                                   LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


     primary location for CAT operations is the 56 FW CP, building S-11. Area 3 on the
     restricted area badge is required for personnel that perform CAT duties at the primary
     location. The alternate location for forming the CAT will be declared by the FW/CC at the
     56 FW Wing Conference Room, building 452 or the 944th CAT, building 988. There are two
     types of CAT Recalls: Key CAT Recall and Expanded CAT Recall.
        2.7.1. Key CAT Recall. Consists of the following commanders and staff agencies or
        respective designated alternates: 56 FW/CC, FW/CV, FW/CCC, OG/CC, MSG/CC,
        MXG/CC, MDG/CC, RMO/CC, CIT DIR, FW/PA, FW/JA, FW/ATO, FW/SE, FW/DS,
        FW/XP, and 944 FW/CC. Select recall vice all Key CAT members or addition of OG/IN,
        OSI, FW/HC, FW/CCP, and FW/MEO will be at the discretion of 56 FW/CC or
        designated representative.
            2.7.1.1. The CP is responsible for contacting wing leadership through group
            commanders, along with 56 FW/DS, 56 FW/XP, and tenant units when applicable.
            56 FW/DS is responsible for notifying each remaining FWSA. 56 FW/CCE will be
            the alternate for agency contact when FW/DS is not available.
        2.7.2. Expanded CAT Recall. The Expanded CAT consists of the Key CAT plus all
        squadron commanders. Group commanders are responsible for notifying squadron/unit
        commanders during an Expanded CAT recall.
            2.7.2.1. See Attachment 5 for CAT recall pyramid.
        2.7.3. All Key CAT members will have a plan in-place to allow for 24-hr operations in
        the CAT, as required by the incident.
        2.7.4. CAT members will be trained in CAT duties, complete AF Emergency Response
        Operations (AERO) CBT (ADLS Course ZZ133097), local AERO training, and possess a
        SECRET security clearance as a minimum. All CAT members will have the current
        Luke AFB Restricted Area Badge with area 3 open.
     2.8. Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Recall: The 56 MSG/CC, or his designated
     alternate, will recall the EOC, through the CP, to support the 56 FW/CC during an
     emergency situation or major accident/ incident. A major accident or incident may include:
     hazardous material, Class A mishap, extensive property damage, grave risk of injury or death
     to installation personnel or the general public, or adverse public reaction. Refer to the
     Installation Emergency Management PLAN 10-2 (IEMP), for specific instructions on this
     recall.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. 56 FW/CC or designated representative:
        3.1.1. Direct CP to initiate specific Recalls/Communication Alerts as required.
        3.1.2. Direct implementation of higher headquarters directives, Defense Condition
        (DEFCON), and/or Force Protection Condition (FPCON).
        3.1.3. Determine organizational representation required after a CAT recall.
        3.1.4. Direct when Commander’s Staff Directives (CSDs) will be drafted and published.
        3.1.5. Approve all CSDs prior to release.
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              9


     3.1.6. Appoint a CAT Director to act as the Commander’s representative during absence
     from the CAT.
  3.2. Group Commanders:
     3.2.1. Serve as Key CAT members. Exception: MSG/CC to EOC as director if EOC
     activated.
     3.2.2. Notify squadron/unit commanders when a Recall, Communication Alert, or
     Expanded CAT has been initiated.
     3.2.3. Establish PRS rosters IAW with guidance within this instruction and Attachment
     2. Group/Squadron/Tenant Unit POCs will review recall rosters monthly for accuracy
     and post updates by the 5th of each month.
     3.2.4. Each organization must ensure recall rosters include Luke AFB key civilian
     personnel and IMAs gained by 56 FW units. The Base Individual Mobilization
     Augmentee Administrator (BIMAA) will furnish Unit Reserve Coordinators with a
     monthly information roster, reflecting pertinent recall information on each assigned IMA.
     IMA personnel can only be recalled by higher headquarters tasking.
     3.2.5. Ensure all Group, Squadron, and Tenant Unit UCC personnel attend training IAW
     AFI 10-2501, para. 2.7. (CE Readiness Flight).
     3.2.6. Ensure their respective GCC and squadron UCCs or UCMs are staffed and trained
     to implement Recall/Communication Alert procedures in an accurate and timely manner.
     3.2.7. The FSS/IPR will train all Group, Squadron, and Tenant UCCs or UCMs in
     strength reporting procedures.
     3.2.8. Identify a list of group representatives to perform CAT duties during sustained
     operations. Representatives will be trained in CAT duties, complete AF Emergency
     Response Operations (AERO) CBT (ADLS Course ZZ133097) and possess a SECRET
     security clearance as a minimum. All CAT members will have the current Luke AFB
     Restricted Area Badge with area 3 open.
        3.2.8.1. Identify a single point of contact for scheduling representatives. Schedules
        will include name, rank, home and duty phone numbers. Provide schedule to 56
        FW/XP during sustained operations.
        3.2.8.2. OG/CC will identify a cadre of rated officers (excluding students in training)
        to perform duties as OG/CC in his/her absence. These individuals may perform OG
        and CAT Director duties simultaneously.
            3.2.8.2.1. 56 FW/XP manages and schedules this cadre. 56 FW/CV will
            deconflict scheduling problems (TDY, leave, illness) once cadre members are
            scheduled through 56 FW/XP.
  3.3. Subordinate Commanders, Staff Agency Chiefs, and Tenant Commanders:
     3.3.1. Appoint a recall monitor in units below the squadron level to be responsible for
     consolidating unit strength data and reporting it to their UCC or UCM, who will in turn
     report the data to the applicable GCC.
     3.3.2. 56 FW Staff Agencies will report strength/accountability data to 56 CPTS.
10                                                LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


     3.3.3. Ensure their respective UCC or UCM is staffed and trained to implement recall
     procedures in an accurate and timely manner.
     3.3.4. Maintain a PRS Roster. Recall rosters will contain, as a minimum: current date, a
     header which identifies the organization, name, grade, residence address, residence
     telephone number, cellular phone/pager number (if applicable), a Privacy Act statement
     and will be marked “For Official Use Only.” See Attachment 2.
        3.3.4.1. Ensure Luke AFB key civilians are identified for recall on organizational
        recall rosters.
     3.3.5. Ensure POCs review standby letters and recall rosters monthly for accuracy and
     post updates by the 5th of each month.
     3.3.6. Develop procedures to ensure all unit personnel are recalled and able to report to
     their duty section NLT 30 minutes after notification. If personnel live beyond the 30
     minute window, identify those personnel on the recall roster to be able to determine
     capability to meet mission needs with limited personnel.
     3.3.7. Those units with a CAT position will identify a list of representatives to perform
     CAT duties during sustained operations. Representatives will be trained in CAT duties,
     complete AF Emergency Response Operations (AERO) CBT (ADLS Course ZZ133097),
     local AERO training, and possess a SECRET security clearance as a minimum. All CAT
     members will have the current Luke AFB Restricted Area Badge with area 3 open.
     3.3.8. Provide information to the CAT Coordinator (CATC) for a CSD if their section is
     the POC.
  3.4. CP:
     3.4.1. Maintain current recall rosters and standby letters (if applicable) on all 56 FW and
     tenant units assigned or attached to Luke AFB. A current list of tenant units and
     associated quick-reference POC listing will be maintained and updated by the CP.
     3.4.1.1. The Command Post will ensure procedures are developed and maintained to
     ensure all tenant units and 56 FW personnel stationed at geographically separated
     locations are notified of a Recall/Communication Alert, as directed by the 56 FW/CC.
     The 56 FW/CC or designated representative will determine under which circumstances
     the units will participate (i.e. selection of Recall/Comm Alert ALPHA, BRAVO,
     CHARLIE, or DELTA or as directed).
     3.4.2. Maintain quick reaction checklist to initiate Recalls or Communication Alerts.
     3.4.3. Maintain a locator board of key wing leadership personnel location and status.
     3.4.4. Initiate Recalls/Communication Alerts of personnel and agencies as directed by
     appropriate authority and launch the recall database tool.
     3.4.5. Submit applicable Operational Report (OPREP)/Situation Report (SITREP) as
     required by the situation to Higher Headquarters.
     3.4.6. Notify the AETC Command Center when the CAT has been activated.
     3.4.7. Maintain procedures to post and disseminate CSDs.
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              11


     3.4.8. Assume CSD preparation duties in the absence of an active CAT.
     3.4.9. Initiate activation of the IPR, if applicable.
     3.4.10. Activate the Installation Notification and Warning System (INWS) IAW LAFBI
     10-2501.
         3.4.10.1. Initiate and post Luke AFB AtHoc messages as directed/applicable. When
         sending mass AtHoc messages, consider multiple “sends” in priority order (i.e. Senior
         CAT members prior to Luke AFB All).
  3.5. IPR:
     3.5.1. Immediately report to duty upon notification of a Recall, Communications Alert,
     and/or when directed.
     3.5.2. Monitor    strength/accountability      reporting    and  provide      CP     with
     strength/accountability report updates starting at Recall/Comm Alert start time (ST) plus
     1.5 hours and every 30 minutes thereafter, unless otherwise directed. CP will report
     strength to 56 FW/CC or designee hourly. In the event of a COMM-Out, IPR will report
     strength information from group/tenant UCCs IAW Para. 4 and Attachment 6.
     Information passed to CP will be given to 56 FW/CC for review or the CAT Director in
     the 56 FW/CC’s absence.
     3.5.3. Conduct training on strength accounting and reporting with all GCCs, UCCs or
     UCMs. Accomplish this training within 30 days of initial appointment and annually
     thereafter in conjunction with the EOC/UCC training provided by 56 CES/CEX, IAW
     AFI 10-2501. IPR must maintain documented training.
     3.5.4. Provide Total Force Accountability (TFA) and AFPAAS training to all designated
     CORs IAW AFI 36-3803.
     3.5.5. Maintain a current roster of all CORs, GCC, UCC and UCM members.
  3.6. CAT Coordinator (CATC):
     3.6.1. Coordinate CAT activities including accomplishment of contingency checklists
     and coordination of message traffic leaving the wing for HHQ.
     3.6.2. Primary CATC will be 56 FW/XP, Chief of Wing Plans and Programs. In
     coordination with 56 OG/CC, 56 FW/XP will schedule all augmentees filling CAT
     Director and/or Coordinator duties.
     3.6.3. Establish CAT procedures for the 56 FW/CC and train designated personnel
     required for the administrative staff and any alternate coordinators to include training on
     the Pyramid Recall System.
     3.6.4. Maintain CAT Binders for each key member as a back-up to digital procedures .
     3.6.5. Binders will contain the appropriate checklists and copies of source plans for
     wartime contingencies, natural disasters, and peacetime exercises. These checklists will
     come from the appropriate plans, or be synthesized from applicable instructions.
     3.6.6. Monitor the status of wing DEFCON and FPCON actions.
12                                                LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


     3.6.7. Review incoming and outgoing messages and ensure all related taskings are
     complete.
     3.6.8. Assist in managing CAT activities (not applicable during sustained operations).
     3.6.9. Draft CSDs per direction of the 56 FW/CC or designated representative.
         3.6.9.1. Secure 56 FW/CC or designated representative’s signature on all CSDs prior
         to publication.
         3.6.9.2. Provide 56 FW/CP a signed and electronic copy of all CSDs for publication.
     3.6.10. Brief the CAT as required at meetings. During any CAT recall, the following
     briefing items are covered:
         3.6.10.1. Situation: A summary of events leading up to the current situation.
         3.6.10.2. Intelligence: 56 FW Anti-terrorism Officer (ATO), Air Force Office of
         Special Investigations (AFOSI) Special Agent, Intelligence Officer (IO) or other
         Threat Working Group representative will provide a briefing containing information
         of local and national threats as applicable, along with pertinent intelligence
         information that may impact the situation.
         3.6.10.3. Required Action Items: A summary of contingency plans providing options
         and requirements for response.
         3.6.10.4. Current Status: Completed or pending actions, delays and causes, and
         estimated completion times, etc.
         3.6.10.5. Security Precautions: Physical, document, communications and operations
         security pertaining to the situation, FPCON status, and recommendations for future
         implementation.
  3.7. All personnel:
     3.7.1. Provide unit recall monitor with name, grade, residence address, residence
     telephone number, and cell phone/pager number, as applicable. In addition, update
     personnel information in Luke AtHoc to include the following sections: My Info, My
     Device Info, and Base Specific Info. Contact your GCC/UCC if you need help updating.
     3.7.2. Notify supervisor and unit recall monitor immediately when information on recall
     roster changes.
     3.7.3. Upon notification of recall, complete PRS actions, and be en route to their duty
     sections in the utility uniform within 30 minutes of recall notification, unless otherwise
     directed. READY Augmentees and personnel with READY security responsibilities will
     adhere to guidance associated with Recalls/Communication Alerts.
         3.7.3.1. Contacted individuals will initiate their portion of the telephone Pyramid
         Recall System, as detailed in their unit recall procedures. Make contact with each
         individual personally. Information on the mission tasking will not be relayed; discuss
         only the reporting instructions. If an individual cannot be reached, contact the next
         person in the recall chain. Advise your UCC or UCM on personnel that could not be
         reached and that were skipped in the pyramid.
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   13


          3.7.3.2. All instructor pilots will contact the flying squadron to which they are
          assigned. Attached pilots will remain at their normal duty station unless the flying
          squadron commander declares the need for all pilots to report-in. Attached pilots will
          notify their respective UCC or UCM and report as directed. Squadron pilot trainees
          will notify their assigned duty section they are present for duty.
          3.7.3.3. All personnel will update and utilize AFPAAS IAW AFI 36-3803. AFPAAS
          website and the AFPC/PRC toll-free number is located on each recall roster (see
          Attachment 2).
4. Accountability Procedures and Personnel Strength/Accountability Reporting:
   4.1. Reporting. Personnel strength reporting and accountability reporting both provide
   commanders with the number of personnel accounted for at any given time. Personnel
   strength reporting is primarily used for recalls as it provides the duty status (present for duty,
   leave, TDY, etc.) of individual members, and in a recall, personnel must report to their
   unit(s) to be present for duty. Communication Alerts are primarily used for accountability
   reporting as it provides only the number of personnel verbally or visually confirmed as safe
   or secure.
      4.1.1. Personnel strength reporting is implemented in conjunction with any recall and
      begins at the Recall start time (ST). All UCCs or UCMs will report personnel strength
      data to their respective GCCs prior to ST plus 1.5 hours, ensuring sufficient time for
      GCCs to compile data and report to IPR at ST plus 1.5 hours. GCCs, UCCs, and UCMs
      will continue to report personnel strength every 30 minutes until 100% recall status is
      achieved.
          4.1.1.1. Strength reporting data will include: total assigned, present for duty, TDY,
          leave, other (i.e., hospital, prison), and percent accounted for. The strength reporting
          tool is an Excel product based upon current information imported from MilPDS.
          Duty status updates made by the UCCs or UCMs will be reflected in total strength
          numbers on the worksheet. Each UCC or UCM will use a hardcopy version of the
          worksheet format (see Attachment 6) as backup to the strength reporting tool in the
          event of relocation or communication outage. Each group and unit is responsible for
          maintaining all worksheets.
      4.1.2. Accountability reporting via Communication Alerts will be initiated by the CP at
      the direction of the 56 FW/CC, EOC Dir, or authorized designee. Using the Force
      Accountability Tool (Attachment 7), all UCCs or UCMs will report accountability data to
      their respective GCCs prior to the Comm Alert start time plus 1.5 hours, ensuring
      sufficient time for GCCs to compile data and report to IPR at start time plus 1.5 hours.
      GCCs, UCCs, and UCMs will continue to report accountability data every 30 minutes
      until 100% accountability status is achieved. All efforts should be taken to verbally or
      visually confirm safety of respective personnel. If not contacted at work, on cell phone,
      or at home, units will continue to attempt to locate the individual. After attempting to
      contact all personnel, report missing names to GCCs using the “Unaccounted For” tab on
      the Force Accountability Tool and continue to attempt to find remaining personnel.
      Unless directed, do not contact shift workers or personnel on crew rest that are known to
      be off-base; exception could be for off-base contingencies requiring associated
 14                                                 LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


      accountability of off-base personnel or as directed by procedures in the PRS (i.e.
      Recall/Comm Alert ALPHA).
   4.2. IPR Procedures. IPR will provide the GCCs a strength, Leaveweb, and DTS roster
   everytime an accountability event takes place. Every GCC is to review and print a hard copy
   of the strength roster which will be maintained in their continuity binder in preparation for
   Comm-Out Recall (ECHO) requirement.
   4.3. Comm-Out Reporting. In the event of a Comm-Out Recall (ECHO), UCCs or UCMs
   will report strength to their respective GCCs telephonically or with a runner. GCCs will
   report for their squadrons directly to the IPR using the printed out, manual accounting format
   from Attachment 6. IPR will provide status updates to the 56 FW/CC through the CP.
   4.4. Recalls. For Recalls, group, squadron, or other UCCs or UCMs must be able to inform
   commanders of available manpower pool. As a guide, use the following objectives:
      4.4.1. Fifteen percent of personnel accounted for within 1.5 hours.
      4.4.2. Sixty-five percent of personnel accounted for within 3 hours.
      4.4.3. Eighty-five percent of personnel accounted for within 4 hours.
   4.5. AFPAAS. IAW AFI 36-3803, all individuals and units will utilize the Air Force
   Personnel Accountability and Assessment System (AFPAAS) for Total Force Accountability
   (TFA).    All organizations responsible for UCCs will have Commanding Officer
   Representatives (CORs) with AFPAAS access trained and in-place, as applicable, to report
   unit accountability to the IPR. AFPAAS does not replace the PRS, but should be used in
   conjunction with when applicable (i.e., national emergencies/incidents requiring TFA). See
   Attachment 2 for AFPAAS website and AFPC/PRC phone number which will reside on each
   unit’s PRS roster.
5. CAT Operations.
   5.1. CAT Composition. The 56 FW/CC will recall the appropriate level of the Crisis
   Action Team and can modify the existing CAT levels as required to fit the situation. The 56
   FW/CC will designate the location for the CAT if different from primary/alternate locations
   noted above.
   5.2. Key Staff Binders. Key Staff Binders contain the relocation procedures/checklist. Use
   these procedures in case of loss of network, bomb threats, security breaches, power outages,
   or any other event that requires the evacuation of Building S-11.
   5.3. All members of the CAT will perform the following tasks:
      5.3.1. Coordinate and track all actions for which they are designated OPR, including
      coordination with other OPRs.
      5.3.2. Prepare required message traffic implementing actions for which they are OPR.
      5.3.3. Assist the CATC in preparing required briefings.
      5.3.4. Provide the CATC pertinent information for inclusion in a CSD.
   5.4. The Threat Working Group representative (ATO, AFOSI, IO) will perform the
   following tasks upon recall to CAT:
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                 15


      5.4.1. Search for intelligence information to keep the Commander/CAT informed. Time
      permitting, the Threat Working Group will be used as a primary source of
      information/review.
      5.4.2. Provide current Intel briefing during CAT briefs, as required by 56 FW/CC or
      designated representative.
      5.4.3. Provide the CATC information for inclusion in CSDs as appropriate.
   5.5. Commander’s Staff Directive (CSD) Procedures:
      5.5.1. Units will provide CATC/XPO information for inclusion in a CSD for which they
      are considered the OPR for that action.
      5.5.2. All CSDs will be reviewed by the CATC (when CAT is activated) and signed by
      the       56 FW/CC or his designated representative prior to distribution.
      5.5.3. Distribute unclassified CSDs through CP to all Luke personnel via e-mail and
      Network Alerting System when possible. Receipt and attainment status will be up
      channeled. Unit/flight UCCs – Squadron UCCs – Group UCCs – CP – FW/CC.
      5.5.4. Distribute classified CSDs through CP on a need to know basis. Groups will send
      runners to sign for CSDs. Mark classified CSDs according to DOD 5200.1R, Information
      Security.
   5.6. Sustained Operations. During sustained operations, CAT members will receive a
   detailed changeover brief from the previous group representative. Members will also ensure
   the completion of the following items:
      5.6.1. Review all message traffic to include the latest CSDs.
      5.6.2. Review all open items and check on the status of actions requiring completion.
      5.6.3. Maintain events log and provide inputs to CATC/XPO as required.
      5.6.4. Provide slide inputs to the CATC at least 30 minutes prior to the CAT briefings.
      5.6.5. Provide SITREP inputs to the CAT Coordinator. Report progress on open items,
      new equipment purchased/assembled, new Force Protection/Anti-Terrorism needs
      identified, and primary mission effectiveness.
      5.6.6. Keep track of personnel status and equipment operability for their unit.
6. CAT Equipment Requirements:
   6.1. Secure communications including:
      6.1.1. Secure Voice or STE (located in the console of CP).
      6.1.2. Two Classified stations, one SIPRNET for the commander’s position and one
      stand alone Classified station dedicated for CAT briefings.
   6.2. Non-Secure Communications:
      6.2.1. A minimum of three NIPRNET computers: one for commander’s position, one for
      briefing display, and one for creation of CSDs. Planning will include preparation to
      equip each Key CAT member with NIPRNET access.
16                                               LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


     6.2.2. Two projectors for use with computers for CAT briefing presentations.
     6.2.3. Phone lines for each Key CAT position.




                                         MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN
                                         Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Commander
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                           17


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, 19 April 2013
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 24 January
2007
AFI 36-3803, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National
Emergencies, 21 December 2010
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work, 21 July 1994
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 26 October 2009
AETCI 10-202, Contingency Operations and Preparations, 29 October 2003
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
LUKEAFBI 10-2501, Emergency Management Planning and Operations, 13 October 2011
56 FW Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP) 10-2

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFPAAS—Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CP—Command Post
CSD—Commander’s Staff Directive
C2—Command and Control
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
EM—Emergency Management
FW—Fighter Wing
GCC—Group Control Centers
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INWS—Installation Notification and Warning System
 18                                       LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


IPR—Installation Personnel Readiness
OAR—Organization Account Representative
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PRC—Personnel Readiness Cell
PRS—Pyramid Recall System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ST—Start Time
TFA—Total Force Accountability
UCCs—Unit Control Centers
UCMs—Unit Control Managers
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                        19


                                      Attachment 2
              SAMPLE RECALL ROSTER (FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)

A2.1. All recall rosters will contain the Privacy Act Statement/AFPAAS Web Site, AFPC Toll
free number and FOUO header.
A2.2. Information for personnel will include:   rank, name, address, home phone, and cell
phone/page (if applicable).
A2.3. AFPC/PRC Toll Free Number: 1-800-435-9941-----------------------AFPAAS web site:
https://apaas.af.mil

Figure A2.1. Sample recall roster.




NOTE: The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected
under the Freedom of Information Act of 1966 and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended.
Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this PERSONAL INFORMATION may result in
criminal and/or civil penalties.
 20                                                                 LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013




NOTE: page 2.
Recall Roster Back Page Template (replace header with “FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY”)
Recall/Comm Alert Procedures:
There are two basic “plays” under the Pyramid Recall System (PRS) with variations ALPHA through ECHO under each.
A “Recall” is used to direct specified individuals to physically report to their unit, while a “Communication Alert”
passes/receives information down the pyramid without individuals physically reporting for duty. Recalls and Comm
Alerts both imply taking accountability for specified personnel. For Comm Alerts, GCC, UCC, or UCM and CAT
activation is per respective commander discretion.
If you are notified of a Recall/Communication Alert, notify the person below you on the recall pyramid. If you cannot
reach the assigned individual, note the name and skip down to the next person and notify them and pass on all personnel
not contacted to the first person in the chain of the recall. DO NOT BREAK THE CHAIN. Personnel at the end of the
recall roster will report the status of the recall including any individual(s) not contacted to the member at the top of their
pyramid branch. Members at the top of each branch will contact member at the top of their pyramid chain until unit CC is
notified. Applicable operational/utility uniform will be worn.
RECALL/COMMUNICATION ALERT ALPHA. Start time is _________(L) hours.
ACTION: All units initiate a Recall/Comm Alert with 100% notification and accountability IAW the PRS. All active duty
military (including IMAs gained by 56 FW units), Luke AFB civilian personnel and tenant units will be recalled. Include
personnel on leave, crew rest, shift, or on authorized pass. All assigned personnel must physically report for duty as soon
as possible. All personnel will be en route within 30 minutes of recall notification. The CAT, IPR, GCCs and all
UCCs or UCMs will stand up immediately upon notification of a Recall ALPHA.
RECALL/COMMUNICATION ALERT BRAVO. Start time is _________(L) hours.
ACTION: All directed units initiate a Recall/Comm Alert with 100% notification and accountability IAW the PRS and the
exceptions listed below. All active duty military (including IMAs gained by 56 FW units) and Luke AFB key civilian
personnel will be recalled. Do not contact personnel on shift work or crew rest; account for them, but allow them to report
to duty for their normal shift. Do not contact personnel on leave or TDY, but account for them. Do not recall tenant units
or 944 FW personnel. Deviations per scenario are at commander discretion. Contacted personnel via “Recall” must
physically report for duty as soon as possible. All personnel will be en route within 30 minutes of recall notification.
The IPR, GCCs, and all UCCs or UCMs will stand up immediately upon notification of a Recall BRAVO.
RECALL/COMMUNICATION ALERT CHARLIE. Start time is _________(L) hours.
ACTION: CP will contact personnel, as directed by the installation commander, to report for duty as soon as possible. The
CP will notify applicable group commander(s) who will recall required squadrons/agencies and activate the appropriate
GCC, UCC, or UCM. All directed units initiate a Recall/Comm Alert with 100% notification and accountability IAW the
PRS, or as directed by unit commander. The UCC or UCM will gather data and report to GCC or IPR as applicable. If
directed, the IPR, GCCs and all UCCs or UCMs will stand up immediately upon notification of a Recall CHARLIE. All
personnel will be en route within 30 minutes of recall notification.
RECALL/COMMUNICATION ALERT DELTA. Start time is _________(L) hours.
ACTION: All directed units initiate a Recall/Comm Alert with 100% notification and accountability IAW the PRS and the
exceptions listed below. All active duty military (including IMAs gained by 56 FW units) will be recalled. Do not contact
personnel on shift work or crew rest; account for them but allow them to report to duty for their normal shift. Do not
contact personnel on leave or TDY, but account for them. Do not contact Luke AFB civilian personnel, tenant units, or
944 FW personnel. Deviations per scenario are at commander discretion. Contacted personnel via “Recall” must
physically report for duty as soon as possible. All personnel will be en route within 30 minutes of recall notification.
The IPR, GCCs, and all UCCs or UCMs will stand up immediately upon notification of a Recall DELTA.
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                                                 21

RECALL/COMMUNICATION ALERT ECHO. Start time is _________(L) hours.
ACTION: (Comm-Out) Initiated when overall communications fail or if the nature of the threat and need for security
dictate. Recall ECHO must be used in conjunction with ALPHA, BRAVO, CHARLIE, or DELTA recall. A Comm-Out
recall involves groups and subordinate units running their pyramid recall rosters with the individuals walking or driving to
the next individual’s residence to pass the recall information and/or wait for pick up.
Important Numbers: UCC/UCM: ###-####                 Emergency Response: 911       EOC Position: ###-####     AFPC/PRC Toll-Free
Number: 1-800-435-9941 --- AFPAAS website: https://afpaas.af.mil
The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected under the Freedom of Information Act of 1966 and
Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this PERSONAL INFORMATION may result in criminal and/or civil
penalties
 22                                                    LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


                                           Attachment 3
                      COMMANDERS NON-AVAILABILITY LETTER


                        DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                        56TH ________________ (AETC)
                        LUKE AIR FORCE BASE ARIZONA


                                                                                              Date

MEMORANDUM FOR Group CC (and others internally, as appropriate)
               56 FW/CP (Command Post)
               56 SFS/SFCC (SFS Desk)

FROM: Appropriate Office Symbol
SUBJECT: Notification of Acting Commander

1. The following individual will be the acting Commander for (Squadron) from (Date/time) to
(Date/time).

Rank/Name              Office       Duty Phone        Home Phone           Cell Phone

Rank/Name             XXXX        856-XXXX            (XXX) XXX-XXXX       *(XXX) XXX-XXXX

* Identifies Primary means of notification

2. Information contained herein is personal and will not be disclosed to the public without
consent of the individual concerned.

3. This letter supersedes all letters same subject.


                                                       //Signed/
                                                       Signature Block

cc: Each individual
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                23


                                           Attachment 4
                   FIRST SERGEANTS NON-AVAILABILITY LETTER


                        DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                        56TH ________________ (AETC)
                        LUKE AIR FORCE BASE ARIZONA


                                                                                              Date

MEMORANDUM FOR Group CC (and others internally, as appropriate)
               1st Sergeants
               56 FW/CP (Command Post)
               56 SFS/SFCC (SFS Desk)
               Luke American Red Cross

FROM: Appropriate Office Symbol
SUBJECT: Notification of Acting First Sergeant

1. The following individual will be the acting First Sergeant for (Squadron) from (Date/time) to
(Date/time).

Rank/Name             Office       Duty Phone         Home Phone           Cell Phone
Rank/Name             XXXX         856-XXXX           (XXX) XXX-XXXX             *(XXX) XXX-
XXXX
* Identifies Primary means of notification

2. Information contained herein is personal and will not be disclosed to the public without
consent of the individual concerned.

3. This letter supersedes all letters same subject.


                                                      /Signed//

Signature Block

cc: Each individual
 24                                         LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


                                   Attachment 5
                             CAT RECALL PYRAMID

Figure A5.1. CAT Recall Pyramid.
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                      25


                                            Attachment 6
                    SAMPLE RECALL STRENGHT REPORTING SLIDE

Table A6.1. Sample Recall Strength Reporting Slide.
     Squadron:
     POC:
     Phone:
     Date:
     Time (local):
     Recall Start Time:
                            Initial # ST + 1.5 Hrs ST + 2.0 Hrs. ST + 2.5 Hrs ST + 3 Hrs
     Enter the Total                  (use initial #) (use initial #) (use initial #) (use initial #)
     number of
     Personnel Assigned
1.   (This is your unit's
     total strength; this
     number does not
     change.)
     Enter the number of              (use initial #) (use initial #)   (use initial #) (use initial #)
2.
     personnel on TDY:
     Enter the number of              (use initial #) (use initial #)   (use initial #) (use initial #)
3.
     personnel on Leave:
     Enter the number of              (use initial #) (use initial #)   (use initial #) (use initial #)
     personnel in Other
     Status: (Included
     here are personnel
     who are not
     required to report
4.   for duty as they are
     accounted for in
     MilPDS -- i.e.:
     prisoner,
     correctional
     custody, quarters,
     hospital):
     Total Number of                  (use initial #) (use initial #)   (use initial #) (use initial #)
     Personnel NOT
5.   AVAILABLE: (this
     is the sum of blocks
     2-4 above)
     Enter the number of              (use initial #) (use initial #)   (use initial #) (use initial #)
     personnel
6.   AVAILABLE:
     (Number does not
     change; this is the
 26                                                 LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013


    number of
    Personnel Assigned
    - Personnel TDY -
    Personnel Leave -
    Other)
    Enter the number of
    personnel Present
    for Duty. This
    number is what you
    update as people
7.
    sign in, plus shift
    work and crew rest
    personnel that are
    scheduled to report
    later.
    Total Accounted
    for: item 5 plus 7.
8.
    Report this number
    to your GCC.
    Percentage of
    personnel Present
    for Duty: (This is
    the total number of
    personnel present
9.
    for duty (block 7)
    divided by the total
    number of
    personnel available
    (block 6).
 NOTES: Definitions.
 Total Assigned: Data provided by MilPDS through IPR
 Present for Duty: Personnel present at duty location (shift/crew rest considerations apply)
 TDY: Regular (i.e. DTS orders) or contingency (CED orders)
 Leave: Ordinary, Convalescent or Permissive TDY(does not include pass i.e deployment
 R&R/special passes)
 Other: Includes members in confinement, hospitalized, on quarters, or PCS’d/separated who
 have not dropped from unit rolls
LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013                                                      27


                                     Attachment 7
                  FORCE ACCOUNTABILITY TOOL TEMPLATE

A7.1. This tool can be found electronically on the IPR                Sharepoint   page
https: //luke.eis.aetc.af.mil/56msg/fss/FSO/FSOX/FSOXI/default.aspx

Figure A7.1. Force Accountability Tool Template.
28   LUKEAFBI10-201 19 NOVEMBER 2013
