BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       LUKE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 90-401
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                  31 JULY 2013

                                                                           Special Management

                                                                 DISTINGUISHED VISITORS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 FW/CCP                                                         Certified by: 56 FW/CCP
                                                                      (1st Lt Marisa A. J. Rossi)
Supersedes:   LUKEAFBI 90-401, 28                                                        Pages: 5
              December 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-401, Air Force Relations with
Congress. It establishes policy and procedures necessary to ensure that distinguished visitors
(DVs) to Luke Air Force Base are provided a warm, gracious welcome and to ensure they are
able to effectively and efficiently accomplish their primary purpose during their visit. DVs will
receive every consideration pertaining to appropriate customs, courtesies and respect, and their
requirements will be managed in a courteous and professional manner. This publication does
not apply to all Air Force, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and to Air National
Guard (ANG) Units.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised in multiple locations throughout the document. A review
of the entire document is recommended. Major changes include updating paragraph sequences
and organization. Additionally, the foreign visit request process was updated to reflect current
procedures.
 2                                                              LUKEAFBI90-401 31 JULY 2013


1. Notification of DVs: Distinguished Visitors (DVs) are defined as general officers and
civilians of equivalent or higher rank (DV-1 through DV-6), and the Chief Master Sergeant of
the Air Force. The 56th Fighter Wing (FW) Protocol Office (CCP) will be notified of all DVs by
e-mail. Notifications must include: full name, go-by/call sign, rank, duty title, base of origin,
arrival and departure information, mode of travel, purpose of visit, and office of primary
responsibility including name, rank, and telephone number.
     1.1. Active Duty O-6s and Wing Command Chiefs: The 56th FW Protocol Office will
     also be notified of visiting Active Duty O-6s and Wing Command Chiefs by e-mail.
     Notifications must include: full name, go-by/call sign, rank, duty title, base of origin, arrival
     and departure information, mode of travel, purpose of visit, and office of primary
     responsibility including name, rank, and telephone number.
2. Office Calls: Office calls will be arranged for DVs at the appropriate levels of the 56 FW
command structure (CC/CV or GP/CC), unless there is specific guidance to the contrary. Office
calls will be arranged through the appropriate secretaries (primary) or executive officers
(alternate). 56 FW CC and 56 FW/CV office calls will be coordinated with the 56 FW secretary.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. Commanders: The Commander of the group or squadron that is hosting the DV will
     assign an officer of primary responsibility for the visit and provide name, rank and phone
     number to CCP within 24 hours of notification. Note: If the DV is TDY for the F-16 senior
     officer checkout (SOC), the course manager or squadron OPR will work closely with the
     protocol office to ensure lodging requirements are initiated.
3.2. Officer of Primary Responsibility or Project Officer (PROJO) will:
        3.2.1. Will contact the protocol office to ensure all DV requirements are met.
        3.2.2. Prepare a proposed (draft) itinerary. The draft itinerary will be coordinated by the
        appropriate commander prior to being routed through 56 FW/CCP for final approval by
        the 56 FW/CC no later than (NLT) ten duty days prior to the arrival date. The itinerary is
        provided to DVs as a concise guide for his/her stay and provides a schedule of events
        planned for his/her visit including: times, dates, places, briefing topics/briefers, tour
        locations and escorts, location greeters, UOD/dress requirements, and biographies of staff
        members the DV will meet. Specific instructions to support agencies will have to be
        coordinated and pre-approved prior to submitting the draft itinerary. The final itinerary
        will be submitted to the protocol office NLT three duty days prior to the arrival date. All
        changes to the final itinerary will be immediately coordinated with the protocol office to
        ensure 56 FW leadership is aware of “last minute” changes. An event brief will be
        provided to Protocol 48 hours prior to arrival.
        3.2.3. Coordinate with base agencies involved. Provide agencies with dates and times of
        the visit.
        3.2.4. Schedule conference room(s) with the appropriate agency.
        3.2.5. Ensure the schedule allows enough time for meetings, office calls, meals, change
        of clothes, breaks, workouts, shopping visits, rest periods, and travel. NOTE: OPR
        should conduct a “dry run” prior to submitting the final itinerary.
LUKEAFBI90-401 31 JULY 2013                                                                     3


     3.2.6. Identify mode of travel, names of greeters, escorts, and attendees accompanying
     DVs to breakfast, lunch, dinner, and social/party that includes the 56 FW/CC or CV as
     host. Submit full names of individuals, their unit of assignment, and club card numbers
     with expiration date, of those attending social functions, to the protocol office NLT seven
     duty days prior to the event to ensure a smooth and efficient payment upon departure.
     3.2.7. Escort the DV from arrival location to quarters and from quarters to departure
     point, including all official events, as well as ensuring needs of the DVs are met during
     their stay.
     3.2.8. Exceptions to the above requirements will only occur after coordination with
     Protocol.
  3.3. 56th Fighter Wing Protocol Office will:
     3.3.1. Maintain constant coordination with OPR/PROJO. Provide itinerary template and
     assist with coordination of activities, establishment of time tables, and finalization of the
     itinerary. Provide necessary templates applicable to DV visit.
     3.3.2. Ensure HQ AETC DV notification is accomplished.
     3.3.3. Ensure the senior greeter is available for appropriate greetings either at South Gate
     or at Base Ops Red Carpet area, appointments, briefings, conferences, and departures
     (South Gate or Red Carpet).
         3.3.3.1. Publish and distribute a DV Greeting Officer Duty Roster to all Luke O-6
         and O-6 selects, and secretaries.
     3.3.4. Ensure escorts greet and depart the DVs arriving by commercial (South Gate) or
     military air (Base Ops Red Carpet area). NOTE: The escort for SOC training should be
     flying course manager or flying unit representative.
     3.3.5. Coordinate lodging requirements.
         3.3.5.1. Ensure a copy of the DV’s itinerary is placed in the DV’s room along with
         any amenities, a welcome note from the 56 FW/CC, and the Wing DV Bag.
     3.3.6. Arrange a baggage detail for the DVs arriving/departing by military air (if
     required).
     3.3.7. Arrange DV transportation, drivers, and/or U-drive it vehicles.
     3.3.8. Make necessary arrangements for official entertainment once location is
     determined. Supervise preparation of guest lists and invitations, seating plans, place
     cards, menus, payment, etc.
         3.3.8.1. Arrange photographic support of appropriate events and inform Public
         Affairs of the visit for news media coverage (if appropriate).
         3.3.8.2. Coordinate with squadron personnel and multimedia for a photo of the DV
         receiving an orientation flight.
         3.3.8.3. Ensure Honor Guard arrangement for formations (if appropriate) and other
         special events.
 4                                                            LUKEAFBI90-401 31 JULY 2013


        3.3.9. Ensure final itinerary is accurate, complete, and distributed to key personnel and
        staff agencies involved with the visit.
            3.3.9.1. Immediately notify 56 FW/CC/CV and Group Commanders, DV(s), and
            agencies of “last minute” schedule changes to the final itinerary.
4. Visits from Official Representatives of Foreign Governments, Students and Public
Affairs Travelers. All foreign military personnel or civilian government representative wishing
to visit Luke AFB must have an approved FVR.
     4.1. Foreign governments will submit requests under the DoD International Visit Program
     (IVP) for visits proposed by their representatives and when invited by an Air Force
     organization.
        4.1.1. Foreign students who participate in security assistance training on Invitational
        Travel Orders (ITOs) are not required to submit a visit request to attend training.
        4.1.2. Visit requests are not required for foreign nationals participating in public affairs
        travel.
     4.2. Security Policy Automated Network (SPAN) will automatically assign visit
     responsibility to either SAF/IAPD or to a subordinate Foreign Disclosure Office (FDO).
     4.3. The subordinate FDO will recommend approval or denial to the appropriate Group
     Commander before submitting the FVR to the Protocol Office who, in turn, will forward it to
     the Wing Commander or designate for final approval.
     4.4. The Wing approved FVR is sent back to FDO who, in turn, will forward a copy to
     AETC/IAD, Local OSI agents, and unit point of contact.
     4.5. AETC/IAD will notify the either Wing Protocol or subordinate FDO once the visit is
     approved by MAJCOM




                                              MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN
                                              Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander
LUKEAFBI90-401 31 JULY 2013                                      5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with Congress, 14 June 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Consolidated DoD/Army/Air Force Precedence List, 20 March 2010
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CC—Commander
CCP—Protocol Office
DOD—Department of Defense
DVs—Distinguished Visitors
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
FVR—Foreign Visit Request
FW—Fighter Wing
HQ—Headquarters
IVP—International Visit Program
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SPAN—Security Policy Automated Network
