BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 21-114
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                 17 APRIL 2009
                                                               Certified Current on 25 April 2011
                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                      CRASHED, DAMAGED OR DISABLED
                                                                 AIRCRAFT RECOVERY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 56 MXG/MXQI                                                       Certified by: 56 MXG/CC
                                                                      (Col Geoffrey S. Parkhurst)
                                                                                        Pages: 8


It establishes procedures and responsibilities for all ground personnel to ensure adequate
Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery response and recovery for both major and
minor incidents in the Luke AFB area of responsibility to include all host, tenant, and transient
aircraft. All agencies involved with recovery operations will ensure compliance with this
instruction to ensure a cooperative, coordinated response to CDDAR situations. This instruction
is designed to recover crashed, damaged, or disabled aircraft in minimal time period in regards to
re-open the runway, prevent secondary damage to the aircraft, and preserve evidence to mishap
or accident investigations. It implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment
Maintenance, 56 FW OPlan 10-2, Full Spectrum Threat Response Plan, AFMAN 32-4004,
Emergency Response Operations, AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization
Reporting, AFI 21-101 AETCSUP 1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management. This
instruction replaces 56 FW OI 21-8, Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
(CDDAR). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

1. Responsibilities:

1.1. 56th Equipment Maintenance Squadron (56 EMS) Maintenance Flight will be responsible
for coordinating all information concerning the CDDAR function to the 56th Fighter Wing
Commander (56 FW/CC), and all other concerned agencies.
2                                                         LUKEAFBI 21-114 17 APRIL 2009

1.2. In the event of a crash, the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) or Base Operations will
notify the Transient Alert CDDAR Section via the secondary crash net and supply information
concerning the aircraft and its location.

1.3. Fire Department will respond with appropriate fire truck(s) at mishap site during
recovery/salvage operations.

1.4. Security Forces will establish a cordon as directed by the Incident Commander (IC).

1.5. Wing Safety will run all appropriate checklists in O-Plan 91-1.

1.6. The CDDAR Team Chief will immediately take action to determine equipment and
additional personnel required and notify the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) of these
requirements.

1.7. When notified by IC, Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE) Flight will complete appropriate
checklists based on type of crash incident, perform risk assessment, advise IC on potential
hazards and recommend proper Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE).

1.8. BEE will perform a health risk assessment of the crash site, along with Transient Alert (TA)
personnel. BEE will identify potential composite fiber exposures to TA, who will in-turn render
the fibers safe. Until BEE deems the site safe from health hazards and provides
recommendations to the IC, the crash site should be considered unsafe.

1.9. EOD will respond (with Fire Department) to aircraft containing hazards (even without
ordnance) for evaluation/safing of damaged aircraft weapons systems and ordnance.

1.10. Readiness & Emergency Management will maintain and operate the Mobile Command
Center in response to aircraft accidents and provide advice to the IC and EOC during response
and recovery operations.

2. Responsibilities for Transient Aircraft:

2.1. The EOC director, or designated representative, will coordinate recovery and salvage
operation support with the CDDAR Function. The CDDAR Team Chief will advise the EOC
director of their capabilities and limiting factors. Owning organization and Luke CDDAR
representative will coordinate resources and personnel needed for recovery and salvage
operations for the mishap aircraft.

3. Personnel required for CDDAR operations:

3.1. As a minimum, a fully trained and equipped CDDAR team to include a team chief, tow
supervisor, tow vehicle operator, and 50-90 ton crane operator will be available during airfield
operating hours.
LUKEAFBI 21-114 17 APRIL 2009                                                                      3


4. Equipment Requirements:

4.1. One primary radio-equipped CDDAR vehicle will be used to provide primary coverage
during airfield operating hours and a secondary CDDAR vehicle will provide backup support.
One radio-equipped MB-4 Coleman with a universal tow bar, one 50-90 ton crane, disabled
wheel dolly, one lifting sling, four lifting bags with hoses, one MC-7 air compressor, and one air
bag manifold or two blowers will be required for CDDAR operations. Additional equipment
such as forklifts, bulldozer, 40 ft. flatbed semi trailer and tractor, and light carts are available
from base agencies.

4.2. Transient Alert Section must relay crash equipment status to 56 EMS Maintenance
Operations and 56 MXG QAE offices daily to ensure 24 hour availability.

5. Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) Required:

5.1. As a minimum, CDDAR personnel will wear PPE when required to perform recovery of an
aircraft containing composite/hazardous materials as established T.O. 00-105E-9, Aircraft
Emergency Rescue Information, and the Base Bio-Environmental Engineering (BEE) office.

5.2. High efficiency particulate air respirator.

5.3. Leather work gloves (outer).

5.4. Nitrile rubber gloves (inner).

5.5. Hard sole work boots (steel toe).

5.6. Coated, hooded Tyvek suit with booties.

6. CDDAR Support for Duty and After Duty Hours:

6.1. During normal duty hours, a fully equipped CDDAR team will be available for immediate
response. Outside normal duty hours, a CDDAR team will be called by Transient Alert
emergency recall rosters for CDDAR support.

7. Host/Tenant Base CDDAR Responsibilities:

7.1. Host CDDAR Personnel will ensure that CDDAR procedures are coordinated with Fire
Department Safety, Civil Engineering, Readiness & Emergency Management, EOD, Security,
BEE, Airfield Manager, and other required agencies on/off base. Should an aircraft become
disabled, 56 FW CDDAR personnel will provide assistance and guidance as needed.
8. In-flight and Ground Emergency (IFE/GE) Response Procedures:

NOTE:
Under no circumstance will an unsafe act be performed that would endanger personnel or further
damage the aircraft or equipment.
4                                                        LUKEAFBI 21-114 17 APRIL 2009



8.1. Upon notification of an IFE or GE, the TA supervisor and primary CDDAR response crew
will switch to Crash/Fire frequency (channel B net 3) on the maintenance radio and continue
monitoring/transmitting on this channel until termination of the emergency by the Senior Fire
Official (SFO). When the possibility exists that the 50-90 ton crane will be required, the
CDDAR supervisor will dispatch an authorized crane operator.

8.2. Fire Department and CDDAR Team Response Procedures:

8.2.1. A CDDAR team will respond to all aircraft in-flight and ground emergencies upon
notification via the secondary crash telephone. Response actions to an aircraft GE will be
contingent on the nature of the emergency and/or location of the aircraft. Should the CDDAR
function be unable to respond to any GE, they will notify the SFO.

8.2.2. The CDDAR vehicle will position near the SFO and respond upon request from SFO.
When positioning near the SFO vehicle, use caution not to block response route of
firefighting/emergency vehicles.

8.2.3. The SFO will declare the aircraft is fire safe prior to allowing CDDAR personnel to safe
the aircraft. Emergency response personnel will not approach the main wheels from the sides if
hot brakes are suspected. Under no circumstances will CDDAR personnel enter the area
until declared fire safe by the SFO.

8.2.3.1. The CDDAR Supervisor in coordination with the Supervisor of Flight (SOF) and the
SFO will determine if the emergency aircraft can be taxied off the runway prior to engine
shutdown.

8.2.3.2. Barrier Engagement: After the SFO declares the aircraft fire safe, CDDAR Supervisor
will coordinate with the SOF for arresting gear retraction and aircraft shutdown.

8.2.3.2.1. CDDAR supervisor will coordinate with the SFO on the most expedient method of
removing the aircraft from the barrier to ensure complete cable disconnection. Once the barrier
cable is cleared from the arresting gear, Fire Department personnel will coordinate cable rewind
with Barrier Maintenance personnel.

8.2.3.3. In-flight Uncommanded Engine Shutdown/Flameout: The CDDAR team will prepare
the aircraft for shutdown and removal from the active runway or taxiway.

8.2.3.3.1. Once cleared by SFO for normal engine shutdown Transient Alert personnel will pin
and shutdown aircraft per aircraft T.O. For emergency engine shutdown, once cleared by SFO,
the Fire Department will shut down the aircraft, pin the EPU and Gun in accordance with IAW
T.O. 00-105E-9.
LUKEAFBI 21-114 17 APRIL 2009                                                                       5

8.2.4. Brake Failure: CDDAR personnel will chock walk the aircraft off the active runway
(with assistance from the owning Aircraft Maintenance Unit) time permitting. If the situation
does not permit chock walking (i.e., double in-flight emergencies in-progress), the aircraft will
be removed in a safe manner.

8.2.4.1. The CDDAR team will tow the aircraft from the active runway or taxiway to the closest
available area, out of the path of taxiing aircraft.

8.2.4.2. The owning organization or unit will be responsible for towing the aircraft back to its
maintenance facility or aircraft parking spot.

8.2.4.3. The CDDAR team will return to the shop and resume emergency response, stand-by
CDDAR posture.

8.2.5. The CDDAR supervisor will maintain a log for all in-flight/ground emergencies.
Information recorded will include time of emergency, type of emergency, all difficulties or
delays encountered. This log will be reviewed daily by the section supervisor to identify and
correct any existing problem areas. Any unusual circumstances, delays in removing aircraft
from runways, or demands for unauthorized procedures will be reported to 56 EMS Maintenance
Operation Chief and 56 MXG QAE offices.

9. Hot Brake Procedures for Detected/Suspected Hot-Brakes

9.1. Upon notification of a ground emergency for an aircrew detected/suspected hot brake
condition, CDDAR will respond with the Fire Department and await instructions from the SFO.

9.2. Verification of a hot brake condition rests solely on the Fire Department personnel at the
aircraft. (This does not apply to hot brake conditions identified by either AMU personnel on
their parking ramp or EOR inspection personnel in the EOR inspection area).

9.2.1. Under the following circumstances, a hot brake condition can be declared by the aircrew
in coordination with the SOF or SFO. If conditions are favorable for a hot brake condition
(heavy landing, excessive brake use or other factors) a hot brake condition will be declared and
the procedures in paragraphs 9.4 through 9.5 will apply. If new brakes are suspected on the
aircraft causing them to smoke the SFO will contact the appropriate agency to verify the brake
status. If new brakes are verified, the SFO will clear CDDAR personnel to check the condition
of the brakes.

9.3. The primary method for checking hot brakes will be done with an electronic thermometer.
If hot brakes are declared then paragraphs 9.4 through 9.5 will apply.

9.4. When a hot brake condition is verified:
6                                                          LUKEAFBI 21-114 17 APRIL 2009

9.4.1. The SFO will respond to the location of the aircraft and dispatch personnel to perform
hot brake check to verify the temperature of the brakes. If a hot brake condition does not exist,
the aircraft will be allowed to taxi. If a hot brake condition does exist, fire department personnel
will continue with hot brakes procedures.

9.4.1.1. The aircrew will adhere to procedures outlined in applicable -1 flight manual and
proceed to shutdown the aircraft.

9.4.1.2. Non-essential personnel will evacuate to a minimum 300-foot radius from the aircraft.
The primary danger is along the lateral axis of the wheel. Upon aircraft shutdown, the nose tire
will be chocked and the aircrew will be extracted by fire department personnel.

9.4.1.3. Fire Department will provide a minimum of one stand-by ARFF vehicle during the
cooling period in case of fire or explosion.

9.4.1.4. Aircraft brakes will be checked periodically until they cool sufficiently enough for the
aircraft to be turned over to maintenance personnel.

9.4.1.5. Maintenance personnel shall wait a minimum of 15 additional minutes before
determining if the brakes are cool enough to tow the aircraft.

9.5. Upon termination of the hot brake condition and ground emergency the owning AMU will
be responsible for towing the aircraft back to the parking ramp.

10. Aircraft Non Emergency Response Procedures:

NOTE:
Under no circumstance will an unsafe act be performed that would endanger personnel or further
damage the aircraft or equipment.

10.1. Upon notification from the tower of an aircraft blocking the active runway, the CDDAR
supervisor and primary response crew will switch to Tower frequency on the maintenance radio
net and continue monitoring/transmitting on this channel until the aircraft has been cleared of the
active runway and the tower has been notified.

10.2. CDDAR Team Response Procedures:

10.2.1. A CDDAR team will respond to all aircraft blocking the active runway upon notification
from the tower. (When TA/CDDAR is not available, the Tower will coordinate with Base
Operations to escort a tow vehicle from the respective AMU). The CDDAR team will tow the
aircraft from the active runway to the closest available area, out of the path of taxiing aircraft.
Owning organization or unit will be responsible for towing the aircraft back to its maintenance
facility or aircraft parking spot.
LUKEAFBI 21-114 17 APRIL 2009                                                                   7

10.2.2. Tower will ensure all aircraft give way to CDDAR team responding to aircraft blocking
active runway. If a subsequent ground emergency occurs, the CDDAR team will respond to the
ground emergency prioritized by the SFO. For dual occurrence of non-emergency incidents,
tower will prioritize incident response in coordination with the SOF and be directive with
CDDAR response team.




                                                 KURT F. NEUBAUER
                                                 Brigadier General, USAF
                                                 Commander

Attachment:
Glossary of References and Supporting Information
8                                                       LUKEAFBI 21-114 17 APRIL 2009


                                      Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:

56 FW OPlan 10-2, Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan

56 FW OPlan 91-1, Aircraft Mishap Response Plan

AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records

T.O. 4B-1-1, Use of Landing Wheel Brakes and Wheels during Ground Operations

T.O. 00-105E-9, Aircraft Emergency Rescue Information
