BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 21-124
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                 3 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                   JOINT OIL ANALYSIS PROGRAM (JOAP)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 EMS/MXMFN                                                       Certified by: 56 MXG/CC
                                                                        (Col Deborah J. Liddick)
Supersedes:    LUKEAFBI 21-124, 23 July                                                   Pages: 5
               2009


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. It establishes procedures
and responsibilities for ensuring the accurate procurement, processing, analysis, delivery, and
documentation of oil samples taken at regular intervals on all aircraft engines and oil servicing
carts. It is applicable to all maintenance organizations requiring JOAP support by Luke AFB
JOAP laboratory (lab). Compliance with this instruction is mandatory for all affected units in the
56th Fighter Wing (FW). This publication does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This instruction involves the 161st Air Reserve Wing
(ARW) as a backup support agency. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.              Additionally, if the publication
generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all applicable Reports Control Numbers
in accordance with AFI 33-324.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. Responsibilities: Commanders, maintenance superintendents,             and    supervisors   are
responsible for ensuring compliance with this instruction.
 2                                                         LUKEAFBI21-124 3 AUGUST 2011


2. Procedures:
     2.1. General Practices:
        2.1.1. Each section or unit responsible for supervision of maintenance on aircraft (i.e.,
        aircraft engines, ground turbine generators, and aircraft ground equipment, etc.) will
        appoint a JOAP monitor. The JOAP monitor is the contact point for all JOAP related
        maintenance actions. Individual’s name, grade, section, and phone number will be sent
        to the JOAP lab, and data will be updated as personnel changes occur. NOTE: A JOAP
        monitor should be made available on each shift when JOAP lab support is required.
        JOAP lab personnel will provide initial training for JOAP monitors. The JOAP monitors
        will attend all scheduled meetings with the NCO in charge of the JOAP lab to discuss any
        JOAP related problems, issues, and training.
            2.1.1.1. Oil servicing carts will be sampled every 7 days (exception: off-station carts
            will be sampled every 15 days). Samples will be submitted to the JOAP lab along
            with DD Form 2026, Oil Analysis Request, accompanying each sample. The DD
            Form 2026 will be properly annotated with the oil cart serial number, type oil,
            date/time sample taken, and contact information no later than 2400 hours on the
            Friday prior to the next weeks flying.
     2.2. Aircraft Maintenance Units (AMU) to include Transient Alert Flight, 56th Equipment
     Maintenance Squadron (56 EMS):
        2.2.1. Each AMU, responsible for taking samples will ensure that sample intervals
        derived by the applicable MDS -6 technical order are followed and delivered to the JOAP
        lab (bldg 966). All redcap samples will be annotated as such, and delivered to the JOAP
        lab. Aircraft on “CODE E” will not fly until sample results have been called in to the
        Maintenance Operations Center (MOC).
            2.2.1.1. Each AMU JOAP monitor or representative will attend the quarterly
            combined Propulsion/JOAP working group meeting.
        2.2.2. Provide information on oil changes, engine installation, and oil wetted engine
        component changes to the JOAP lab and Engine Management. AMU maintenance
        supervision will ensure that the JOAP lab is notified immediately by use of DD Form
        2026 when an engine is installed (rollback and reinstallation of the same engine for the
        purpose of facilitating of maintenance (FOM), will not require oil sample at this time).
        Oil samples will be taken upon completion of engine installation run with the DD Form
        2026 annotated with the words "ENGINE INSTALL RUN" in the remarks section of the
        form.
        2.2.3. All base aircraft going cross-country will have a computer generated copy of the
        current oil analysis trend completed by the JOAP lab. Printout will be inserted in the
        aircraft forms (AFTO Form 781). Computer generated printout with all additional
        sampling data will be returned to the JOAP lab along with the first oil samples after the
        aircraft returns.
        2.2.4. Each AMU will take JOAP samples when any of the following conditions occur:
            2.2.4.1. Any engine on a special redcap sampling.
            2.2.4.2. Any JOAP lab requested sample.
LUKEAFBI21-124 3 AUGUST 2011                                                                  3


        2.2.4.3. Anytime an engine is involved in a aircraft mishap.
        2.2.4.4. Any functional Check Flight due to engine change or major maintenance.
        2.2.4.5. Initial run after engine installation.
  2.3. 56 EMS JOAP lab will:
     2.3.1. Provide JOAP support during scheduled flying hours with telephone standby
     coverage available through 56 FW MOC on weekends and holidays.
     2.3.2. JOAP personnel will immediately notify MOC and Propulsion Flight Chief when
     an oil sample indicates a confirmed abnormal trend.
     2.3.3. When engine maintenance or removal is required due to oil analysis, the last 10 oil
     analysis readings will be printed up at the JOAP lab and sent to the appropriate repair
     activity.
     2.3.4. JOAP samples not identified as quick turn or redcap will be analyzed on a “first in,
     first out” priority. F-16 aircraft samples will take priority over all other samples except
     redcaps.
     2.3.5. Update oil change times as they occur using Integrated Maintenance Data System
     (IMDS).
     2.3.6. JOAP personnel will immediately notify the AMU through MOC when an error is
     found on the DD Form 2026. Upon notification, the AMU will correct the error as soon
     as possible. Errors not corrected prior to the next flying day will appear on the weekly
     error listing.
     2.3.7. Attend the quarterly combined Propulsion/JOAP working group meeting. The
     following information will be briefed by the base JOAP Monitor or designated
     representative:
        2.3.7.1. Number of JOAP samples processed, as well as percentage of DD form 2026
        errors, average response times, samples that exceeded response time standard of 75
        minutes, number and percentage of aircraft not sampled as required by applicable
        technical order, and number of JOAP laboratory recommendations as well as those
        confirmed by physical findings (Hits).
  2.4. 56th Maintenance Operations Squadron (56 MOS) Engine Management Branch
  (EMB) will:
     2.4.1. Monitor the JOAP status on spare engines.
     2.4.2. Prior to release of spare engine, review AFTO Form 781K, Aerospace Vehicle
     Inspections, Engine Data, Calendar Item Inspection, and Delayed Discrepancy Document
     and CAMS to ensure all required oil analysis information is correct.
  2.5. Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) will:
     2.5.1. Immediately notify owning organization of any test indicating oil contamination or
     bad JOAP results reported to them by the JOAP lab.
 4                                                         LUKEAFBI21-124 3 AUGUST 2011


        2.5.2. Immediately inform the JOAP lab of any changes to the published flying schedule.
        The JOAP lab, in turn, will notify MOC of all test results so that aircraft can be released
        for any additional flights.
        2.5.3. Ensure only local flights or reduced load operations are flown on aircraft with
        engines that are on surveillance (CODE E).
        2.5.4. Notify the JOAP lab when scheduling changes during the day require an aircraft to
        be quick turned.
        2.5.5. Mark the flying schedule board to show all aircraft JOAP results.
     2.6. 56th Component Maintenance Squadron (CMS), Propulsion Flight will:
        2.6.1. Initiate a message to the appropriate Air Logistics Center when an engine or
        component is removed as a result of oil analysis, and the engine or component is returned
        to depot. The message will contain a complete identification of equipment and the
        specific reason for removal. Informational copies will be sent to the following:
            2.6.1.1. Owning Command.
            2.6.1.2. Supporting JOAP lab (e.g., 56 FW Luke AFB, AZ) (MXMFN).
            2.6.1.3. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) : Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
            (OC-ALC) : Aerospace Sustainment Directorate (OC-ALC/GK) : Propulsion
            Sustainment Division (OC-ALC/GKG)
        2.6.2. Fill out the remarks portion of the DD Form 2026 after teardown
        recommendations (“T”CODE) are completed and return the form to the JOAP lab within
        7 workdays for data processing to the JOAP Technical Support Center, Pensacola, FL.
        2.6.3. Provide the JOAP lab, through IMDS, information on all maintenance actions
        performed on oil-wetted components.
        2.6.4. Attend the quarterly combined Propulsion/JOAP working group meeting.
3. 161st Air Reserve Wing (ARW):
     3.1. The 161st ARW is designated as the backup laboratory for Luke AFB. When support is
     required, the 56 EMS Nondestructive Inspection Lab will provide sufficient qualified
     technicians to support oil analysis operations. The 56 EMS JOAP lab supervisor will notify
     the 161st ARW JOAP Lab supervisor by phone if support is required. The 161st ARW
     Commander may direct the 161st ARW JOAP lab to become self-sufficient to support its
     contingency operations.




                                             JERRY D. HARRIS, JR.
                                             Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
LUKEAFBI21-124 3 AUGUST 2011                                                            5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFTO Form 781K, Aerospace Vehicle Inspections, Engine Data, Calendar Item Inspection, and
Delayed Discrepancy Document
DD Form 2026, Oil Analysis Request

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Units
ANG—Air National Guard
CTO—Central Tagging Operation
EMB—Engine Management Branch
FW—Fighter Wing
JOAP—Joint Oil Analysis Program
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
