BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 34-101
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                                     1 APRIL 2011

                                                                                            Services

                                                                    LUKE AFB HONOR GUARD


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:    FSS/FSOXH                                         Certified by: 56 FSS/CC (Lt Col Rodney
                                                                                      H. Nichols)
Supersedes:    LUKEAFBI 34-101, 7                                                       Pages: 10
               January 2008


This instruction implements AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, Joint Publication 4-06,
Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Mortuary Affairs in Joint Operations, and
Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 1300.15-D, Military Funeral Support, Section 578 of
Public Law 106-65 Title 10 of the United States Code, Funeral Honors Functions at Funerals of
Veterans. This instruction applies to 56th Fighter Wing. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and to Air National Guard (ANG) Units. Submit an AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication to the OPR to recommend changes to this
publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Due to alteration fluctuating price, if unit is held responsible for clothing reimbursement, the cost
will be set at the pre-determined rate charged to Honor Guard (paragraph 2.11.). Manning
changed from an 18- month commitment to a 12-month commitment for guardsmen (paragraph
2.4.). Changes were made from 270 days to 6 months for Flight Manager, Scheduler, and
Trainer. Trainer position is required to provide training continuity throughout each flight
(paragraph 10). The Honor Guard Flight Sergeant was changed from a permanent position to a
monthly rotation during the flight’s commitment (paragraph 11).
1. General: This is the publication of LUKEAFBI 34-101, Base Honor Guard Program. This
publication outlines the responsibilities of key personnel, establishes the method for selection,
 2                                                          LUKEAFBI34-101 1 APRIL 2011


notification, dispatch, utilization, structure, and management of the Honor Guard Program at
Luke Air Force Base, Arizona. It applies to all units assigned or attached to Luke Air Force
Base.
     1.1. The Honor Guard will consist of one cohesive team comprised of three on call officers
     for the purpose of delivering the benediction and flag to family members and 42 enlisted
     members (divided into two equal groups and the Honor Guard staff). This additional-duty
     contingent, under the 56th Mission Support Group, will represent the United States Air Force
     and Luke AFB by providing military funeral honors and performing a wide variety of
     ceremonies for military and civilian events. Administration of the Honor Guard will be the
     responsibility of the56th Force Support Squadron (56 FSS).
2. Manning: Each host and tenant unit of the 56 FW will be tasked to provide Honor Guard
members.
     2.1. The Honor Guard Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) will establish, review,
     and update quotas annually during the month of April and forward new quota figures through
     each Group Superintendent and the 56th Fighter Wing Command Chief (56 FW/CCC) for
     approval and dissemination.
        2.1.1. The Military Personnel Flight (56 FSS/DPM) will provide manpower data to the
        Honor Guard staff upon request. This information will be used to determine unit quotas.
        2.1.2. Quotas will be based on total authorized enlisted manpower, E-6 and below. Units
        who have manpower authorizations exempt from outside details (i.e., Command Post,
        EOD, etc.) must notify the 56 FW/CCC with exemption justification. Those
        authorizations will be deducted from the unit’s total manpower prior to determining the
        quota. (Justification must include specific applicable instruction or supplement.)
     2.2. Members appointed to the Honor Guard will be exempt from all base exercises and
     squadron details while serving on their active month. Further, they will not serve as a
     Security Forces Augmentee. Mobility exercise processing requirements should be at a
     minimum while they are on their active month.
     2.3. Units are encouraged to provide volunteers for all positions. If quotas cannot be filled
     with volunteers, appointment will be mandatory.
     2.4. The minimum tour of duty for all members will be 12 months unless waived by the
     appropriate Group Superintendent and the 56 FW/CCC. Honor Guard members may serve
     beyond the minimum commitment with unit and Honor Guard NCOIC approval.
        2.4.1. The 12-month commitment includes 6 active months of Honor Guard duty.
        Members absent for any reason, to include, but not limited to ALS, TDY, or unit
        manpower issues during an active month, will continue beyond their 12-month
        commitment to make up the absence.
        2.4.2. This requirement can only be waived by the 56 FW/CCC.
     2.5. Members will be replaced a minimum of 30 days prior to their departure date or at the
     end of their commitment. If this action is not taken, the current member will continue to
     serve until a replacement is provided.
LUKEAFBI34-101 1 APRIL 2011                                                                         3


   2.6. Leave is not authorized for times during a members active month unless under
   emergency circumstances. Appointments, unit training, TDY, and other activities will be
   coordinated with the Honor Guard NCOIC. If individual is not on active month, the Honor
   Guard NCOIC should be informed for emergency planning.
   2.7. Candidates selected will meet Air Force weight and body fat standards, and present the
   proper military image while in uniform.
   2.8. Candidates on a control roster, mandatory fitness, with a physical profile limiting
   walking, marching, lifting, or extended standing, or with a history of administrative or
   disciplinary action, etc., are not eligible for this duty.
   2.9. Candidates must be capable of supporting the shared weight of a 450-pound casket with
   5 other members.
   2.10. Candidates diagnosed with depression or prescribed mood altering medication must
   have clearance from authorized medical personnel and commander's approval IAW AFI 31-
   207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, Para 2.2., attachment 3.
   2.11. A candidate’s unit is responsible for purchasing all required uniform items for
   replacement personnel of any member removed from the program prior to serving a 12-
   month commitment for any reason, except permanent change of station. The average cost to
   outfit a guardsman is $1,200. This cost is subject to change depending on prices at military
   clothing sales.
   2.12. Failure to comply with Air Force and Honor Guard standards are grounds for
   dismissal.
3. Training: While on active month, training is mandatory. Honor Guard training will take
precedence over all other activities and will be overseen by the Honor Guard Trainer and assisted
by the flight trainers. No squadron or personal appointments will be scheduled during the
training periods unless authorized by the Honor Guard NCOIC. The authority for deviations
from this policy is the 56FW/CCC.
   3.1. Training will consist of learning the various positions/roles of all military ceremonies
   that the Honor Guard perform.
   3.2. Training will be comprised of an average of 40 hours per week, per month.
4. Organization: The Honor Guard will be divided into two flights with equal number of
members. The flights will be designated Alpha and Bravo.
   4.1. The Honor Guard will have a NCOIC serving a minimum 2-year controlled tour with a
   maximum of 4 years as AFSC 8G000, a Flight Manager, Trainer, and a Scheduling Manager
   permanently assigned for 6 months to establish continuity and oversee all operations.
   Individuals selected to fill these positions will be counted against losing unit quotas.
   4.2. Each flight will be activated every other month for a 1-month period and rotation will
   continue for the length of the 12-month commitment. Rotation months are as follows: Alpha
   Flight     (January/March/May/July/September/November)          and      Bravo       Flight
   (February/April/June/August/October/December).
5. Detail Order of Precedence:
 4                                                            LUKEAFBI34-101 1 APRIL 2011


     5.1. The following list of details will be given the highest priority when scheduling is
     considered:
        5.1.1. Active duty member funeral
        5.1.2. Retiree funeral
        5.1.3. Veteran funeral
        5.1.4. KIA cordon
     5.2. All other details should be requested via email to honorguard@luke.af.mil. These will
     be reviewed by the Honor Guard NCOIC. Final approval will be granted/declined by either
     the 56 MSG/CCC or the Honor Guard OIC based upon manning availability and projected
     Air Force image.
     5.3. Colors will be pre-posted during the commencement of the following events:
        5.3.1. ALS
        5.3.2. Pilot graduation
        5.3.3. Promotion and award ceremonies
        5.3.4. Retirements
        5.3.5. Induction ceremonies
        5.3.6. Heritage celebrations
        5.3.7. CCAF graduations
     5.4. Units may utilize their Honor Guard members during their non on call months to do the
     above ceremonies to include flag folding events.
6. Unit Honor Guard Coordinator: The First Sergeant of each wing agency, squadron, or unit
with an Honor Guard quota will act as the Honor Guard Coordinator.
     6.1. Will be the primary point of contact to discuss manpower issues and conduct all
     business with the Honor Guard staff.
     6.2. Will ensure quotas are filled with qualified members, at all times.
     6.3. Will screen all candidates prior to appointment to ensure they meet the highest standards
     of conduct, appearance and exceed standards as outlined in paragraph 2 of this instruction.
     6.4. Will be responsible for promoting Honor Guard within the group and explaining the
     importance of the duty to supervisors and prospective members.
     6.5. Will notify the Honor Guard staff of projected leave, TDY, PCS, separation, or
     replacement dates no later than 30 days prior to member’s flight activation date.
     6.6. Will ensure all applicable forms are processed to authorize Basic Allowance for
     Subsistence.
     6.7. Will ensure members are purchased CORCORAN Sage Green Marauder boots from
     unit operation and maintenance funds prior to reporting for duty.
LUKEAFBI34-101 1 APRIL 2011                                                                         5


7. Honor Guard NCOIC: The Honor Guard NCOIC will be selected by the 56 FSS/CC and/or
56 FW/CCC. He/she will serve a 2-year controlled tour with a maximum of 4 years as AFSC
8G000, and will be assigned to the 56th Force Support Squadron.
   7.1. Act as point of contact for all requests for ceremonies and functions. Coordinate all
   necessary aspects related to meeting the requirement for efficient operation of all events.
   Ensure all requested ceremonies and functions are annotated and assigned proper personnel
   to perform them no later than 24 hours in advance of the event.
   7.2. Will act as a primary liaison for local military and community functions.
   7.3. Will ensure members of the Honor Guard are briefed and understand the purpose and
   importance of those duties and responsibilities.
   7.4. Will select and appoint personnel to flight management positions and ensure they are
   trained and qualified to fulfill the responsibilities of those positions.
   7.5. Will ensure accuracy of equipment account.
   7.6. Will ensure all training to maintain a high standard of proficiency in drill and ceremony
   is conducted IAW applicable manuals and instructions.
   7.7. Will ensure that all final approvals for details are routed through 56 MSG/CCC or
   Honor Guard OIC.
   7.8. Will ensure manpower, equipment, and transportation are available to fulfill detail
   requirements.
   7.9. Will ensure monthly and yearly statistical data is up to date and sent to Randolph AFB,
   AETC/A1RR.
   7.10. Will ensure all statistical data requested from HQ AETC and the 56 FW is
   accomplished.
   7.11. Will submit monthly manpower report to 56 FSS/CC, 56 FW/CCC, Group
   Superintendents, and wing First Sergeants.
   7.12. Will ensure an accurate list of all members who are authorized to withdraw weapons
   and ammunition is on file at the 56 SFS Armory and updated upon member’s departure from
   Honor Guard.
   7.13. Will recommend removal of any member who does not maintain standards.
   7.14. Will submit nomination packages for Air Force Achievement or Air Force
   Commendation Medals, when member’s Honor Guard tour is completed honorably.
   7.15. Will ensure all fire safety and building inspections are completed by the 4th of each
   month.
   7.16. Will maintain and update Honor Guard website.
   7.17. Will track Honor Guard member’s leave requests.
   7.18. Will provide performance feedback to all NCO flight members and flight management
   personnel.
   7.19. Will be primary cell phone custodian.
 6                                                            LUKEAFBI34-101 1 APRIL 2011


     7.20. Will be the primary Records Custodian for Honor Guard.
     7.21. Will maintain the Government Purchasing Card program.
8. Honor Guard Scheduling Manager: Will be selected by the Honor Guard NCOIC with
approval from the Honor Guard commander and will serve a 6-month commitment. This
position will be filled by an Airman who is trained and qualified to perform all ceremonial
functions and will be assigned to the Services Squadron.
     8.1. Will act as alternate equipment custodian.
     8.2. Will be responsible for tracking of all Honor Guard funds.
     8.3. Will purchase awards for Honor Guard Awards program and departing members.
     8.4. Will perform funeral honors, military and civic ceremonies as needed.
     8.5. Will act as Safety Manager.
     8.6. Ensure notification is made to the motor pool dispatcher a minimum of 24 hours in
     advance, when possible, of all vehicle requirements. Pick-up time should be far enough in
     advance to allow for last-minute changes in vehicle selection.
     8.7. Will ensure all detail tracking sheets are completed fully and correctly prior to
     scheduling each detail.
     8.8. Will track and file all funeral detail sheets from prior months by month and year for 4
     years (1 active and 3 inactive). Maintain and dispose of records according to AFMAN 33-
     123, Management of Records.
     8.9. Monitor Honor Guard Email Account.
     8.10. Will calculate and track manpower cost, man hours spent, total number of active duty,
     retired, veteran funerals, color guards, and other ceremonies on statistical data sheets.
     8.11. Will act as primary munitions custodian.
9. Honor Guard Flight Manager: Flight Sergeants will be selected by the Honor Guard
NCOIC with approval from the Honor Guard OIC and will serve a 6-month commitment. This
position will be filled by an Airman who is trained and qualified to perform all ceremonial
functions and will be assigned to the Force Support Squadron.
     9.1. Will be the front line supervisor of all members on flight.
     9.2. Will maintain and update each individual Honor Guard member’s information file to
     ensure proper training qualifications. Will establish and maintain personnel appreciation
     files for each member to include thank you letters, awards, etc.
     9.3. Will provide performance feedback to flight sergeants during the last week of each
     month.
     9.4. Will perform funeral ceremonies, military, and civic details as needed.
     9.5. Will schedule all members for individual ceremonial photos and ensure they are
     displayed.
     9.6. Will ensure all new members complete Honor Guard in-processing checklist.
LUKEAFBI34-101 1 APRIL 2011                                                                         7


   9.7. Will ensure weekly safety briefing is given to flight members.
   9.8. Will oversee the rotational Flight Leader and provide guidance.
   9.9. Will ensure each individual member has the correct uniforms and accessories, while
   keeping accountability of all uniforms and uniform accessories.
   9.10. Will ensure supply closets are kept stocked with accessory items for uniforms.
   9.11. Will act as alternate munitions custodian.
   9.12. Will maintain AF Form 1800, Luke Form 160, Operator’s Inspection and Trouble
   Report Guide, and continuity book for Honor Guard Vehicles.
10. Honor Guard Trainer: Will be selected by the Honor Guard NCOIC with approval from
the Honor Guard OIC and will serve a 6 month commitment. This position will be filled by an
Airman who is trained and qualified to perform all ceremonial functions and will be assigned to
the Force Support Squadron.
   10.1. Will have a clear understanding of all ceremonial positions and movements that are
   covered in the USAF Honor Guard Training Manual.
   10.2. Will act as the primary trainer for all flight management personnel to ensure
   continuity.
   10.3. Will ensure members appointed to flight management positions are qualified and
   knowledgeable in protocol, honors, and ceremonies.
   10.4. Will be the central point to ensure all training requirements are met and applicable
   instructions are complied with.
   10.5. Will ensure an effective training program with current procedures is established and
   adhered to.
   10.6. Will ensure training records are current in training and up to date.
   10.7. Will maintain the Honor Guard awards program.
   10.8. Will perform funeral honors, military and civic ceremonies as needed.
   10.9. Will maintain, update, and distribute all training manuals, continuity books, ceremonial
   guides, and handbooks.
   10.10. Will provide performance feedback to all flight members and flight management
   personnel; NLT the end of the third week of each month.
   10.11. Will act as alternate equipment and munitions custodian.
11. Honor Guard Flight Sergeants: One Flight Sergeant will be selected by the Honor Guard
NCOIC with approval from the Honor Guard OIC and will serve on their monthly rotation
during the flight’s commitment. These positions will be filled by Airmen who are trained and
qualified to perform all ceremonial functions.
   11.1. The Alpha Flight Sergeant will be in charge of his or her flight during the months of
   January, March, May, July, September, and November.
   11.2. The Bravo Flight Sergeant will be in charge of his or her flight during the months of
   February, April, June, August, October, and December.
 8                                                             LUKEAFBI34-101 1 APRIL 2011


     11.3. Will be the front line supervisor of all members in their flight.
     11.4. Will be the responsible munitions inventory.
     11.5. Will maintain each individual members personal information file is up to date and
     correct.
     11.6. Will appoint a flight member as Physical Training Monitor and ensure all members
     participate in at least 3 physical training sessions per week.
     11.7. Will schedule one fundraiser and one community service project each month.
     11.8. Will provide performance feedback to all flight members NLT the end of the third
     week of each month.
     11.9. Will perform funeral ceremonies and all military and civic details as needed.
     11.10. Will ensure all members are scheduled for individual ceremonial photos
12. Honor Guard Members: Honor Guard members will be appointed by the Unit Honor
Guard Coordinator/Group Superintendent, and serve a minimum of 12 months (6 monthly
rotations).
     12.1. Will keep their respective flight’s management staff apprised of any situation that will
     prohibit them from performing Honor Guard duties.
     12.2. Will report for training and functions on time and in the proper uniform as prescribed
     by their flight management.
     12.3. Will maintain uniforms and appearance above standards set forth in AFI 36-2903.
     12.4. Will display the highest degree of professionalism, bearing, and behavior on and off
     duty.
     12.5. Will not accept any form of gratuity from any organization or person the Honor Guard
     is performing any detail for. Accepting gratuities is grounds for immediate removal from the
     Honor Guard and disciplinary action.
13. Uniforms: Uniforms and accessories required to perform Honor Guard duties will be issued
at no cost to the member.
     13.1. Members may take Honor Guard uniforms to Linen Exchange for cleaning at
     government expense.
     13.2. Uniforms will be maintained (tailored, cleaned, and pressed) to present a professional
     image and will exceed standards set forth in AFI 36-2903.
     13.3. Every possible effort will be made to recycle used ceremonials.
14. 56 FW/CCC or designated rep: Will provide a Chief Master Sergeant to present the flag
to the next-of-kin of a deceased member of equivalent grade on a voluntary basis, when required
and notified by Honor Guard.
15. Awards Program: Honor Guard members will be selected for monthly, quarterly, and
annual awards. Nominees for wing level awards will be forwarded to the office of the56
FW/CCC.
LUKEAFBI34-101 1 APRIL 2011                                                                   9


   15.1. Honor Guard Member of the Month: The member who most epitomizes the ideal
   Guardsman based on duty performance, attitude, uniform inspections, professionalism,
   selflessness, and ability to function as part of a cohesive team.
   15.2. Honor Guard Member of the Quarter: Selected from the three monthly award
   recipients. An identical criterion for the monthly winner applies, with the addition of
   leadership and management ability.
   15.3. Honor Guard Member of the Year: Selected from the four quarterly award recipients.
   An identical criterion for the quarterly winner applies, with the addition of any activities
   beyond outlined duties that positively affected Honor Guard personnel or programs.
   15.4. Honor Guard Program Manager of the Quarter: selection based on member’s ability to
   successfully manage all aspects of Honor Guard staff duties.
   15.5. Honor Guard Program Manager of the Year: selected from the four quarterly award
   recipients. An identical criterion for the quarterly winner applies.

16. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1946, Honor Guard Checklist
Luke AFB Form 160, Operator’s Inspection and Trouble Report Guide




                                           JERRY D. HARRIS, JR., Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
 10                                                        LUKEAFBI34-101 1 APRIL 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, 2 April 2008
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of the Air Force Personnel, 2 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Joint Publication 4-06, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Mortuary Affairs in Joint
Operations, 28 August 1996
DoD Directive 1300.15-D, Military Funeral Support, Section 578 of Public Law 106-65 Title 10
of the United States Code, Funeral Honors Functions at Funerals of Veterans,
22 October 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB— Air Force Base
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFPDC— Air Force Publishing Distribution Center
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
ALS— Airmen Leadership School
ANG— Air National Guard
DoD— Department of Defense
FSS— Force Support Squadron
FW— Fighter Wing
NCO— Noncommissioned Officer
NCOIC— Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
NLT— no later than
OIC— Officer In Charge
TDY— temporary duty
USAF— United States Air Force
