BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       LUKE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 32-7004
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                           14 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                  UNIT ENVIRONMENTAL COORDINATOR
                                                                 RESPONSIBILITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 CES/CEAN                                                         Certified by: 56 CES/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Chad B. BonDurant)
Supersedes:    LUKEAFBI 32-7004, 21                                                       Pages: 5
               September 2006


This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, at Luke Air Force Base,
Arizona by providing guidance on establishing and standardizing an environmental quality
program and environmental management procedures. Luke AFB is committed to cleaning up
environmental damage resulting from past activities, meeting all current environmental
standards, while planning and managing its future activities to minimize environmental impacts
and conserve the irreplaceable natural and cultural resources it holds in public trust. This
instruction establishes a network of designated unit environmental coordinators (UECs) to
promote wing ownership of environmental programs and fulfill these commitments with
guidance and training from the environmental flight. It specifies the responsibilities of UECs
and applies to all Luke AFB organizations including tenant and geographically separated units.
This publication applies to all Air Force, Air Force Reserve Command and to Air National Guard
units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes included updating the AFRIMS link and minor changes made to conform to the current
publication format requirement. Revisions included changing 56 CES/CEQ to read 56
CES/CEAN throughout the instruction. The following paragraphs revised to comply with
 2                                                   LUKEAFBI32-7004 14 DECEMBER 2012


current program requirements: 2.1.5., 2.2.8., 2.2.9., 2.2.10. (deleted), 2.3.5., 2.4.2., 2.4.5., and
2.5.4.
1. References.
     1.1. AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality.
2. Responsibilities. The agencies listed below will be responsible for compliance with the
procedures stated herein.
     2.1. Group and Tenant Commanders will:
        2.1.1. Ensure their respective organization complies with all federal, state, and local
        regulatory laws, and DoD, Air Force, AETC, and base environmental policies and
        instructions.
        2.1.2. Appoint a primary and alternate group environmental coordinator with at least
        one-year retainability. Send the appointment letter to the Environmental Flight (56
        CES/CEAN).
        2.1.3. Allow direct access for the group environmental coordinator to the commander.
        2.1.4. Direct squadron commanders to assign members to appropriate working groups as
        requested by the Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC)
        chairperson or by an ESOHC sub-committee chairperson.
        2.1.5. Ensure that each group environmental coordinator attends Luke Specific UEC,
        Enterprise Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management Information
        System (EESOH-MIS), and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) training
        provided by 56 CES/CEAN.
     2.2. Primary and Alternate Group Environmental Coordinators will:
        2.2.1. Act as group focal point for all environmental concerns and be the group liaison
        with 56 CES/CEAN. Coordinate and forward environmental matters through the
        appropriate offices in a timely manner.
        2.2.2. Attend Luke Specific UEC, EESOH-MIS, RCRA training provided by 56
        CES/CEAN.      Identify unit specific environmental training requirements to 56
        CES/CEAN.
        2.2.3. Assist units in identifying and advocating for environmental funding requirements.
        Ensure all requirements are documented and appropriate paperwork is completed and
        submitted for funding to 56 CES/CEAN.
        2.2.4. Provide program updates directly to the group commander as required, prior to the
        wing ESOHC meetings.
        2.2.5. Represent the group at all ESOHC subcommittee meetings.
        2.2.6. Make recommendations to the group commander on the membership of
        environmental working groups.
        2.2.7. Promptly identify areas of concern to the group or tenant commander, 56
        CES/CEAN, and appropriate environmental subcommittees.
LUKEAFBI32-7004 14 DECEMBER 2012                                                            3


     2.2.8. Ensure any known Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH)
     changes in policies or procedures are disseminated to the appropriate level.
     2.2.9. Conduct periodic shop inspection and site visits within the organization and
     document results.
     2.2.10. Provide guidance and policy to squadron level commanders and environmental
     coordinators on the establishment of additional UECs.
     2.2.11. Assist squadron UECs and resource advisors with review and oversight of the
     Government Purchase Card (GPC) purchase program to ensure proper authorization and
     procurement of HAZMAT.
  2.3. Squadron Commanders will:
     2.3.1. Ensure their squadron complies with all federal, state, and local regulatory laws,
     and DoD, Air Force, AETC, and base environmental policies and instructions.
     2.3.2. Appoint a primary and alternate squadron environmental coordinator with at least
     one-year retainability. Send an appointment letter to 56 CES/CEAN.
     2.3.3. Allow direct access for the squadron environmental coordinator to the commander.
     2.3.4. Assign squadron members to environmental working groups as directed by the
     respective group commander.
     2.3.5. Ensure that each squadron environmental coordinator attends Luke Specific UEC,
     EESOH-MIS, and Luke Specific RCRA training provided by 56 CES/CEAN.
  2.4. Squadron Environmental Coordinators will:
     2.4.1. Act as squadron focal point for all environmental concerns and be the squadron
     liaison with the group environmental coordinator and 56 CES/CEAN.
     2.4.2. Attend Luke Specific UEC, EESOH-MIS, RCRA training provided by 56
     CES/CEAN. Identify unit specific environmental training requirements to group
     environmental coordinator and 56 CES/CEAN.
     2.4.3. Assist unit personnel in identifying and advocating for environmental funding
     requirements. Coordinate requirements through group environmental coordinator.
     2.4.4. Make recommendations to the squadron commander on the membership of
     environmental working groups.
     2.4.5. Identify ESOH areas of concern to the squadron commander, group environmental
     coordinator, and 56 CES/CEAN.
     2.4.6. Recommend the selection of any additional environmental coordinators that may
     be required in their squadron.
     2.4.7. Ensure any known changes in ESOH policies or procedures are disseminated to
     the appropriate level.
     2.4.8. Conduct periodic shop inspections and site visits within the organization and
     document results. Assist 56 CES/CEAN in conducting environmental inspections such as
     ESOHCAMP.
4                                                 LUKEAFBI32-7004 14 DECEMBER 2012


    2.5. 56 CES/CEAN will:
       2.5.1. Provide environmental guidance and policy to the wing personnel.        Provide
       adequate support to the group and squadron environmental coordinators.
       2.5.2. Provide a system to validate and allocate environmental funds.
       2.5.3. Provide training to environmental coordinators and other identified wing
       personnel.
       2.5.4. Ensure environmental assessment checklists and supplements are available for
       group and squadron environmental coordinators.
       2.5.5. Assist in resolving environmental resource, training, procedure, or enforcement
       problems submitted by the 56 FW and tenant units.
       2.5.6. Conduct periodic inspections of workcenter compliance sites to ensure compliance
       with environmental requirements.




                                            MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
LUKEAFBI32-7004 14 DECEMBER 2012                                           5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form(s)
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CES/CEAN—Civil Engineer Environmental Flight
DoD—Department of Defense
EC—Environmental Coordinator
EESOH—MIS—Enterprise Environmental, Safety, Occupation Health - Management
Information System
ESOHC—Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Council
ESOH—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RCRS—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UEC—Unit Environmental Coordinator
