BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      LUKE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 32-7003
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                            9 OCTOBER 2013
                                                         Certified Current on 5 November 2014
                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                               AIR QUALITY COMPLIANCE
                                                                           PROCEDURES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 56 CES/CEIEC                                                     Certified by: 56 CES/CC
                                                                  (Lt Col Kenneth B. Herndon)
                                                                                     Pages: 31
Supersedes:   LUKEAFBI 32-7003, 11
              October 2006


This instruction establishes procedures and responsibilities for implementing AFI 32-7040, Air
Quality Compliance, at Luke Air Force Base (AFB), Arizona, and implement AFPD 32-70,
Environmental Quality. This instruction provides procedures for the operating, monitoring,
record keeping, reporting, management practices and regulatory requirements of air pollutants
regulated by Maricopa County. Air emission tracking will be accomplished through a team
effort and efficient management practices and controls. These measures are the responsibility of
each and every member of the 56th Fighter Wing (FW), including tenant units. This instruction
applies to all personnel who authorize, procure, issue, or use material containing Regulated Air
Pollutants and/or Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs). This publication applies to the U. S. Air
Force Reserve units and members attached or assigned to Luke AFB. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The revisions include: Deleted Sections; Peak Shaving Generator (Title V Permit Condition 23)
and Soil Vapor Extraction System at Building 177 (Title V Permit Condition 24). Added the
following new sections: Facility Wide Requirements, General Purpose Generators (Title V
Permit Condition 19b), and Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt (Title V Permit Condition 30).


       1.     References. .............................................................................................................            3
       2.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................              3
       3.     Facility Wide Requirements. .................................................................................                        4
       4.     Emergency Generators (Title V Permit Condition 19a). .......................................                                         4
       5.     General Purpose Generators (Title V Permit Condition 19b). ...............................                                           5
       6.     Jet Engine Test Cells (Title V Permit Condition 19c). ..........................................                                     6
       7.     External Combustion Sources: ...............................................................................                         6
       8.     Fuel Storage Tanks Diesel and JP-8 (Title V Permit Condition 21a). ...................                                               6
       9.     Fuel Storage Tanks – Gasoline (Title V Permit Condition 21b). ...........................                                            7
       10.    Bulk Plants and Terminals (Title V Permit Condition 21c). ..................................                                         9
       11.   Gasoline Delivery Vessel (C-300) Testing and Use (Title V Permit Condition 22).
              .................................................................................................................................   12
       12.    Abrasive Blasting and Sanding Activities at Building 907 (Title V Permit
              Condition 23). ........................................................................................................             14
       13.    Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework at Buildings 922, 1018, and 1019 (Title V
              Permit Condition 24). ............................................................................................                  15
       14.    Vehicle Refinishing at Buildings 291, (Title V Permit Condition 25). .................                                              18
       15.    Surface and Spray Coating Operations (Title V Permit Condition 26). ................                                                21
       16.    Architectural Coating (Title V Permit Condition 27) ............................................                                    22
       17.    Solvent Degreasing Operations (Title V Permit Condition 28). ............................                                           22
       18.    Solvent and Material Usage (Title V Permit Condition 31). .................................                                         26
       19.    Woodworking Activities (Title V Permit Condition 29). ......................................                                        27
       20.    Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt (Title V Permit Condition 30). ..........................                                            28
       21.    Waste Water Treatment Plant (Title V Permit Condition 31). ..............................                                           29
       22.    Fire Training Burn Permit. .....................................................................................                    29
       23.    Earthmoving. ..........................................................................................................             29
       24.    Aircraft Tank Fuel Purging. ...................................................................................                     30

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                    31
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                            3




1. References.
   1.1. Maricopa County Air Pollution Department (MCAPD) Rules and Regulations.
   1.2. Luke AFB Title V Air Quality Operating Permit.
   1.3. Luke AFB Dust Control Block Permit.
   1.4. Luke AFB Instruction 32-7002.
2. Responsibilities. The agencies listed below will be responsible for compliance with the
procedures stated herein.
   2.1. The 56 CES/CEIEC, Air Program, will:
      2.1.1. Be the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for this instruction.
      2.1.2. Resolve any resource, training, procedural or enforcement problems submitted by
      the 56 FW and tenant units.
      2.1.3. Manage all air emission records for the 56 FW and tenant units for a minimum of
      5 years.
      2.1.4. Compile and report all air emission data from user organizations annually to
      Maricopa MCAPD.
      2.1.5. Review all Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) and other information entered into
      the Enterprise Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health-Management Information
      System (EESOH-MIS) necessary to ensure all data is accurate to complete the annual
      emission inventory.
      2.1.6. Conduct periodic inspections of work centers to ensure compliance with this
      Instruction.
      2.1.7. Review Hazardous Material Authorization Requests for all Government Purchase
      Card (GPC) and supply purchases to ensure all necessary information is entered into
      EESOH-MIS.
      2.1.8. Approve all facilities for spray painting operations prior to start-up.
      2.1.9. Ensure a current permit is posted.
   2.2. Civil Engineering Squadron will:
      2.2.1. Coordinate and manage information tracking for data entered into the EESOH-
      MIS and serve as the EESOH-MIS onsite manager.
      2.2.2. Input EESOH-MIS data entries necessary to track hazardous materials usage and
      stockage.
   2.3. 56th Supply Squadron will:
      2.3.1. Assign a control number for all GPC purchases.
      2.3.2. Ensure specific cage (manufacturer) information is forwarded to the Hazardous
      Materials Office HAZMO to load into EESOH-MIS for authorized GPC purchases and
 4                                                     LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


        NSN products issued to user organizations when the product cage is different from the
        product cage that was authorized through the Hazardous Material Authorization process.
        2.3.3. Provide a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) to the user when a product is issued
        from supply that is a different cage from what was submitted for original Hazardous
        Material Authorization process.
     2.4. User Organizations will:
        2.4.1. Comply with the base air regulations and recordkeeping requirements outlined in
        Paragraphs 3 through 24.
        2.4.2. Submit record keeping requirements on time to 56 CES/CEIEC, Air Programs, if
        applicable.
        2.4.3. Conduct random work center inspections to ensure compliance with the policies
        stated in Paragraphs 3 through 24.
3. Facility Wide Requirements.
     3.1. 56 CES/CEIEC or an individual designated by 56 CES/CEIEC staff will perform
     weekly inspections for the opacity inspections required under the Title V permit.
     3.2. A single odor log will be maintained to cover the odor log requirements under the Title
     V permit.
4. Emergency Generators (Title V Permit Condition 19a).
     4.1. Operational Limits:
        4.1.1. Operation of emergency engines will be limited to no more than 100 hours each
        calendar year for purposes of maintenance checks and readiness.
        4.1.2. Except for routine testing, emergency generators shall be used only when normal
        power service fails from the serving utility; if onsite electrical transmission or onsite
        power generation equipment fails; emergency pumping of water resulting from a flood
        fire, lightening strikes; lighting airport runways; or sewage overflow mitigation and/or
        prevention. Emergency generators shall not be used for peak shaving or if the power
        interruption is due to a voluntary reduction by the power company. Limit the operation
        of each diesel generator to no more than 500 hours per year including 100 hours for
        maintenance checks and readiness.
        4.1.3. Do not use any fuel that contains greater than 0.05% sulfur by weight.
     4.2. No emergency generator will be operated unless it has a cumulative run time meter
     installed and working properly.
     4.3. If any emergency engine is modified or reconstructed after July 11, 2005, the engine
     shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 60 subpart IIII.
     4.4. Recordkeeping Procedures:
        4.4.1. Keep accurate daily run time usage records for each emergency generator showing
        the date the unit was operated, start up and shut down time and cumulative monthly run
        time. Include a description of what the engine was being used for including any
        maintenance performed on each generator.
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  5


      4.4.2. A list of all equipment with total hours ran per calendar month must be provided to
      CEIEC for the submission of the annual emissions inventory, semi-annual compliance
      report, and ongoing permit compliance.
      4.4.3. Keep records of all fuel used for the operation of the emergency generators which
      documents the sulfur content of the fuel. These documents can be in the form of
      MSDS's, technical data sheets from the vendor (and/or sampling), or sales records that
      include the sulfur content specifications of the fuel.
      4.4.4. All generators must be accurately inventoried. 56 CES/CEIEC maintains a current
      equipment list and must be updated when a generator is purchased, moved, or deleted
      from the base inventory. 56 CES Power Production must update CEIEC of any changes
      in equipment.
   4.5. Generators manufactured after 2007, must be Tier certified by EPA and maintained
   according to the manufacturer’s written instructions or procedure. Only those changes
   allowed by the manufacture shall be made to any engine.
5. General Purpose Generators (Title V Permit Condition 19b).
   5.1. Operational Limits:
      5.1.1. Operation of all general purpose generators will not exceed 4,380 hour per any
      twelve consecutive month time period.
      5.1.2. Do not use any fuel that contains greater than 0.05% sulfur by weight.
      5.1.3. Preventative maintenance or tuning procedures will be performed as recommended
      by the engine manufacturer and must include the following:
          5.1.3.1. Change the lubricating oil and filter once every three months or after no
          more than 300 hours of operation whichever occurs last.
          5.1.3.2. Clean the inlet air filter once every three months or after no more than 300
          hours of operation and replace every 1,000 hours of operation or every year
          whichever occurs last.
          5.1.3.3. Clean the fuel filter once every year or replace (if cartridge type) once every
          1,000 hours of operation whichever occurs last.
          5.1.3.4. Check and adjust the valves, spark plugs, spark timing, and carburetor
          mixture (as applicable) once every year or after no more than 1,000 hours of
          operation whichever occurs last.
          5.1.3.5. Replace spark plugs and ignition points after 3,000 hours of operation or
          every year whichever occurs last.
          5.1.3.6. Change coolant after 3,000 hours of operation or every year whichever
          occurs last.
          5.1.3.7. Check for leaks and restrictions in the exhaust system after 3,000 hours of
          operation or every year whichever occurs last.
   5.2. No general purpose generator will be operated unless it has a cumulative run time meter
   installed and working properly.
 6                                                       LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


     5.3. Monitoring and Recordkeeping Requirements:
        5.3.1. Maintain a log including engine combustion type, manufacturer, model
        designation, rated brake horsepower, serial number and engine location.
        5.3.2. A list of all equipment with total hours ran per calendar month must be provided to
        CEIEC for the submission of the annual emissions inventory, semi-annual compliance
        report, and ongoing permit compliance.
        5.3.3. Keep records of all fuel used for the operation of the emergency generators which
        documents the sulfur content of the fuel. These documents can be in the form of
        MSDS's, technical data sheets from the vendor (and/or sampling), or sales records that
        include the sulfur content specifications of the fuel.
        5.3.4. All generators must be accurately inventoried. 56 CES/CEIEC maintains a current
        equipment list and must be updated when a generator is purchased, moved, or deleted
        from the base inventory. 56 CES Power Production must update CEIEC of any changes
        in equipment.
6. Jet Engine Test Cells (Title V Permit Condition 19c).
     6.1. The total amount of fuel used and the number any type of engine must be logged on a
     monthly basis, and sent to the Air Program Manager by the 10th of the following month.
     6.2. In accordance with Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section 504,
     records shall be maintained for five years rather than the period of time otherwise required
     under the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
7. External Combustion Sources: Boilers, Heaters, Spray Paint booth Dryers, and Bake
Off Ovens (Title V Permit Condition 20).
     7.1. Operational Limitations and Standards: Do not use any fuel that contains greater than
     0.05% sulfur by weight in any permitted equipment at the facility.
     7.2. The base shall keep a facility wide record of natural gas usage.
8. Fuel Storage Tanks Diesel and JP-8 (Title V Permit Condition 21a).
     8.1. Affected Sources: JP-8 and Diesel Tanks greater than 250 gallons in the POL yard.
     8.2. Operational Limitations: Do not store any volatile organic liquid (VOL) in these storage
     tanks that:
        8.2.1. Have a true vapor pressure greater or equal to 2.18 psi (15.0 kPa) for a tank with a
        capacity greater than or equal to 19,812 gallons (75 m3) but less than 39,625 gallons (150
        m3).
        8.2.2. Have a true vapor pressure greater or equal to 0.5 psi (3.5 kPa) for a tank with a
        capacity greater than or equal to 39,889 gallons (151 m3).
        8.2.3. Have a true vapor pressure greater than 1.5 psi (10.3 kPa).
     8.3. Monitoring and Recordkeeping:
        8.3.1. Keep copies of records readily accessible showing the dimensions of the storage
        vessel and an analysis showing the capacity of the storage vessel. This record shall be
        kept for the life of the source.
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  7


      8.3.2. At the request of the inspector, test the true vapor pressure of the volatile organic
      liquid stored in the affected storage tanks. The Reid vapor pressure shall be determined
      using American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) Method D 323-90.
   8.4. Reporting: Notify 56 CES/CEIEC when the maximum true vapor pressure exceeds the
   limits specified in 8.2 above.
9. Fuel Storage Tanks – Gasoline (Title V Permit Condition 21b).
   9.1. Affected Sources: Gasoline tanks listed in the approved equipment list
   9.2. Allowable Emissions: Vapor loss from the source at any point in time shall not exceed
   10,000 ppm as methane as measured by an organic vapor analyzer or combustible gas
   detector.
   9.3. Allowable Throughput: The delivery of gasoline to all tanks which dispense gasoline
   into motor vehicles or other gasoline fueled engines will not exceed 100,000 gallons per
   month.
   9.4. Handling Requirements: Gasoline must be handled in a manner that would prevent
   vapor releases to the atmosphere for extended periods of time. Measures taken include:
      9.4.1. Minimize gasoline spills;
      9.4.2. Clean up spills as expeditiously as practical;
      9.4.3. Cover all open gasoline containers and all gasoline storage tank fill pipes with
      gasketed seal when not in use;
      9.4.4. Minimize gasoline sent to open waste collection systems that collect and transport
      gasoline to reclamation and recycling devices, such as oil/water separators.
   9.5. Operational Limitations and Standards:
      9.5.1. Each tank shall be equipped with a permanent submerged fill pipe that has a
      discharge opening which is completely submerged when the liquid level is six inches
      above the tank bottom. Threads, gaskets, and mating surfaces of the fill pipe assembly
      shall be designed and maintained tight. There shall be no liquid or vapor leakage at the
      joints of the assembly.
      9.5.2. Prevent driver/deliverers from connecting the delivery hose coupling to a fill pipe
      coupling with so much twisting force that the fill pipe assembly is loosened. One method
      of complying is to have a California Air Resources Board certified swivel coupling as
      part of the fill pipe assembly.
      9.5.3. Fill pipe caps shall have a securely attached, intact gasket. The cap and its gasket
      shall always function properly, latch completely so that it cannot then be easily twisted
      by hand, and have no structural defects. The cap of a gasoline fill pipe shall always be
      fastened securely on the fill pipe except immediately before, during, and immediately
      after:
          9.5.3.1. “Sticking” the tank to measure gasoline depth.
          9.5.3.2. Delivering gasoline into the tank.
              9.5.3.2.1. Conducting testing, maintenance or inspection on the gasoline/vapor
8                                                      LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


               system. Pipe caps shall not be unfastened or removed unless every other fill pipe
               is either securely capped or connected to a delivery hose.
       9.5.4. Gasoline storage and receiving operations shall be leak free. Specifically, no liquid
       gasoline escape of more than three drops per minute is allowed. This includes leaks
       through the walls of piping, fittings, fill hose(s), and vapor hose(s). There shall be no
       excess gasoline drainage from the end of a fill hose or a vapor hose. Specifically, not
       more than two teaspoonfuls of gasoline shall be lost in the course of a connection or
       disconnection process.
       9.5.5. Spill containment systems such as recessed basins surrounding the tank fill neck,
       including gaskets shall be kept vapor-tight. The outer surface of the spill containment
       basin shall have no holes or cracks and shall not allow vapors to pass from the dispensing
       tank through it to the atmosphere. Spill containment receptacles shall be kept clean and
       free of foreign material at all times.
    9.6. Spill Containment: If the spill containment is equipped with a passageway to allow
    material trapped by the containment system to flow into the interior of the dispensing tank
    the passageway shall be kept vapor tight at all times unless in use. Any plunger/stopper
    assembly shall be checked to ensure that it is unimpeded and sealing correctly. The bottom
    of the receptacle shall be designed and kept such that no puddles of gasoline are left after
    draining through the passageway has ceased. Assure that before a delivery vessel leaves the
    premises after a delivery, any gasoline in a dispensing tank’s spill containment receptacle has
    been removed. Any gasoline that has been taken out of a spill receptacle as a free liquid or as
    absorbed into/onto other material removed from the receptacle shall be contained in such a
    way that VOC emission is prevented. Disposal in conformance with applicable hazardous
    waste rules is sufficient to meet this requirement.
    9.7. Vapor Loss Control Measures Required:
       9.7.1. Ensure all vapor loss control equipment is installed as required, operated as
       recommended by the manufacturer, and maintained leak free, vapor tight and in good
       working order. Base personnel and drivers of a delivery vessel have the responsibility to
       assure that vapor recovery equipment is properly connected and in use at all times while
       gasoline is actively being transferred. Base personnel will resfuse delivery of gasoline if
       the delivery vessel does not bear a current pressure test certification decal. On coaxial
       systems, both spring-loaded and fixed coaxial fill tubes will be maintained cording to
       manufacturer standards and operated only if no obstruction of the vapor line is present.
       9.7.2. Vapor Recovery System: The displaced gasoline vapors or gases shall be handled
       by an Approved Stage I Vapor Recovery System.
       9.7.3. No vapor or liquid will be allowed to escape through the dispensing tank’s outer
       surfaces or from any of the joints where the tank is connected to the pipes, wires, or other
       systems. Delivery operations will be vapor tight, meaning organic vapors will be less
       than 10,000 ppm or less than 20% of the lower explosive limit when measured with an
       organic vapor analyzer or combustible gas detector.
       9.7.4. Tanks and fittings will also be less than 10,000 ppm or less than 20% of the lower
       explosive limit when measured with an organic vapor analyzer or combustible gas
       detector, expect for the outlet of a pressure/vacuum relief valve.
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  9


      9.7.5. Overfill prevention equipment will be will be less than 10,000 ppm or less than
      20% of the lower explosive limit when measured with an organic vapor analyzer or
      combustible gas detector. Any device mounted within the fill pipe will prevent vapor
      from the vapor space above the gasoline within the tank from penetrating into the pill
      pipe or through any of the fill pipe assembly into the atmosphere.
   9.8. Vapor Loss Control Measures: Base personnel will not allow the transfer of gasoline
   from any delivery vessel into a stationary dispensing tank with a capacity of more than 250
   gallons unless the following is met:
      9.8.1. The tank is equipped with a permanent submerged fill pipe.
      9.8.2. Displaced gasoline vapors or gases are handled by an approved stage I vapor
      recovery system.
      9.8.3. Delivery operations are leak free and vapor tight. Disconnects of gasoline delivery
      hoses are cone without excess organic liquid drainage.
   9.9. Equipment Maintenance and Use Required:
      9.9.1. All vapor loss control equipment shall be installed as required, operated as
      recommended by the manufacturer and maintained leak free, vapor tight and in good
      working order:
          9.9.1.1. Both the owner/operator of the vessel delivering the gasoline to the fuel
          dispensing tank, equipped with a vapor recovery, and Luke AFB are responsible for
          assuring that proper vapor recovery equipment is connected during every such
          delivery.
          9.9.1.2. Luke AFB will refuse delivery of gasoline from a delivery vessel which does
          not bear a current pressure test certification decal issued by Maricopa County.
          9.9.1.3. Both spring loaded and fixed coaxial fill tubes shall be maintained and
          operated so that there is no obstruction of vapor passage from the tank to the delivery
          vessel.
   9.10. Monitoring and Recordkeeping Requirements:
      9.10.1. Luke AFB must inspect the following weekly:
          9.10.1.1. External fittings of tank fill pipe assemblies and vapor valves to assure that
          cap, gasket, and piping are intact and are not loose.
          9.10.1.2. Spill containment receptacles for fuel accumulation.
      9.10.2. Keep weekly records of fill pipe, vapor valve, and spill containment inspection to
      be kept. The findings of such weekly inspections shall be permanently entered in a record
      or logbook by the end of Saturday of the following week. These records and any reports
      or supporting information required by this instruction shall be retained in accordance with
      Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section 504, for five years rather than
      the period of time otherwise required under the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
      Records of the past 12 months shall be in a readily accessible location and must be made
      available to the County without delay upon verbal or written request.
10. Bulk Plants and Terminals (Title V Permit Condition 21c).
10                                                   LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


  10.1. Affected Sources: Aboveground storage tank (AST) located at Bldg. 368 and
  underground storage tank (UST) at Bldg 335
  10.2. Operational Limitations and Standards:
     10.2.1. Fill pipes: The tank must be fitted with submerged fill pipes and a
     pressure/vacuum valves that are set within ten percent of the tanks’ maximum, safe
     working-pressure.
     10.2.2. The tank shall be equipped with a vapor recovery system that collects and returns
     displaced vapors to the delivery vessel using vapor tight fittings and lines.
     10.2.3. Fuel transfers:
         10.2.3.1. Transfer to fuel tank: Do not transfer gasoline from a delivery vessel into a
         tank exceeding 250 gallons capacity unless the delivery vessel bears a current county
         pressure-test decal and uses a vapor balance system equipped with fittings which are
         vapor tight.
         10.2.3.2. Transfer from fuel tank: Do not transfer gasoline from a tank exceeding 250
         gallons capacity into a delivery vessel unless the loading rack and the delivery vessel
         use a vapor balance system equipped with fittings which are vapor tight.
     10.2.4. Requirements for tank vapor loss control devices:
         10.2.4.1. Loading shall be accomplished in a manner that prevents the gauge pressure
         from exceeding 18 inches of water (33.6 mm Hg) and vacuum from exceeding 6
         inches of water (11.2 mm Hg) in the tank truck. Ensure that the vapor recovery
         system required by this permit condition is connected between the delivery vessel and
         the storage tank during all fuel transfers.
         10.2.4.2. Loading shall be accomplished in a manner that prevents overfills, fugitive
         liquid leaks or excess organic liquid drainage. Luke AFB personnel shall observe all
         parts of the transfer and shall discontinue the transfer if any leaks are observed.
         Measures shall be taken to prevent liquid leaks from the loading device when it is not
         in use, and to complete drainage before the loading device is disconnected. During
         loading or unloading operations, potential leak sources shall be vapor tight as
         demonstrated by the test procedure described below.
         10.2.4.3. Loading operations shall be accomplished in such a manner that the
         displaced vapor and air will be vented only to the vapor collection/processing system,
         which shall be operated gas-tight and in a manner such that the vapor processing
         capacity is not exceeded. Diaphragms used in vapor storage tanks shall be
         maintained gas-tight.
         10.2.4.4. Vapor transfer lines shall be equipped with fittings that are vapor tight and
         that automatically and immediately close upon disconnection. Vapor balance systems
         shall be designed to prevent any vapors collected at one loading rack from passing to
         another loading rack.
     10.2.5. Repair and retesting requirement: If the vapor recovery equipment fails, notify
     56 CES/CEIEC for repair and retesting:
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                               11


        10.2.5.1. Concentrations at or above the lower explosive limit must be brought into
        compliance within 24 hours of detection.
        10.2.5.2. Leak concentrations between 10,000 ppm and 50,000 ppm, as methane for
        vapor collection/processing equipment subject to gas-tight standard shall be brought
        into compliance within 5 days of detection.
        10.2.5.3. Leaks must be tested after presumed leak-correction within 15 minutes of
        recommencing use; if leak standards are exceeded in this test, the use of the faulty
        equipment shall be discontinued within 15 minutes until correction is verified by
        retesting.
     10.2.6. Equipment maintenance and operating practices: All equipment associated with
     delivery and loading operations shall be maintained to be leak free, vapor tight and in
     good working order. Gasoline shall not be spilled, discarded in sewers, stored in open
     containers, or handled in any other manner that would result in evaporation to the
     atmosphere. Purging of vapors is prohibited.
     10.2.7. Handling requirements: Luke personnel will not allow gasoline to in a manner
     that would result in vapor released to the atmosphere for extended periods of time
     including minimizing gasoline spills, cleaning up spills as expeditiously as practicable;
     covering all open gasoline containers and all gasoline storage tank fill pipes with gasket
     type seal when not in use; and minimizing gasoline sent to open waste collection systems
     such as oil/water separators.
  10.3. Monitoring and Recordkeeping Requirements:
     10.3.1. The total amount of gasoline received each month shall be recorded by the end of
     the following month. Keep accurate records of liquids stored in such tanks including
     either the true or the Reid vapor pressure ranges of each such liquid. The temperature of
     the contents of each affected tank located at bulk terminals shall be recorded at least
     weekly and the true vapor pressure of each shall be recorded at least once each month. In
     accordance with Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section 504, records
     shall be maintained for five years rather than the period of time otherwise required under
     the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
  10.4. Administrative Requirements:
     10.4.1. The primary seal will be available for inspection of the County. However, if
     prior thereto the secondary seal is removed or if the tank is drained and cleaned for any
     reason, it shall be made available for inspection at that time. Luke personnel will provide
     notification to the County no less than 7 working days prior to removal of the secondary
     seal. Luke personnel shall perform a complete inspection the primary seal and the
     floating roof, including measurement of the gap area and maximum gap, whenever the
     tank is emptied for non operation reasons or at least every five years, whichever is more
     frequent.
     10.4.2. Perform monthly inspections, while vapor is being transferred, for liquid and
     vapor leaks and for faulty equipment. In these monthly inspections detection methods
     incorporating sight, sound, smell and/or touch may be used.
 12                                                    LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


      10.4.3. A log book shall be signed by the owner or operator, or responsible user as
      delegated by the Air Program Manager, at the completion of each monthly inspection for
      equipment leaks. A section of the log shall contain a list, summary description, or
      diagram(s) showing the location of all equipment in gasoline service at the facility.
   10.5. Exemptions: When VOC vapors are present within a non-exempt delivery vessel, the
   vapor containment equipment may be opened while performing operations required by
   County rules or other statutory entities but restricted as follows:
      10.5.1. Wait at least 3 minutes after on-loading is complete or delivery vessel has
      stopped before opening hatch or other vapor seal.
      10.5.2. Close hatch or other sealing device within 3 minutes of opening.
      10.5.3. Limit wind speed at the hatch or sealing device to not more than 3 mph.
   10.6. Testing Requirements:
      10.6.1. Leak detection tests shall be conducted annually, as directed by the Air Program
      Manager, according to MCAPD procedures.
11. Gasoline Delivery Vessel (C-300) Testing and Use (Title V Permit Condition 22).
   11.1. Do not store or transport gasoline in or otherwise use or operate any gasoline delivery
   vessel unless it is designed and maintained to be vapor tight and leak free.
   11.2. The driver/operator of a gasoline delivery vessel shall:
      11.2.1. Thoroughly drain a fill hose and a vapor recovery hose into the dispensing tank
      before disconnecting it from the tank’s fittings;
      11.2.2. Connect and disconnect fill hoses and vapor recovery hoses in such a way as to
      prevent excess gasoline drainage (more than two teaspoonfuls) from escaping from the
      hose in one connect/disconnect cycle.
      11.2.3. Spills and any gasoline that is deposited in or on an area other than within the
      dispensing tank shall be collected and contained. This can include, but is not limited to,
      the correct use of buckets and/or absorbent material designed for the purpose, and the
      correct disposal of the collected gasoline.
   11.3. For gasoline dispensing tanks that are equipped with a Stage I Vapor Recovery
   System:
      11.3.1. During delivery, the vessel operator shall not remove the lid of a fill tube unless
      every other fill tube either has a lid fastened in place or a delivery hose connecting it to
      the delivery vessel.
      11.3.2. Connect a vapor recovery hose before connecting any gasoline delivery hose.
      11.3.3. Disconnect a delivery hose from a tank before disconnecting the vapor recovery
      hose.
      11.3.4. Restriction on multiple connections: A delivery vessel must not simultaneously
      have more than one gasoline delivery hose connected, unless each delivery hose is
      connected to a dispensing tank’s two-point system that already has a vapor hose
      connecting it to the vessel.
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  13


  11.4. If a delivery vessel’s vapor hose is connected to a vapor return line that is not part of a
  two-point system, then there shall not be more than one gasoline delivery hose connected to
  the vessel, and no other hoses connected to a fill tube; viz., no more than one compartment of
  the delivery vessel shall be emptied at a time.
  11.5. A gasoline delivery vessel shall first pass the Maricopa County Pressure Test before
  delivering or unloading gasoline within Maricopa County, and to continue, must pass the
  Maricopa County Pressure Test each year thereafter.
  11.6. Each gasoline delivery vessel shall clearly display a valid MCAQD air quality decal
  that is permanently mounted near the front on the right (passenger) side of the vessel.
  11.7. Do not purge gasoline vapors into the atmosphere from a delivery vessel unless the
  following conditions are met:
     11.7.1. VOC emissions shall be reduced at least 90% by weight, including capture and
     processing, by a control device permitted by MCAQD.
     11.7.2. Such purging shall be done only after all delivery valves are opened and any
     liquid gasoline outflow is captured in a container having an attached lid which is kept
     closed when not receiving or pouring gasoline.
     11.7.3. Purging is done only after all delivery valves are opened and any VOC-liquid
     flow is captured in a container which is kept closed when not in use.
  11.8. Opening Hatches on Nonexempt Vehicles:
     11.8.1. Owners/operators, their contractors, and authorized government agents may open
     vapor containment equipment on a nonexempt gasoline delivery vessel while performing
     operations required by governmental agencies, but shall be restricted as follows, unless
     approved in advance by the inspector:
         11.8.1.1. Wait at least three minutes after unloading is complete and after a delivery
         vessel has stopped before opening its hatch or other vapor seal.
         11.8.1.2. Reclose hatch or other sealing device within three minutes of completing
         the required procedures.
         11.8.1.3. Limit windspeed at opened hatch or other opened sealing device to not
         more than 3 mph (1.34 m/sec), using a barrier if necessary.
     11.8.2. Hatches of a delivery vessel may be open for monitoring to prevent overflow
     during the period that the vessel is receiving gasoline from a tank or other source, if so
     required by a local fire code or other ordinance.
     11.8.3. Connecting coaxial fittings: Requirements for first connecting a vapor hose
     before a gasoline delivery hose do not apply to coaxial vapor recovery connection
     fittings.
  11.9. Vapor Recovery Required:
     11.9.1. Do not store or transport gasoline in or otherwise use or operate any delivery
     vessel unless such vessel is designated and maintained to be vapor tight and leak free.
  11.10. Monitoring and Recordkeeping Requirements:
 14                                                    LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


      11.10.1. Maintain records of all certification, testing, and repairs where such records
      must be maintained in a legible, readily available condition for at least five years after the
      date the testing and repair is completed. The records of the certification testing will be
      recorded in both of the following documents: the “Application for Air Pollution Vapor
      Recovery Certification” and the “Tank Truck Leak Certification Check List”. Luke AFB
      subcontracts a MCAPD approved contractor to complete above two documents.
      11.10.2. Maricopa County may at any time monitor a delivery vessel, including the
      vapor collection system, for vapor and liquid leaks to ascertain if it is vapor tight and leak
      free. Leakage of vapor exceeding 1/5 of the lower explosive limit, or 10,000 ppm as
      methane, shall be an exceedance of the vapor-tight MCAPD standard.
   11.11. Testing Requirements:
      11.11.1. Tests required by the SIP Rules 352 shall be conducted by the owner or
      operators, or by a consultant, at the expense of the owner or operator. Prior to testing the
      County shall be noticed of the date, time and location of the testing and the County may
      at any time observe the tests.
12. Abrasive Blasting and Sanding Activities at Building 907 (Title V Permit Condition
23).
   12.1. Abrasive Blasters:
      12.1.1. All abrasive blasting operations shall use confined blasting to control air
      emissions:
      12.1.2. All abrasive blasters must be accurately inventoried. 56 CES/CEIEC maintains a
      current equipment list and must be updated when an abrasive blaster is purchased,
      moved, or replaced. It is the user’s responsibility to notify 56 CES/CEIEC when the
      aforementioned change has occurred.
      12.1.3. Abrasive blasters must have a written maintenance plan to ensure equipment is
      working properly. Typically, an O & M Plan is provided by the manufacturer. Shop
      specific written procedures may be produced to fulfill this requirement.
      12.1.4. Specific conditions for confined abrasive blasting with a forced air exhaust:
          12.1.4.1. Dry abrasive blasting in a confined enclosure with a forced exhaust shall be
          conducted by venting to an Emission Control System (ECS) with a submitted and
          approved Operation and Maintenance Plan (O & M Plan) on file with the MCAPD.
          12.1.4.2. The ECS shall be operated and maintained in accordance within operating
          parameters specified in the MCAPD approved O & M Plan most recently approved in
          writing by the inspector. The O & M Plan contains the operating parameters and
          maintenance procedures acceptable to the inspector. The MCAPD approved O & M
          Plan must be kept on-site for any ECS used.
          12.1.4.3. Work Practices: At the end of the work shift, the owner or operator shall
          clean up spillage, carryout, and/or track out of any spent abrasive material with a
          potential to be transported during a wind event.
      12.1.5. Recordkeeping requirements (for blasting operations that occur periodically).
      Keep the following records onsite and maintain all of the specified records in accordance
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 15


      with Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section 504, for five years rather
      than the period of time otherwise required under the Air Force Records Disposition
      Schedule. User shall make them available to the control officer upon request:
          12.1.5.1. The date the blasting occurs;
          12.1.5.2. The blasting equipment that is operating;
          12.1.5.3. A description of the type of blasting;
          12.1.5.4. A description of the ECS associated with the blasting operation;
          12.1.5.5. The type and amount of solid abrasive material consumed on a monthly
          basis. Include name of certified abrasive used, as applicable;
          12.1.5.6. Keep a copy of the most recent California Air Resources Board certification
          list, if applicable, on file.
          12.1.5.7. Maintain records of the key system operating parameters for the ECS
          required by the MCAPD approved O & M Plan.
      12.1.6. If there is a reason to suspect that the surface that is to be abraded is covered in
      lead and a California Air Resources Board certified abrasive blasting media is intended to
      be used as the control device, contact 56 CES/CEIEC for conducting testing to determine
      if the lead content of the paint is less than 0.1%.
   12.2. Sanding Procedures:
      12.2.1. All sanding must be done using a vacuum sander and sanding residue must be
      disposed of in an appropriate manner.
13. Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework at Buildings 922, 1018, and 1019 (Title V
Permit Condition 24).
   13.1. Operational Limitations and Standards:
      13.1.1. Do not use or operate any spray painting or spray coating equipment unless one
      of the following conditions is met:
          13.1.1.1. Operate all spray coating equipment inside an enclosure which has at least
          three sides a minimum of eight feet in height and able to contain any object(s) being
          coated.
          13.1.1.2. The direction of the spray will be in a horizontal or downward pointing
          manner so that overspray is directed at the walls or floor of the enclosure. No
          spraying shall be conducted within three feet of any open end and/or within two feet
          of the top of the enclosure.
          13.1.1.3. For enclosures with three sides and a roof, or for complete enclosures,
          direct the spray into the enclosure so that the overspray is directed away from any
          opening in the enclosure. No spraying shall be conducted within three feet of any
          open end and/or within two feet of any open top of the enclosure. The
          Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight conducts an evaluation of all confined spaces
          prior to commencement of painting.
16                                                   LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


     13.1.2. Any spray booth or enclosure with forced air exhaust must have an average
     overspray removal efficiency of at least 92% by weight, as specified in writing by the
     manufacturer, for the type of material being sprayed. No gaps, sags or holes shall be
     present in the filters.
     13.1.3. Do not apply any surface coating including any VOC-containing materials added
     to the original coating supplied by the manufacturer, which contain VOC in excess of the
     limits in Tables 24-1 and 24-2 of the Title V Permit. The exception for this is at building
     922, where the VOC emissions are vented to a MCAPD approved fabric filter and
     activated carbon absorption system and the system achieves a capture and control
     efficiency of at least 81%. Each control system shall be operated according to the
     MCAPD approved O & M Plan.
     13.1.4. Use one or more of the following application techniques in applying any primer
     or topcoat to aerospace vehicles or components: brush coating; cotton-tipped swab
     application; or high volume low pressure (HVLP) spraying.
     13.1.5. Cleaning procedures:
        13.1.5.1. Hand-wipe cleaning operations shall utilize an aqueous cleaning solvent, or
        have a VOC composite vapor pressure less than or equal to 24 inches of water (45
        mm Hg) at 68°F (20°C).
        13.1.5.2. For flush cleaning of parts, assemblies, and coating unit components, the
        used cleaning solvent (except for semi-aqueous cleaning solvents) must be emptied
        into an enclosed container or collection system that is kept closed when not in use or
        captured with wipers, provided they comply with the VOC handling requirements
        below.
        13.1.5.3. All spray guns must be cleaned by one or more of the following methods:
            13.1.5.3.1. Enclosed spray gun cleaning system, provided that it is kept closed
            when not in use and leaks are repaired within 14 days from when the leak is first
            discovered. If the leak is not repaired by the 15th day after detection, the solvent
            shall be removed and the enclosed cleaner shall be shut down until the leak is
            repaired or its use is permanently discontinued;
            13.1.5.3.2. Unatomized discharge of solvent into a waste container that is kept
            closed when not in use;
            13.1.5.3.3. Disassembly of the spray gun and cleaning in a vat that is kept closed
            when not in use; or
            13.1.5.3.4. Atomized spray into a waste container that is fitted with a device
            designed to capture atomized solvent emissions.
     13.1.6. All fresh and used VOC containing material, including but not limited to cleaning
     solvents, coatings, thinners, rags, and their residues, shall be stored in closed, leak free,
     legibly labeled containers when not in use. In addition, the owner or operator must
     implement handling and transfer procedures to minimize spills during filling and
     transferring the cleaning solvent to or from enclosed systems, vats, waste containers, and
     other cleaning operation equipment that hold or store fresh or used cleaning solvents.
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 17


     13.1.7. All cans of paint, solvent or other VOC containing material must have the lid in
     place when the material is not in use. At no time are containers to be air-dried. If a
     paint container becomes empty, any excess material may be poured out or wiped out into
     the proper hazardous waste container and the lid replaced. The container will not be left
     unattended and inverted to drain. The emptied container with the lid tightly sealed will be
     disposed of as solid waste.
     13.1.8. Personnel performing painting or cleaning operations must have annual training
     on proper paint application techniques and VOC training. This training will be annotated
     in personnel’s AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
  13.2. Monitoring and Recordkeeping Requirements:
     13.2.1. Inspect each filter installed on a spray booth or enclosure for gaps, sags or holes
     prior to each use. If any gaps, sags or holes are observed in any of the filters, immediately
     repair or replace the filter and record the name of the inspector, the location of filtering
     system containing the filter, and the time and date that the filter was replaced. Otherwise,
     record the name of the inspector, the location of the filtering system containing the filter,
     a statement that no gaps, sags or holes were observed, and the time and date that the
     filter was inspected.
     13.2.2. Maintain on file and make available to the County upon request, a copy the
     manufacturer’s specifications verifying that the average overspray removal efficiency for
     the filter is at least 92%
     13.2.3. Maintain a current list of aerospace coatings in use, VOC content as applied and
     records of the monthly usage of such materials in pounds per gallon or grams per liter. In
     addition, maintain a current list of:
        13.2.3.1. All aqueous and semi-aqueous hand-wipe cleaning solvents used with
        corresponding water contents.
        13.2.3.2. All vapor pressure compliant hand-wipe cleaning solvents in use with their
        respective vapor pressures or, for blended solvents, VOC composite vapor pressures
        and records of the monthly usage of such cleaning solvents.
        13.2.3.3. All hand-wipe cleaning processes using cleaning solvents with a vapor
        pressure greater than 24 inches of water (45 mm Hg) and records of the monthly
        usage of such cleaning solvents.
     13.2.4. Visually inspect the seals and all other potential sources of leaks from the spray
     gun cleaner at least once per month while the spray gun cleaner is in operation. Records
     of these inspections shall be kept and made available upon request by the MCAPD.
     13.2.5. A MCAPD approved O & M Plan for any ECS, their monitoring devices, and
     emission processing equipment will be followed to include recordkeeping requirements,
     periodic maintenance requirements and operating procedures. The MCAPD approved O
     & M Plan must be kept on-site for any ECS used. If equipment is replaced, a new O & M
     Plan will be submitted for approval by the Air Program Manager prior to resuming
     operations.
     13.2.6. A log shall be maintained of the monthly tests of the activated carbon panels
     located in building 922, in accordance with Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule
 18                                                    LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


       100 Section 504, for five years rather than the period of time otherwise required under the
       Air Force Records Disposition Schedule. The report shall state the available surface area
       of the activated carbon derived from each test. If a test result shows the available surface
       area of the activated carbon to be below 10%, spray painting will cease until the carbon
       in the panels is replaced with new or regenerated activated carbon.
14. Vehicle Refinishing at Buildings 291, (Title V Permit Condition 25).
   14.1. Allowable Emissions Limitations:
       14.1.1. Do not apply a coating on a previously finished automobile/light-duty vehicle in
       Maricopa County unless the coating’s VOC content complies with the applicable limits in
       Table 25-1 of Title V Permit Condition 25. Vehicle-body appurtenances such as mirrors,
       trim strips, license-plate frames, etc., used to replace or supplement existing
       appurtenances on an automobile/light-duty vehicle bodies may be coated with coatings
       that meet the applicable VOC limits in Table 25-1, even if the item has never been coated
       or used. The recoating of a section of a light-duty vehicle that is not part of its
       body/chassis, its body’s appurtenances, nor its wheels, shall comply with the VOC limits
       of Table 25-3 of Title V Permit Condition 25. This includes drive-train, steering gear,
       suspension, etc.
       14.1.2. Do not apply refinish coating to any section or appurtenance of the body or
       chassis of a heavy truck unless that coating complies with the VOC limits in Table 25-1.
       At the time of (re)placement, the Luke AFB personnel may coat heavy truck body
       appurtenances such as mirrors, trim strips, license-plate frames, wheel covers, etc., with
       coatings that meet the applicable VOC limits in Table 25-2, or the requirements of item a
       below, if the item is about to be used to replace or supplement existing appurtenances,
       even if the item has never previously been coated or used. Luke AFB may coat a heavy
       truck panel, a juncture of panels, or a body appurtenance using a coating with a VOC
       content that does not exceed 4.55 lb VOC/gal (546 g VOC/L), provided that the coatings
       as applied meet the following requirements:
          14.1.2.1. The coating shall be applied from a reservoir having a gross volume not
          exceeding 1.2 liters (5 cups) and containing no more than 1.1 quart (1 liter) of
          coating.
          14.1.2.2. The complete topcoat of a single stage finish shall not use more than one
          liter.
          14.1.2.3. The complete topcoat of a multi-stage finish shall not exceed two liters.
          14.1.2.4. The total of all non-topcoat coatings, including wash and primers shall not
          exceed one liter.
          14.1.2.5. Wash Primers may have up to 6.5 lb VOC/gal (780 g VOC/L).
   14.2. Operational Limitations and Standards:
       14.2.1. Any spray booth or enclosure with forced air exhaust must have an average
       overspray removal efficiency of at least 92% by weight, as specified in writing by the
       manufacturer, for the type of material being sprayed. No gaps, sags or holes shall be
       present in the filters.
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 19


     14.2.2. The recoating of a section of mobile equipment or a heavy-duty vehicle,
     including a heavy truck, that is not part of its body/chassis, its wheels, nor appurtenances,
     shall comply with the VOC limits of Table 25-1 of the Title V Permit. This includes
     drive-train, steering gear, suspension, etc.
     14.2.3. Do not refinish mobile equipment or any heavy-duty vehicle that is not a heavy
     truck unless the coating as applied conforms to the VOC limits in Table 25-3 of the Title
     V Permit, except that pre-treatment acid etchant wash shall conform to the VOC limits of
     row 1 in Table 25-2, herein.
     14.2.4. When adding VOC-containing thinner, reducer, or other diluent to any refinish
     coating regulated by either Table 25-1 or Table 25-2 of the Title V Permit, do not add
     such diluents in proportions higher than those specified or recommended by the
     instructions provided by the supplier of the coating.
     14.2.5. When cleaning or preparing a surface of a vehicle or mobile equipment for
     coating using a wipe method or other non-dip method, do not use a material with a VOC
     content as applied of more than 1.4 lb VOC/gal (167.8 g VOC/L). Neither surface-
     cleaning nor surface-preparation material that contains VOC shall be applied by means of
     motor-compressed air if applied in a mist or (finely atomized) spray.
     14.2.6. Operate and maintain in proper working order all production and cleaning
     equipment in which VOC-containing materials are used or stored.
     14.2.7. Do not apply any coating with a VOC content exceeding 3.0 lb VOC/gal (360 g
     VOC/L) using a spray gun, unless a low pressure spray gun or system (such as HVLP) is
     employed.
     14.2.8. A spray gun other than the type described above may be used if:
        14.2.8.1. Applying materials that have a VOC content not exceeding 3.0 lb VOC/gal
        (360 g VOC/L) as applied, less water and non-precursor compounds.
        14.2.8.2. Such guns are designed and used solely for detailing and/or touch-up, and
        have a maximum reservoir capacity of 8.8 fluid ounces (250 milliliters).
        14.2.8.3. Such guns are used to apply adhesives.
     14.2.9. Maintain in calibration, in good working order and in operation, the spray booth
     and overspray filter described in the facility’s MCAPD approved O & M Plan.
     14.2.10. Manual and Automatic Spray Gun Cleaning:
        14.2.10.1. All solvent used to manually clean spray guns shall be collected into a
        container which shall be immediately closed after all the solvent has been collected.
        All solvent used for line cleaning shall be pumped or drained into a container kept
        closed when not in use. Tanks used for stripping off coating or for cleaning objects
        shall be covered when not in use. Solvent dragout shall be minimized by tilting or
        rotating the object to drain off any pools of solvent before removing the object from
        above the tank.
        14.2.10.2. Manual cleaning outside of the cleaning machine is allowed if the cleaning
        machine is used immediately after manual cleaning, and if done without spraying
        cleaning solvent with the gun. A cleaning machine is not required to clean a paint gun
20                                                   LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


        if the gun is cleaned with water or a cleaning mixture that is more than half water by
        weight or volume.
     14.2.11. Store all VOC-containing materials, including but not limited to waste coatings,
     waste solvents and their residues, and rags in closed containers. A container must have a
     legible label identifying the container’s contents and shall be kept closed except when
     contents are added or removed. Disposal of waste or surplus VOC-containing materials
     shall be done in a manner that inhibits VOC evaporation, such as having these materials
     hauled off site in sealed containers.
  14.3. Monitoring and Recordkeeping Requirements:
     14.3.1. Luke AFB must notify the county by February 28th if any of the following
     quantities are exceeded for the previous calendar year:
        14.3.1.1. Used a total of 1000 gallons of coating (with reducer and hardener)
        14.3.1.2. Received a total of 1300 gallons of cleaning solvent, lacquer thinner and
        wash-thinner.
        14.3.1.3. Disposed of more than 1000 gallons of 6000 pounds to hazardous waste
        collection.
        14.3.1.4. Submitted a total exceeding 9000 pounds of VOC in the facility’s most
        recently completed Maricopa County annual air-emission inventory form.
     14.3.2. Keep the records described below, in a consistent and complete manner and shall
     make them available to the MCAPD without delay during normal business hours.
     14.3.3. Maintain written records in the facility that give the name or code number of
     each VOC-containing product and its VOC content as received. VOC content shall be
     expressed in pounds of VOC per gallon (or grams/liter), less water and non-precursors,
     excepting waterborne cleaners that shall include the water. Any one of the following may
     be used to meet these requirements as long as all VOC-containing refinishing products
     are accounted for:
        14.3.3.1. An up-to-date hardcopy (in writing) list prepared for that facility.
        14.3.3.2. Current MSDS or product data sheets showing the VOC content.
        14.3.3.3. Purchase documentation that gives VOC content, such as invoices and/or
        receipts showing VOC content.
        14.3.3.4. Current, dated manufacturer’s publications such as charts or lists which
        show VOC content, with the products used in the facility highlighted or otherwise
        clearly marked.
     14.3.4. Purchase records showing the volume of each VOC-containing refinishing-
     related product purchased shall be kept available for the current and the previous year.
     Actual invoices and receipts showing the volume of the material purchased will suffice in
     place of ledger-style records. Records required by this section of the permit shall be
     retained in accordance with Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section
     504, for five years rather than the period of time otherwise required under the Air Force
     Records Disposition Schedule. Records can be obtained through EESOH-MIS.
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                               21


      14.3.5. The spray booth shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the
      operating parameters specified in the currently approved O&M Plan.
      14.3.6. Maintain on file and make available to the County upon request, a copy of the
      manufacturer’s specifications verifying that the average overspray removal efficiency for
      the filter is at least 92%.
      14.3.7. On each day that an ECS is used, record the amount and VOC content of the
      material for which the ECS was used. On each day an ECS is used, make a permanent
      record of the operating parameters of the key systems as required by the O & M Plan
      described below. For each day or period in which the O & M Plan requires that
      maintenance be performed, a permanent record shall be made of the maintenance actions
      taken within 24 hours of maintenance completion.
      14.3.8. Maintain the MCAPD approved O & M Plan for the ECS and their monitoring
      devices. Comply with all the identified actions and schedules provided in each O & M
      Plan. The MCAPD approved O & M Plan must be kept onsite for each ECS used.
15. Surface and Spray Coating Operations (Title V Permit Condition 26).
   15.1. Affected sources include spray paint booths except for aerospace and vehicle
   refinishing booths.
      15.1.1. All spray painting operations including the use of spray cans for touch up
      painting will not be performed outside. These operations must be conducted in an
      approved facility.
      15.1.2. Approved facilities are required to have three sides (a minimum of eight feet in
      height) and long enough to fully contain the object being painted. Spray shall be directed
      away from any opening in the enclosure. No spraying shall be conducted within three feet
      of any open end and/or within two feet of the top of the enclosure.
      15.1.3. If the spray painting operation is located inside a confined space (i.e. Building)
      there must be proper ventilation for worker’s health. The Bioenvironmental Engineering
      Flight conducts an evaluation of all confined spaces prior to commencement of painting.
      15.1.4. Any spray paint booth or enclosure with forced air exhaust system must have
      filters with an overspray removal efficiency of at least 92%. No gaps, sags or holes shall
      be present in the filters.
      15.1.5. Any coating containing more than 240 g/L of VOC will use an HVLP spray gun.
      15.1.6. Spray gun cleaning will be done by disassembling the gun and other equipment
      and cleaning in a container which remains covered at all times except when the
      equipment is being handled or with a commercially sold gun cleaning machine
      15.1.7. No solvents with vapor pressures over 35 mmHg at 20 degrees centigrade shall
      be used.
   15.2. Each spray paint booth has a MCAPD approved O & M Plan that contains the required
   recordkeeping, monitoring, and maintenance procedures specific to each spray paint booth to
   ensure they are working properly. The MCAPD approved O & M Plan must be kept on-site
   at each spray paint booth.
 22                                                  LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


16. Architectural Coating (Title V Permit Condition 27)
   16.1. Operational Limits
      16.1.1. Luke shall not apply any architectural coating manufactured after July 13, 1988
      which is recommended for use as a bituminous pavement sealer unless it is an emulsion
      type coating.
      16.1.2. Luke shall not apply any non-flat architectural coating manufactured after July
      13, 1990, which contains more than 2.1 lbs (250 grams/liter [g/l]) of VOCs per gallon
      (gal) of coating, excluding water and any colorant added to tint bases. These limits do
      not apply to specialty coatings
      16.1.3. Luke shall not apply any architectural coating that exceeds the limits for
      Specialty Coatings in section 27.c.iii. of the Title V permit. Limits are expressed in
      pounds of VOC per gal of coating as applied, excluding water and any colorant added to
      tint bases.
      16.1.4. Luke shall not apply any flat architectural coating which contains more than 2.1
      lbs (250 g/l) of VOC/gal of coating, excluding water and any colorant added to tint bases.
      These limits do not apply to specialty coatings
   16.2. Recordkeeping
      16.2.1. Luke shall keep the material list of all coatings used. The material list must
      contain the name of each coating, short description of the material, lbs of VOCs per gal
      of coating, excluding water and colorant added to tint bases and amount used. If the
      coating is exempt from the VOCs content requirements, the justification for the
      determination shall be documented and kept on file.
17. Solvent Degreasing Operations (Title V Permit Condition 28).
   17.1. Equipment and Solvent Requirements:
      17.1.1. All cleaning machines must be one of the following types.
          17.1.1.1. Batch loaded cold cleaners with remote reservoir;
          17.1.1.2. Batch loaded cold cleaners without a remote reservoir (such as solvent dip
          tank).
          17.1.1.3. Use only low VOC cleaner. A low VOC cleaner is any solution or
          homogeneous suspension that, as used, contains less than 0.42 lb VOC/gal (50 g
          VOC/L) of material or is at least 95% water by weight or volume;
      17.1.2. Solvent handling requirements: All cleaning-solvent, including solvent soaked
      materials, shall be kept in closed leak-free containers that are opened only when adding
      or removing material. Rags used for wipe cleaning shall be stored in closed containers
      when not in use. Each container shall be clearly labeled with its contents. If any
      cleaning-solvent escapes from a container:
          17.1.2.1. Wipe up or otherwise remove immediately if in accessible areas.
          17.1.2.2. For areas where access in not feasible during normal production, remove as
          soon as reasonably possible.
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                             23


        17.1.2.3. Unless records show that VOC-containing cleaning material was sent
        offsite for legal disposal, it will be assumed that it evaporated on site.
     17.1.3. Provide a leak-free container (degreaser) for the solvents and the articles being
     cleaned. The VOC-containment portion shall be impervious to VOC-containing liquid
     and vapors. No surface of any freeboard required by this rule shall have an opening or
     duct through which VOC can escape to the atmosphere except as required by OSHA.
  17.2. Operating and Signage Requirements:
     17.2.1. When cleaning with cleaning-solvents other than Low-VOC Cleaners:
        17.2.1.1. Comfort fans shall not be used near cleaning machines;
        17.2.1.2. Do not remove any device designed to cover the solvent unless processing
        work in the cleaning machine or maintaining the machine;
        17.2.1.3. Drain cleaned parts for at least 15 seconds after cleaning or until dripping
        ceases, whichever is later;
        17.2.1.4. If using a cleaning-solvent spray system:
            17.2.1.4.1. Use only a continuous, undivided stream (not a fine, atomized, or
            shower type spray).
            17.2.1.4.2. Pressure at the orifice from which the solvent emerges shall not
            exceed ten pounds psi gauge (psig) and shall not cause liquid solvent to splash
            outside the solvent container.
            17.2.1.4.3. In an in-line cleaning machine, a shower-type spray is allowed,
            provided that the spraying is conducted in a totally confined space that is
            separated from the environment.
            17.2.1.4.4. Exceptions to the above subsections 17.2.1.4.1 through 3 are provided
            for in Section 17.5 below.
        17.2.1.5. Do not cause agitation of a cleaning-solvent in a cleaning machine by
        merging with air or other gas. Covers shall be placed over ultrasonic cleaners when
        the cleaning cycle exceeds 15 seconds.
        17.2.1.6. Do not place porous or absorbent materials in or on a cleaning machine.
        This includes, but is not limited to, cloth, leather, wood, and rope. No object with a
        sealed wood handle, including a brush, is allowed;
        17.2.1.7. The ventilation rate at the cleaning machine shall not exceed 65 cfm per
        square foot of evaporative surface (20 m3/min/m2), unless that rate must be changed
        to meet a standard specified and certified by a Certified Safety Professional, a
        Certified Industrial Hygienist, or a licensed professional engineer experienced in
        ventilation, to meet health and safety requirements.
        17.2.1.8. Limit the vertical speed of mechanical hoists moving parts in and out of the
        cleaning machine to a maximum of 2.2 inches per second (5.5 cm/sec) 11 ft/min (3.3
        m/min).
24                                                  LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


        17.2.1.9. Do not mix two different solvents together prior to consulting with 56
        CES/CEIEC first for approval.
     17.2.2. When using cleaning-solvent, other than Low-VOC Cleaner, in any solvent
     cleaning machine (degreaser) or dip tank, at a minimum, post the following applicable
     instructions, or its equivalent within 3.25 feet (1 meter) of the machine:
        17.2.2.1. "Keep cover closed when parts are not being handled." (This is not required
        for remote reservoir cleaners.)
        17.2.2.2. "Drain parts until they can be removed without dripping."
        17.2.2.3. "Do not blow off parts before they have stopped dripping."
        17.2.2.4. "Wipe up spills and drips as soon as possible; store used spill rags [or
        'wiping material'] in covered container."
        17.2.2.5. "Don't leave cloth or any absorbent materials in or on this tank."
        17.2.2.6. For cleaning machines with moving parts such as hoists, pumps, or
        conveyors, post: "Operating instructions can be obtained from _______" (state where
        the instructions are available).
  17.3. Required solvent specifications: All cleaning solvents, except Low-VOC Cleaners,
  shall be conforming solvents. A conforming solvent is one that has a total VOC vapor
  pressure at 68ºF (20ºC) not exceeding 0.53 inches of water (1 mm Hg) maximum total VOC
  vapor pressure.
  17.4. Batch Cleaning Machines: Equip each batch cleaning machine with remote reservoir
  including the cabinet type(s), with the following:
     17.4.1. A sink-like work area or basin which is sloped sufficiently towards the drain so
     as to prevent pooling of cleaning-solvent.
     17.4.2. A single, unimpeded drain opening or cluster of openings served by a single
     drain for the cleaning-solvent to flow from the sink into the enclosed reservoir. Such
     opening(s) shall be contained within a contiguous area not larger than 15.5 square inches
     (100 cm2).
     17.4.3. Provide a means for drainage of cleaned parts such that the drained solvent is
     returned to the cleaning machine.
     17.4.4. Equip each batch cleaning machine without a remote reservoir with all of the
     following:
        17.4.4.1. An internal drainage rack or other assembly that confines within the
        freeboard all cleaning-solvent dripping from parts and returns it to the hold of the
        cleaning machine (degreaser).
        17.4.4.2. An impervious cover which prevents cleaning-solvent vapors in the
        cleaning machine from escaping into the air/atmosphere when not processing work in
        the cleaning machine. The cover shall be fitted so that in its closed position the cover
        is between the cleaning-solvent and any lip exhaust or other safety vent, except that
        such position of cover and venting may be altered by an operator for valid concerns
        of flammability established in writing and certified to by a Certified Safety
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                25


        Professional or a Certified Industrial Hygienist to meet health and safety
        requirements.
        17.4.4.3. The freeboard height shall be not less than 6 inches (15.2 cm). Freeboard
        height for batch cleaning machines is the vertical distance from the solvent/air
        interface to the least elevated point of the top-rim when the cover is open or removed,
        measured during idling mode.
        17.4.4.4. The freeboard zone shall have a permanent, conspicuous mark that locates
        the maximum allowable solvent level which conforms to the applicable freeboard
        requirements.
  17.5. Special Non-Vapor Cleaning Requirements:
     17.5.1. Operate and equip the devices as follows when blasting or misting with
     conforming solvents:
        17.5.1.1. The device shall have internal drainage, a reservoir or sump, and a
        completely enclosed cleaning chamber, designed so as to prevent any perceptible
        liquid from emerging from the device; and
        17.5.1.2. The device shall be operated such that there is no perceptible leakage from
        the device except for incidental drops from drained, removed parts.
     17.5.2. Use a sealed system for all blasting or misting with a non-conforming solvent.
     17.5.3. Cleaning systems using cleaning-solvent that emerges from an object undergoing
     flushing with a visible mist or at a pressure exceeding ten psig, shall comply as follows:
        17.5.3.1. For conforming solvents, use a containment system that is designed to
        prevent any perceptible cleaning-solvent liquid from becoming airborne outside the
        containment system, such as a completely enclosed chamber.
        17.5.3.2. Use a sealed system for non-conforming solvents.
  17.6. Monitoring and Recordkeeping Requirements:
     17.6.1. Any cleaning-solvent subject to the vapor-pressure limits of County Rule 331
     §304.1 shall have on site the written value of the total VOC vapor-pressure of each such
     solvent by November 1, 1999, in one of the following forms:
        17.6.1.1. A manufacturer’s technical data sheet.
        17.6.1.2. A manufacturer’s safety data sheet (MSDS).
        17.6.1.3. Actual test results. NOTE: In order to maintain accurate usage records for
        all solvent tanks/gun cleaners on base, an agreement has been made with Safety
        Kleen to provide the information necessary to meet Title V Permit requirements.
     17.6.2. GPC service invoices will serve as the primary record keeping mechanism. The
     authorized GPC cardholder, the person signing the invoice when service has been
     completed or the authorizing official must ensure that Safety Kleen measures the amount
     of new solvent placed into the bath/cleaner. The invoice records the quantities of both
     waste materials and clean solvent delivered in gallons.
 26                                                    LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


      17.6.3. Once Safety Kleen has performed service and the aforementioned information is
      included on the invoice, a copy must be maintained by shop personnel in accordance with
      Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section 504 for five years rather than
      the period of time otherwise required under the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
      17.6.4. Record the amount of cleaning-solvent used at the end of each month for the
      previous month. Show the type and amount of each make-up and all other cleaning-
      solvent.
      17.6.5. Annually document the use of concentrate that is used only in the formulation of
      Low VOC Cleaner.
   17.7. Equipment Recordkeeping:
      17.7.1. All solvent baths must be accurately inventoried. 56 CES/CEIEC maintains
      current equipment list and must be updated when a solvent bath or paint gun cleaner is
      purchased/leased or replaced. It is the users responsibility to notify 56 CES/CEIEC when
      the aforementioned change occurs
      17.7.2. Records of the disposal/recovery of VOC containing waste materials must be
      kept in accordance with hazardous waste disposal statutes.
      17.7.3. Maintain a current list of coatings adhesives, makeup solvents, and any other
      VOC-containing materials. The VOC content of each must be stated in either pounds per
      gallon or grams per liter.
      17.7.4. Maintain monthly records of the amount of each coating, adhesive, makeup
      solvent, solvent used for surface preparation, for cleanup, and for the removal of
      materials, and any other VOC containing material used.
      17.7.5. Record the type, amount, and method of disposing of VOC-containing materials
      on each day of disposal.
      17.7.6. In accordance with Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section
      504, records shall be maintained for five years rather than the period of time otherwise
      required under the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule. These records must be
      available to the County inspector, upon request.
18. Solvent and Material Usage (Title V Permit Condition 31).
   18.1. VOC Containing Material Purchase, Usage and Tracking Procedures:
      18.1.1. Maricopa County Air Quality Regulations require that all users of VOC
      containing material maintain a current list of VOC containing material, including VOC
      content and amount used each month. The EESOH-MIS system will meet this
      requirement for VOC containing materials purchased, issued and used on base. In order
      to use the system effectively, the user must process the proper Hazardous Material
      Authorization Request procedures as outlined in Luke AFB Instruction 32-7002,
      Hazardous Material Management.
   18.2. All cans of paint, solvent or other VOC containing material must have the lid in place
   when the material is not in use. At no time are containers to be air-dried. If a paint container
   becomes empty, any excess material may be poured out or wiped out into the proper
   hazardous waste container and the lid replaced. The container will not be left unattended and
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 27


   inverted to drain. The emptied container with the lid tightly sealed will be disposed of as
   solid waste.
   18.3. Equipment Clean Up:
      18.3.1. Do not use any liquid materials containing more than ten percent volatile organic
      compounds for the cleanup of equipment unless the used cleaning liquids are collected in
      a container that is closed when not in use and is disposed of in a manner such that volatile
      organic compounds are not emitted into the atmosphere.
      18.3.2. Alternatively, the equipment may be disassembled and cleaned in a solvent vat
      that is closed when not in use, or cleaned by other methods, if approved in writing by the
      County, which limit evaporation.
   18.4. VOC Containment and Disposal:
      18.4.1. Do not store, discard, or dispose of VOC or VOC containing material in a way
      intended to cause or to allow the evaporation of VOC to the atmosphere. Reasonable
      measures shall be taken to prevent such evaporation that includes, but are not limited to,
      the following:
      18.4.2. All materials from which VOC can evaporate, including fresh solvent, waste
      solvent and solvent-soaked rags and residues, shall be stored in closed containers when
      not in use.
      18.4.3. Such containers one gallon and larger shall be legibly labeled with their contents.
      18.4.4. Records of the disposal/recovery of such materials shall be kept. Records of
      hazardous waste disposal shall be kept in accordance with hazardous waste disposal
      statutes.
      18.4.5. All materials from which VOC can evaporate, including fresh solvent, waste
      solvent and solvent-soaked rags and residues, shall be stored in closed containers when
      not in use. Such containers one gallon and larger shall be legibly labeled with their
      contents.
   18.5. Monitoring and Recordkeeping:
      18.5.1. Prior to the purchase/installation of an ECS, the organization will contact the Air
      Program Manager to ensure compliance with the MCAPD Rules and Permit.
      18.5.2. Records of the disposal/recovery of VOC containing waste materials shall be
      kept. Records of hazardous waste disposal shall be kept in accordance with hazardous
      waste disposal statutes.
      18.5.3. Discarded materials: Maintain records of the type, amount, and method of
      disposing of VOC-containing materials on each day of disposal.
      18.5.4. Records required by these permit conditions shall be retained in accordance with
      Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section 504, for five years rather than
      the period of time otherwise required under the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
      and shall be made available to the MCAPD upon request.
19. Woodworking Activities (Title V Permit Condition 29).
 28                                                    LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


   19.1. Any woodworking equipment particulate matter exhaust captured through a centralized
   dust collection system such as those listed on the most current approved equipment list shall
   vent into an approved particulate matter ECS such as a baghouse or cyclone.
   19.2. Each dust control system has a MCAPD approved O & M Plan that contains the
   required recordkeeping, monitoring, and maintenance procedures specific to each dust
   control system to ensure they are working properly. The MCAPD approved O & M Plan
   must be kept on-site near each dust control system.
20. Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt (Title V Permit Condition 30).
   20.1. Operational Limits
      20.1.1. Luke shall not use or apply the following materials for paving, construction, or
      maintenance of highways, streets, driveways, parking lots or for any other use to which
      County Rule 340 §300 and SIP Rule 340 §300 applies:
          20.1.1.1. Rapid cure cutback asphalt.
          20.1.1.2. Any cutback asphalt material, road oils, or tar which contains more than 0.5
          percent by volume VOCs which evaporate at 500oF (260 oC) or less using ASTM
          Test Method D 402-76.
          20.1.1.3. Any emulsified asphalt or emulsified tar containing more than 3.0 percent
          by volume VOCs which evaporates at 500oF (260oC) or less as determined by ASTM
          Method D244-89.
      20.1.2. Luke shall not store for use any emulsified or cutback asphalt product which
      contains more than 0.5 percent by volume solvent-VOC unless such material lot includes
      a designation of solvent-VOC content on data sheet(s) expressed in percent solvent-VOC
      by volume.
   20.2. Exemptions:
      20.2.1. The provisions of this Instruction shall not apply to asphalt that is used solely as a
      penetrating prime coat and which is not rapid cure cutback asphalt. Penetrating prime
      coats do not include dust palliatives or tack coats.
      20.2.2. Luke may use up to 3.0 percent solvent-VOC by volume for batches of asphalt
      rubber which cannot meet paving specifications by adding heat alone only if request is
      made to the Control Officer, who shall evaluate such requests on a case-by-case basis.
      Complete records shall be kept and full information as supplied including savings
      realized by using discarded tires. Luke shall not exceed 1100 lbs (500 kilograms) usage
      of solvent-VOC in asphalt rubber in a calendar year unless it can be demonstrate that in
      the previous 12 months no solvent-VOC has been added to at least 95 percent by weight
      of all the asphalt rubber binder made by or caused to be made for Luke.
      20.2.3. This Instruction does not apply to batches that yield 0.5 percent or less solvent-
      VOC evaporated using the test in County Rule 340 §502.1.
   20.3. Monitoring and Recordkeeping:
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                29


      20.3.1. Luke shall keep daily records of the amount and type of asphaltic/bituminous
      material received and used, as well as the solvent-VOC content of this material. Material
      Safety Data Sheets or technical data sheets shall be kept available.
21. Waste Water Treatment Plant (Title V Permit Condition 31).
   21.1. Allowable Emission Limitations:
      21.1.1. Do not emit hydrogen sulfide (H2S) beyond the premises of the plant at a
      concentration exceeding 0.03 parts per million by volume (ppmv) for any averaging
      period of 30 minutes or more.
   21.2. Monitoring and Recordkeeping Requirements:
      21.2.1. Odor log: Maintain a log of complaints of odors detected off-site. The log shall
      contain a description of the complaint, date and time that the complaint was received, and
      if given, name and/or phone number of the complainant. The logbook shall describe
      what actions were performed to investigate the complaint, the results of the investigation,
      and any corrective actions that were taken. Notify 56 CES/CEIEC if any complaints of
      odors have been received to determine if/when odor monitoring is necessary.
      21.2.2. Odor Monitoring: Retain records of all property line odor monitoring that is
      conducted at the facility. The records shall contain the results of all the H2S sampling
      including the location, time each sample was taken, measured H2S concentrations,
      whether any noticeable odors were present, the general direction and estimated speed of
      the wind at the time the readings were taken and appropriate comments.
22. Fire Training Burn Permit.
   22.1. Operating Procedures:
      22.1.1. MCAQD and 56 CES/CEIEC must be notified 24 hours prior to engagement of
      the fire training area, of the time and duration of the training.
      22.1.2. All activities must meet the conditions of the permit issued by MCAQD.
23. Earthmoving.
   23.1. Operating Requirements:
      23.1.1. A copy of the approved Dust Control Plan and Permit must be available on site.
      23.1.2. The approved Dust Control Plan, including the federally approved Best Available
      Control Measures (BACMs) must be implemented.
   23.1.3. A dust control plan that has been determined ineffective by MCAPD shall be
   revised within three working days of notification.
      23.1.4. Any activity not identified in the approved dust control plan will not be
      accomplished until notification and approval from MCAPD has been received
      23.1.5. Any haul truck carrying bulk material shall be required to cover the load with a
      tarp or other suitable enclosure.
      23.1.6. All Earthmoving Permits shall be renewed annually, if the project has not been
      completed. Applications for permit renewal shall be submitted no later than 14 days
      prior to the expiration date of the original permit.
 30                                                  LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013


      23.1.7. No activity shall discharge in to the ambient air emissions in excess of 20%
      opacity.
      23.1.8. Notify 56 CES/CEIEC for any demolition of structures for possible asbestos
      abatement.
   23.2. Recordkeeping Procedures:
      23.2.1. A written log will be maintained each time an activity or combination of
      activities listed in the plot plan of the Dust Control Plan are performed and the actual
      application or implementation of the BACMs delineated in this Dust Control Plan.
      23.2.2. The log will and supporting documentation must be kept on site and made
      available for review on request by the inspector.
      23.2.3. Copies of the log and supporting documentation will be retained in accordance
      with Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section 504, for five years rather
      than the period of time otherwise required under the Air Force Records Disposition
      Schedule.
      23.2.4. When necessary to divert from what is listed, 56 CES/CEIEC must be notified to
      coordinate with Maricopa County.
24. Aircraft Tank Fuel Purging.
   24.1. A monthly log must be kept recording the number of tanks (by size) purged, and sent
   to the Air Program Manager by the 10th of the following month.
   24.2. In accordance with Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Rule 100 Section 504,
   records shall be maintained for five years rather than the period of time otherwise required
   under the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.




                                           MICHAEL D.ROTHSTEIN
                                           Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
LUKEAFBI32-7003 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                31


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management, 27 August 2007
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Luke AFB Title V Air Quality Operating Permit
Luke AFB Dust Control Block Permit
Luke AFB Instruction 32-7002, 13 December 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations:
ECS—Emissions Control System
EESOH—MIS—Enterprise Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health-Management
Information System
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
FW—Fighter Wing
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HAPs—Hazardous Air Pollutants
MCAPD—Maricopa County Air Pollution Department
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
VOC—Volatile Organic Compound
VOL—volatile organic liquid
