BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  LUKE AFB INSTRUCTION 51-202
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                             7 JANUARY 2008
                                                              Certified Current 18 January 2012
                                                                                           Law

                                                                  OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 56 FW/JA                                                           Certified by: 56 FW/CC
Supersedes LAFBI 51-202, 5 June 2002                                     (Col Thomas J. Helget)
                                                                                       Pages: 3


This instruction implements AFPD 51-2, Administration of Military Justice. This instruction
establishes internal agency procedures for processing requests for approval of off-duty
employment required to be submitted by sections 2-206a and 3-306a of DoD 5500.7-R, Joint
Ethics Regulation (JER), authorized by DoD Directive 5500.7, Standards of Conduct. This
instruction also delegates to agency designees, commanders, heads of organizations, and
supervisors the authority expressly granted by sections 2-303 and 3-306e of DoD 5500.7-R to
require DoD employees under their jurisdiction to report any off-duty employment prior to
engaging in such employment, and to prohibit off-duty employment that will detract from
readiness or pose a security risk. All military personnel assigned to Luke Air Force Base (Luke
AFB) who seek to engage in off-duty employment are required to submit an AF Form 3902,
Application and Approval for Off-Duty Employment. This instruction is a punitive
instruction; failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions in the publication is a
violation of Article 92, UCMJ and noncompliance may result in punishment under Article 92,
UCMJ. This publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed in this
publication is 10 U.S.C. § 8013. Forms affected by the PA must have the appropriate PA
statement. This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard or U. S. Air Force Reserve
members. Submit an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication to the OPR to
recommend changes to this publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES:

Updated records management and records disposition.
2                                                      LAFBI 51-202 7 JANUARY 2008
1. Policy.

1.1. Luke AFB military personnel must not engage in off-duty employment that:

1.1.1. Is prohibited by statute or instructions;

1.1.2. Interferes with or is not compatible with performing their government duties;

1.1.3. May reasonably be expected to bring discredit upon the government or the Department of
Defense.

1.1.4. May tend to create a conflict of interest; or

1.1.5. Will detract from readiness or pose a security risk.

1.2. Explanation of Terms.

1.2.1. The term “off-duty employment” means business activities and compensated outside
employment, including self-employment. Examples of self-employment include the sale of
insurance, stocks, mutual funds, real estate, cosmetics, household supplies, vitamins, and other
goods or services.

1.2.2. The term “readiness” includes the ability of the Air Force to perform its mission in the
manner and at the time and place required, and the ability of a military member to perform his or
her government duties in the manner and at the time and place required.

1.3. All military personnel who intend to perform off-duty employment, including employment
while on terminal leave, will submit an AF Form 3902 to their first-level supervisor at least 2
weeks before beginning employment (except in cases where 2 weeks notice is not possible).
Final approval must be obtained prior to starting off-duty employment. In addition to the
requirements of this instruction, medical service personnel must comply with AFI 44-102,
Medical Care Management.

1.4. Personnel who have not obtained prior approval and who are, on the effective date of the
instruction, already engaged in off-duty employment, will have 90 days from that date to obtain
such approval.

1.5. A new AF Form 3902 must be submitted whenever the type of employment or the employer
changes, the individual’s Air Force duties change significantly, or the number of regularly
scheduled off-duty hours increase. Occasional increases in hours due to situations such as the
availability of overtime work, or the need to fill in for an absent coworker, do not require
resubmission of the AF Form 3902. Previously denied requests may be resubmitted after a
change in the individual’s Air Force duties.

1.6. Military personnel who fail to comply with the filing requirements of this instruction violate
a lawful general order that may result in appropriate disciplinary action or criminal liability
under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
LAFBI 51-202 7 JANUARY 2008                                                                  3


2. Procedures for Completing AF Form 3902.

2.1. The employee completes Section I.

2.2. The employee’s immediate supervisor completes Section II.

2.3. 56 FW/JA completes Section III.

2.4. Section IV is completed by the first person in the employee’s chain of command or
supervision who is a commissioned military officer or a civilian GS-12 or above, and who is
above the employee’s immediate supervisor. However, if the employee’s immediate supervisor
is a General Officer, SES member, SES equivalent (e.g. ST, SL), or Wing Commander (or
equivalent), then the immediate supervisor also completes Section IV. The individuals specified
in this paragraph who are authorized to complete Section IV of the AF Form 3902 (other than
Unit Commanders) are considered to be Delegatees of Unit Commanders, for purposes of
completing Section IV of the AF Form 3902.

2.5. Filing AF Form 3902. After a request is approved or disapproved, the individual’s unit will
maintain the original request.

3. Records Management: Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

4. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3902, Application and Approval for Off-Duty Employment




                                               NOEL T. JONES
                                               Brigadier General, USAF
                                               Commander
