BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             MACDILL INSTRUCTION 34-100
6TH AIR REFUELING WING                                                                      9 JULY 1996

                                                                                                 Services

                                                               OPERATION OF THE BASE THEATER




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available in electronic format on the local server.       If you lack access,
contact your Base Publishing Office.


OPR: 6 SVS/SVX ( )                                                            Certified by: 6 SVS/CC ( )
Supersedes MACDR 34-1, 2 December 1993                                                          Pages: 3
                                                                       Distribution: F; X - HQ ACC/SVX

This instruction outlines the policies and procedures to supplement Exchange Operating Procedure (EOP)
14-2.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates the requirements, information, and procedures formerly in MACDR 34-1;
changes theater capacity; and changes organization names and office symbols.



1. Applicability: This instruction applies to all personnel using the base theater.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) is responsible for ensuring compliance
   with EOP 14-2, AFI 36-2903, and this instruction.
   2.2. The 6th Support Group will manage appropriated fund support for authorized theaters as outlined
   in AFI 65-106 and EOP 14-2.
   2.3. The 6th Services Squadron will schedule all base theater activities other than regularly scheduled
   motion pictures. Such activities include commanders’ calls, special briefings, training seminars, etc.
   2.4. AAFES will provide for custodial, janitorial, and other expendable supply costs associated with
   movie operations in the theater.
   2.5. The 6th Services Squadron will serve as the theater building custodian and manage required
   appropriated fund support for custodial and janitorial requirements that are not movie associated.
   2.6. Organizational commanders and staff offices arc responsible for complying with paragraph 4.
   below when using the theater.
2                                                                      MACDILLI34-100 9 JULY 1996

3. Theater Operations:
    3.1. There will be one daily performance on Friday and Saturday, starting at 1930. This is subject to
    change as attendance justifies.
    3.2. Motion picture programs and time of features for the week will be posted in the theater on sheet
    frames and distributed via weekly handbills. The theater schedule of movies will be published on a
    weekly basis in the base newspaper.
    3.3. Children under the age of six will be admitted free of charge and must be accompanied by a
    responsible individual. (For the purpose of this instruction, a responsible individual is defined as an
    authorized patron 17 years of age or older.) Ratings of movies will also affect ages admitted.
    3.4. Dress of theater patrons. Patrons will not be permitted into the theater in their bare feet; wearing
    clothing upon which is printed obscene, profane, or lascivious words or drawings; in swimsuits; hav-
    ing clothing which might tend to create a disorder such as items reflecting support of a country, orga-
    nization, or individual who advocates or has advocated the overthrow of the US Government; wearing
    as outer garments any clothing designed to be worn as undergarments; and personnel without a shirt.
    3.5. Conduct of theater patrons. Theater patrons are expected to conduct themselves in such a man-
    ner so as not to distract other patrons during performances or cause damage to theater property. All
    theater patrons will rise and stand silently at attention during the playing of the national anthem.
    Members of the theater staff are authorized to remove any individual whose actions or conduct are not
    in the best interest of the theater patrons.
    3.6. Theater capacity. The seating of the theater will not be exceeded. Patrons will not be allowed to
    stand in the foyer or theater aisles to watch a performance.

4. Use of the Theater for Other Purposes: Unless approved by the 6th Support Group Commander, the
base theater will not be scheduled for other purposes during normal scheduled motion picture times. Any
request for use of the theater must be sent to the 6th Support Group Commander for coordination, and for
approval and concurrence from AAFES.
    4.1. Organizations/staff offices desiring to use the theater will comply with the following procedures:
       4.1.1. Submit a request to the 6th Services Squadron Administration office to reserve the theater
       a minimum of one week prior to desired date. The request will include:
           4.1.1.1. Name and telephone number of individual to be contacted.
           4.1.1.2. Date and time required.
           4.1.1.3. Estimated duration of requirement.
       4.1.2. Requester will come to Building 65, 6th Services Squadron, at least 24 hours in advance of
       scheduled reservation date for instructions in the operation of light switches and closure proce-
       dures. At this time, the using organization will sign for the keys to the theater.
       4.1.3. Communication requirements must be coordinated through the 6th Communications
       Squadron.
       4.1.4. Be responsible for returning the keys and noting any discrepancies in equipment or the
       building to 6th Services Squadron personnel.
    4.2. General instructions for theater use.
MACDILLI34-100 9 JULY 1996                                                                             3

     4.2.1. Only those persons required on stage to conduct the event will be permitted on stage.
     4.2.2. No equipment, signs, or other materials will be placed against or fastened to the theater
     screen.
     4.2.3. Using organizations will police the inside of the theater and the ground around the exits
     after use.
     4.2.4. Field equipment, i.e., weapons, ammunition belts, canteens, etc., will not be carried by per-
     sonnel using the theater.
     4.2.5. Smoking will not be permitted.
     4.2.6. Consumption of food and beverage is prohibited.
     4.2.7. Theater capacity: 642



                                       JOHN D. BECKER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                       Commander
