BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                        INSTRUCTION 31-201
                                                                                       18 JANUARY 2008

                                                                                                   Security

                                                           DISPOSITON OF LOST, ABANDONED, OR
                                                               UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 6 SFS/S5P                                             Certified by: 6 SFS/CC (Lt Col Brent French)
Supersedes MACDILLAFBI31-201,                                                                 Pages: 9
           1 August 2002

This instruction implements DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual, and prescribes pro-
cedures and responsibilities for reporting, safekeeping, and disposing of lost, abandoned, or unclaimed
personal property, including vehicles. It applies to all personnel assigned or attached to MacDill Air Force
Base, Florida, including all tenant units. The 6th Security Forces Squadron, Investigations Section (6
SFS/SFOI), is the point of contact for any questions pertaining to this instruction. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recom-
mended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include: deleted
paragraph 1., References, as all references are included in Attachment 1; deleted owner identification as
a reason to categorize property as abandoned, unclaimed or lost (paragraph 3.1.2.); deleted instructions to
recover abandoned vehicles because recovery is now handled by civilian agencies (3.3.4.9.1.), and
renumbered all paragraphs accordingly. Changed paragraph 2.1. to include The 6 SFS does not operate a
base wide “lost and found” program. As indicated in AFI 31-206, paragraph 2.7.; “Security forces will
generally not take custody of property left with another installation agency (for example, luggage left by
passengers at the passenger terminal, personal property left in or around barracks, exchanges and commis-
saries.)” Added firearms, hazardous materials, or any items considered inherently dangerous to the public
in paragraph 2.1.4.; added narcotics, dangerous drugs, or drug paraphernalia in paragraph 2.1.5.; added
Each holding activity will create and maintain a found property log to account for the receipt, transfer,
return or destruction of property in paragraph 2.7.; added Review logs and inventories maintained by the
various holding activities in paragraph 3.1.2.4.; added The base Property Disposal Board may choose to
2                                                         MACDILLAFBI31-201 18 JANUARY 2008


dispose of property in one of the following manners: in paragraph 3.1.2.6.; added Turn the item(s) in to
the Defense Reutilization and Management System (DRMS) in accordance with DoD Manual 4160.21,
Defense Reutilization and Marketing Manual in paragraph 3.1.2.6.1.; added Donate the item(s) to a non
appropriated funds instrumentality (NAFI), for example, the auto hobby shop or physical fitness facilities
in paragraph 3.1.2.6.2.; added Donate the item(s) to a military or private charity, for example, Airman’s
Attic or, Salvation Army in paragraph 3.1.2.6.3.; added Destroy items deemed not to have a fair market
value in paragraph 3.1.2.6.4.; added Currency less than $100.00 will be immediately accounted for in the
holding activity found property log and will be held for three days in case the owner returns to claim it.
After three days the custodian will release the funds to the wing Accounting and Finance Officer or des-
ignated representative. At time of transfer the custodian will prepare a DD Form 1131, Cash Collection
Voucher, and file it with the Property Board inventory in paragraph 3.1.3.3.; added maintain funds in
excess of $100 in the evidence/found property room. At the end of the year or sooner if funds amount
meets or exceeds $500.00, 6 SFS/SFOI will release the funds to the wing Accounting and Finance Officer
or designated representative via AF Form 52, Evidence Tag. At time of transfer SFOI in paragraph
3.1.3.3.2.; added Vehicles suspected to be abandoned will be first cited by Security Forces patrols using a
DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket. The offender copy of the citation will carry a notice indicat-
ing that if the vehicle is not removed within 72 hours it will be subject to impoundment in paragraph 3.3.3.


1. Terms Explained.
    1.1. Abandoned or Unclaimed Privately Owned Vehicles (POV): POVs in the custody or control of a
    civilian towing service. Vehicles temporarily impounded as abandoned are those identified by Secu-
    rity Forces for one or more of the following: Improper base/state registration, inoperable, missing
    parts/equipment and a reasonable belief that the vehicle is abandoned, along with the failure to
    respond within 72 hours to an abandoned vehicle notice placed on the vehicle.
    1.2. Holding Activity: The organization that stores and safeguards lost, abandoned, or unclaimed
    property.
    1.3. Lost, Abandoned, or Unclaimed Personal Property: Personal property in the possession, custody,
    or control of a government agency that is unclaimed by the owner. Property is considered abandoned
    after efforts to locate its owners, their heirs, next of kin, or legal representative are unsuccessful.
    1.4. Property Disposition Board: A board of one or more senior noncommissioned officers (SNCO),
    commissioned officers, and/or civilians appointed to conduct inquiries to determine ownership and
    disposition of lost, abandoned, or unclaimed property.
    1.5. Inventory: Any holding activity identified in paragraph 3. holding lost, abandoned, or unclaimed
    property maintains an inventory log that includes the date the property was received, a description, the
    date the property is released, and to whom it is released. The inventory log must consist of a complete
    accounting of the property on hand as compared to the log.

2. General.
    2.1. The 6 SFS does not operate a base wide “lost and found” program. As indicated in AFI 31-206,
    Security Forces Investigations Program, paragraph 2.7., “Security forces will generally not take cus-
    tody of property left with another installation agency (for example, luggage left by passengers at the
    passenger terminal, personal property left in or around barracks, exchanges and commissaries).” The
MACDILLAFBI31-201 18 JANUARY 2008                                                                       3


   6 SFS/SFOI is the holding activity for lost, abandoned, unclaimed property, or contraband that fall
   under the following categories:
      2.1.1. Acquired by 6 SFS.
      2.1.2. Consisting of funds when there is US currency over $100.00.
      2.1.3. Valued at or above $500.00.
      2.1.4. Firearms, hazardous materials, or any items considered inherently dangerous to the public.
      2.1.5. Narcotics, dangerous drugs, or drug paraphernalia.
   2.2. Vehicles and vessels that are lost, abandoned, unclaimed, or impounded will be towed by civilian
   towing companies that have been designated through a Memorandum of Agreement to maintain stor-
   age areas for these vehicles.
   2.3. All unit dormitory managers are responsible for disposing of lost, abandoned, or unclaimed prop-
   erty found within their dormitory that does not fall within the categories listed in paragraph 2.1.
   2.4. Personal property lost, abandoned, or left unclaimed at any Visiting Officers’ Quarters, Visiting
   Airmen’s Quarters, and/or Temporary Lodging Facility is disposed of by 6th Services Squadron (6
   SVS). The Commander (6 SVS/CC) designates a holding activity for any lost, abandoned, or
   unclaimed property found at all other SVS facilities that does not fall within the categories listed in
   paragraph 2.1.
   2.5. Property lost, abandoned, or left unclaimed within Army, Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES)
   facilities is maintained and disposed of by the AAFES Security Manager.
   2.6. The Commissary Officer designates a holding activity for lost, abandoned, or unclaimed property
   found within the Commissary.
   2.7. Each installation agency is responsible for designating a holding activity and disposing of lost,
   abandoned, or unclaimed property left in or around their area. Each holding activity will create and
   maintain a found property log to account for the receipt, transfer, return, or destruction of property.

3. Procedures.
   3.1. Property Disposal Board:
      3.1.1. The Commander, 6th Mission Support Group (6 MSG/CC), upon request of the Chief,
      Security Forces, appoints a board of one or more SNCOs, officers, or civilian equivalents to dis-
      charge the responsibilities outlined in DoD 4160.21-M, Chapter IV, paragraph B.40.(f). Base
      Property Disposal Office and Security Forces personnel cannot serve on the board.
      3.1.2. Property Disposal Board Members will:
          3.1.2.1. Become familiar with applicable regulations and operating instructions.
          3.1.2.2. Act as the 6 MSG/CC representative and liaison with the various holding activities
          and base legal office.
          3.1.2.3. Ensure required actions are completed to safeguard property, return identifiable prop-
          erty, and dispose of other property in the possession of the holding activities.
          3.1.2.4. Review logs and inventories maintained by the various holding activities.
4                                                      MACDILLAFBI31-201 18 JANUARY 2008


       3.1.2.5. Provide written disposition instructions, estimate the current fair market value of the
       property, and sign the property inventories.
       3.1.2.6. The base Property Disposal Board may choose to dispose of property in one of the
       following manners:
           3.1.2.6.1. Turn the item(s) in to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing System (DRMS)
           in accordance with DoD 4160.21-M.
           3.1.2.6.2. Donate the item(s) to a non-appropriated funds instrumentality (NAFI), for
           example, the auto hobby shop or physical fitness facilities.
           3.1.2.6.3. Donate the item(s) to a military or private charity, for example, Airman’s Attic
           or Salvation Army.
           3.1.2.6.4. Destroy items deemed not to have a fair market value.
       3.1.2.7. Notify and coordinate the appointment of replacement board member with the 6 SFS
       Investigations section prior to permanent change of station of any board member.
    3.1.3. Disposition Instructions:
       3.1.3.1. Identifiable Property: Holding activities receiving identifiable property (identification
       cards, driver’s license, check books, credit cards, etc.) with either full name, social security
       number, or address, must attempt to contact the owner. If the owner can be contacted, the prop-
       erty will be returned in person or by certified mail. Annotate the inventory with the name or
       certified mail number when the property is returned to owner. Do not dispose of identifiable
       property for at least 45 days, unless released to the owner.
       3.1.3.2. High Value Property: Items that the board values at $500.00 or more are immediately
       transferred to Security Forces and the activity’s log will be annotated. 6 SFS/SFOI will hold
       property for 45 days from receipt, unless released to the owner.
       3.1.3.3. Funds: Currency less than $100.00 will be immediately accounted for in the holding
       activity found property log and will be held for three days in case the owner returns to claim it.
       After three days, the custodian will release the funds to the wing Accounting and Finance
       Officer or designated representative. At time of transfer, the custodian will prepare a DD Form
       1131, Cash Collection Voucher, and file it with the Property Board inventory.
           3.1.3.3.1. Release currency in excess of $100.00 and negotiable instruments, including
           stocks, bonds, and government checks immediately to the Security Forces and annotate the
           property inventory.
           3.1.3.3.2. The 6 SFS/SFOI will maintain funds in excess of $100.00 in the evidence/found
           property room. At the end of the year, or sooner if funds amount meets or exceeds $500.00,
           6 SFS/SFOI will release the funds to the wing Accounting and Finance Officer or desig-
           nated representative via AF Form 52, Evidence Tag. At time of transfer, 6 SFS/SFOI will
           prepare a DD Form 1131 and file one copy with AF Form 52.
       3.1.3.4. Contraband: Narcotics, firearms, hazardous materials, or any items considered inher-
       ently dangerous to the public will be released to Security Forces immediately.
           3.1.3.4.1. 6 SFS/SFOI maintains contraband tagged with AF Form 52. Upon coordination
           with the 6th Air Mobility Wing, Judge Advocate (6 AMW/JA), destroy contraband
MACDILLAFBI31-201 18 JANUARY 2008                                                                       5


             deemed to have no evidential value by the most effective means available (flushing, burn-
             ing, demilitarization, etc.). Annotate the method of destruction on AF Form 52.
             3.1.3.4.2. A Property Disposal Board member or other disinterested officer or SNCO (E-7
             and above) witnesses and certifies the destruction of contraband (drugs and weapons) on
             the AF Form 52.
         3.1.3.5. Discarded Items: Toilet articles, cosmetics, used/soiled personal items, undergar-
         ments, perishable food items, hazardous materials, and/or items determined by the board of
         officers shall be disposed of (thrown away) by the holding activity. Include the items on the
         inventory and action annotated in disposition column.
         3.1.3.6. Items of Value: Make a reasonable effort to return property that is not discarded,
         returned, or transferred to Security Forces.
             3.1.3.6.1. The holding activity enters a general description and location of the property in
             the MacDill Thunderbolt under a Lost and Found section. Maintain the property for at least
             one week after publication. Keep a record of publication.
             3.1.3.6.2. If the owner(s) contacts the activity and can reasonably describe the property, it
             shall be returned and inventory annotated in the holding activity found property log with
             the owner's name.
             3.1.3.6.3. Property is released after at least 45 days and after all attempts to locate the
             owner. It may be released to any of the following agencies: DRMS, Base Chaplains, autho-
             rized charities, NAFI (Thrift Shop, Auto Hobby Shop, Recreation Supply, etc.). Bicycles
             must be released to DRMS, NAFI, or to a squadron for official use if the Property Disposal
             Board authorizes it by letter.
             3.1.3.6.4. Property released to DRMS must include a copy of the inventory, a DD Form
             1348-1, DoD Single Line Item Release, and disposition letter signed by the Property Dis-
             posal Board. The holding activity maintains a copy of all documents. Refer to DoD
             4160.21-M for further instructions.
  3.2. Holding Activities:
     3.2.1. The unit commander or designee appoints a property custodian to safeguard, control, and
     dispose of found property within their activities and implement procedures as required. 6 SFS/
     SFOI will train custodians and provide guidance on preparing documents upon request.
     3.2.2. Designate a drawer, closet/locker, or room(s) that can be secured with a lock for tempo-
     rarily storing found/abandoned property.
     3.2.3. Personnel will deliver property found, abandoned, or unclaimed to the custodian for the
     activity where it was found. Notify Security Forces immediately in the case of contraband.
     3.2.4. The property custodian conducts a preliminary inquiry for a maximum of three days in an
     attempt to locate the owner of the property.
         3.2.4.1. Where the owner has been identified, the property should be returned in person or by
         certified mail.
         3.2.4.2. Where the owner has not been identified within three days, inventory the property and
         notify the Property Disposal Board.
6                                                         MACDILLAFBI31-201 18 JANUARY 2008


       3.2.5. Complete a typed and dated inventory listing the number and general description of all
       property held by the holding activity.
       3.2.6. The Property Disposal Board member annotates the disposition instructions and assigns a
       value for each item (may be handwritten). Sign the inventory, disposition letter, and/or other doc-
       uments.
           3.2.6.1. High-value property (valued in excess of $500.00) and funds (above $25.00) that
           were not returned to the owner after three days are transported to 6 SFS/SFOI.
           3.2.6.2. Inventory items deemed by the Property Board to have no fair market value and main-
           tain them for at least three days. Dispose of such property by placing in a trash dumpster after
           the Property Disposal Board determines the item has no fair market value and directs its
           destruction.
           3.2.6.3. Dispose of remaining items of value per instructions of the Property Disposal Board
           as annotated on the inventory sheet.
       3.2.7. The holding activity publicizes the remaining items of value in their possession for one
       week in the MacDill Thunderbolt prior to final disposition.
           3.2.7.1. Return identifiable property to the owner and annotate inventory sheet with owner's
           name, signature, and date of return.
           3.2.7.2. Dispose of remaining unclaimed property in accordance with Property Disposal
           Board instructions as annotated on the inventory sheet.
       3.2.8. When property is transferred to salvage DRMS, prepare DD Form 1348-1, a copy of the
       inventory, and a disposition letter signed by the Property Disposal Board.
       3.2.9. Records Management: The various holding activities maintain and dispose of related docu-
       ments in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
       afrims.amc.af.mil/.
    3.3. Privately Owned Vehicles:
       3.3.1. The Chief, Security Forces, appoints a primary property custodian.
       3.3.2. Security Forces periodically surveys the installation to identify abandoned vehicles.
       3.3.3. Vehicles suspected to be abandoned will be first cited by Security Forces patrols using a
       DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket. The offender copy of the citation will carry a notice
       indicating that if the vehicle is not removed within 72 hours, it will be subject to impoundment.
       3.3.4. The Chief, Security Forces, Operations Officer/Superintendent, or members of the Security
       Forces Investigations section, on behalf of 6 MSG/CC, may order the impoundment of an aban-
       doned vehicle.
       3.3.5. Procedures for impoundment of vehicles: Upon the issuance of an abandoned vehicle
       notice, the following procedures apply:
           3.3.5.1. If the owner cannot be immediately identified and the vehicle is determined to be
           abandoned, the vehicle will be cited per DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice, and
           reporting instructions will be written on the violator's copy. Allow three working days for the
           owner to respond to the reporting instructions on the back of the abandoned vehicle notice.
MACDILLAFBI31-201 18 JANUARY 2008                                                                       7


        3.3.5.2. An abandoned vehicle is any vehicle that does not display the below listed state and
        base motor vehicle registration requirements, and for which the owner either cannot be identi-
        fied or has permanently departed the immediate vicinity of MacDill Air Force Base:
           3.3.5.2.1. Current state license plate(s).
           3.3.5.2.2. Current base registration.
        3.3.5.3. After the allotted time has expired, the Security Forces will attempt to identify the
        owner or lien holder through the National Crime Information Center (NCIC), Florida Crime
        Information Center (FCIC), and review of MacDill Air Force Base Motor Vehicle Registration
        files via Security Forces Management Information System.
        3.3.5.4. If the owner cannot be identified or located, 6 SFS/SFOI will contact the appropriate
        civilian towing company to arrange for the vehicle to be towed to their impoundment area.
        3.3.5.5. Once the vehicle has been impounded, an entry will be made in the Security Forces
        Blotter, along with an AF Form 3545, Incident Report, stating the make, model, and location
        from which impounded. Complete a Vehicle Impoundment Report to document the circum-
        stances and condition of the vehicle.
        3.3.5.6. In the event the owner/lien holder has been identified, a Notice of Vehicle Impound-
        ment will be forwarded to him/her via registered mail (in accordance with AFI 31-204, Air
        Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision), stating their vehicle has been impounded by the 6th
        Security Forces Investigation Section, MacDill Air Force Base, Florida. This form will also
        indicate the towing service storing the vehicle. Advise the owner that if no reply is received,
        the vehicle becomes the property of the towing service storing the vehicle. The owner/lien
        holder may claim the vehicle or release it to the towing service by completing the release on
        the back of the Notice of Vehicle Impoundment.
        3.3.5.7. If no response to the notice is received or if the owner cannot be identified, the Chief,
        Security Forces, or his/her designee, will coordinate with a designated off-base towing agency.
        The towing company is responsible for following Florida Statute 715.07 and 715.109 to locate
        the owner and/or dispose of the vehicle. NOTE: If the vehicle owner comes forward and
        wishes to claim the vehicle, he/she must pay towing and storage fees. Inform owner not to
        bring the vehicle onto MacDill Air Force Base if mechanical deficiencies exist. State registra-
        tion and inspection must also be current.
        3.3.5.8. The Security Forces Property Custodian or a designated Security Forces Investigator
        or patrolman will conduct an inventory of the vehicle and its contents using DD Form 2506,
        Vehicle Impoundment Report, and accompany the towing agency to the place of impoundment.
        Prior to towing, the vehicle will be photographed to depict existing damage and annotated.
        Attach photographs and DD Form 2506 to the incident report.
        3.3.5.9. At time of impoundment, a properly executed release document, DD Form 2505,
        Abandoned Vehicle Removal Authorization, will be accomplished.
     3.3.6. Adopted Forms/IMTs: AF Form 52, Evidence Tag; AF Form 3545, Incident Report; DD
     Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher; DD Form 1348-1, DoD Single Line Item Release; DD Form
8                                               MACDILLAFBI31-201 18 JANUARY 2008


    1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket; DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice; DD Form 2505,
    Abandoned Vehicle Removal Authorization; DD Form 2506, Vehicle Impoundment Report



                                       ROBERT D. THOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
MACDILLAFBI31-201 18 JANUARY 2008                                 9


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Material Disposition Manual
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision
AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigations Program
AF1 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMW/JA—6th Air Mobility Wing, Judge Advocate
6 MSG/CC—Commander, 6th Mission Support Group
6 SFS/SFOI—6th Security Forces Squadron, Investigations Section
6 SVS—6th Services Squadron
AAFES—Army, Air Force Exchange Service
DRMS—Defense Reutilization and Marketing System
FCIC—Florida Crime Information Center
NAFI—Non-appropriated Funds Instrumentality
NCIC—National Crime Information Center
POV—Privately Owned Vehicles
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Officers
