BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                 INSTRUCTION 51-900

                                                                              2 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                                Law

                                                       JUVENILE CORRECTIONS PROGRAM
                                                                                (JCP)


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 6 AMW/JA                                                             Certified by: 6 AMW/CV
                                                                            (Col David M. Cohen)
Supersedes:    MACDILLAFBI51-100,                                                          Pages: 7
               2 January 1996


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, and
provides the framework for the disposition of juvenile misconduct cases and the treatment of juvenile
offenders. This instruction applies to all residents of MacDill Air Force Base (AFB) as well as
military dependents who reside off base. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a rewrite of MacDill AFB Instruction (MACDILLAFBI) 51-100, Disposition of Juvenile
Misconduct Cases. The number of the instruction has been changed to coincide with the
implemented directive, AFPD 51-9. This document has been substantially revised and must be
completely reviewed. Major changes include changing the procedural requirements of
MACDILLAFBI 51-900. A Juvenile Corrections Board will no longer be implemented; rather a
Juvenile Corrections Hearing will take place. The purpose of the change is to stream line and
simplify the process. Significant changes were made to Paragraphs 2 through 8. Definitions
previously found in Paragraph 1 were moved to Attachment 1.
 2                                                MACDILLAFBI51-900 2 DECEMBER 2011


1. Definitions.
     1.1. Juvenile. Any unmarried person under the age of 18 years who is not a member of the
     Armed Services.
     1.2. Jurisdiction. MacDill AFB, a place within the special and maritime jurisdiction of the
     United States.
     1.3. Misconduct. Any violation of a statute, regulation, or instruction or conduct disruptive
     to good order and discipline.
     1.4. Juvenile Corrections Hearing. The forum for reviewing cases of juvenile misconduct.
     1.5. Juvenile Corrections Program (JCP) Manager. An Assistant Staff Judge Advocate
     assigned to the 6th Air Mobility Wing, Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (6 AMW/JA),
     responsible for managing the JCP.
     1.6. JCP Administrator. A paralegal assigned to the 6 AMW/JA responsible for the
     administration processes of the JCP.
2. Policy. Juvenile misconduct presents a threat to the maintenance of good order and discipline
and protection of property at MacDill AFB. The goal of the MacDill AFB JCP is to rehabilitate
offenders. The outcome of the hearing should be designed to prevent further misconduct and
instill respect for the law. The JCP is carried out under the Installation Commander’s authority
to maintain good order and discipline. The JCP provides an alternative to more formal action.
The JCP establishes a means for the juvenile to voluntarily participate in recommended programs
or complete community service to demonstrate their continued presence on the installation will
not result in further misconduct.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Sponsors. A Sponsor is any individual authorized to allow access of another individual
     on MacDill AFB such as a Department of Defense (DoD) Identification Card/Common
     Access Card holder. See MacDillAFBI 31-101, Installation Security/Physical Security
     (FOUO). Sponsors include hosts of guests from off-base parents and/or guardians who have
     responsibility for the conduct of juveniles in their charge. Sponsors must ensure juveniles in
     their charge comply with all federal and state laws and regulations as well as MacDill AFB
     directives.
     3.2. Installation Commander. The 6 AMW Commander (6 AMW/CC) is the installation
     commander. The Installation Commander is responsible for good order and discipline on
     MacDill AFB. The Installation Commander has broad authority to control activities on
     his/her installation, including the authority to remove or exclude any person whose presence
     on the installation is unauthorized or whose presence disrupts good order and discipline
     pursuant to a debarment action. Responsibility for responding to breaches of order by
     juvenile offenders has been delegated to the 6th Mission Support Group (6 MSG). The
     installation commander retains the authority to order another hearing on any matter and, after
     notice to the parents or guardians, to change a disposition of the Juvenile Corrections
     Hearing.
     3.3. JCP Hearing Officer. The 6 MSG Deputy Commander (6 MSG/CD) is the primary JCP
     Hearing Officer for all cases of juvenile misconduct. The Commander (6 MSG/CC) can also
     act as a JCP Hearing Officer as needed. In those cases where base debarment is
MACDILLAFBI51-900 2 DECEMBER 2011                                                                3


   recommended, the Hearing Officer must make a debarment recommendation to the
   Installation Commander who is the debarment approving official. If debarment is
   recommended by the Hearing Officer, the 6th Security Forces Squadron (6 SFS) will prepare
   the debarment recommendation package for the Hearing Officer’s signature and the
   Installation Commander’s review and approval.
   3.4. JCP Manager/Administrator. The JCP Administrator (6 AMW/JA Paralegal) receives
   and reviews Reports of Investigation and refers possible juvenile cases to the JCP Manager
   (6 AMW/JA Assistant Staff Judge Advocate) for approval. The JCP Manager approves
   which cases will be referred to a Juvenile Corrections Hearing. Prior to referring any case to
   a Hearing, the JCP Manager shall ensure the alleged misconduct is substantiated and is
   worthy of a Hearing. The JCP Manager will take into consideration the seriousness of the
   misconduct, previous misconduct, the likelihood that the Hearing will have a positive effect
   upon the juvenile, mitigating circumstances, the availability of the juvenile, and other
   appropriate factors present on a case by case basis. The JCP Administrator under the
   supervision of the JCP Manager coordinates all Hearing activities including scheduling
   hearings (Attachment 2). Within five days of the scheduled hearing, the administrator will
   prepare a written notice and ensure a signed copy of the notice is delivered to the parent or
   guardian of a juvenile who has been referred to a Hearing. The notice shall be hand-
   delivered or sent to the last known address of the alleged offender. The notice shall include
   the date, time and place of the hearing, the alleged misconduct, and a statement that
   attendance at the hearing is a mandatory formation for military personnel. The administrator
   will deliver a copy of the case file to the Hearing Officer for review at least three days prior
   to the scheduled hearing. The Administrator serves as a liaison between the respondents and
   members of the command.                   The Administrator shall prepare appropriate
   documents/documentation reflecting the Hearing’s results, and will be responsible for
   ensuring documentation for community service adjudged by the Hearing Officer is provided
   by the offender. Within five duty days after the Hearing, the administrator shall prepare
   documents consistent with the Hearing Officer’s decisions and recommendations and
   forward the documents to the Hearing Officer for approval and signature. Upon approval,
   the Administrator may release the approved actions to the juvenile’s parent or guardian.
   Failure to comply with the five duty day time period shall not in any way affect the validity
   of the Hearing’s results.
4. Juvenile Corrections Hearing Scheduling. Hearings will take place regularly to review
cases of juvenile misconduct that occur on MacDill AFB.
5. Juvenile Corrections Hearing Procedures.
   5.1. Informal Administrative Hearings. Proceedings before the Hearing Officer shall be
   informal hearings that are noncriminal in nature. The hearing is an opportunity for the
   Hearing Officer to discuss the misconduct with the alleged offender and his or her sponsor,
   and for the alleged offender to explain his or her misconduct. Accordingly, the rules of
   evidence shall not apply in any form to hearing proceedings and there is no right to have an
   attorney represent the juvenile or sponsor.
   5.2. Record of Proceedings. Recommendations for action by the Hearing Officer shall not
   constitute a criminal record. All proceedings before the Hearing Officer are closed and
   information derived from the hearing is not released outside the Air Force.
4                                                 MACDILLAFBI51-900 2 DECEMBER 2011


    5.3. Right to be Heard. Any juvenile appearing before the Hearing Officer has a right to
    present matters in his or her defense or matters in mitigation. Any parent or guardian
    appearing before the Hearing Officer has a right to address the Hearing Officer and/or speak
    on behalf of the child.
    5.4. Parties Present. The Hearing Officer has the authority to deny a request for other parties
    to be present. Attorneys are not permitted to appear on behalf of the juvenile or his or her
    family regardless of parental consent. Attendance during a hearing shall be limited to the
    following persons:
       5.4.1. The Hearing Officer.
       5.4.2. The military sponsor of the juvenile.
       5.4.3. The parent(s) or guardian(s) of the juvenile.
       5.4.4. The juvenile.
       5.4.5. The JCP Manager and JCP Administrator.
       5.4.6. Other persons may be permitted access to the hearing room while the hearing is in
       session with the express permission of the juvenile’s parent(s) or guardian(s) and
       approval of the Hearing Officer.
    5.5. Dress. Proper dress is required at the hearing.
       5.5.1. All military members will wear the Uniform of the Day.
       5.5.2. Civilians will be dressed in the appropriate attire.
    5.6. Deliberation. After all parties have had an opportunity to present information, the
    Hearing Officer shall recess the hearing for deliberations. The Hearing Officer shall then
    decide whether the juvenile was involved in the alleged misconduct.
       5.6.1. Finding of No Involvement. If the Hearing Officer determines that the juvenile
       was not involved in the alleged misconduct, the Hearing Officer will notify the juvenile
       through his or her parents or legal guardian by providing a letter indicating this finding.
       5.6.2. Finding of Involvement. If the Hearing Officer finds the juvenile was involved in
       the alleged misconduct, the Hearing Officer may take the following action:
           5.6.2.1. Take no action.
           5.6.2.2. Verbally reprimand the juvenile before the hearing adjourns.
           5.6.2.3. Recommend to the juvenile’s parents that the juvenile seek counseling at the
           6th Medical Group, Mental Health Services, the Chaplain, or other appropriate
           agency for counseling.
           5.6.2.4. Recommend the family seek assistance at the Family Advocacy Office.
           5.6.2.5. Recommend to the juvenile’s parents that the juvenile attend and participate
           in an Alcohol and/or Drug Abuse Program.
           5.6.2.6. Give a written reprimand to the juvenile.
           5.6.2.7. Recommend the juvenile write an article for publication in the MacDill
           Thunderbolt.
MACDILLAFBI51-900 2 DECEMBER 2011                                                              5


          5.6.2.8. If the juvenile resides in base housing with his/her parents, a special curfew
          can be imposed.
          5.6.2.9. Recommend community service hours to be performed by the juvenile, and a
          time period for completion of the community service. The juvenile and/or his or her
          sponsor will be responsible for providing documentation that the community service
          hours have been accomplished to the JCP Administrator (6 AMW/JA).
          5.6.2.10. Recommend the installation commander place certain base areas or
          facilities off-limits to the juvenile.
          5.6.2.11. Recommend to the Installation Commander that the juvenile be debarred
          from MacDill AFB.
          5.6.2.12. Any combination of the above actions.
      5.6.3. Recommendations made to the juvenile and/or his or her sponsor may be
      forwarded to the Installation Commander.
      5.6.4. If the juvenile fails to complete one of the recommendations, the Installation
      Commander at his or her discretion my debar the juvenile.
6. JCP Administration. 6 AMW/JA shall appoint an Assistant Staff Judge Advocate and
paralegal as the JCP Manager and Administrator.
7. Appeals. There is no authority to appeal the decision of the JCP Hearing Officer. All
decisions are final.
8. Command Action. The command action taken will be documented on the appropriate
incident report and filed as prescribed by regulations governing the use of AF Form 3545,
Incident Report.




                                            LENNY J. RICHOUX, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                            MACDILLAFBI51-900 2 DECEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, 5 November 1993
MACDILLAFBI 31-101, Installation Security/Physical Security (FOUO), 11 January 2010
Forms Prescribed
None
Forms Adopted
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 3545, Incident Report, 11 May 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMW—6th Air Mobility Wing
6 MSG—6th Mission Support Group
6 SFS—6th Security Forces Squadron
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CC—Commander
CD—Deputy Commander
DD/DoD—Department of Defense
JA—Office of the Staff Judge Advocate
JCP— Juvenile Corrections Program
MACDILLAFBI—MacDill AFB Instruction
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
MACDILLAFBI51-900 2 DECEMBER 2011                      7


                            Attachment 2
          JUVENILE CORRECTIONS HEARING NOTICE LETTER
