BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AFB                                                          INSTRUCTION 21-102

                                                                               25 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                HANGAR DOOR OPERATION AND SAFETY




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 6 MXG/QA                                         Certified by: 6 MXG/CC (Col Reginald O.
                                                                                    Godbolt)
Supersedes:    MACDILL AIR FORCE                                                     Pages: 4
               BASE INSTRUCTION 21-
               102, 8 May 2006


This instruction implements AFI 21-101_AMCSUP I, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance
Management, AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction. It outlines
responsibilities and procedures for safe operation of hangar doors on MacDill Air Force Base,
6th Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW). This instruction is applicable to all 6 AMW personnel,
927th Air Reserve Wing (927 ARW) personnel, contractors, and tenant units who routinely work
in hangars, hangar offices, or around hangar doors. Failure to comply with the publication is
punishable as a violation of Article 92, of the UCMJ. Group commanders, squadron
commanders, supervisors, and trainers within each group are responsible for ensuring the content
of this instruction and other related documents is strictly complied with. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
Instruction may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this
publication must be routed to 6th Maintenance Group Commander (6 MXG/CC) through the
Quality Assurance Office for coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to
waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified in Tier 1. See AFI 33-360,
 2                                                     MACDILLAFBI21-102 25 August 2014


Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated
with this Tier. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate
Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. (T-1)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. This
revision incorporates AFI 91-203, which consolidated all Air Force Occupational Safety and
Health (AFOSH) 91-series standards.
1. Purpose. This instruction outlines responsibilities and procedures for safe operation of
hangar doors on MacDill Air Force Base and satisfies the minimum maintenance publication
requirement of AFI21-101 AMCSUP I paragraph 3.4.1.73.3.8
2. Roles and Responsibilities. Group commanders, squadron commanders, supervisors, and
trainers within each group are responsible for ensuring the content of this instruction and other
related documents is strictly complied with.
     2.1. 6 MXG/CC will:
        2.1.1. Be the Point of Contact for all hangar issues and develop policy for all hangar door
        operations.
        2.1.2. Ensure a comprehensive group training program for hangar door operations is
        established and implemented.
     2.2. Squadron Commanders will:
        2.2.1. Ensure assigned personnel that operate hangar doors are trained and training is
        properly documented in accordance with AFI 91-203, paragraphs 24.14.5 and 24.14.8.3.
        2.2.2. Ensure personnel are qualified on each hangar they will need to operate, as each
        hangar has specific requirements.
     2.3. Hangar/building Custodians will:
        2.3.1. Ensure all AF Forms 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, submitted for
        hangar door repairs are tracked and completed.
        2.3.2. Ensure each hangar has a training/operating/emergency binder as each hangar door
        operating procedure is unique. For uniformity, the binder will be placed inside the
        hangar near the large hangar doors (right hand side as you face the flightline).
            2.3.2.1. As a minimum, binder content will include training plan, door hazards, door
            operating procedures (include power off procedure, if applicable), and emergency
            procedures (nearest phone and 24 hour contact numbers).
            2.3.2.2. Review and update binder content annually.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Each hangar door has unique operating procedures. Prior to each operation, review the
     hangar door Training/Operating/Emergency binder.
MACDILLAFBI21-102 25 August 2014                                                              3


   3.2. Receive and complete general awareness training followed by hands-on, On the Job
   Training (OJT), for each set of doors from a qualified/appointed trainer before operating any
   hangar door.
   3.3. Document training in accordance with AFI 91-203.
       3.3.1. Non-maintenance personnel must also submit an appointment letter from their
       respective squadron commander to the 6 MXG/CC and MXG Facility Manager to operate
       hangar doors.
4. Safety.
   4.1. Wing Safety (), along with 6th Civil Engineer Squadron (6 CES), 6 MXG Quality
   Assurance (), and individual building custodians shall accomplish an annual assessment of all
   hangar doors, including facilities no longer used as aircraft hangars. They will use
   Operational Risk Management (ORM) tools and weather checklists as required to identify the
   hazards associated with the hangar doors (operating controls, pinch-points, crush hazards,
   etc). Consider all hazards associated with aperture openings, counter weight mechanisms,
   moveable/non-moveable obstructions, cable/pulley mechanisms, etc. They must ensure
   hangar door alarm, hazard marking, warning sign, door control, and safeguard requirements
   outlined in AFI 91-203 are met.




                                           SCOTT V. DeTHOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                                  MACDILLAFBI21-102 25 August 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101 AMC_SUP1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 14 February 2011
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMW—Air Mobility Wing
ARW—Air Reserve Wing
OJT—On the Job Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice

Term
Hangar Door Operation—Controlling the movement of the Hangar Doors (closing or opening)
