BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                              INSTRUCTION 90-100

                                                                                9 MARCH 2011

                                                                           Special Management

                                                             DAVIS CONFERENCE CENTER

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 6 CS/DCC                                                           Certified by: 6 MSG/CC
Supersedes: MACDILLAFBI 90-200,                                            (Col Donald Barnes)
            22 August 2006                                                              Pages: 12


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-1, Policy Formulation, and
establishes the procedures for scheduling and conducting events and meetings in the 6th
Communications Squadron, Davis Conference Center (6 CS/DCC). This publication applies to
all 6th Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW) staff agencies, mission partners, Department of Defense
(DoD), and other Federal/State/Civil agencies. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a rewrite of MACDILLAFBI 90-200, Davis Conference Center. The number of the
instruction has been changed to coincide with the implemented directive, AFPD 90-1. This
document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include revision to paragraph 2. to include revised and better defined facility, and
displays/exhibits section. Streamlined scheduling priority and deleted Priority 5 (paragraph 3.).
Listed Fire Marshall approved maximum seating capacity per room (paragraph 5.). Added
capability of the DCC to assign temporary access codes to the CORONA Room and the
Distinguished Visitor (DV) Suites area upon request (paragraph 6.5.); revised and better defined
responsibilities of the Project Officer (PO) (paragraph 7.). Deleted paragraph 8., DCC Staff
 2                                                     MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011


Responsibilities, and added new paragraph 8., Exceptions to Policy, to inform customers on
kinds of exceptions that are permitted. Added paragraph 9., Emergency Situations, to inform
customers on policies/procedures during various emergency situations.
1. General.
     1.1. Commander’s Intent. The commander’s intent is threefold: (1) to ensure mission
     effective state of the art conference and communications capabilities, (2) to ensure the
     security and safety of conference attendees and classified information, and (3) to maintain a
     world class professional conference environment. The commander recognizes the DCC will
     be in high demand and requests for use will likely exceed its availability. Therefore, the
     DCC and this instruction prioritize the mission, security, and professionalism above all other
     considerations. The Installation Commander will act as the final approval authority for
     exceptions to this policy and for the master event calendar. The Installation Commander has
     designated the Director, DCC, as the approving authority for events held in the DCC with the
     authority to mediate conflicts due to necessary schedule changes.
     1.2. DCC    information     is   available     on    MacDill’s   public          website     at
     http://www.macdill.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet.asp?id=4343.
2. Policy.
     2.1. Facility:
        2.1.1. The DCC operating hours are 0730-1630, Monday through Friday, excluding
        holidays. This is a civilian and contractor-operated facility with monetary penalties
        associated with overtime compensation. Conference POs or customers are not authorized
        to obligate the U.S. government to any amount above that which is already appropriated.
        Exceptions for mission critical events must be submitted for approval to the Installation
        Commander through the Director, DCC.
        2.1.2. The DCC is designed to host large, multi-day conferences. All changes of
        command, commander’s calls, all hands, officer calls, noncommissioned officer (NCO)
        calls, airmen calls, etc., and other squadron/organizational-level activities (i.e., Booster
        Clubs) are prohibited in the DCC, to include those of 6 AMW and 927th Air Refueling
        Wing (927 ARW) agencies, United States Central Command (USCENTCOM), United
        States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), Special Operations Command
        Central (SOCCENT), Joint Communications Support Element (JCSE), mission partners,
        and any other organizations assigned or otherwise attached to the 6 AMW and MacDill
        Air Force Base (AFB). Additionally, no fundraisers or tech expos are allowed at the
        DCC. Space for tech expos may be obtained from other base facilities such as the
        Bayshore Club, Surfs Edge Club, SeaScapes, or the Beach Club Bay Palms Golf
        Complex, etc.
        2.1.3. To reserve the DCC, the PO must complete a DCC Scheduling Request and a PO
        Agreement         (POA).         The      request will  be    made       via     e-mail
        (eventscheduling@macdill.af.mil) or telephone to the DCC Events Manager at Defense
        Switched Network (DSN) 968-6600, Commercial 813-828-6600, option 1. Note: To
        serve as an event PO, an individual must be a government employee, i.e., military, DoD
        civilian, etc. (contractors cannot serve as POs).
MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011                                                                3


     2.1.4. To meet the commander’s intent of paragraph 1.1., food and beverage items are
     not permitted in the DCC unless provided by the Bayshore Club Catering Department.
     The one exception is capped bottled water that may be provided by conferees. The
     Bayshore Club Catering Department is the sole provider because its employees are
     subject to background checks and specific orders for maintenance and cleanup activities
     within the facility. The PO must directly contract with the catering department. Food
     and beverage consumption is restricted to tiled floor areas only and will not be permitted
     in any meeting rooms or suites, with the exception of capped bottled water.
     2.1.5. The DCC parking lot accommodates 50+ parking spaces. These parking spaces
     are for DCC event attendees only. POs may submit a request for reserved parking for
     DVs attending a DCC event to the Events Manager. The Events Manager will provide
     the POs with the DV parking assignment. DV parking assignment is based on Protocol.
     In order to make every effort to accommodate our attendees’ parking requirements,
     illegally parked vehicles will be ticketed (e.g., unauthorized vehicles parked in reserved
     or disabled parking spaces).
     2.1.6. Moving of furniture by non-staff members is strictly prohibited; requests for room
     reconfigurations will be requested through the DCC staff.
     2.1.7. The DCC is committed to promoting a healthy and safe environment. The DCC is
     a tobacco-free facility. Federal law prohibits smoking within the DCC, on the patio or
     within 25 feet of the doorways. Tobacco products to include smokeless (dip, snuff, chew,
     etc.) are strictly prohibited. The designated smoking area is located on the north side of
     the building.
     2.1.8. Willful destruction/defacing of government property are punishable under the
     Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) and will be promptly reported to the 6th
     Security Forces Squadron (6 SFS).
     2.1.9. POs are the responsible party for the facility and its contents. POs are responsible
     for ensuring attendees adhere to DCC policies/procedures. On a daily basis, prior to and
     after the event, the PO and a representative of the DCC staff will inspect the facility and
     document all damages, theft, or other abuse. Should any damage, theft, or other abuse to
     the DCC or its contents occur (such as broken furniture, carpet stains, etc.), it is the
     responsibility of the PO to remedy the situation. The PO can remedy the situation by
     either (1) providing payment for the damage or replacing the damaged item; or (2)
     identifying the individual responsible so liability can be assessed through all available
     means. If the PO fails to remedy the situation, the PO accepts full responsibility for the
     damage(s) and liability will be assessed against the PO personally through all available
     legal means. Note: If an organization fails to comply with this paragraph, the
     organization’s senior leader will be notified of the noncompliance and the
     organization will be excluded from holding an event in the DCC until
     reimbursement is made or liability is assessed.
     2.1.10. The DCC staff does not assume responsibility for the loss of or damage to
     personal property and equipment brought, shipped, or received into the center.
  2.2. Displays/Exhibits:
 4                                                     MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011


        2.2.1. The purpose of this policy is to provide a fair and consistent standard for the use of
        displays/exhibits in the DCC. For purposes of this policy, the terms "display" and
        "exhibit" are used interchangeably. Display space will be made available on a first-come,
        first-served basis. Guests of the DCC may not move any existing furniture during the set
        up or tear down of their exhibit. Use of areas within the conference center for displays
        will be in a manner that is consistent with other service objectives of the DCC. Requests
        for display areas will be coordinated with the DCC Events Manager and
        approved/disapproved by the DCC Director. The Director reserves the right to cancel
        any exhibit should conditions or situations warrant such action, and reserves the right to
        reject any part of an exhibit, prohibit an entire exhibit, or to change the manner of
        display. A detailed DCC directive will be provided to POs to ensure adherence to the
        policy.
        2.2.2. Other displays, such as signs, posters, brochures, or any other printed material may
        NOT be affixed to walls, doors, windows, columns, terrace surfaces, steps, or any other
        area within the DCC. Should there be a requirement for posting/displaying printed items,
        the DCC staff must be contacted and easels will be made available as needed. This
        policy helps to maintain a professional image for the DCC and assures that visitors to this
        facility are treated to an immaculate conference center with unblemished walls, doors,
        windows, surfaces, etc.
3. Scheduling.
     3.1. Priority order for scheduling events in the DCC is as follows:
        3.1.1. Priority 1:      Installation Commander, Commander, USCENTCOM, and
        Commander, USSOCOM (events attended by these individual commanders and approved
        at their Chief of Staff level). Priority 1 events may be scheduled up to 12 months in
        advance. Priority 1 events can bump lesser priority events with Chief of Staff’s request
        and approval of the Installation Commander. The Installation Commander reserves the
        right to bump any scheduled event at any time.
        3.1.2. Priority 2: The 6 AMW Commander (6 AMW/CC), 927 ARW Commander (927
        ARW/CC), and all other 6 AMW, 927 ARW, USCENTCOM, USSOCOM, SOCCENT,
        JCSE, and other MacDill mission partner organizations. Priority 2 events may be
        scheduled up to 6 months in advance. Priority 2 events are reserved on a space available
        basis only and are subject to bumping at any time.
        3.1.3. Priority 3: Off base DoD and other federal agencies. Priority 3 events may be
        scheduled up to 4 months in advance. Priority 3 events are reserved on a space available
        basis only and are subject to bumping at any time.
        3.1.4. Priority 4: Promotion/retirement ceremonies for O-6s and above and E-9s on a
        space-available basis, and must be conducted/officiated by a general officer. On-site
        receptions require an exception to policy approved by the Installation Commander (see
        paragraphs 3.2.5., Receptions, and 8., Exceptions to Policy). Priority 4 events may be
        scheduled up to 2 months in advance. Priority 4 events are reserved on a space available
        basis only and are subject to bumping at any time. Note: Promotion/retirement
        ceremonies are scheduled on Fridays only.
MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011                                                                    5


  3.2. Priority levels are determined by command levels. Therefore, if your event is a lower
  priority level event (such as priority 3), you cannot change your priority by having a higher
  priority level (such as priority 2) sponsor/schedule your event.
     3.2.1. Events are confirmed upon receipt of the signed POA/liability statement. The
     POA holds POs responsible for any damages to the property caused by the activities of
     their event and/or failure to abide by the policies, rules, and regulations of the DCC. The
     POA is a legally-binding contract which must be read and understood in its entirety
     before signing. Changing POs or adding POs to the signed POA does not relieve the
     organization of its responsibilities with regards to the policies, rules, and regulations of
     the DCC.
         3.2.1.1. Liability Statement: The PO is the responsible party for the facility and its
         contents.     The PO is responsible for ensuring attendees adhere to DCC
         policies/procedures. On a daily basis, prior to and after the event, the PO and a
         representative of the DCC staff will inspect the facility and document all damages,
         theft, or other abuse. Should any damage, theft, or other abuse to the DCC or its
         contents occur (such as broken furniture, carpet stains, etc.), it is the responsibility of
         the PO to remedy the situation. The PO can remedy the situation by either (1)
         providing payment for the damage or replacing the damaged item; or (2) identifying
         the individual responsible so liability can be accessed through all available means. If
         the PO fails to remedy the situation, the PO accepts full responsibility for the
         damage(s) and liability will be assessed against the PO personally through all
         available legal means. Note: If an organization fails to comply with this
         paragraph, the organization’s senior leader will be notified of the noncompliance
         and the organization will be excluded from holding an event in the DCC until
         reimbursement is made or liability is assessed.
     3.2.2. Confirmed use of the center does not obligate the 6 AMW to provide additional
     support (e.g., security, protocol, lodging, communications, transportation, etc.) without 6
     AMW/CC approval.
     3.2.3. All site visits, dry-runs, and event set-ups must be scheduled in advance by the
     PO; walk-ins are not permitted.
     3.2.4. Scheduling conflicts due to bumping will be handled by the DCC. The
     organization first receiving confirmation of space in the facility has priority. The
     organization exercising bumping rights completes DCC paperwork outlining
     requirements. The DCC staff will notify organizations with confirmed space that a
     request for bumping has been received and their event requirements need to be updated in
     writing. The DCC will coordinate with the two parties to bring about a favorable
     resolution.
     3.2.5. Receptions. DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), Chapter 3, Activities
     With Non-Federal Entities, Section 2, Paragraph 3-211, provides guidance on the use of
     DoD owned facilities and equipment.                     Therefore, receptions (holiday,
     promotion/retirement, etc.) will be reviewed by the Judge Advocate (6 AMW/JA) who
     will perform a 7 factors test to determine if a reception is proper and will be allowed prior
     to the Installation Commander’s decision.
 6                                                     MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011


        3.2.6. DCC will reserve one full week for maintenance/training/flex time every other
        month (3rd week in January, March, May, July, September, and November) and the 3rd
        Friday of the opposite months (February, April, June, August, October, and December).
4. Communications Capabilities.
     4.1. The DCC has access to the unclassified Air Mobility Command (AMC) Network and
     commercial high-speed internet. Both networks are available throughout the facility.
     4.2. Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) must be requested 30 days prior to
     an event. The PO is responsible for coordinating all requirements (i.e., drops, phones,
     laptops, etc.) with 6 CS or respective J6 communications division.
     4.3. Unclassified copiers and fax machines are available for attendee use and are restricted to
     a total page count of 50 per event. All attendees will direct their copy requests through the
     PO. If more than 50 copies are required, the PO will be referred to their respective command
     or the Defense Automated Printing Service office.
     4.4. Video teleconferences (VTC) are available in the CORONA Room up to the Secret
     level. To schedule a VTC, you must contact the DCC Events Manager, DSN 968-6600, or
     Commercial 813-828-6600, option 1, for room availability.
     4.5. Secure telephones (STE) are available in the DV office suites.
5. Conference Space. Conference space consists of 5 meeting rooms. The Fire Marshall has
established the maximum seating capacity for the rooms as stated in the following paragraphs.
     5.1. Auditorium: Room can seat a maximum of 250 people (158 in main area and 92 in the
     balcony) and is available for briefings up to Secret and groups of 75 or more. The
     auditorium is the only room sized, configured, and equipped to support
     promotions/retirement ceremonies.
     5.2. CORONA: Room can seat a maximum of 100 people and is available for briefings at
     the Top Secret level or events chaired by a General Officer, Flag Officer, Senior Executive
     Service, and the Installation Commander.         This room is excluded from hosting
     promotions/retirement ceremonies.
     5.3. MacDill Wing: Room can seat a maximum of 40 people classroom style (tables &
     chairs) or 80 theater style (chairs only) and is available for briefings up to Secret.
     5.4. USSOCOM Wing: Room can seat a maximum of 42 people classroom style (tables &
     chairs) or 85 theater style (chairs only) and is available for briefings up to Secret.
     5.5. USCENTCOM Wing: Room can seat a maximum of 42 people classroom style (tables
     & chairs) or 85 theater style (chairs only) and is available for briefings up to Secret.
6. Security Requirements and Responsibilities.
     6.1. The PO is responsible for the effective safeguard and control of classified information.
     POs will serve as or appoint a Security Manager for their event. POs/Security Managers are
     responsible for reviewing and enforcing DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, and
     Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-401, Information Security Program Management. DCC
     security manager will provide POs with an on-site security briefing prior to the start of their
     event.
MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011                                                                   7


  6.2. The DCC is an accredited facility for handling, discussing, and/or processing classified
  information (briefings/meetings) as listed below.
     6.2.1. Auditorium. Available for events up to the Secret level with a requirement to post
     two guards, one on the lower level and one on the upper level, to control access
     throughout the entire event. POs/Security Managers must provide personnel to serve as
     security guards (including lunch and breaks) and limit access to a single point of entry
     during classified sessions. Events at or above the Top Secret collateral level need prior
     approval from the Command Special Security Office (SSO) (USCENTCOM or
     USSOCOM). If the SSO requests a sweep of the meeting space(s), coordinate with the
     DCC staff.
     6.2.2. CORONA. Available for events up to the Top Secret collateral level with a
     requirement to post one guard to control access throughout the entire event. POs/Security
     Managers must provide personnel to serve as security guards (including lunch and
     breaks) and limit access to a single point of entry during classified sessions. Events
     above the Top Secret collateral level need prior approval from the Command SSOs
     (USCENTCOM or USSOCOM). If the SSO requests a sweep of the meeting space(s),
     coordinate with the DCC staff. Note: The CORONA Room is designated as a
     Temporary Secure Working Area (TSWA) to a classification level of Top Secret. It will
     remain secure at all times to ensure TSWA status. A 24-hour notice is required for
     TSWA capability. Note: The CORONA Room requires an on-site liaison regardless of
     classification level for duration of event.
     6.2.3. MacDill/USSOCOM/USCENTCOM Wings. Available for events up to the Secret
     level with a requirement to post one guard to control access throughout the entire event.
     POs/Security Managers must provide personnel to serve as security guards (including
     lunch and breaks) and limit access to a single point of entry during classified sessions.
     Note: When broken down into smaller rooms, the wings must have the same
     classification, i.e., a mixture of classified and unclassified briefings are prohibited inside
     the wings when they are configured or broken down into smaller rooms. Events at or
     above the Top Secret collateral level need prior approval from the Command SSOs
     (USCENTCOM or USSOCOM). If the SSO requests a sweep of the meeting space(s),
     coordinate with the DCC staff.
  6.3. Any requirements for SIPRNET must be requested through the PO’s Command SSO.
  POs must ensure that SIPRNET connection is terminated at the end of each day.
  6.4. Classified material will not be stored in the conference rooms. All classified materials
  must be removed from the facility at the end of each event day to include classified materials
  requiring destruction. The DCC is not equipped for destruction of classified materials.
  6.5. The DCC has the capability to assign temporary access codes to the CORONA Room
  and the DV Suites area. This capability allows POs to control access to these areas. POs will
  maintain overall responsibility for safeguarding codes to these areas in compliance with DCC
  policy.
  6.6. In the event of fire, natural disaster, or civil disturbance, the PO and attendees will
  evacuate the affected area immediately to prevent risk of injury or loss of life. Once cleared
 8                                                      MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011


     to return to the facility, the PO will inventory all classified material immediately, then report
     the incident to their appropriate security manager.
7. Project Officer Responsibilities. The PO and the alternate PO are the authorized single
points of contact for on-site event management and coordination with the DCC staff. The PO is
responsible for the following:
     7.1. Ensuring the event stays within the time allotted. Note: DCC hours of operation are
     0730 to 1630. POs may enter the building at 0700 for setup with participants entering no
     earlier than 0730. POs must end their event at 1630 to allow 15-20 minutes to collect
     materials and exit the facility by 1700.
     7.2. Checking-in/checking-out every day with DCC staff to review daily requirements.
     7.3. Ensuring attendees adhere to the rules and policies of the DCC.
     7.4. Enforcing fire code by never exceeding the room seating capacity.
     7.5. Providing one augmentee support per 75 attendees to cover the hours of 0700-1645.
     Augmentee duties include, but are not limited to securing participant cell phones/personal
     digital assistants (PDA), answering a dedicated phone line, taking messages, and keeping the
     lobby clean and organized.
     7.6. Providing all unclassified briefing materials to the DCC Audiovisual (AV) staff (Events
     Manager) at least 48 hours prior to the event date(s) to ensure they are compatible with DCC
     equipment in terms of formatting, colors, etc. The PO will be notified of current
     AV/information technology (IT) capabilities and support software when making reservations.
     7.7. Submitting any requirement for VTC not later than 5 duty days prior to the planned
     VTC.
     7.8. If PO duties are delegated to another individual prior to event start date or in the middle
     of an event, the new PO will be briefed on DCC policies/procedures and a new POA will be
     signed. If an off-base agency is sponsored by an on-base organization, both the on-base
     organization and the off-base agency will sign a POA.
     7.9. Contacting base catering manager for all catering needs.
     7.10. Ensuring all classified materials are removed from the facility at the end of each event
     day. The DCC is an unclassified facility--classified material will not be stored in the facility.
     7.11. Ensuring furniture remains in place.
     7.12. Remaining in the facility until cleared by DCC staff. Note: The PO and a DCC staff
     member conduct an end-of-day sweep of conference room(s) to ensure SIPRNET has been
     deactivated (PO calls Command J6), all classified materials/equipment have been removed
     from the DCC, and room condition has been inspected (e.g., no spillage on carpet,
     writing/adhering items on walls, etc.).
     7.13. Adhering to 6 AMW guidance during real world crisis (e.g., civil disturbances, natural
     disasters, major accidents, etc.).
8. Exceptions to Policy. Organization requesting exceptions to policy will submit the
requirements from the respective organization’s Chief of Staff. The DCC Exception to Policy
MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011                                                                   9


procedures will be provided by the Events Manager. A detailed DCC directive will be provided
to POs to ensure adherence to DCC policy.
   8.1. Exception to Policy for Food Catering Services. The respective Chief of Staff for
   USSOCOM and USCENTCOM can request an exception to policy as stated in paragraph
   2.1.5. of this instruction to the Installation Commander through the Director, DCC. This is to
   allow catering other than Bayshore Club Catering Department for the Commanders of
   USSOCOM and USCENTCOM and their respective deputies’ special functions. This
   exception to policy, when granted, allows for outside commercial catering services in the
   DCC. The requesting command protocol and POs are responsible for coordinating with the
   DCC staff to ensure the hired caterers accomplish set-up before and teardown/cleanup after
   the event.
   8.2. Exception to Policy for Extended Hours. The respective organization’s Chief/Director
   of Staff can request an exception to policy to the Installation Commander through the
   Director, DCC, for extended hours to support significant high-level, mission-critical events in
   the DCC.
   8.3. Exception to Policy for Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages. The DCC is not a
   designated facility for alcoholic beverage consumption. Generally, the consumption of
   alcoholic beverages is reserved for designated social facilities such as the Bayshore Club,
   Surf’s Edge Club, Seascapes, and other base facilities where alcoholic beverages can be
   consumed and properly monitored. However, the Installation Commander can approve an
   exception to this rule, but only for significant high-level DCC events. The respective
   organization’s Chief/Director of Staff can request an exception to policy to the Installation
   Commander through the Director, DCC, for consumption of alcoholic beverages in the DCC.
   8.4. Exception to Policy for Receptions. The Installation Commander is the approval
   authority for receptions in the DCC. In accordance with the Joint Ethics Regulation (JER),
   all requests for receptions (e.g., holiday, promotion, retirement, etc.) must be staffed through
   6 AMW/JA for legal review. Requesting organization will submit the request for exception
   to policy through the Director, DCC. The Director will process the request through 6 AMW/
   JA and forward the legal review to the Installation Commander for approval/disapproval.
9. Emergency Situations.
   9.1. Emergency Evacuation: An evacuation may be called for any situation, e.g., fire, bomb
   threat, etc., that is likely to threaten the safety of building occupants. DCC staff personnel
   will direct the evacuation of the facility.
   9.2. Weather and Natural Disasters: The 6 AMW/CC through the Crisis Action Team
   (CAT) will determine when to cease DCC operations due to severe weather.
   9.3. Power Outages: In the event of a power outage, the DCC generator will supply power
   to the CORONA Room and Auditorium. The remaining meeting rooms will be without
   power.
 10                                                  MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011



   9.4. Shelter-In-Place (SIP): SIP is a precautionary measure to keep attendees safe while
   remaining indoors. During an emergency, i.e., hazardous materials, chemical or biological
   materials, or terrorist activity, attendees will be directed by DCC staff to shelter-in-place.
10. Forms Adopted.
   AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            LENNY J. RICHOUX, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011                                         11


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records. 1 March 2008
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010
DoD 5200.1-R Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), 6 August 1998
MACDILLAFBI 90-200, Davis Conference Center, 22 August 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMW—6th Air Mobility Wing
6 CS/DCC—6th Communications Squadron, Davis Conference Center
6 SFS—6th Security Forces Squadron
927 ARW—927th Air Refueling Wing
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AV—Audiovisual
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CC—Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
DSN—Defense Switched Network
DV—Distinguished Visitor
GPC—Government Purchase Card
IT—Information Technology
JA—Judge Advocate
JCSE— Joint Communications Support Element
JER— Joint Ethics Regulation
 12                                            MACDILLAFBI90-100 9 MARCH 2011


NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDA—Personal Digital Assistant
PO—Project Officer
POA—Project Office Agreement
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SIP—Shelter-In-Place
SIPRNET— Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SOCCENT— Special Operations Command Central
SSO— Special Security Officer
STE—Secure Telephone
TSWA— Temporary Secure Working Area
UCMJ— Uniform Code of Military Justice
USCENTCOM— United States Central Command
USSOCOM— United States Special Operations Command
VTC—Video Teleconference
