BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                         INSTRUCTION 90-203
                                                                                           3 JULY 2006
                                                                  Incorporating Change 1, 20 March 2007

                                                                                   Specialty Management

                                                                          6TH AIR MOBILITY WING
                                                                       SELF-INSPECTION PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 6 AMW/XP                                                Certified by: 6 AMW/DS (Lt Col Swiderek)
                                                                                            Pages: 10

This instruction replaces MacDill Air Force Base (AFB) Policy Letter, Wing Policy for Unit Self-Inspec-
tion Program, 24 October 2005, and is designed to support the self-inspection requirements of AFI
90-201, Inspector General Activities, and AMCI 90-201, The Inspection System. The self-inspection pro-
gram is designed to ensure Headquarters, Air Mobility Command (HQ AMC), self inspection checklist
compliance by wing units. This program is applicable to all units that have a self-inspection checklist that
is applicable to them. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes accord-
ing to the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, accessible on-line at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change revises the dates for submission of the Group Self-Inspection Report from 31 May
and 30 November to 30 April and 31 October, respectively. A bar ( | ) indicates new or revised material
since the previous edition.


1. Applicability and Purpose. The self-inspection program is designed to ensure HQ AMC self inspec-
tion checklist compliance by wing units. This program is applicable to all units that have a self-inspection
checklist that is applicable to them. These checklists are maintained on the HQ AMC web page at https:/
/private.amc.af.mil/checklists. Commanders are encouraged to use their own self-inspection checklist
results as well as lessons learned and best practices from other units to help improve processes related to
compliance.

2. Commander and Staff Agency Chief Responsibilities.
   2.1. Appoint, in writing, responsible personnel to execute the respective unit’s self-inspection pro-
   gram. The unit will maintain a copy of this appointment letter and a copy will be forwarded to the 6th
   Air Mobility Wing, Wing Plans and Programs (6 AMW/XP).
2                                                                MACDILLAFBI90-203 3 JULY 2006


    2.2. Ensure timely and thorough completion of all required inspections by qualified inspectors.
    2.3. Work to correct all identified discrepancies.
    2.4. Conduct reviews of open discrepancies and corrective action results.
    2.5. Provide status updates on critical findings, chronic findings, or limiting factors and the progress
    of corresponding corrective actions. See definition of terms in Attachment 1.
    2.6. Encourage the discovery, review, and implementation of cross-tell information, e.g., lessons
    learned and best practices from other units. The AMC Inspector General (IG) website provides a
    wealth of information.
    2.7. Conduct an annual review of the unit inspection program.

3. Program Manager and Monitor Responsibilities.
    3.1. 6 AMW Inspection Program Manager.
       3.1.1. Ensure commanders are aware of the requirement for self inspections every April and Octo-
       ber and within six months of receiving a new Wing Commander.
       3.1.2. Ensure applicable units are aware of inspections according to new or modified Air Force
       (AF) or AMC Special Interest Items (SII).
       3.1.3. Report the status of SII findings to 6 AMW Commander (6 AMW/CC) and higher head-
       quarters (if required).
       3.1.4. Conduct random checks of group and squadron inspection binders and databases to evalu-
       ate their effectiveness, adequacy, and currency.
       3.1.5. Distribute cross-tells, lessons learned, and other unit inspection reports to inspection man-
       agers and monitors.
       3.1.6. Provide training, if required, for all SII offices of primary responsibility (OPR) and inspec-
       tion program monitors and managers.
       3.1.7. Maintain a continuity binder in accordance with paragraph 4. of this instruction.
    3.2. Group Inspection Program Managers (includes Director of Staff (6 AMW/DS)).
       3.2.1. Lead the inspection program for the group in accordance with this instruction.
       3.2.2. Following each inspection, generate a Group Self-Inspection Report and forward through
       the group commander to the Inspection Program Manager (6 AMW/XP).
           3.2.2.1. Document the following for each squadron or wing staff agency using the
           Self-Inspection Report (see Attachment 2):
               3.2.2.1.1. Inspection completion date
               3.2.2.1.2. Total number of open and closed discrepancies
               3.2.2.1.3. Specify discrepancy categories: Limiting Factor (LIMFAC), Critical Finding,
               and Chronic Finding.
MACDILLAFBI90-203 3 JULY 2006                                                                           3


            3.2.2.1.4. Provide actionable information on LIMFACs. Completely explain all critical
            and chronic findings and the associated corrective actions plans and estimated completion
            dates using the Self-Inspection Reporting Template (see Attachment 3).
         3.2.2.2. The report is due to the 6 AMW Inspection Program Manager no later than 30 April
         and 31 October annually for self-inspections. SII reports are due no later than 30 days after the
         inspection.
     3.2.3. Track discrepancies resulting from internal or external inspections until closed. Ensure
     units take aggressive action to correct discrepancies to include commander reviews.
     3.2.4. Report the status of correcting deficiencies and provide detailed status on all critical find-
     ings monthly through the group commander to 6 AMW/XP. Include trend analysis of discrepan-
     cies such as common and repeat discrepancies.
     3.2.5. Maintain accurate inspection program database of discrepancies and corrective actions. 6
     AMW/XP will provide the recommended format.
     3.2.6. Occasionally conduct staff assistance visits (SAV) to group inspection program monitors.
     The following items will normally be assessed as a minimum:
         3.2.6.1. Effectiveness, adequacy, and currency of unit inspection program continuity binder.
         3.2.6.2. Adequacy and effectiveness of self-inspections.
         3.2.6.3. Adequacy, tracking, and timely completion of corrective actions.
         3.2.6.4. Adequacy and accuracy of unit’s inspection program database.
         3.2.6.5. Adequacy of commander involvement in the self-inspection program.
     3.2.7. Maintain a continuity binder in accordance with paragraph 4. of this instruction.
  3.3. Squadron or Staff Agency Inspection Program Monitor.
     3.3.1. Maintain the self-inspection program in accordance with this instruction.
     3.3.2. Conduct inspections as directed in accordance with paragraphs 5. and 6. of this instruction.
     3.3.3. Maintain the unit’s inspection program database of all discrepancies and corrective actions.
     Update unit database monthly.
     3.3.4. Brief the unit commander monthly on corrective action status for all open discrepancies.
     Include trend analysis of discrepancies such as common and repeat discrepancies.
     3.3.5. For all inspections, generate and forward a Self-Inspection Report to the group inspection
     program manager through the squadron commander.
     3.3.6. Provide monthly status updates to the group inspection program manager on corrective
     actions for discrepancies. Provide detailed status on all critical findings, chronic findings, and
     limiting factors.
     3.3.7. Brief their unit commander/supervisor at least annually on the inspection program. This
     should include, as a minimum:
         3.3.7.1. Unit inspection program status and trends.
         3.3.7.2. Unit preparation plan for upcoming major inspections.
4                                                               MACDILLAFBI90-203 3 JULY 2006


       3.3.8. Maintain a continuity binder in accordance with paragraph 4. of this instruction.

4. Inspection Program Continuity Binder Requirements. The inspection program continuity binder
should normally include as a minimum the following sections and documentation unless another format is
mandated by other organizations:
    4.1. SECTION 1 - Appointment Letter. Appointment letters should be available for the manager/
    monitor and immediate subordinate monitors/managers, e.g., group inspection program manager has
    appointment letters for self and unit inspection program monitors.
    4.2. SECTION 2 - Unit/Group/6 AMW/CC Policy Letters.
    4.3. SECTION 3 - Directives (AFI 90-201, AMCI 90-201, AMCP 90-202, Inspection Guide, MAC-
    DILLAFBI 90-203).
    4.4. SECTION 4 - Self-inspection checklists for unit and work centers as appropriate.
    4.5. SECTION 5 - All inspection results to include SII inspections and inspections preparing for
    higher headquarters inspections. Reports from audits, SAVs, or inspections of the unit conducted by
    external organizations, e.g., Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI), Unit Compliance Inspection
    (UCI), and Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Visit (ASEV).
    4.6. SECTION 6 - Summary/Status Reports to next higher level of command inspection results, e.g.,
    discrepancies, corrective action plans, and monthly status reports on critical findings.
    4.7. SECTION 7 - Trend analysis information.
    4.8. SECTION 8 - Miscellaneous. Consider having applicable HQ USAF and AMC Inspection
    Guides, TIG Brief extracts, cross-tells, local inspections, and inspection reports and trend analyses
    from other units.
    4.9. Due to the amount of documentation, documents required in Sections 3, 4, and 5 can be stored in
    external files. Cross-reference the location in the continuity binder.
    4.10. Retain continuity binder files and documentation in accordance with the following:
       4.10.1. AFI 90-201, AMCI 90-201, AMCP 90-202, and MACDILLAFBI 90-203. Maintain cur-
       rent versions and discard obsolete versions.
       4.10.2. Maintain HQ USAF and AMC inspection guides, TIG Brief extracts, cross-tells, and other
       miscellaneous information only as long as they are applicable.
       4.10.3. Local 6 AMW Inspection: Purge after completion of trend analysis with next comparable
       inspection and correction of all discrepancies, whichever is later.
       4.10.4. HHQ Inspections (ORI, UCI, ASEV, etc.): Purge one year after all corrective actions
       have been completed or after completion of trend analysis with next inspection, whichever is later.
       4.10.5. Audit Reports: Purge after two years of report date, provided corrective actions are com-
       pleted.
       4.10.6. Self-Inspection Reports: Keep all reports for previous 12 months, earlier reports may be
       purged.
       4.10.7. SII Inspection Reports: Keep one year after SII becomes inactive, then purge.
MACDILLAFBI90-203 3 JULY 2006                                                                              5


       4.10.8. Trend Analysis Information: Keep current version, others may be purged.
       4.10.9. Training: Keep training records for current personnel only, purge outdated training
       records.

5. Self-Inspection Checklist Guidance.
   5.1. Use checklists as mandated by AMC or other appropriate higher headquarters.
   5.2. Some functional area checklists can be downloaded from the AMC/IG website at https://
   www.amc.af.mil/checklists/index.cfm. Checklists are found under the Functional Area and Inspec-
   tions sections.
   5.3. Tailor checklists as appropriate with functional area-specific, critical and non-critical inspection
   items. Tailor checklists by adding, highlighting, or expanding on items as required.

6. Inspection Process.
   6.1. In preparation for each self-inspection, review all checklists and all referenced AFIs for currency.
   6.2. Mark each checklist step as applicable. NOTE: Some use YES, NO, or N/A while others use IN
   COMPLIANCE, IN COMPLIANCE WITH COMMENTS, and NOT IN COMPLIANCE.
   6.3. To assist with future inspections, it is common practice to provide a written explanation to the
   question immediately below the applicable checklist question or written on separate document. It
   helps to list relevant supporting documents.
   6.4. If the answer to the checklist question is NO, NOT IN COMPLIANCE, or IN COMPLIANCE
   WITH COMMENTS, then fully document the discrepancy. The problem should be explained as well
   as what corrective action is being taken or identify the discrepancy as a LIMFAC to be forwarded to
   higher headquarters for resolution. Include the expected date to be in compliance (EIC).
   6.5. Checklist items answered YES will be considered CLOSED; items answered NO, NOT IN
   COMPLIANCE, or IN COMPLIANCE WITH COMMENTS will be considered OPEN and called a
   discrepancy (Improvement Item, Critical Finding, Non-Critical Finding, Chronic Finding, or LIM-
   FAC). In the case of two-part questions, if either part is NO, the overall checklist item is OPEN.

7. UCI Checklists. Unit Compliance Inspection checklists are used by HQ AMC IG for inspecting unit
compliance. These checklists are often the same as published self-inspection checklists, but are some-
times slightly different. These checklists are available on the IG web site for use by units at any time.

8. Operations Security (OPSEC). Consider the wing, group, squadron, and functional area Critical
Information List data in the development, marking, and coordination of all 6 AMW inspection documen-
tation. Ensure effective control of sensitive information at all levels of the inspection and review process.
To prevent unauthorized disclosure of critical information, shred all 6 AMW inspection documents and
sensitive inspection documents from other units when no longer needed. All FOR OFFICIAL USE
ONLY (FOUO) documents should be shredded when no longer needed.


                                                MARGARET H. WOODWARD, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander
6                                                           MACDILLAFBI90-203 3 JULY 2006


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General – The Inspection System
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities
AMCI 90-201, The Inspection System
AMCP 90-202, Inspection Guide

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ASEV—Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Visit
AW—Airlift Wing
EORI—Expeditionary Operational Readiness Inspection
EMX—Emergency Management Exercise
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FOUO—For Official Use Only
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HSI—Health Services Inspection
JCAHO—Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations
LSEP—Logistics Standardization and Evaluation Program
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
OI—Operating Instruction
OPSEC—Operations Security
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
SII—Special Interest Item
TIG—The Inspector General
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
WCM—Work Center Manager

Terms
Checklist—An inspection guide used as a management tool. Checklists are available on the AMC/IG
website, from HQ AMC Functional Managers, or can be developed using applicable AF and AMC
regulations and policies. Unit CIP Monitors and Functional Area Managers use checklists to determine
whether the unit or work center is performing to standards.
MACDILLAFBI90-203 3 JULY 2006                                                                            7


Discrepancy—Any noncompliance with regulation or policy. There are four categories of discrepancies:
Limiting Factor, Critical Finding, Non-Critical Finding, and Improvement Item.
Limiting Factor (LIMFAC)—A discrepancy that limits or impedes the unit’s ability to accomplish its
mission and is normally beyond the unit’s ability to correct.
Finding—A discrepancy, which does not comply with policy or other regulatory guidance and limits or
impedes the unit’s ability to perform its mission, but correction is within the unit’s capability. Findings
are divided into two categories: Critical and Non-Critical.
Critical Finding—These findings identify a serious breech of public law; safety, security, or fiscal
responsibility regulations; or a significant impact or a high probability of significant impact to mission
accomplishment.
Non-Critical Finding—Other findings which, if not corrected, could impact the economy, efficiency,
and effectiveness of the unit being inspected but would not result in serious impact to mission
accomplishment or have a very low probability of significant impact on the mission.
Chronic Finding—Checklist item that is not in compliance and appears on two consecutive six month
self-inspections without resolution.
Improvement Item—A discrepancy, which does not comply with policy or other guidance, but does not
affect the unit’s ability to accomplish the mission nor violate public law, safety, security, or fiscal
responsibility regulations.
Corrective Action—Actions taken to correct a discrepancy. Once accomplished, corrective actions must
be validated by a qualified individual and reviewed by the commander before the discrepancy is closed.
Special Interest Items (SII)—SIIs are issued at AF and Major Command levels, and inspected by all
AMC units and the AMC/IG. The purpose of an SII is to determine the extent and impact of known or
suspected problems, identify specific deficiencies, or to confirm that a previously identified problem has
been corrected.
Cross-tells—Lessons learned or best practices from other units that may help other units improve combat
readiness and/or mission effectiveness.
8                                                                MACDILLAFBI90-203 3 JULY 2006


                                              Attachment 2

                                    SELF-INSPECTION REPORT



                                                                                    (Date)


MEMORANDUM FOR (Group/CC)
FROM:
SUBJECT: (Group) Self-Inspection Report
1. In accordance with AMCI 90-201, The Inspection System, units will accomplish applicable
self-inspection checklists every 6 months. The _______ conducted their self-inspections using
the AMC-provided self-inspection checklists:
2. Below is a summary of findings:
(Squadron):
Area
Not in Compliance
In Compliance With Comments
Latest ECD
3. The following items are critical findings, chronic (repeat) findings, or findings resulting from
limiting factors:
(Squadron):
Area
Classification
Critical, Chronic, LIMFAC
4. For the detailed reports on critical and chronic findings or limiting factors (LIMFAC), please
see attached documentation.
5. If you have any questions, please contact __________ at _________.


                                                                   //SIGNED//
                                                             (Group Self-Inspection OPR)


                                                                  //SIGNED//
                                                             (Squadron Commander)
MACDILLAFBI90-203 3 JULY 2006                                                                   9


                                           Attachment 3

                        SELF-INSPECTION REPORTING TEMPLATE



                                                                                (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR 6 AMW/XPI
FROM:
SUBJECT: Self-Inspection Checklist Critical and Chronic Findings, and Limiting Factors
1. In accordance with AMCI 90-201, The Inspection System, I conducted an inspection using the
AMC-provided Self-Inspection checklists (https://private.amc.af.mil/checklists/index.cfm).
2. The following “not in compliance” areas were identified as critical, chronic, or limiting
factors:
Functional Area:
Sub-Area:
Finding: (reason not in compliance)
Classification: (critical finding, chronic finding, limiting factor)
Corrective Actions:
ECD:


                                                                   //SIGNED//
                                                               (Self-Inspection OPR)


                                                                  //SIGNED//
                                                               (Squadron Commander)
10                                                           MACDILLAFBI90-203 3 JULY 2006


                                           Attachment 4

                                 UCI REPORTING TEMPLATE



                                                                                  (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR 6 AMW/XP
FROM: UCI POC for (e.g., Anti-Terrorism)
SUBJECT: UCI Checklist “Not in Compliance” Areas
1. In accordance with AMCI 90-201, The Inspection System, I conducted an inspection using the
AMC-provided UCI checklists (https://private.amc.af.mil/checklists/index.cfm).
2. The following “not in compliance” areas were identified:
Area:
Sub-Area:
Finding: (reason not in compliance)
Corrective Actions:
ECD:


                                                                   //SIGNED//
                                                                   (Signature Block)
