BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             MACDILL INSTRUCTION 44-100
6TH AIR REFUELING WING                                                                     27 JUNE 1995
                                                                   Certified Current on 27 November 2013
                                                                                                Medical

                                                                            MANAGEMENT OF
                                                              PSEUDOFOLLICULITIS BARBAE (PFB)


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available in electronic format on the local server.          If you lack access,
contact your Base Publishing Office.


OPR: 6 MDG/SGOMD)                                                                Certified by: 6 MDG/CC
       (Lt Col Thomas Taylor)                                                           (Col Roger Bower)
Supersedes MACDR 168-2, 14 May 1991                                                              Pages: 2
                                                                         Distribution: F; X - HQ ACC/SG

This instruction establishes the policies and procedures for administering the Pseudofolliculitis Barbae
(PFB) Program. It applies to all 6th Air Base Wing and tenant Air Force personnel.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates the requirements, information, and procedures formerly in MACDR 168-2;
deletes several protocol items; changes office symbols as required.



1. PURPOSE: To provide physician-approved guidelines in the teaching and management of affected
individuals for a satisfactory shaving technique to prevent life-long scarring and/or pigmentary changes
on facial skin; and to educate all concerned personnel including patients, First Sergeants, and Command-
ers in order to promote understanding and cooperation.

2. REFERENCES: AFP 160-44; AFI 36-2903.

3. GENERAL: Pseudofolliculitis is a clinical syndrome caused by close shaving of curly hair. Because
the inherent curvature of the hair follicle in persons with tight coiling hair is sharpened by the shaving
process, it acts like a sharp hook, and penetrates the superficial surface of the skin, resulting in a splin-
ter-like foreign body reaction in the deeper layers of the skin. The disease commonly affects the anterior
neckline, the chin, and maxillary prominence of the cheeks. If not managed appropriately, this relatively
benign process will leave life-long pigmentary changes and/or disfiguring hypertrophic or keloidal scar-
ring.

4. MANAGEMENT GUIDELINES: Management of PFB will be in three phases:
2                                                                      MACDILLI44-100 27 JUNE 1995

    4.1. Phase I. Patients entering the program in this phase will be new patients or patients already in the
    program, but experiencing acute relapse of their problem. Patients in this phase will have moderate to
    severe inflammatory 1-3 mm papules/pustules as a response to ingrown hairs. When shaved over,
    these lesions can be very painful and bleed easily. There will usually be evidence of post-inflamma-
    tory hyperpiginentation changes, and occasionally early scarring problems. A complete shaving his-
    tory is obtained and the facial skin is thoroughly examined. A physical profile change (AF Form 422),
    shaving questionnaire, and PFB form letter will be recommended to allow the facial skin to heal. The
    patient is not to shave for a period of 4-6 weeks. Most of the papules/pustules will spontaneously
    resolve in this time period. Temporary hair growth is not to exceed 1/4 inch and is to be kept neat and
    trimmed. Patients will be reevaluated each week while on a no-shaving profile.
    4.2. Phase II. The training phase involves educating the patient and managing PFB. If requested by
    squadron section commanders or First Sergeants, a class concerning etiology, treatment, and progno-
    sis of PFB will be held. The PFB Program patients will attend classes biannually concerning the eti-
    ology, treatment, and management of PFB.
    4.3. Phase III. The patient is entered in phrase III of the PFB program. The patient will have devel-
    oped shaving techniques to help him maintain a "close shave" appearance. The time period needed
    between shavings to maintain this appearance will be determined on an individual basis. At this time
    the patient is given a PFB information letter to be reviewed with his supervisor/commander. The PFB
    Clinic will remain available to all patients who have completed the program in case of relapse of the
    disease.

5. ADMINISTRATION:
    5.1. All care provided will be documented in the outpatient medical records, which are to be anno-
    tated at each visit and on the doctors appointment sheet.
    5.2. Initiate the following forms to be signed by the physician:
       5.2.1. AF Form 522, Physical Profile Change.
       5.2.2. PFB Form Letter.
       5.2.3. Shaving Questionnaire.
    5.3. A log of all patients treated in the PFB Program and treatment rendered will be kept by the chief
    of the clinic.



                                          CHARLES T. OHLINGER III, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
