BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                          INSTRUCTION 32-701
                                                                                        26 OCTOBER 2005

                                                                                              Civil Engineer

                                                         STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 6 CES/CEVW (Michael J. Harrison)                     Certified by: 6 CES/CC (Lt Col John C. Prater)
                                                                                               Pages: 8
                                                                                        Distribution: F

Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance, details the fundamental Air Force
requirements for compliance with storm water and non-point source runoff regulations associated with the
Clean Water Act (CWA). This MacDill instruction implements the requirements of these regulations and
provides additional guidance with respect to the storm water permits issued to MacDill Air Force Base
(AFB) by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP). For additional support, contact
MacDill AFB Environmental Flight’s Water Program Manager at 828-0458. Maintain and dispose of
records created as a result of prescribed processes according to the Air Force Records Disposition Sched-
ule, accessible on-line at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.


1. Applicable Storm Water Regulations and Permits. The FDEP is the responsible authority to imple-
ment the requirements of the CWA in Florida. This is done using the National Pollutant Discharge Elimi-
nation System (NPDES) regulations and its associated permit program. The NPDES regulations require
us to obtain authorization, via permit, from the FDEP for discharges of storm water to any surface water
(e.g., canals, ponds, Hillsborough Bay, and Tampa Bay). MacDill AFB’s two NPDES permits require us
to implement various Best Management Practices (BMP) to reduce and eliminate storm water pollution
potentially caused by our mission-related activities.
   1.1. Multi-Sector Generic Permit (MSGP) for Storm Water Discharge Associated with Industrial
   Activities. Permit Number FLR05E128 and Florida Administrative Code (FAC) Chapter 62, Depart-
   ment of Environmental Protection, Sec. 621.300(7)(a), Permits, specify our requirements in base
   industrial areas.
   1.2. Generic Permit for Storm Water Discharges from Phase II Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Sys-
   tems (MS4). Permit Number FLR04E059 and FAC Chapter 62-621.300(7)(a) specify our require-
   ments in non-industrial (municipal) parts of the base.
   1.3. Prohibitions. The specific intent of the regulations, permits, and this instruction is to prohibit the
   discharge of anything that is not composed entirely of storm water into the base storm water system or
2                                                          MACDILLAFBI32-701 26 OCTOBER 2005


    surface water. The only exceptions allowed are FDEP-approved and permit-approved discharges as
    long as they do not violate state and federal water quality standards. These include:
       1.3.1. Discharges from fire-fighting activities;
       1.3.2. Fire hydrant flushing;
       1.3.3. Potable water sources (drinking quality);
       1.3.4. Irrigation drainage;
       1.3.5. Routine external building wash down without the use of chemicals or detergents;
       1.3.6. Pavement wash downs where spills or leaks have not occurred or have been cleaned up and
       where chemicals or detergents are not used in the wash downs;
       1.3.7. Air conditioning condensate;
       1.3.8. Springs or uncontaminated groundwater;
       1.3.9. Non-contaminated foundation or footing drainages.

2. MacDill AFB Environmental Setting. MacDill AFB is comprised of approximately 5,800 acres of
land situated on the interbay peninsula between Hillsborough Bay and Tampa Bay. The base includes
almost 1,000 acres of wetlands and provides habitat for hundreds of different water and land-dwelling ani-
mals, including more than 20 protected or endangered species. One of these species is the American bald
eagle, a symbol of our nation’s strength and pride.
    2.1. Storm water runoff and drainage. MacDill AFB and the Tampa Bay area normally receive about
    45 inches of rain each summer season. Besides evaporation, the rain either infiltrates into the shallow
    soils in grassy and unimproved areas or flows into the storm sewer system. Our storm water system
    consists of an extensive network of inlets, drainage pipes, swales, canals, and bay outfalls. Without the
    underground storm water drainage pipes and drainage canals that discharge to the bay, a significant
    part of the base would be flooded during the rainy season. The problem is that as rainwater flows over
    impervious areas such as parking lots, roads, material storage compounds, aircraft ramp, and work
    centers it can pick up dirt, trash, oil, heavy metals, and other chemicals. Like most of the United States
    and the communities surrounding MacDill AFB, our storm water runoff is not treated before it drains
    to the bays.
    2.2. Responsibility. MacDill AFB, like the other adjacent communities, has an important responsibil-
    ity to protect and ensure the quality of our storm water runoff. This will prevent pollution of the bays
    and reduce the potential to negatively impact the animals, including their habitat.

3. Storm Water Pollution Prevention Team (SWPPT). The responsibility to implement the require-
ments of our NPDES permits and this instruction lies on all 6 Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW) and mission
partner personnel. As a means of initiating and providing a starting point for education and awareness of
storm water pollution prevention requirements, the base Environmental Protection Committee (EPC) will
serve as the primary SWPPT. The EPC is headed by the 6 AMW Vice Commander and includes member-
ship from each of the 6 AMW groups, personnel from mission tenants, and the environmental flight. The
EPC meets quarterly to discuss environmental concerns (including storm water pollution prevention
issues), make decisions and, when required, helps to obtain assistance/support for programs and activities
to ensure compliance with permits and regulations.
MACDILLAFBI32-701 26 OCTOBER 2005                                                                          3


   3.1. The 6th Civil Engineer Squadron, Environmental Flight (6 CES/CEV), has the primary responsi-
   bility of managing the NPDES storm water program at MacDill AFB. This means that 6 CES/CEV is
   responsible for:
       3.1.1. Identifying the requirements of the regulations and permits.
       3.1.2. Disseminating the regulatory and permit requirements to the EPC and any base unit having
       a specific permit requirement.
       3.1.3. Obtaining or creating storm water pollution prevention brochures, pamphlets, and other
       training materials and providing these to the EPC and other base units.
       3.1.4. Conducting storm water pollution prevention training to shops/units as requested or needed
       to comply with regulatory permits.
       3.1.5. Preparing and submitting program summary reports and other documents required by per-
       mit to the regulatory agencies.
       3.1.6. Assessing compliance with permits and regulations.
       3.1.7. Identifying areas of noncompliance to the EPC and base leadership.
       3.1.8. Identifying potential sources of pollutants in runoff from industrial activities that could
       affect the quality of storm water discharged.
   3.2. Shop/unit facility managers, environmental, and training personnel. Widest dissemination and
   application of storm water pollution prevention techniques and educational materials is necessary to
   protect the environment and meet permit requirements. In addition to EPC members, facility manag-
   ers, environmental, and training personnel also have the responsibility to share and disseminate the
   storm water information and public education materials provided to them to all personnel from airman
   to senior commander in their areas of primary responsibility.

4. MSGP and Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) for Industrial Activities. The Mac-
Dill AFB MSGP for industrial activities applies to three industrial “sectors” as defined in NPDES regula-
tions. These include: Sector Q - water transportation facilities that have vehicle maintenance shops and/or
equipment cleaning operations (i.e., marina maintenance shop); Sector S - vehicle maintenance areas,
equipment cleaning areas, or deicing areas located at air transportation facilities (these activities include
refueling, aircraft maintenance, vehicle maintenance, associated materials handling, and fire protection
training exercises); and Sector T - treatment works (the MacDill AFB wastewater treatment plant). Activ-
ities in these areas must prevent storm water pollution by implementing the Best Management Practices
(BMP) described in the MacDill AFB SWPPP.
   4.1. The 6 CES/CEV website, https://private.macdill.amc.af.mil/6msg/6ces/Environmental.htm,
   provides an electronic copy of the SWPPP. This document contains general base information and
   detailed descriptions of the following BMPs that will be implemented at MacDill AFB:
       4.1.1. Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures Plan;
       4.1.2. Personnel training programs;
       4.1.3. Recordkeeping and internal reporting procedures;
       4.1.4. Material tracking and inventory;
       4.1.5. Good housekeeping practices;
4                                                         MACDILLAFBI32-701 26 OCTOBER 2005


       4.1.6. Procedures to minimize the use of chemicals;
       4.1.7. Preventative maintenance and inspections;
       4.1.8. Spill kits and cleanup;
       4.1.9. Aircraft, vehicle, and equipment washing;
       4.1.10. Deicing procedures.
       4.1.11. Additional activity-specific BMPs to prevent exposure or eliminate pollution: drip pans,
       drum management, containment dikes, corrosion protection, labeling and materials handling,
       material loading and unloading, material storage, fueling practices, pesticide/herbicide use, run-
       way rubber removal, cathodic protection, aircraft engine preservation, and aircraft engine wash-
       ing.
    4.2. Annual Compliance Inspection. The MSGP also includes a requirement for completing an
    annual, comprehensive site-compliance inspection in base industrial areas. The objective of the
    annual inspection is to observe the activities and processes within the base industrial areas and evalu-
    ate if the BMPs described in our SWPPP are sufficient to prevent storm water pollution. 6 CES/CEV
    will conduct the annual compliance inspection with assistance from unit environmental points of con-
    tact (POC) or facility managers. The inspection will include the following items:
       4.2.1. Identify general material and hazardous material storage locations.
       4.2.2. Perform a walk-through of the outside areas (including areas adjacent to work bay and shop
       exits).
       4.2.3. Observe general housekeeping and inspect work areas for stains, drips, or spills.
       4.2.4. Inspect structural BMPs (e.g., containment dikes, covered/enclosed storage areas) to evalu-
       ate their effectiveness.
       4.2.5. Inspect all observed storm water inlets and catch basins to identify the presence or evidence
       of pollutants.
    4.3. Annual Compliance Inspection Report. After completing the annual inspection, 6 CES/CEV will
    prepare a report to summarize the procedures used to conduct the inspection and the results/observa-
    tions. The report will be staffed from 6 CES through the 6th Mission Support Group (6 MSG) to the
    Wing Commander (6 AMW/CC) for review and certification.

5. Municipal Storm Water System Pollution Prevention Measures. MacDill AFB will implement
actions as necessary to satisfy the six minimum control measures specified in our MS4 permit.
    5.1. The six minimum measures consist of BMPs and associated measurable goals/implementation
    schedules in the following areas:
       5.1.1. Public education and outreach;
       5.1.2. Public involvement and participation;
       5.1.3. Illicit discharge detection/elimination;
       5.1.4. Construction site storm water runoff control;
       5.1.5. Post-construction storm water management;
MACDILLAFBI32-701 26 OCTOBER 2005                                                                          5


       5.1.6. Pollution prevention/good housekeeping;
   5.2. Recordkeeping and Reporting. Recordkeeping will be performed as necessary to document com-
   pliance with the MS4 BMPs. Annual evaluation and reporting will be performed by 6 CES/CEV to
   ensure our measurable goals are met, document compliance, and modify/add BMPs, if needed, to cor-
   rect deficiencies. The report will be staffed from 6 CES through the 6 MSG to 6 AMW/CC for review
   and certification.

6. Illicit Connections and Discharges. Illicit discharges are prohibited at MacDill AFB. An illicit dis-
charge is defined as an illegal or improper connection to storm drains, storm sewer piping, swales,
ditches, canals, Tampa Bay, Hillsborough Bay, or any other part of the base storm sewer system.
   6.1. Illicit connections and discharges include historic connections and accidental or temporary con-
   nections to the storm sewer system; intentional dumping, pumping, or discharge of pollutants other
   than storm water; floor drains that are connected to the storm sewer system; and sanitary sewer over-
   flows.
   6.2. Detection Procedures. All base personnel must comply with base waste collection and disposal
   requirements and understand which drains at their facility are connected to the sanitary sewer system
   and where storm water inlets are located.
       6.2.1. Facility managers shall ensure that personnel in their building are not discharging waste or
       other materials to the storm water system.
       6.2.2. Design engineers shall ensure that plans and specifications for new facility construction or
       remodeling direct storm water source connections only to the storm sewer system.
       6.2.3. Contractors and construction inspectors shall ensure that the correct utility piping is identi-
       fied and that all utility connections are made in accordance with approved plans and specifica-
       tions.
   6.3. Corrective Actions. Corrective actions must be implemented if an illicit connection or discharge
   is discovered. The following general actions will be undertaken:
       6.3.1. Remove the connection or stop the discharge immediately if it is safe and feasible to do so.
       6.3.2. Notify the work site supervisor or the next in command.
       6.3.3. Call the 6 CES Service Call Center at 828-4532 and report the illicit connection or dis-
       charge to initiate corrective actions. Service Call Center personnel will create a work request and
       forward the information to the appropriate 6 CES operations shop and 6 CES operations flight
       chief for investigation and action.

7. Engineering Design Review. Design reviews will be completed for each base construction project to
provide a thorough technical review and feedback to the designer so that the highest quality design docu-
ments and best value to the government are achieved. This will be accomplished in accordance with Stan-
dard Operating Procedure CEC-004.
   7.1. The design engineer will include provisions in applicable construction projects for post-construc-
   tion runoff treatment in accordance with the requirements of the Southwest Florida Water Manage-
   ment District.
6                                                        MACDILLAFBI32-701 26 OCTOBER 2005


    7.2. Stakeholder design review comments received as part of the CEC-004 process and the engineer’s
    responses will be recorded and maintained as part of the project records.

8. Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). Each proponent/initiating agency for a proposed
project or action at MacDill AFB is responsible for initiating the EIAP. This process ensures that the
project or action is evaluated to confirm that it will not have short or long-term environmental, socioeco-
nomic, health and safety, or other impacts. The completion of this process is required in accordance with
Title 32 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 989.14(k)(3), Environmental Impact Analysis Process
(EIAP).
    8.1. Documentation of EIAP will be accomplished by completing Air Force Form 813, Request for
    Environmental Impact Analysis, and, if required, preparing an Environmental Assessment. These
    documents describe the action to be accomplished, why the action is required, and a description of any
    reasonable alternatives to the proposed actions that have been developed including the “No-Action”
    alternative. EIAP documents also summarize any positive or negative environmental consequences
    that may result from the action.
    8.2. All EIAP documents are subject to public review and approval. Stakeholder review comments
    received as part of the EIAP process will be recorded and maintained as part of the proposed project
    or action records.

9. Construction Site Management. Land disturbance during construction activities often results in ero-
sion of soil by wind and water. The eroded soil is a pollutant when sediment is deposited in the storm
water system or surface water. In addition, sedimentation reduces water quality, destroys aquatic habitat,
and endangers fish and other desirable aquatic species. Therefore, all construction work at MacDill AFB
will follow the procedures established in this instruction.
    9.1. Permitting. Any construction work that disturbs greater than one acre of land will obtain a
    NPDES construction permit from the FDEP prior to starting construction. This requirement applies to
    all construction at the base whether contracted by the US Army Corps of Engineers, US Government/
    Air Force, 6 CES contractors, or others.
    9.2. The design engineer or construction contractor shall prepare a project-specific construction
    SWPPP and timely submit a NOI as part of the NPDES construction permit process. The construction
    SWPPP will include methods and procedures that address, at a minimum, the following pollution con-
    trol BMPs:
       9.2.1. Waste and Material Handling and Storage Practices;
       9.2.2. Dewatering Practices;
       9.2.3. Erosion Prevention and Sediment Control;
       9.2.4. Site and BMP Inspection Procedures;
       9.2.5. Recordkeeping.
    9.3. Erosion and Sediment Control Inspections. All permitted construction projects at MacDill AFB
    will be inspected to determine if pollution prevention BMPs are being implemented and maintained as
    required. The inspections will be performed by staff from the 6 CES Construction Management Flight
    (CECC) and 6 CES/CEV. Deficiencies will be reported to the contractor’s site representative and the
    Contract Officer for correction.
MACDILLAFBI32-701 26 OCTOBER 2005                                                                        7


   9.4. Construction Manager Training. 6 CES/CEV will provide periodic sediment and erosion control
   training to 6 CES/CECC personnel.

10. Violations. Compliance with this publication is mandatory. Violations or other issues relating to
non-compliance by military members and US Government employees will be referred to the applicable
squadron commander for action. Violations or other issues relating to non-compliance by contractor per-
sonnel will be referred to the applicable contract officer for action. The base judge advocate (6 AMW/JA)
will be consulted for violations of local, state, or federal environmental regulations and legal maters, as
necessary.



                                               MARGARET H. WOODWARD, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
8                                                    MACDILLAFBI32-701 26 OCTOBER 2005


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance
FAC Chapter 62, Department of Environmental Protection, Sec. 621.300(7)(a), Permits
32 CFR 989.14(k)(3), Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP)
