BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                         INSTRUCTION 32-105
                                                                                          9 MARCH 2006

                                                                                            Civil Engineer

                                                                EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL
                                                              ASSISTANCE TO CIVIL AUTHORITIES

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 6 CES/CED (MSgt Seay)                                        Certified by: 6 CES/CC (Lt Col Prater)
Supersedes MACDILLAFBI32-105, 8 April 2003                                                     Pages: 6
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction establishes the responsibilities, notification, and response procedures for the Explosive
Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Flight and outlines procedures for other organizations to request EOD assis-
tance. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes according to the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule, accessible on-line at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision adds refer-
ences in paragraph 2., and changes points of contact information for support from civil authorities, gov-
ernment agencies, and other services (paragraph 3.2.3.), and off-base EOD assistance requests (paragraph
4.2.). It also adds EOD Response Levels in Attachment 2, and deleted on base references.


1. Scope. This directive applies to all agencies on MacDill Air Force Base (AFB) using, scheduling, and
requesting assistance or directing operations involving EOD personnel.

2. General. An EOD capability is provided to identify, render safe, and/or dispose of explosive ordnance
involved in accidents or incidents. EOD personnel can provide technical assistance to qualified organiza-
tions requesting service. EOD will neutralize known or suspected clandestine explosive devices in their
area of responsibility or when requested as outlined in paragraph 4. EOD personnel will provide assis-
tance to other services, civil authorities, and government agencies as directed in the following references:
Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 6055.9E, Explosives Safety Management and the DoD Explo-
sives Safety Board, AFJI 32-3002, Interservice Responsibilities for Explosive Ordnance Disposal, AFI
32-3001, Explosive Ordnance Disposal Program, AMCI 32-3001, Air Mobility Command Explosive Ord-
nance Disposal Program, and DoD Policy to Implement the EPA’s Military Munitions Rule, 1 July 1998.
2                                                             MACDILLAFBI32-105 9 MARCH 2006


3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. DoD components operations/areas of responsibilities:
       3.1.1. The US Army is responsible for EOD operations involving accidents/incidents on US land-
       mass except for those areas specifically assigned as the responsibility of the Navy, Marines, or Air
       Force. The Army is also the primary service for EOD support to civil authorities and federal agen-
       cies off military installations.
       3.1.2. The US Air Force is responsible for EOD operations, accidents, and incidents on Air Force
       installations, at dispersal bases (including non-DoD installations from which Air National Guard
       and Air Force Reserve Forces operate), in assigned operational areas, and for explosive ordnance
       in the physical possession of the Air Force at the time of incident/accident.
       3.1.3. The US Navy is responsible for EOD operations concerning any explosive ordnance found
       within the oceans and contiguous waters up to the high water mark of sea coasts, inlets, bays, har-
       bors, rivers, and any canals or enclosed bodies of water. The Navy is also responsible for render-
       ing safe and disposing of all underwater explosive ordnance.
       3.1.4. Emergency EOD assistance is outlined in AMCI 32-3001 and AFJI 32-3002 which states,
       "It is the responsibility of the service that first becomes aware of an incident involving explosive
       ordnance of another service or federal agency, regardless of location, to take action to prevent or
       limit damage or injury and concurrently to notify the responsible service." The wing commander
       is the authority for directing the execution of the emergency assistance.
    3.2. Support of civil authorities, government agencies, and other services:
       3.2.1. Rendering safe and disposing of nonnuclear improvised explosive devices, nonmilitary
       commercial explosives, or similar dangerous articles reported or discovered in areas outside of
       DoD installations are normally the responsibilities of civil authorities. EOD assistance in the form
       of EOD actions and/or advice may be provided upon request from civil authorities at any level
       when a determination has been made by the wing commander that such assistance is required or
       desirable in the interest of public safety. Federal agencies should receive prompt action and sup-
       port when EOD assistance is requested. The wing commander or designee will assign each
       request for EOD assistance an "Incident Category" classification as defined in the DoD Policy to
       Implement the EPA’s Military Munitions Rule and Attachment 2 of this instruction. The senior
       EOD representative and the responsible official must base this decision on a joint assessment of
       the incident.
       3.2.2. Service EOD operational responsibilities include, when requested, assistance by one mili-
       tary service to another. Routine requests for off-base assistance should be referred to the respon-
       sible service EOD element. If that organization then requests Air Force EOD assistance, the
       decision to provide support will be determined by the wing commander.
       3.2.3. US Secret Service support will be made in accordance with AFI 32-3001. Tasking request
       will normally be made by telecom from Headquarters, Air Mobility Command, Readiness Plans
       Division, with priority message back-up. Immediately upon notification, the branch chief or
       senior EOD person available will initiate action to fulfill request. If MacDill is not able to provide
       the support, HQ AMC/A7XD must be notified as soon as possible.
MACDILLAFBI32-105 9 MARCH 2006                                                                            3


4. Request for EOD Assistance.
   4.1. On base EOD assistance will be obtained by request through the 6th Air Mobility Wing, Com-
   mand Post (6 AMW/CPO). Technical assistance may be obtained by calling the 6th Civil Engineer
   Squadron, Explosive Ordnance Disposal Flight (6 CES/CED).
   4.2. Off-base EOD assistance requests will be routed through 6 AMW/CPO. Any non-emergency
   off-base requests for EOD assistance involving military ordnance must be coordinated between the 6
   AMW and the US Army 766 EOD Company, Cape Canaveral, DSN 467-9951, commercial (321)
   853-9951. Assistance for underwater ordnance may be requested from the US Navy EOD Group 2
   Detachment, Cecil Field Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Florida, DSN 860-5773 or 5778.
   4.3. Response to accidents/incidents at Avon Park Air Force Range will be handled as an on-base
   response. In extreme or expeditious need of EOD personnel, the base will coordinate air transporta-
   tion.
   4.4. Rendering safe of ordnance or neutralization of improvised explosive devices will not be
   attempted with less than two qualified EOD technicians.
   4.5. EOD responders will contact the command post when departing MacDill AFB and provide the
   number of personnel responding, a contact number, also notify CP when mission is complete.

5. Response Procedures Off-Base.
   5.1. All off-base responses by MacDill EOD personnel must be approved by the wing commander (6
   AMW/CC), or the Commander, 6th Mission Support Group (6 MSG/CC) can serve as the wing com-
   mander's representative for approval and scope of EOD support to civil authorities. Involved person-
   nel should establish and maintain relationships with local fire, police, and rescue units of facilitate
   emergency response factors such as communications, accident location identification, crowd control,
   area evacuation, and other mutual aid. Any request by civilian authorities to preserve evidence will
   not be considered in assigning a risk factor or determining render safe procedures. EOD personnel are
   concerned with actions to prevent loss of life and limit damage.
   5.2. DoD Directive 6055.9 requires the military installation nearest to a transportation accident
   involving DoD owned munitions to respond as quickly and as safely as possible to meet or exceed the
   goals of that directive, which calls for the arrival within two hours for a DoD point of contact and four
   hours or less for the EOD team. Notification for this type response will come through 6 AMW from
   the Army Operations Center in the Pentagon or the Air Force Operations Center if the munitions are
   Air Force owned.
   5.3. In the event EOD assistance is requested by the US Army and approved by the wing commander,
   EOD may respond.
   5.4. When the commander has determined that off-base EOD assistance is required or desirable, the
   following actions are to be taken by the Command Post:
      5.4.1. Find out if the 6 MSG/CC or his/her representative will accompany EOD personnel on the
      response.
      5.4.2. Contact EOD to determine probable hazards and time available for action.
      5.4.3. Request the Staff Judge Advocate (6 AMW/JA) supply a representative/claims officer for
      advice or assistance to ensure the best interests of the Air Force are protected.
4                                                           MACDILLAFBI32-105 9 MARCH 2006


       5.4.4. Contact the local law enforcement agency in whose area the hazard exists to ensure that the
       agency is aware of the hazard. In the Tampa-St. Petersburg area, contact the St. Petersburg Emer-
       gency Communications Center, Telephone commercial (727) 895-1911, information only (727)
       893-7684.
    5.5. EOD procedures will not be implemented until applicable portions of the DD Form 1926, Explo-
    sive Ordnance Disposal Civil Support Release and Reimbursement Agreement, have been com-
    pleted, if required.
    5.6. The Posse Comitatus Act (18 U.S.C. 1385, Use of Army and Air Force as Posse Comitatus) pre-
    cludes the use of Armed Services personnel to assist local law enforcement officers in search, appre-
    hension, and/or arrest.



                                               MARGARET H. WOODWARD, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
MACDILLAFBI32-105 9 MARCH 2006                                                              5


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-3001, Explosive Ordnance Disposal Program
AFJI 32-3002, Interservice Responsibilities for Explosive Ordnance Disposal
AMCI 32-3001, Air Mobility Command Explosive Ordnance Disposal Program
Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 6055.9E, Explosives Safety Management and the DoD Explo-
sives Safety Board
DoD Policy to Implement the EPA’s Military Munitions Rule, 1 July 1998
18 U.S.C. 1385, Use of Army and Air Force as Posse Comitatus
6                                                          MACDILLAFBI32-105 9 MARCH 2006


                                            Attachment 2

                                   EOD "RESPONSE LEVELS"

A2.1. The following definitions are provided to describe the types of EOD "Incident Responses" as
defined in the DoD Policy to Implement the EPA’s Military Munitions Rule (1 July 1998).
    A2.1.1. Level 1 Immediate Response: This requires an immediate response to decrease risk posed to
    life, property, health, or the environment.
    A2.1.2. Level 2 Imminent and substantial endangerment: Response can be delayed without compro-
    mising safety or increasing risk posed to life, property, health, or the environment.
    A2.1.3. No emergency response necessary: A response at a later time may still be necessary.
