BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE (AMC)                                     INSTRUCTION 33-150

                                                                        28 OCTOBER 2013

                                                          Communications and Information

                                                     CYBER REQUIREMENTS PROCESS




            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 6 CS/SCXP                                                        Certified by: 6 CS/CC
                                                                   (Lt Col Marlyce K. Roth)
                                                                                   Pages: 12




This instruction defines the procedures to submit Cyber requirements. It applies to units
assigned or attached to MacDill Air Force Base. This instruction implements Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resources Management; TO 00-33A-1001, Methods And
Procedures General Communications Activities Management Procedures And Practice
Requirements; TO 00-33D-3003, Methods and Procedures Managing the Cyberspace
Infrastructure with the Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS); AFI 33-101,
Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, and SAF/XC Air Force Digital Printing and
Imaging Program memorandum 28 August 2008. All records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication must be maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. For purposes of this instruction and to
clarify terminology used in numerous source documents, Communications and Information
system requirements, Command, Control, Communications, Computer Systems (C4)
requirements, Information Technology (IT) requirements, and Cyber requirements are all
synonymous.
 2                                                MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013




1. The Cyber Requirements Process. All cyber requirements must process through the 6th
Communications Squadron and receive approval from the Communications and Information
Systems Officer (CSO). The cyber requirements process enables requesting customer
organizations to obtain new cyber capabilities with the assistance of the CSO. The customer’s
unit Telephone Control Officer (TCO) is responsible for submitting cyber requirements via the
Work Order Management System (WOMS). The 6 CS assists TCOs in defining requirements
and developing technical solutions. Customers may also request CSO assistance with
implementing technical solutions. In some instances, the CSO must involve the Base
Cyberspace Systems Integrator (CSI-B), the lead command, spectrum management, information
assurance (IA) activities, and others to assist in developing technical solutions. The Base CSO is
the final approval authority for cyber systems operating on MacDill AFB.
2. Types of Cyber Requirements (TO 00-33D-3003).
     2.1. Trouble Ticket (TT). A current capability that has stopped working. For example, the
     telephone worked yesterday and today there is no dial tone. TTs are reported by individual
     users to the Enterprise Service Desk at 813-828-2666 or DSN 945-2900.
     2.2. Work Order (WO). An enhancement to a current capability that can be funded and
     accomplished at the base level generally in less than 30 days in the form of a maintenance
     task.
     2.3. Infrastructure Requirement (REQ). A new capability in the form of a new system,
     asset, or a change to the network/cyberspace infrastructure configuration. Generally, the
     capability cannot be funded or accomplished at the base level.
     2.4. Note: Only WOs and REQs are addressed in this publication.
3. Submitting Requirements.
     3.1. The Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS) Work Order Management
     System (WOMS) is the Air Force approved Automated Information System (AIS) used to
     submit cyber requirements to the 6 CS.
     3.2. TCOs will establish a “Work order submitter” (WOS) account in WOMS via the CIPS
     website at https://cipsaf.tinker.af.mil/cips
        3.2.1. TCO’s telephone control accounts must be current for approval of a WOMS WOS
        account and to submit work order requests.
     3.3. TCOs will follow guidance contained in the WOMS work order submitter manual
     available on the CIPS website under CIPS User Information.
     3.4. TCOs will submit cyber requirements to 6 CS via WOMS.
4. Technical Solution & Costing (TS&C).
     4.1. TS&C estimates are developed from validated requirements and provide detailed
     information to fulfill the cyber requirement and estimate the cost of implementation.
MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013                                                             3


   4.2. Equipment and material funding is the financial responsibility of requesting units. If 6
   CS workload allows, organic 6 CS labor and materials (if available) may be used to reduce
   customer costs.
   4.3. When a technical solution is beyond the scope of the 6 CS, Project Managers (PM) will
   assist TCOs in coordinating third party solutions. In most cases, requesting units will be
   responsible for funding third party efforts.
5. Requirements Processing Procedures. Unit commanders must ensure only valid cyber
requirements are submitted and that they are necessary for mission accomplishment.
   5.1. Cyber requirements are submitted by TCOs via WOMS as soon as TCOs learn of the
   requirement.
      5.1.1. Cyber requirements will not be processed for TCOs whose TCO account is not
      current.
      5.1.2. All new cyber requirements are automatically routed to 6 CS/SCXP (Plans and
      Projects).
      5.1.3. Requests for installation or movement of IT equipment must be accompanied by a
      detailed a floor plan layout, listing of MAC addresses, and telephone numbers. The floor
      plan layout must include current and desired wall jack locations. Identify the MAC
      address and telephone number to be connected to each wall jack. New telephone numbers
      will be provided by the technician.
      5.1.4. Requests with a required completion date of less than 30 calendar days from the
      date of submittal must be accompanied by a commander’s mission impact statement
      (MIS) See attachment 3 for MIS template.
      5.1.5. If allied support from the 6th Civil Engineer Squadron is required, e.g., conduit,
      power poles, electrical outlets, facility grounding, etc., the requester must submit an AF
      Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to the Base Civil Engineer. A completed
      copy of the AF Form 332 with work order number must be provided to the PM.
   5.2. 6 CS/SCXP validates requirements and assigns Project Managers (PM) to liaison with
   TCOs.
   5.3. PMs work with TCOs to further define requirements, gather necessary information,
   conduct site surveys, provide cost effective options to meet mission requirements, and
   manage workflow to provide predictable, visible scheduling.
   5.4. When the requirement is detailed and the necessary information gathered, PMs
   coordinate with the CSI-B and applicable work centers to develop a TS&C and Estimated
   Delivery Date (EDD). Development of TS&Cs can take a few days to months depending on
   complexity.
   5.5. PMs present TS&C/EDDs to TCOs for approval and funding.
      5.5.1. If funds are not available, PMs may transfer the WO to a REQ in CIPS and to an
      unfunded status for potential funding.
      5.5.2. If funds are available, TCOs determine if the EDD is acceptable.
 4                                               MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013


           5.5.2.1. A Mission Impact Statement must be processed if the EDD is not acceptable.
           See attachment 3 for MIS template. The MIS routing process is as follows:
               5.5.2.1.1. The PM routes the work order back to the TCO via WOMS requesting
               a MIS.
               5.5.2.1.2. The TCO submits a MIS signed by the requesting organization’s unit
               commander to the PM via WOMS.
               5.5.2.1.3. The PM routes the MIS to the applicable 6 CS flight leadership for
               review and coordination.
               5.5.2.1.4. The applicable flight leadership either provides a written response to
               the PM or engages directly with the 6 CS/CC. The 6 CS/CC approves or
               disapproves the MIS and provides direction.
        5.5.3. After determining funding and EDD PMs initiate implementation and monitor
        progress. The following steps apply:
           5.5.3.1. PMs ensure 6 CS Quality Assurance personnel inspect          installations as
           required.
           5.5.3.2. PMs ensure Base Records Manager reviews documentation used to survey
           electronic data or records in AF Information Systems and proposed disposition of
           system from OPRs and Program Manager.
               5.5.3.2.1. The AFTO 747 is routed to the installation, operating, maintaining, and
               inspection activities and base supply, Civil Engineering, 6 CS Quality Assurance,
               and 6 CS Plans and Projects for acceptance. The AFTO 747 documents the
               system is accepted as planned in IAW established standards. The system may be
               accepted with minor discrepancies.
               5.5.3.2.2. The AFTO 747 is routed to the CSO and using activity for certification
               to document that all discrepancies have been corrected.
           5.5.3.3. Upon completion of work for routine work orders the PMs forward the
           requirement to the WOS via WOMS for acceptance. Work orders not replied to
           within 72 hours will be considered complete and the work order will be closed.
           5.5.3.4. Upon completion of project requirement, PMs route the AFTO Form 747,
           Communications and Information Systems Acceptance Certificate, to the applicable
           stakeholders for project acceptance and certification as detailed below:
6. Responsibilities.
     6.1. Unit Commanders:
        6.1.1. Make IT purchases IAW attachment 2 of this instruction and AFI 33-112,
        Information Technology Hardware Asset Management.
        6.1.2. Appoint in writing to 6 CS/SCOI (Base Telephone Control Officer), a Primary and
        Alternate Telephone Control Officer and ensure TCOs accomplish assigned tasks.
        6.1.3. Validate requirements and ensure proper coordination within their units prior to
        submission.
MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  5


     6.1.4. Ensure cyber requirements are submitted through their TCO to the CSO as
     outlined in this instruction.
     6.1.5. Provide funding for requirements that exceed standard equipment configurations.
        6.1.5.1. Telephone services provided at no cost include the most common features
        such as; call transfer, 3-way conferencing, ring again, last number redial, and voice
        mail.
        6.1.5.2. Computer services provided at no cost include network connectivity.
     6.1.6. Approve technical solutions and verify funds availability within 10 calendar days
     of TS&C receipt. Requirements that cannot be funded at the Base level will be added to
     CIPS as a REQ and will compete for funding at higher level.
  6.2. 6 CS Commander (6 CS/CC).
     6.2.1. Serves as the Base CSO and assumes responsibility for all technical solutions
     provided.
     6.2.2. Is responsible for fulfilling the installation’s cyber mission needs, including tenant
     units, and geographically separated units not receiving support from another host wing,
     command, or Service.
  6.3. 6 CS Chief, Plans and Projects (6 CS/SCXP).
     6.3.1. Serves as the focal point for processing cyber requirements.
     6.3.2. Validates cyber requirements, ensures submitter’s TCO account is current, and
     assigns PMs to coordinate the implementation of solutions.
     6.3.3. Serves as the focal point for the installation’s cyber architecture and integration.
     6.3.4. Coordinates implementation of funded cyber requirements.
     6.3.5. Is the approval authority for WOMS Work order submitter (WOS) accounts and
     will:
        6.3.5.1. Verify with the Base TCO program manager that TCOs are trained,
        appointment letters are up to date, and account inventories are current prior to
        approving WOMS WOS accounts.
        6.3.5.2. Remove the TCO’s WOMS WOS account and disable their ability to submit
        work orders upon notification from the Base TCO program manager that an
        appointed individual no longer performs TCO duties (removal, PCS, PCA, separation,
        etc.) or that TCO program requirements are not current (appointment letter, training,
        inventory, etc.).
        6.3.5.3. Perform a monthly reconciliation with the Base TCO program manager to
        identify and remove WOS accounts of individuals who no longer perform TCO duties
        or are not current on TCO responsibilities.
  6.4. 6 CS Project Managers (6 CS/SCXP).
     6.4.1. Liaison with TCOs to define cyber requirements and gather supporting
     documentation.
6                                                MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013


       6.4.2. Coordinate development of technical solutions and forwards to TCOs.
       6.4.3. Coordinate implementation and complete cyber projects.
       6.4.4. Process project acceptance and certification using AFTO Form 747.
       6.4.5. Provide WOMS training to unit TCOs when requested.
    6.5. 6 CS Quality Assurance (6 CS/SCQ).
       6.5.1. Conducts quality assurance inspections as applicable.
       6.5.2. Validates testing and acceptance via the AFTO Form 747.
    6.6. Wing Information Assurance (6 CS/SCXS).
       6.6.1. Assists TCOs in defining secure telephone requirements and formulating other
       requirements involving secure/COMSEC equipment and/or material.
       6.6.2. Provides advice to TCOs in the development of Authority to Connect/Authority to
       Operate submissions to Higher Headquarters.
    6.7. Unit TCOs.
       6.7.1. Serve as their unit’s focal point for reviewing and submitting cyber requirements.
          6.7.1.1. The submission of a work order indicates the request has been certified by
          the unit commander as necessary for mission accomplishment or enhancement.
       6.7.2. Ensure cyber requirements are submitted as soon an operational need exists.
       6.7.3. Submit cyber requirements for end of year funding as directed by 6 AMW.
       6.7.4. Receive formal TCO training from 6 CS/SCOI upon appointment of position and
       request refresher WOMS training as needed from 6 CS/SCXP.
       6.7.5. Maintain a WOMS account and use WOMS to submit new cyber requirements and
       track and manage work orders.
       6.7.6. Liaison with 6 CS Cyber PMs as needed throughout project lifecycles.
       6.7.7. Provide their unit commander with status of open work orders.




                                            SCOTT V. DeTHOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013                                                         7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 November 2008
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 January 2011
AFI 33-150, Management of Cyberspace Support Activities, 30 November 2011
AFMAN 33-145, Collaboration Services and Voice Systems Management, 5 September 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resources Management, 9 August 2012
Technical Order (TO) 00-33D-3003, Methods and Procedures Managing the Cyberspace
Infrastructure with the Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS)
Technical Order (TO) 00-33A-1001, Methods and Procedures General Communications
Activities Management Procedures and Practice Requirements
Forms Prescribed
None
Forms Adopted
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFTO Form 747, Communications and Information Systems Acceptance

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFWAY—Air Force Way
C&I—Communications and Information
C4—Command, Control, Communications, Computer Systems
CFP—Communications Focal Point
CIPS—Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System
COMSEC—Communications Security
CS—Communications Squadron
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
IT—Information Technology
MAJCOM—Major Command
 8                                                 MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013


PM—Project Manager
REQ—Requirement
RRB—Requirements Review Board
TCO—Telephone Control Officer
TS&C—Technical Solution and Costing
WO—Work Order
WOMS—Work Order Management System

Terms
CSO— At base-level, this is the 6 CS/CC responsible for carrying out base communications and
information systems responsibilities.
CFP— The first line of defense for all things comm on the base. Responsible for providing a
helpdesk type function for communications systems outages or malfunctions. Assigns trouble
tickets to maintenance work centers and briefs unit leadership on comm status.
CIPS— The United States Air Force approved automated information system for planning,
installing, and managing the AF’s communications infrastructure. A web-based, certified, and
secure enterprise government system. CIPS allows collaboration in documenting and tracking the
installation of IT on AF installations and is the official repository for planning, installation, and
management records for communications infrastructure/equipment/systems on all AF
installations.
Cyber— Relating to or involving computers, computer networks, and information technology.
PM— A 6 CS communications Project Manager assigned to process work orders and new
requirements from cradle to grave. The PM will review, validate, and develop technical
solutions, implement, and process closure of communications requirements.
RRB— Determines what work the 6 CS is responsible to accomplish and what it is not.
Reviews all work order and new requirements and determines if the request meets the needs of
the mission and is a work order or project.
TCO— A point of contact within any unit on base responsible to submit requirements to the
base communications squadron.
TS&C— Technical Solution and Costing is developed from a validated requirement. Solutions
provide the detailed information to meet the infrastructure requirement and estimate the cost of
an implementation method.
WOMS— An integrated tool within CIPS that permits users to create, track, and process
Work Orders and new Requirements at the base level.
MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  9


                                          Attachment 2
                   STANDARDIZED SOLUTIONS FOR IT EQUIPMENT

A2.1. Personal computers, laptops, and monitors. In accordance with AFI 33-112,
Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, all personal computers and laptops must
be ordered through Air Force Way (AFWAY).                     See the AFWAY website at
https://www.afway.af.mil for specific ordering procedures. Equipment ordered on AFWAY
will be approved by and delivered to the Wing IT Asset Management office. Equipment
custodians will be notified when equipment is ready for pickup.
A2.2. Multi-function devices, printers, scanners, and digital senders. Peripheral devices are
unit funded items and included in the communications requirements process. Requests for multi-
function devices (MFD), printers, scanners, and digital senders must be accompanied by a
current and future printer layout and will be governed by SAF/XC Air Force Digital Printing
and Imaging Program memorandum 28 August 2008. MFDs, printers, scanners, and digital
senders can be obtained only with explicit approval from the CSO. MFDs will be used to the
maximum extent possible and will be located in accessible areas to ensure utilization by the
maximum number of facility occupants possible with the goal of striving toward a 9:1 user to
device ratio. Unneeded fax machines, printing and scanning hardware more than six years old,
universal serial bus (USB) connected devices, and devices in the proximity of MFDs will not be
used unless specific guidance or mission requirements dictate their use. Only CAC enabled
MFDs and digital senders are authorized for use on the network. Printing devices will be default
configured to print duplex and black ink unless mission dictates otherwise. Maintenance and
repair of peripheral devices is the responsibility of the using organization. The 6 CS will connect
only approved devices and will troubleshoot only to ensure network connectivity.
A2.3. Digging Permits. To help protect the base cable distribution, personnel will process an
AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request, and provide drawings of the
proposed work site to Cable Maintenance (6 CS/SCOW) 72 hours (3 duty days) prior to any
digging or action that will disturb the earth at a depth over 4 inches. If work is not started within
30 days of obtaining approval, the request must be resubmitted.
A2.4. Cable Television. Cable television is provided by Brighthouse Business Solutions via the
MacDill AFB Brighthouse Franchise Agreement and is administered by the 6th Contracting
Squadron. The customer TCO must contact Brighthouse Business Solutions directly at (727)
329-2633, extension 42633 to request cable TV service under the Franchise Agreement.
A2.5. IT Refresh. The replacement of end of life IT hardware is managed by 6 CS. The 6
MDG will manage thier own IT refresh program. The goal of IT refresh is to replace IT
hardware when it reaches end of service life. IT hardware will be replaced IAW attachment 5.
 10                                              MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013


                                         Attachment 3
                           MISSION IMPACT MEMORANDUM

MEMORANDUM FOR 6 CS/CC
FROM: UNIT/CC
SUBJECT: Mission Impact Statement
1. IAW AFI MACDILLAFBI 33- 105, Cyber Requirements Process, request WOMS work
order ####-##### be completed NLT ddmmmyy.
2. Justification – provide reason(s) why this work order must be completed by requested date.
3. Timeliness – provide an explanation of why WOMS work order was not submitted earlier
giving the Communications Squadron adequate time to support this requirement.
4. Mission impact – provide mission impact of denying this request.




                                                    COMMANDER, RANK, USAF
                                                    Commander, Unit

1 Ind, 6 CS/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR 6 CS/SCXP

Approved/Disapproved




                                                    MARLYCE K. ROTH, Lt Col, USAF
Commander, 6th Communications Squadron
MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013               11


                            Attachment 4
                   CYBER REQUIREMENTS PROCESS
12                 MACDILLAFBI33-150 28 OCTOBER 2013


             Attachment 5
     IT HARDWARE REFRESH PROCESS
