BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                    INSTRUCTION 90-821

                                                                                         22 MAY 2012

                                                                                 Special Management

                                                       HAZARD COMMUNICATION (HAZCOM)
                                                                            PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 6 AMDS/SGPB                                                             Certified by: 6 MDG/CC
                                                                               (Col Robert F. Rocco)
Supersedes:     MACDILLAFBI48-104,                                                           Pages: 17
                17 Nov 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-8, Environment, Safety, and
Occupational Health, and establishes the procedures and assigns responsibilities for implementing
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-821, Hazard Communication. It applies to all organizations that
specify, procure, store, transport, package, handle, or use hazardous materials. It applies to all base
and tenant units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the
field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a rewrite of MacDill Air Force Base (AFB) Instruction (MACDILLAFBI) 48-104,
Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program. The number of the instruction has been changed
to coincide with the implemented directive, AFPD 90-8. This document has been substantially
revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include: Deleted the requirement for
all newly assigned personnel to report to Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BEF) and Public
 2                                                        MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012


Health Flight (PHF) (paragraph 3.2.1.); added requirement that all non-exempt chemicals and/or
hazardous materials are to be processed through the Air Force approved hazardous materials
tracking system (paragraph 3.2.2.); added that supervisors may use BEF survey letter as source
of information to meet training requirement (paragraph 3.2.8.). Changed paragraph 3.3.1. to read
“Advise workplaces if they are required to implement a HAZCOM Program”. Deleted
requirement that the BEF will maintain all AF Forms 3952, Chemical/Hazardous Material
Request/Authorization Form (paragraph 4.3.1.). Added new paragraph A4.4.4.3. and paragraph
A4.5.5. to Attachment 4.
1. General Information. Information on applicability, references, general procedures, and
general program requirements are covered in AFI 90-821.
2. Definitions. See AFI 90-821 for additional definitions.
     2.1. Non-routine Tasks. Tasks that are performed infrequently within the normal activities
     of a work place or performed outside an individual's normal Air Force Specialty Code
     (AFSC).
     2.2. Organizational Occupational Health Coordinator. An individual assigned to a unit who
     is primarily responsible for coordinating the conduct of the occupational health program with
     medical personnel. This individual serves as a point of contact with the unit to schedule
     appointments, resolve problems, coordinate briefings, and make any other arrangements
     needed to ensure the smooth operation of the program for the unit.
     2.3. Hazardous Material. Anything that, due to its chemical, physical, or biological nature,
     causes safety, public health, or environmental concerns. Any material that 1) meets the
     definition in Federal Standard 313, Material Safety Data, Transportation Data and Disposal
     Data for Hazardous Materials Furnished to Government Activities, is regulated as a
     hazardous material per 49 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 173.2, Shippers - General
     Requirements for Shipments and Packaging, 2) requires a Material Safety Data Sheet
     (MSDS) per 29 CFR 1910.1200, Occupational Safety and Health Standards, or 3) which,
     during end use, treatment, handling, packaging, storage, transportation, or disposal, meets or
     has components that meet or have the potential to meet, the definition of hazardous waste as
     defined by 40 CFR 261, Identification and Listing of Hazardous Waste, subparts A, B, C, or
     D. In general, any material that, because of its quantity, concentration, physical chemical, or
     infectious characteristics, may pose a substantial hazard to human health or the environment.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Squadron and Flight Commanders will:
        3.1.1. Ensure supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to
        hazardous materials in the course of official Air Force duties, are provided information
        and training on the Air Force Hazard Communication Program (HAZCOM) and the
        specific hazards in their work area.
        3.1.2. For each work area, appoint, in writing, a primary and alternate representative
        responsible for occupational health training (Attachment 2). Forward appointment letters
        to Public Health Flight (PHF) annually.
     3.2. Workplace supervisors will:
MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012                                                                3


     3.2.1. Maintain a Workplace-Specific Hazard Communications binder to include the tabs
     specified in Attachment 3 and a Workplace Specific Written Hazard Communication
     Program (Attachment 4).
     3.2.2. Order all potentially hazardous materials in accordance with AFI 32-7086,
     Hazardous Materials Management (e.g., through the 6 LRS Hazardous Materials
     Pharmacy (Hazmart)) (Paperclips). Ensure all non-exempt chemicals and/or hazardous
     materials are processed through the Air Force approved hazardous materials tracking
     system.
     3.2.3. Ensure all materials are labeled according to AFI 90-821. Do not accept any
     hazardous materials not properly labeled. Label containers used for redistribution of
     hazardous materials with the same information provided on the bulk container, unless the
     material is to be used completely, in one shift, by the same person filling the container.
     3.2.4. Identify all operations, including non-routine tasks, involving hazardous
     chemicals.
     3.2.5. Ensure supervisor and worker hazardous materials training is accomplished.
     3.2.6. Maintain a current inventory of all hazardous materials used to include
     nomenclature, national stock number (NSN) or Local Purchase Number (LPN), and
     manufacturer. Update the inventory list when new chemicals arrive or old chemicals are
     deleted.
     3.2.7. The MSDS should either be in the HAZCOM folder/binder or accompany the
     material. The electronically produced shop specific Hazmat authorization listing can be
     provided by the 6th Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
     (BEF) (6 AMDS/SGPB), 6th Civil Engineer Squadron, Environmental Flight (6
     CES/CEV), and Hazmart (Paperclips).
     3.2.8. Develop a lesson plan for workplace-specific hazardous material training.
     Supervisors may use BEF survey letter as a source of information to meet this training
     requirement.
     3.2.9. Ensure general initial and workplace-specific initial training is provided to all
     workers (by the shop’s appointed occupational health training representatives).
     3.2.10. Request technical training assistance from PHF as deemed necessary.
     3.2.11. Document Department of Defense Federal Hazard Communication Training
     Program (DoD-FHCTP) and Workplace-Specific Federal Hazard Communication
     Training Program (WS-FHCTP) in Section IV of AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
     Health Record. DoD-FHCTP is a one-time requirement. WS-FHCTP is required when
     an individual enters a workplace (e.g., MacDill Air Force Base, Explosive Ordnance
     Disposal Flight (6 CES/CED), and must be re-accomplished whenever new
     hazards/chemicals are introduced into the workplace.
     3.2.12. In accordance with AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental
     Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program, provide the AF Form 55 to
     individuals to hand-carry to their next assignment as they transfer. Destroy the AF Form
     55 one year after personnel separate or retire.
4                                                       MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012


       3.2.13. Develop procedures for deployment operations to include MSDSs, personal
       protective equipment (PPE), etc.
    3.3. The Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BEF) will:
       3.3.1. Advise workplaces if they are required to implement a HAZCOM Program.
       3.3.2. Review new product MSDSs for completeness of safety and health information.
       3.3.3. Validate hazardous materials inventories during the periodic industrial shop
       survey, and certify existing chemical usage to minimize workplace hazards. Review
       workplace HAZCOM Program to assess compliance.
       3.3.4. Review MSDSs with an employee, supervisor, or designated employee
       representative, and explain MSDS information upon request.
       3.3.5. Advise all units on proper chemical labeling.
       3.3.6. Provide technical assistance to organizations conducting HAZCOM training, as
       requested.
       3.3.7. Participate in the contracting process to ensure contract language is appropriate to
       meet Federal and HAZCOM standards prior to award of installation contracts.
    3.4. The Public Health Flight (PHF) will:
       3.4.1. Coordinate HAZCOM training requirements with appropriate agencies and in
       accordance with current Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
       regulations.
       3.4.2. Schedule HAZCOM training sessions quarterly and upon request from
       occupational health training program representatives.
       3.4.3. Provide guidance and educational materials to supervisors regarding health
       education requirements and hazardous materials during shop reviews and upon request.
    3.5. All authorized Chemical Staging Areas (CSA) to include Hazmart (PaperClips) will:
       3.5.1. Upon receipt of hazardous materials, ensure containers are identified, packaged,
       and labeled properly. Inspectors shall not accept improperly labeled containers. Ensure
       MSDSs accompany all shipments and distributions. Prior to issue, ensure all unlabeled
       hazardous materials are properly labeled using DD Form 2521, Hazardous Chemical
       Warning Label, or DD Form 2522, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label.
       3.5.2. Coordinate with BEF and 6 CES/CEV for distribution and disposal of hazardous
       materials and waste.
       3.5.3. Ensure shop has valid/current MSDS prior to delivery of material.
       3.5.4. Provide MSDSs to users when requested.
    3.6. The 6th Contracting Squadron will:
       3.6.1. Ensure all contracts for which the Air Force locally procures potentially hazardous
       materials include clause 52.223-3, Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety
       Data, of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 23.303, Contract Clause. Ensure post
MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012                                                                   5


      award conferences address hazardous materials in accordance with FAR Part 42.502(k),
      Selecting Contracts for Post-Award Orientation.
      3.6.2. Ensure contractors are advised of Air Force hazardous chemical operations they
      may encounter in the normal course of their work on the premises during the post-award
      conference through consultation with the BEF.
      3.6.3. Ensure copies of MSDSs for hazardous materials used by contractors are reviewed
      by BEF prior to use on base.
      3.6.4. Ensure International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card (IMPAC) cardholders
      and “Approving Officials” comply with AFI 32-7086 when purchasing hazardous or
      potentially hazardous materials.
   3.7. The 6 CES will:
      3.7.1. Maintain accurate records and drawings of all utility systems within the civil
      engineer's responsibility. Drawings will indicate best available location and contents of
      all pipes and utility systems.
      3.7.2. Ensure all contracts are in compliance with AFI 90-821 through coordination with
      BEF.
4. Policy and Procedures.
   4.1. Labeling. All hazardous materials processed through procurement and distribution
   systems must have a label (or placard where appropriate) on each individual container (unit
   containers, intermediate containers, and exterior packs) including those that serve as shipping
   containers. Labels shall clearly identify the product and the hazards associated with it. The
   label must meet the minimum requirements outlined in AFI 90-821. All locally issued
   contractual documents for the purchase of hazardous materials will contain a provision
   requiring the suppliers of such items to label them as required by the OSHA HAZCOM
   Standard. This requirement will be incorporated into the procurement process subject to
   FAR guidelines. If a hazardous material is redistributed from bulk status to stationary
   containers (tanks) and/or portable containers, these containers must be labeled with the same
   chemicals and hazards that appear on the original container label. Although pipes and piping
   systems in the work area may not require labels, employees must be informed of the hazards
   of the substances in the pipes. 6 CES will provide information on the location and contents
   of pipelines and utility systems within the civil engineer's responsibility.
   4.2. Contractor personnel will be advised of all hazardous materials and their location to
   which they could potentially be exposed as part of the post-award conference according to
   paragraph 7 of this instruction.
   4.3. Material Safety Data Sheets:
      4.3.1. In accordance with the current contract, Hazmart (Paperclips) will maintain AF
      Form 3952, Chemical/Hazardous Material Request/Authorization Form, and MSDS
      master file containing information on all hazardous materials used on MacDill AFB.
      This information will be made readily available to all workers and emergency response
      agencies.
 6                                                      MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012


        4.3.2. Workers who desire clarification concerning MSDS information will contact BEF
        (Commercial 813-827-9570; DSN 651-9570) to establish a time during the worker's shift
        for review of the MSDSs. BEF personnel will review the MSDSs with the employee and
        provide an explanation of MSDS information.
        4.3.3. All new chemicals or products having a new formula or manufacturer must be
        evaluated by BEF. If BEF determines the MSDS or equivalent is not available, BEF will
        obtain an MSDS using established procedures. Additionally, product importers will
        request the supplier provide an MSDS before shipment of the product. BEF will request
        additional information if necessary. To locate MSDSs, the following information must
        be provided: NSN, manufacturer (including full address and phone number), trade name,
        and part number.
5. Employee Information and Training. There are two types of training: HAZCOM “train-
the-trainer” and worker training. PHF conducts “train-the-trainer” for commander-appointed
occupational health training representatives, and the occupational health training representative
conducts worker training. Worker training is divided into two categories; initial or pre-
employment general hazardous material training (DoD-FHCTP), and specialized workplace
specific hazardous material training (WS-FHCTP). Commander-appointed occupational health
training representatives should call PHF at Commercial 813-827-9601 or DSN 651-9601 to
schedule.
     5.1. Worker training.
        5.1.1. Initial or pre-employment general hazardous materials training is given to anyone
        likely to use hazardous materials in their work area. This training will be conducted
        using a PHF developed and approved program (contact PHF to check our materials). It
        will be done before the worker handles or is occupationally exposed to hazardous
        materials. This training may be provided only by the commander-approved occupational
        health training representative.
        5.1.2. Specialized (workplace-specific) hazardous material training is given to workers
        who routinely use hazardous materials in their work area. This training addresses the
        identification of operations or processes in the specific work area where hazardous
        chemicals are present or used, and/or the complete list of hazardous materials used in
        association with these processes. Also included in the training are the controls available
        to eliminate or reduce these hazards and proper procedures for reading and utilizing
        MSDSs. This training must be provided to the worker upon initial assignment and when
        a new type of hazard is introduced into the work area.
        5.1.3. Specialized hazardous material training will include the topics listed in
        Workplace-Specific Hazard Communication Training (Attachment 5). Workplace
        supervisors/occupational health training representative shall develop a lesson plan
        specifically for the workplace.
6. Hazardous Chemical Inventory.
     6.1. Work area supervisors develop a hazardous chemical inventory as part of the HAZCOM
     folder. BEF reviews this inventory during the periodic industrial shop survey and assists
     shops in finding MSDSs.
MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012                                                                  7


   6.2. The HAZCOM binder will be maintained in the work area and updated by supervisors
   as necessary. When new chemicals are introduced into and/or removed from the work area,
   the supervisor shall ensure chemicals are added or deleted from the chemical inventory.
   Each supervisor is responsible for ensuring the HAZCOM binder is updated and readily
   available to each worker.
   6.3. As a minimum, the inventory will include the identity of each hazardous chemical used
   in the work area, NSN or LPN, and manufacturer.
7. Contractor Operations.
   7.1. The Contracting Officer, with assistance from BEF and work area supervisors, if
   requested, will advise contractors of hazardous chemicals they may encounter in the normal
   course of their work. The Contracting Officer will also tell the contractor that MSDS
   information is available through BEF for nationally stock listed items.
   7.2. At the post-award conference and subsequently during the contract performance period,
   the requiring activity quality assurance personnel will advise work area supervisors and Air
   Force employees monitoring the performance of contractors of hazardous chemicals
   introduced by the contractor. The contractor is required to submit information on the use of
   hazardous materials according to FAR 52.223-3, Hazardous Material Identification and
   Material Safety Data. The use of the hazardous materials must be coordinated with BEF
   during the planning (AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, project design, or AF
   Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request, phase).
8. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials.
   8.1. The work area supervisor will list all non-routine tasks performed in the work area that
   involve hazardous materials. The supervisor will ensure work area Operating Instructions
   (OI) thoroughly describe non-routine tasks, associated hazards, and controls for the
   infrequent tasks performed in the work area. OIs are not required if technical orders or other
   official documents adequately describe these tasks. Supervisors will ensure workers review
   these procedures before performing any non-routine tasks.
   8.2. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, the supervisor of
   the activity will ensure these workers receive the following training prior to beginning the
   activity:
      8.2.1. The initial FHCTP described in paragraph 2.7.2.1. of AFI 90-821 for workers not
      previously trained.
      8.2.2. Supplemental training, as necessary, on workplace specific chemical hazards and
      associated controls.
   8.3. The supervisor of the activity will forward a letter to the worker's formal supervisor
   describing the training conducted so the individual's AF Form 55 can be updated.




                                            LENNY J. RICHOUX, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 8                                                    MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 November 2004
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health, 1 September 2004
29 CFR 1910.1200, Occupational Safety and Health Standards
40 CFR 261, Identification and Listing of Hazardous Waste
49 CFR 173.2, Shippers - General Requirements for Shipments and Packaging
FAR 23.303, Contract Clause
FAR Part 42.502(k), Selecting Contracts for Post-Award Orientation
FAR 52.223-3, Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data
Forms Prescribed: None
Forms Adopted:
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3952, Chemical/Hazardous Material Request/Authorization Form
DD Form 2521, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label
DD Form 2522, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMDS/SGPB—6th Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
6 AMW/SE—6th Air Mobility Wing, Safety
6 CES—6th Civil Engineer Squadron
6 LRS—6th Logistics Readiness Squadron
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012                                                  9


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
BEF—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
CED—Explosive Ordnance Disposal Flight
CEV—Environmental Flight
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CSA—Chemical Staging Area
DD/DoD—Department of Defense
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication Program
HAZMAT—Hazard Materials
IMPAC—International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card
LPN—Local Purchase Number
MACDILLAFBI—MacDill AFB Instruction
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
NSN—National Stock Number
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PHF—Public Health Flight
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RSO—Radiation Safety Officer
DoD—FHCTPDepartment of Defense Federal Hazard Communication Training Program
WS—FHCTP—Workplace-Specific Federal Hazard Communication Training Program
10                                        MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012


                           Attachment 2
     SAMPLE HAZCOM/HEARING CONSERVATION PROGRAM APPOINTMENT
                             LETTER
MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012                                                                  11


                                         Attachment 3
          CONTENTS OF THE WORKPLACE SPECIFIC HAZCOM BINDER

Tab A: Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-821, Hazard Communication.


Tab B: MacDill Air Force Base Instruction (MACDILLAFBI) 90-821, Hazard Communication
(HAZCOM) Program.


Tab C: Workplace Specific Written HAZCOM Program.


Tab D: Hazardous Chemical Inventory/Authorization Listing (to include stock numbers and
manufacturers).


Tab E: Operations/Tasks Involving Hazardous Chemicals. The workplace specific training plan
must include the identification of operations or processes in the work area where hazardous
chemicals were present or used, and/or the complete list of hazardous materials used in
association with these processes. This should include required controls needed during the
operation or task to minimize worker exposure. These controls could include personal protective
equipment, respiratory protection, and engineering and administrative controls.


Tab F: Non-routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Chemicals. This should include required
controls needed during the operation or task to minimize worker exposure. These controls could
include personal protective equipment, respiratory protection, and engineering and
administrative controls. This list can be found attached to your most current industrial hygiene
survey.


Tab G: Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). (Note 1)


Tab H: Spill Response Plan. This may be as simple as a short checklist that personnel are to
follow when a chemical is spilled. (Note 1)


Tab I: Workplace Specific HAZCOM Training Plan. This may be a lesson plan, plan of
instruction, etc.


Tab J: Training Documentation. (Note 1). This information may be kept on AF Form 55, in a
computer database, or other tracking mechanism. If this is the case, this tab is not needed.
 12                                                    MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012


Tab K: Deployment Procedures (Optional). This section describes the use of hazardous
materials at deployed locations.


Tab L: Bioenvironmental Engineering Survey. There are some areas where a survey is not
available, but a HAZCOM binder is still required. (Note 1)


Tab M: Additional Information.


NOTE 1. This information may be kept in another location. If it is, simply state where the
information can be found.
MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012                                                                13


                                        Attachment 4
                 WRITTEN HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                     Written Hazard
Communication Program
(Unit/Office Symbol)
MacDill Air Force Base, Florida 33621-5502                                          (Date)
YOUR SPECIFIC WORK AREA
WORKPLACE SPECIFIC WRITTEN HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY
This written program provides information specific to the implementation of Air Force
Instruction 90-821, Hazard Communication, at MacDill Air Force Base. A copy of this
workplace specific written program including the AFI 90-821, the workplace specific hazardous
chemical inventory, and a list of the workplace specific non-routine tasks involving hazardous
materials, will be maintained at each work area and accessible to all assigned personnel.


A4.1. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS).
   A4.1.1. The 6th Logistics Readiness Squadron (6 LRS) Hazardous Material Pharmacy,
   MacDill Air Force Base, maintains the MSDS master file containing all hazardous chemicals
   used at MacDill Air Force Base. This master file consists of the Occupational Safety and
   Health Administration (OSHA) Form 174, MSDS, or equivalent forms.
       A4.1.1.1. For information on local purchase materials, the worker should contact BEF.
       If the MSDS is not available, BEF will assist shops in finding the MSDS.
   A4.1.2. Workers desiring MSDS information and an explanation of the information
   contained in the MSDS should contact either their work area supervisor or BEF at extension
   827-9570. If BEF is contacted, a mutually acceptable time will be arranged.
   A4.1.3. Supervisors will notify BEF each time a new chemical is introduced to the work
   area. If BEF determines MSDS or equivalent information is not available, BEF will attempt
   to obtain the MSDS using established procedures. Supervisors who obtain an MSDS on their
   own must provide a copy to BEF.
   A4.1.4. In this work area, MSDSs for our current chemical inventory can be found at
   ________________________
   ___________________________________________________________________________
   __________________.
A4.2. Employee Information and Training.
   A4.2.1. Unit Commanders will ensure appointed occupational health training representatives
   of work areas using hazardous materials receive training in accordance with AFI 90-821 and
   current OSHA standards. These representatives will be trained by PHF. Call 827-9885 for
   scheduling.
 14                                                     MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012


   A4.2.2. Supervisors will ensure workers are trained using a PHF developed and approved
   program (contact PHF to check out materials), before the worker handles, or is
   occupationally exposed to hazardous materials. This training may only be provided by the
   organization occupational health training representative. The workplace-specific training
   plan will include the identification of operations or processes in the work area where
   hazardous chemicals are present or used, and/or the complete list of hazardous materials used
   in association with these processes. Supervisors should supplement this training to provide
   information on work area specific chemical hazards. Before presenting supplemental
   training, the supervisor will ensure appropriate agencies, BEF (6 AMDS/SGPB), 827-9570,
   PHF 827-9885, 6th Air Mobility Wing, Wing Safety (6 AMW/SE), 828-3383, and 6
   CES/CEV, 828-0462, review the information for technical accuracy.
   A4.2.3. Current employee training is documented and located on the AF Form 55in the
   operations section under training records. Also found in the HAZCOM binder.
A4.3. Hazardous Material Inventory:
   A4.3.1. The hazardous material inventory for this area will be developed by the work area
   supervisor with the assistance of BEF.
   A4.3.2. The supervisors will maintain the hazardous material inventory in the work area and
   update it as necessary. When new materials are introduced into the work area, the supervisor
   will consult with the BEF to determine if the material should be added to the inventory.
   A4.3.3. As a minimum, the inventory will include the identity of each hazardous material
   used in the work area as it appears on the MSDS, the national/local purchase stock number,
   and the manufacturer's name. The inventory may be compiled from the Hazardous Material
   Data filed in the BEF case file. However, proprietary information will not be included on the
   hazardous material inventory.
   A4.3.4. The hazardous material inventory for Unit/Office Symbol can be found in the
   HAZCOM book located in the operations section.
A4.4. Non-routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials.
   A4.4.1. Non-routine tasks are temporary duties outside an individual's normal Air Force
   Specialty Code (AFSC) or job series.
   A4.4.2. The work area supervisor will list all non-routine tasks performed in this work area
   that involve hazardous materials. The supervisor will ensure work area Operating
   Instructions (OI) thoroughly describe tasks, associated hazards, and controls for the
   infrequent tasks performed in this work area. OIs are not required if Technical Orders or
   other official documents adequately describe these tasks. Supervisors will ensure workers
   review these procedures before performing the non-routine tasks.
   A4.4.3. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, the supervisor
   of the activity will ensure these workers receive the following training prior to beginning the
   activity:
      A4.4.3.1. The initial training on workplace specific chemical hazards and associated
      controls.
MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012                                                                  15


      A4.4.3.2. The supervisor of the activity will forward a letter to the worker's formal
      supervisor describing the training conducted so the individual's AF Form 55 can be
      updated.
      A4.4.3.3. The   non-routine    tasks     for             _______       (office     symbol)
      ___________________________ are as follows:
A4.5. Labeling Requirements:
   A4.5.1. Containers of hazardous material brought into or used within a specific work place
   will be labeled, tagged, or marked with the following information.
      A4.5.1.1. Identity of the hazardous material.
      A4.5.1.2. Appropriate hazard warnings (i.e., inhalation and ingestion hazard; flammable
      liquid. Use in a well-ventilated area. If spilled in eyes, irrigate with water immediately.
      If spilled on the skin, wash with water immediately. If exposed to high concentrations of
      vapors, remove victim to fresh air.           If swallowed, provide medical attention
      immediately).
      A4.5.1.3. Name, address, and phone number of the manufacturer, importer, or other
      responsible party.
   A4.5.2. Labels provided by the manufacturer will not be removed, defaced, or changed.
   A4.5.3. If hazardous substance is poured from its original container into a smaller container
   (such as a bucket or bottle) for use during a process, there is no requirement to label the
   smaller container PROVIDED THE SUBSTANCE IS USED DURING THE WORKSHIFT.
   However, any previous label on the container must be removed (i.e., plastic milk cartons,
   paint cans, squeeze bottles, etc.). If the substance will remain in the container for more than
   one work shift or used by more than one person, the container must be labeled.
   A4.5.4. If a container is too small to be labeled, a tag with the required information in
   paragraph A4.5.1. will be attached.
   A4.5.5. All items in the ______(office symbol)________________________ that are not in
   their original container are properly labeled.


                                                            SIGNATURE BLOCK
                                                            NCOIC


Reviewed and approved/disapproved
Bioenvironmental Engineering
 16                                 MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012



Reviewed and approved/disapproved
Public Health




Reviewed and approved/disapproved
Fire Department




Reviewed and approved/disapproved
Wing Safety
MACDILLAFBI90-821 22 MAY 2012                                                                17


                                        Attachment 5
         WORKPLACE-SPECIFIC HAZARD COMMUNICATION TRAINING

A5.1. Workplace-specific training is to be provided initially upon assignment to a workplace
and whenever new chemicals are introduced into the workplace. This training may be done
either by individual chemicals or categories of hazards (e.g., flammability or carcinogenicity),
and will address:
   A5.1.1. Requirements of the Hazard Communication Rule (OSHA Standard 29 CFR
   1910.1200);
   A5.1.2. Location and availability of the OSHA Hazard Communication Rule and Workplace
   Specific Written HAZCOM Program;
   A5.1.3. Location and availability of the Hazardous Chemical Inventory;
   A5.1.4. Location and availability of MSDSs;
   A5.1.5. Proper procedures for reading and utilizing MSDSs;
   A5.1.6. Operations in their work area where hazardous chemicals are present;
   A5.1.7. Methods to detect the presence or release of hazardous chemicals;
   A5.1.8. Physical and health hazards of chemicals in the work area;
   A5.1.9. Measures to protect themselves from the hazards;
   A5.1.10. First aid procedures in the event of exposure to chemicals;
   A5.1.11. Purpose and importance of labeling;
   A5.1.12. Disposal/Clean-up procedures.
