BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                             INSTRUCTION 13-213

                                                                            7 JANUARY 2013

                                              Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                                        AIRFIELD DRIVING



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 6 OSS/OSAA                                                        Certified by: 6 OSS/CC
                                                                      (Col Matthew Molineux)
Supersedes:   MACDILLAFBI13-200,                                                      Pages: 87
              8 June 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction 13-213, Airfield Driving, and establishes
policies, procedures, and responsibilities for control of vehicle operations on the MacDill Air
Force Base (AFB) airfield. It applies to all personnel who must operate government motor
vehicles or privately owned vehicles (GMV/POV) on the airfield. This instruction augments Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision; Air Force Joint
Manual (AFJMAN) 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Operator, Chapter 25; Air Force
Office of Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line - Ground
Operations and Activities, Chapter 6; AFI 13-213, Chapter 4; AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense
(FOUO); and 6th Air Mobility Wing Operating Instruction (6 AMW OI) 31-101, Installation
Security Instruction/Physical Security/Resource Protection (FOUO) (PA). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located
at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.         Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision is a rewrite of the previous MACDILLAFBI 13-200, Vehicle Operations on the
Airfield. This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
 2                                                                        MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


changes include: Revises responsibilities for Host Wing Commander, Unit Commander, and
Deputy Airfield Manager. Adds requirements for the Group Commander, Airfield Management
and Wing Safety. Adds requirement for Control Tower light gun signals. Adds training criteria
and testing requirements for the AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency. Revises information
concerning controlled movement area violations (CMAV) and runway incursions. Adds new
airfield diagram/layout and drop zone.

       1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    3
       2.     Terms Explained. ...................................................................................................           4
Figure 1.     VFR Hold Lines. ....................................................................................................           4
       3.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        6
       4.     Vehicles Authorized on the Airfield. .....................................................................                    16
       5.     Airfield Operating Procedures. ..............................................................................                 17
Figure 2.     Caution. ..................................................................................................................   18
Figure 3.     Caution. ..................................................................................................................   19
Figure 4.     Flight Deck Visibility. ...........................................................................................           24
Figure 5.     Fuel Hydrant Pit Covers and Marking. ..................................................................                       24
Figure 6.     Distinguished Visitor Parking Spot Emblem. ........................................................                           28
       6.     Unit Conducted Training. ......................................................................................               29
       7.     AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency. ..............................................................                         29
       8.     Ramp Quiet Hours. ................................................................................................            33

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              35

Attachment 2—AIRFIELD DRIVING PROGRAM MANAGER APPOINTMENT
             LETTER                                                                                                                         40

Attachment 3—UNIT ADPM TRAINING CHECKLIST                                                                                                   41

Attachment 4—UNIT AIRFIELD DRIVER PROGRAM SELF-INSPECTION
             CHECKLIST                                                                                                                      43

Attachment 5—AIRFIELD DRIVING TRAINING DOCUMENTATION AND
             CERTIFICATION CHECKLIST                                                                                                        47

Attachment 6—AIRFIELD DRIVING QUALIFICATION TRAINING CHECKLIST
             (CURRICULUM)                                                                                                                   50

Attachment 7—TDY PERSONNEL/NON-BASE ASSIGNED CONTRACTORS
             TRAINING CHECKLIST                                                                                                             56

Attachment 8—AIRFIELD DRIVER TRAINING LESSON PLAN OUTLINE                                                                                   61

Attachment 9—RADIO PHRASEOLOGY                                                                                                              63
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                   3


Attachment 10—QUICK FACTS/GENERAL POINTS TO REMEMBER                                              66

Attachment 11—REQUEST FOR PERMANENT AIRFIELD POV CONE                                             67

Attachment 12—TAXIWAY DRIVING                                                                     68

Attachment 13—MACDILL AFB DROP ZONES                                                              69

Attachment 14—AIRFIELD DIAGRAM (FULL)                                                             70

Attachment 15—AIRFIELD DIAGRAM (SPEED LIMIT)                                                      71

Attachment 16—AIRFIELD DIAGRAM (BLANK)                                                            72

Attachment 17—AFVA 11-240, USAF AIRPORT SIGNS AND MARKINGS                                        73

Attachment 18—MACDILL AFB CONTROLLED MOVEMENT AREA/AIRFIELD
             VIOLATION WORKSHEET                                                                  74

Attachment 19—COLOR VISION MFR                                                                    77

Attachment 20—AF IMT 483, CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY                                               78

Attachment 21—PHOTOS AND IMAGES                                                                   79

Attachment 22—SAMPLE AIRFIELD DRIVING TEST QUESTIONS                                              81

Attachment 23—VEHICLE CALL SIGN LISTING                                                           83

Attachment 24—CRITICAL AREA BOUNDARIES F                                                          84

Attachment 25—AIRFIELD DRIVING PROGRAM MANAGER TRAINING
             REQUIREMENTS                                                                         85

Attachment 26—MANDATORY SIGNS AND INFORMATIONAL SIGNS                                             86

Attachment 27—FOD/ECP CHECK POINTS                                                                87


1. General.
   1.1. Applicability. All personnel operating a vehicle on the airfield at MacDill AFB must
   be familiar with local airfield driving procedures as outlined in this instruction, and must
   possess a valid AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency, endorsed for airfield driving.
   1.2. Environment. The entire airfield is a controlled area and entry into the area is
   approved through Airfield Operations. If entry is gained through an unmanned airfield
   controlled area gate, it is the user‘s responsibility to ensure the gate used is secured. Vehicles
   are required on the airfield to support operations and maintenance. Although government
   motor vehicles (GMV) provide the bulk of required vehicle support, some situations require
   augmentation by POVs. Vehicle traffic greatly increases the potential for collisions, injury,
   foreign object debris damage to aircraft, and security incidents, and must be kept to a
   minimum.
 4                                                    MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


     1.3. Hazards and Human Factors. The safe operation of all government and civilian
     motor vehicles on the airfield is absolutely essential to normal aircraft operations and
     maintenance. Motor vehicles present a clear and definite danger to aircraft and ground
     personnel. Carelessness, haste, and disregard for established safety standards are the primary
     cause of high accident potential (HAP) incidents, aircraft-vehicle mishaps, and personnel
     injury on the airfield.
2. Terms Explained.
     2.1. Airfield. Includes the runway, all taxiways, ramps and aprons, hot cargo pad, arm/de-
     arm areas, hangars, and perimeter roads. Note: The terms ―airport operations area‖ and
     ―airfield‖ are interchangeable. The term ―Airport Operations‖ is interchangeable with
     ―Airfield Management‖ and ―Airfield Operations.‖
     2.2. Movement Area (MA). Defined as all aerodrome surfaces with the exception of the
     North Ramp, South Ramp, and Deployed Unit Complex (DUC) Ramp.
     2.3. Controlled Movement Area (CMA). Defined as Runway 04/22; overruns; taxiways
     A, B, C, D, E, and infield areas 175 feet east and west of the painted runway edge. Note:
     The eastern (ramp-side) limitation is identified by an imaginary line extended through the
     runway hold lines painted on taxiways A, B, C, D, and E. The western (Control Tower-side)
     limitation is identified by signs located on roads that penetrate the CMA. Radio contact with
     the Control Tower and permission to enter are mandatory prior to crossing any boundary of
     the CMA.
     2.4. Visual Flight Rule (VFR) Hold Line. VFR hold lines are located 175 feet from
     runway edge on taxiways A, B, C, D, and E. VFR hold lines consist of four lines—two solid
     yellow and two dashed yellow lines—extending across the width of the taxiway. All aircraft
     and ground vehicles must stop at the solid-line side of the hold lines, and ensure they have
     direct two-way radio contact with and receive approval from the Control Tower prior to
     crossing this line to enter the runway. This hold line extends out into the grass parallel to the
     runway. Personnel driving or walking in the grass require Control Tower approval prior to
     crossing this imaginary holdline. Note: Use of Air Force Visual Aid (AFVA) 11-240, USAF
     Airport Signs and Markings (Attachment 13), is mandatory in airport vehicles to serve as a
     quick reference guide to identify airport signs and markings. The placard must be
     permanently affixed in plain view of the driver or clipped to the inside of the sun visor on the
     driver‘s side of the vehicle so it can be flipped down for ready reference. Check the USAF
     publications web site, https://www.e-publishing.af.mil, for information on how to obtain
     copies for unit vehicles, or stop by Airfield Management (Hangar 3) to obtain a copy.

Figure 1. VFR Hold Lines.




     2.5. Government Motor Vehicle (GMV). Any vehicle, including bicycles, wholly owned
     or leased by the U.S. Government. The terms ―Air Force Motor Vehicle (AFMV)‖ and
     GMV are interchangeable. Commercial taxis are not allowed to drive on the airfield.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                  5


  2.6. Privately Owned Vehicle (POV). Any vehicle, including bicycles, not owned or
  leased by the U.S. Government. The terms ―Privately Owned Conveyance (POC)‖ and
  ―Private Motor Vehicle (PMV)‖ are interchangeable with POV.
  2.7. Restricted Area. Any area containing protection level resources. Protection level
  resources are collected into defined areas and controlled using a single security control
  system. Restricted areas are shown on the airfield by red lines painted on the pavement.
  Entry Control Points (ECP) are shown with a white box with black letters with reflectors on
  each corner. There is one permanent and six temporary restricted areas on MacDill‘s airfield.
  The only permanent restricted area on the airfield is the North Ramp. The South Ramp,
  South Fuel Pits, Deployed Unit Complex (DUC), outdoor wash rack, Alert Area and Hangars
  1-4 are only considered restricted areas when aircraft are present. Personnel requesting
  unescorted access into a restricted area must have an Air Force Entry Control Card (AFECC)
  issued in accordance with 6 AMW OI 31-101.
  2.8. Airfield Driving Program Manager (ADPM). The civilian or military individual
  selected in writing by the squadron/unit commander to administer the organization‘s vehicle
  program, to include operation of vehicles on the airfield and associated training.
  2.9. Airfield Manager (AFM). The AFM manages airfield management facilities to ensure
  effective support to the base flying mission and transient aircrews. The terms ―Airfield
  Manager‖ and ―Airport Operations Manager‖ are interchangeable.
  2.10. POV Cone (Temporary). Issued and controlled by the Airfield Manager or
  designated representative authorizing non-military vehicles to be temporarily operated on the
  airfield. POV cones will be placed on the HOOD of the vehicle and returned when no longer
  needed. The cone will only be issued to drivers that possess a valid MacDill AFB-issued AF
  IMT 483 or to those that have had their home-station AF IMT 483 endorsed at MacDill. All
  cones will be removed from the vehicle hood when the vehicle leaves the airfield.
  Replacement cost for lost cones is $20.00 to be paid to the Airfield Manager.
  2.11. POV Cone (Permanent). Issued and controlled by the Airfield Manager authorizing
  non-military vehicles to operate on the airfield for a 1-year time period. These cones are
  usually issued to group-level commanders/equivalents or higher requiring access to the
  airfield when GMVs are not available.
  2.12. AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency. Issued by the Deputy Airfield Manager or
  designated representative once all airfield training requirements are successfully completed.
  The form will be stamped ―AIRFIELD AUTHORIZED, MACDILL AFB FL‖, and validated
  with the signature of the Airfield Manager or designated representative. Personnel must
  keep this form in their possession (e.g., wallet, purse, etc.) while driving on the airfield.
  2.13. Foreign Object Damage (FOD). Any debris on the airfield that can cause damage to
  an aircraft. A few examples are tools, plastic packing materials, rocks, and discarded parts
  from maintenance activities. FOD can create an extremely hazardous and costly situation
  during taxiing, takeoff, and landing; therefore, it is imperative that everyone on the airfield is
  alert to FOD and removes it immediately. Checks will be accomplished upon entering the
  airfield, after off-pavement operations and all designated FOD checkpoints (See Attachment
  27). Call Airfield Management Operations (AMOPS), Comm 813-828-2929, DSN 968-
  2929, if FOD removal is needed.
 6                                                   MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


     2.14. Parking Ramp/Apron. Areas where aircraft are parked, loaded and unloaded, and
     serviced between flights. Vehicles and aircraft operate in close proximity in these areas, so it
     is vital to maintain a safe distance between the vehicle and aircraft. Drivers will always yield
     to aircraft and NEVER drive under an aircraft or its wings. Slow speeds and extreme
     caution are required in these areas.
     2.15. Runway Incursion. Any unauthorized entry into the controlled movement area
     (CMA), regardless of impact on aircraft safety.
     2.16. Smoking on the Airfield. Except when permitted in designated areas, smoking,
     striking of matches, or operating of mechanical lighters will be prohibited in or within 50 feet
     of aircraft, hangars, aircraft repair docks, paint and corrosion control shops, flammable
     liquids, and within 100 feet of petroleum, oils, and lubricants (POL) storage or dispensing
     areas, fuel dispensing vehicles or refueling/defueling operations, vehicle maintenance or
     similar facilities of an extra hazardous nature, aircraft liquid oxygen (LOX) carts, LOX
     plants, or flammable storage areas. Designated areas are approved by the Base Fire Chief.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. 6th Air Mobility Wing Commander (6 AMW/CC).
        3.1.1. Designates personnel and agencies to support the airfield driving program.
        3.1.2. May reinstate airfield driving privileges in writing to perform mission essential
        duties following suspension/revocation of base driving privileges. Authority must not be
        delegated. Once approved by the 6 AMW/ CC, the individual will report to his/her unit‘s
        ADPM to re-accomplish all training requirements. All of the training documents will be
        hand-carried to Airfield Management who, in turn, will issue a new AF IMT 483.
        3.1.3. Requests an Air Force Runway Safety Action Team (AFRSAT) through
        AMC/A3AP if there are recurring problems with runway incursions. See AFI 13-204,
        Volume 2, attachment 3 for an example of an AFRSAT Report.
        3.1.4. Reviews runway incursion incidents and corrective actions taken.
        3.1.5. Approves publication of the Airfield Driving Instruction (ADI).
     3.2. 6th Operations Group Commander (6 OG/CC)
        3.2.1. Implements and chairs the Runway Incursion Prevention Working Group
        (RIPWG) if there are more than two runway incursions in a 6-month period. Board must
        convene within 30 days after the second runway incursion. Once the RIPWG is held, a
        new 6-month period begins unless otherwise requested due to trend analysis.
            3.2.1.1. The working group will include OSS/CC, AOF/CC, Airfield Manager, Wing
            ADPM, Tower Chief Controller, Flight Safety, unit commanders, and/or unit
            ADPMs.
            3.2.1.2. Analyzes each runway incursion and corrective actions taken.
            3.2.1.3. Evaluates the airfield operations procedures/standards and airfield
            configuration (to include signs. marking, and lighting) to determine if corrective
            actions are needed.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                7


        3.2.1.4. Develops strategies to prevent the reoccurrence of runway incursions. See
        AFI 13-213, Airfield Driving for examples.
        3.2.1.5. Coordinates with AMC/A3AP prior to implementing new procedures and/or
        purchasing airfield support systems such as signs, marking and lighting. When
        required, ensures an airfield waiver is processed and approved.
  3.3. Unit Commander or Equivalent.
     3.3.1. Appoints a primary and alternate unit Airfield Driving Program Manager in
     writing to manage training and testing requirements for all unit personnel where duties
     require operating a vehicle on the airfield. Forwards a copy of the appointment letter to 6
     OSS/OSAA (See Attachment 2 for example). Note: The Airfield Driving Program
     Manager does not have to be the unit Vehicle Control Officer/Vehicle Control
     Noncommissioned Officer (VCO/VCNCO).
        3.3.1.1. Unit ADPMs must be at least SSgt/7-level or above, or civilian equivalent
        unless manning constraints absolutely prohibit; then use most qualified SSgt/5-level
        or civilian equivalent available. Note: The responsible Group Commander (or
        equivalent), is delegated authority to waive this requirement and will forward a copy
        of the waiver to the Wing ADPM.
        3.3.1.2. Ensures a replacement unit ADPM is appointed in writing and trained by the
        Wing ADPM at least 30 days prior to releasing the current unit ADPM.
     3.3.2. Appoints unit airfield driving trainers in writing to conduct and document practical
     day and night (as applicable) airfield familiarization training and driving test as outlined
     in this instruction. Trainers must have completed the AF Training Course. Forwards a
     copy of the appointment letter (see Attachment 2) to the Wing ADPM.
     3.3.3. Certifies personnel are qualified to drive on the airfield. (Authority may be
     delegated to the unit ADPM. If authority is delegated, the Airfield Manager must have a
     written letter on file from the unit commander.)
     3.3.4. Ensures unit-assigned personnel who operate a vehicle on the airfield complete all
     training and testing requirements prior to obtaining an AF IMT 483. Airfield experience
     (e.g., operating vehicles or aircraft) is not a substitute for completion of airfield driving
     training and testing requirements.
     3.3.5. Limits the number of personnel authorized to drive on the airfield to the absolute
     minimum necessary to accomplish the mission, with a focus on limiting entry onto/across
     the CMA to mission essential duties only.
     3.3.6. Upon suspension/revocation of a unit member‘s base driving privileges,
     suspend/revokes the member‘s airfield driving authorization (AF IMT 483) and notifies
     the unit ADPM and 6 OSS/OSAA in writing. Requests for reinstatement must be
     processed according to paragraph 3.1.2.
     3.3.7. Ensures unit ADPMs can satisfactorily manage the number of airfield drivers
     within their organization. Large organizations (e.g. consisting of 30 or more certified
     drivers) should consider having more than one unit ADPM to provide effective program
     management and quality training, thus reducing the potential for airfield driving
8                                                    MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


       violations and runway incursions. Conversely, small organizations (e.g., consisting of 1-
       5 certified drivers) can combine and/or consolidate their ADPMs with another unit.
       3.3.8. Reviews individuals‘ driving records (maintained by 6 SFS) if applicable, to
       determine their qualifications before permitting them to operate a vehicle and or
       equipment on the airfield. This may be delegated to unit ADPM.
       3.3.9. Participates in the RIPWG when the violation occurs within their unit.
    3.4. 6 OSS Airfield Management (6 OSS/OSAA) Deputy, Airfield Manager (DAFM).
       3.4.1. Develops a local airfield driving program and provides it to unit ADPMs (training
       materials can be found on the following link: https://private.amc.af.mil/ADTP/Login.aspx).
       Note: Non-CAC card holders will complete training using Attachments 5 and 6. Unit ADPMs
       will maintain hard copies.
          3.4.1.1. Develops and reviews the standardized checklist to conduct and document
          training listed in Attachment 3.
          3.4.1.2. Provides unit ADPMs a copy of the ADI, training and testing materials to
          manage unit airfield driving program.
       3.4.2. Conducts a review of the ADI and supportive information for currency and
       accuracy at least annually. Uses a memorandum for record (MFR), log, or electronic
       equivalent to document ADI program reviews and maintains a file copy.
       3.4.3. Trains unit ADPMs on airfield driving requirements and provides information and
       supplemental training material needed to train personnel operating vehicles on the
       airfield. At a minimum, the supplemental training material will include the information
       listed in Attachment 22. The AFM and DAFM will seek inputs/support requests from
       units on the quality and issues associated with the airfield driving program.
       3.4.4. Develops an airfield driving program instruction (MACDILLAFBI 13-213,
       Airfield Driving) which is reviewed annually or as needed.
       3.4.5. Quality Control. Monitors unit‘s airfield driver training programs for effectiveness.
          3.4.5.1. Airfield Management personnel will conduct spot checks to monitor
          compliance with airfield driving procedures. At a minimum, spot checks will include
          checking the driver‘s AF IMT 483 for currency, possession of AF Visual Aids AFVA
          11-240, Airports Signs and Markings, AFVA 13-221, Control Tower Light Signals,
          AFVA 13-22, Runway/Controlled Movement Area Procedure, and the currency of the
          local airfield diagram. If vehicle operators are identified not complying with airfield
          driving/procedures, operators will be escorted off the airfield by the AFM or Security
          Forces.
              3.4.5.1.1. Reports violations detected during the spot checks to the DAFM, AFM,
              AOF/CC, the individual‘s unit commander and unit ADPM.
              3.4.5.1.2. Monitors radios for proper radio terminology/phraseology and
              discipline.
              3.4.5.1.3. Reports and documents results of spot checks (unit/office symbol) in
              the ―status of airfield driving‖ section of Airfield Operations Board (AOB). Note:
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                              9


            All AM personnel have the authority to conduct random spot checks to ensure
            personnel driving on the airfield are in compliance with current directives. They
            will escort any driver not in possession of a MacDill AFB-issued AF IMT 483 off
            the airfield.
        3.4.5.2. Utilizes local resources, such as the base paper, Commander‘s Access
        Channel (TV), e-mail advisories, and unit briefings, to educate, inform, and update
        personnel on airfield changes, trends, and special events. Examples include but are
        not limited to exercise activities, driving violations, closures, and inclement weather
        conditions. Utilization of the Airfield Driving Training Program (ADTP) database
        mass e-mail function to educate, inform and update personnel on airfield changes and
        trends can also be used.
        3.4.5.3. Inspects each unit‘s airfield driving program at least annually (every 12
        months) for program integrity and compliance.
            3.4.5.3.1. Inspections will ensure that unit programs are in compliance with the
            ADI.
            3.4.5.3.2. Inspection results will be provided to the unit commander and be
            briefed quarterly at the AOB. Note: The DAFM may delegate a designated
            representative to conduct unit inspections.
     3.4.6. Conducts semiannual meetings with unit ADPMs to provide training, brief runway
     incursions, CMAVs, trends, etc. Note: Briefing at the base VCO/VCNO meeting will
     satisfy this requirement. Use an MFR or electronic equivalent to document semi-annual
     meeting minutes. Maintain a file copy of the current calendar year in Tab J of the Wing
     ADPM Continuity Binder or electronic equivalent.
     3.4.7. Maintains a Wing ADPM continuity binder or electronic equivalent in the TAB
     format described below.
        3.4.7.1. TAB A: Unit ADPM appointment letter(s).
        3.4.7.2. TAB B: Airfield Driving Instruction.
        3.4.7.3. TAB C: Annual Program Inspection Results.
        3.4.7.4. TAB D: Unit ADPM Training Documentation.
        3.4.7.5. TAB E: Current list of unit-assigned airfield drivers.
        3.4.7.6. TAB F: USAF airfield driving CBT, training curriculum, tests/answer keys.
        3.4.7.7. TAB G: Unit airfield driving requirements as applicable.
        3.4.7.8. TAB H: Airfield violations/corrective actions.
        3.4.7.9. TAB I: References (e.g., AFMAN 24-306, Chapter 20 and AFOSHSTD 91-
        100, Chapter 6, AFI 21-101).
        3.4.7.10. TAB J: Miscellaneous information (meeting minutes, digest articles,
        RIPWG, etc.).Note: References may be a paper or electronic copy.
     3.4.8. Coordinates on unit airfield driving lesson plans, tests, OIs (if applicable, and/or
     policy letters).
10                                               MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


     3.4.9. Ensures unit ADPMs provide appropriate training to TDY personnel and non-base
     assigned contractors based on location, time and duration of work.
     3.4.10. Provides classroom training as determined locally.
     3.4.11. Participates in the RIPWG. When held, provides a summary of RIPWG‘s
     analysis and recommendations during the next Airfield Operations Board (AOB).
     Publishes minutes of the RIPWG and provide an informational copy to AMC/A3AP
     within 30 calendar days.
     3.4.12. Provides unit ADPM a standardize spreadsheet or electronic equivalent to
     monitor and track unit personnel authorized to drive on the airfield. At a minimum, the
     list of airfield drivers will include the individual‘s full name, rank, unit, AF IMT 483
     certificate number, restrictions (e.g., daytime or ramp only) and refresher due date.
     Personnel list can be pulled from the ADTP.
     3.4.13. Wing ADPMs will utilize the ADTP ‗Report‘ function to monitor and track this
     requirement.
  3.5. Unit Airfield Driving Program Manager (ADPM).
     3.5.1. Must be trained and certified to drive on the airfield by current unit ADPM or
     designated representative. Also must be trained on the ADTP. Schedules training for
     replacement unit ADPM with current ADPM at least 30 days prior to relinquishing
     duties.
     3.5.2. Administers the unit‘s ADTP IAW this instruction; provides Control Tower light
     gun signal recognition training, classroom training, practical airfield driving procedures
     for day and night, phraseology test, a driving test (check ride) and an airfield diagram
     map test. The practical driving test, or ―check ride‖, will be defined in each unit‘s
     program and will ensure the trainee is ―observed‖ driving by a unit trainer or unit ADPM
     for the express purpose of determining the trainee‘s proficiency. Therefore, the day and
     night orientation-only rides do not suffice for this requirement. Non-CAC holders will
     receive training via hard copy training as outlined in Attachment 5 of this instruction.
     (Use Attachment 21 as a visual aid.)
     3.5.3. Reviews ADTP database at least monthly. Ensures all training documentation and
     certification is completed prior to member moving to step 4 of the ADTP. Ensures all
     personnel are completing training in a reasonable time period and personnel in the system
     still have a need to drive on the airfield. Personnel who do not complete training within
     90 days will be removed from the system and will be required to start training again.
     3.5.4. Administers a unit test to trainees on the ADTP website.
     3.5.5. Ensures members deploy with an AF IMT 483 as required by their tasking orders.
     3.5.6. Establishes a list of all AF IMT 483 driving certification codes in the ADTP for
     use by all certifying official.
     3.5.7. Ensures unit personnel have a valid state drivers license to operate privately-
     owned, government (may also require a government driver license), and contractor-
     owned/leased vehicles on the airfield.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                              11


     3.5.8. Ensures personnel are trained to the CMA access standards and for day and night
     operations.
     3.5.9. Ensures unit personnel are qualified to drive the vehicle(s) they will be operating
     on the airfield. This includes any other additional training required to operate vehicles in
     various field conditions (e.g., blackout or night vision devices (NVD) or mission-oriented
     protective posture (MOPP) gear).
     3.5.10. Ensures TDY personnel hosted by the unit receive local airfield driving IAW
     with Attachment 7. TDY personnel will receive a briefing by the Wing/unit ADPM and
     their information will be inputted/maintained utilizing the ADTP database.
     3.5.11. For non-common access card (CAC) users.
        3.5.11.1. Maintains airfield driving training records, associated forms, and listing of
        unit personnel authorized to drive on the airfield, but are not loaded in the ADTP.
        3.5.11.2. As a minimum, the ADPM‘s list of airfield drivers will include the
        individual‘s full name, rank, unit, office symbol, AF IMT 483 certificate number,
        restrictions (e.g., Daytime or Ramp only), and the date refresher training is due.
        3.5.11.3. Updates the list of all unit personnel authorized to drive on the airfield at
        least quarterly and forwards an information copy to the DAFM.
        3.5.11.4. Provides annual refresher training for assigned unit personnel. Ensures
        members utilizing the ADTP database for all refresher training are properly
        documented and AF IMT 483s are printed with the new dates. It is the unit ADPM‘s
        responsibility to ensure all training is completed before a new AF IMT 483 is issued.
        Maintains a copy of the most current refresher training CBT completion on file.
     3.5.12. Schedules personnel for color vision testing at the 6th Medical Group's
     Optometry Clinic (Bldg 1078). If the individual fails the eye exam at the clinic, the
     ADPM will conduct a light gun test with the Control Tower to assess the effects of the
     color blindness in the conduct of his/her driving duties on the airfield. Coordination with
     the Medical Clinic Safety and Airfield Management may be necessary to evaluate those
     cases where individuals fail the color vision testing and determine if issuance of a
     ―limited access/ramp only‖ permit should be approved. However, access to the CMA
     will not be authorized. Note: Personnel who have a mandatory requirement for normal
     color vision (entry and retention) in their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) are exempt
     from the color vision testing portion of the airfield driving program, provided previous
     test results indicate the member can distinguish red, green, white, yellow, and blue.
     Individuals must provide official documentation of test results from the base medical
     facility when submitting a request for an airfield driving license.
     3.5.13. Conducts and tracks annual refresher training for all airfield drivers utilizing
     the ADTP, unless specified in paragraph 3.5.11. This ―continuing education‖
     requirement can be satisfied by holding a classroom session, providing periodic
     newsletters, accessing web-based training, trends on the airfield, or other suitable
     vehicles. Training must include the airfield driving CBT, a review of the ADI, and the
     Runway Incursion Prevention Test (at least 5 questions with a minimum passing score of
     100%).
12                                               MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


     3.5.14. Maintains an Airfield Driving Program Continuity Binder in the TAB format
     below. Note: When approved by the DAFM, contents from a TAB may be maintained
     in another location or electronically. Use the DD Form 2861, Cross-Reference, to
     identify location.
        3.5.14.1. TAB A: Unit ADPM appointment letter.
        3.5.14.2. TAB B: Airfield Driving Instruction (ADI).
        3.5.14.3. TAB C: Annual program inspection results.
        3.5.14.4. TAB D: Unit ADPM training documentation.
        3.5.14.5. TAB E: Current list of unit assigned airfield drivers.
        3.5.14.6. TAB F: Airfield driving CBT, training curriculum, tests/answer keys.
        3.5.14.7. TAB G: Unit airfield driving safety requirements, as applicable.
        3.5.14.8. TAB H: Airfield violations/corrective actions.
        3.5.14.9. TAB I: References (e.g., AFMAN 24-306, Chapter 25 and AFOSHSTD
        91-100, Chapter 6, AFI 21-101, etc.) and other miscellaneous information. Note:
        References may be paper or electronic copy.
        3.5.14.10. TAB J:     Miscellaneous information (meeting minutes, digest articles,
        RIPWG, etc.).
     3.5.15. Utilizes this instruction to familiarize airfield drivers with the airfield, and
     ensures compliance with all safety rules as set forth in this instruction, AFOSH Standard
     91-100, Chapter 6, and AFMAN 24-306, Chapter 25. Adds unique unit training
     requirements as necessary.
     3.5.16. Administers testing with material provided by 6 OSS/OSAA.               Does not
     administer unit-made airfield driving tests (exception: unit test on ADTP).
     3.5.17. Notifies the unit commander and Airfield Management if/when unit personnel
     commit an on/off-base violation that suspends or revokes their driving privileges.
     3.5.18. Provides unit personnel with available references and material necessary to
     complete airfield driver training. This material should always be readily available in the
     event the unit ADPM and his/her alternate are not available.
     3.5.19. Trains unit airfield driver trainers how to conduct and document training on
     newly assigned personnel using the ADTP database. Ensures designated airfield driving
     trainers conduct practical day and night (as applicable) airfield familiarization training
     and administers practical driving tests on unit personnel prior to issuance of an AF IMT
     483.
     3.5.20. Develops procedures to disseminate airfield driving-related information (e.g.,
     articles, training) to unit airfield drivers. ADPMs can accomplish this using the e-mail
     function of the ADTP database for their squadron members.
     3.5.21. Conducts random spot checks for enforcement and compliance with the ADI.
     Corrects all discrepancies noted. Documents spot checks and forwards a report to the
     Wing ADPM monthly noting unit/office symbol of person checked, any discrepancies
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                           13


     and respective corrective actions taken. Additionally, part of the intent of unit spot
     checks is for the unit ADPM‘s assessment of unit program health and efficiency--a
     quality control measure.
     3.5.22. Attends wing ADPM‘s semiannual meeting and/or briefing regarding airfield
     driving. Also participates in the RIPWG when a violation occurs within their unit.
     3.5.23. Uses Attachment 4 to conduct and document a self-inspection of units Airfield
     Driving Program (ADP) at least annually and forward a copy of the inspection results to
     the wing ADPM.
     3.5.24. Annually validates the number of personnel authorized to drive on the airfield to
     include justification for individuals required to enter or cross the CMA. Forward the
     results to the wing ADPM.
     3.5.25. Ensures processing in/out with the unit ADPM is added to units in/out processing
     checklist.
     3.5.26. Provides feedback/suggestions to Airfield Management on the quality of the
     airfield driving program.
     3.5.27. Defines unit ADPM procedures in unit OI, appointment letter and or policy letter.
  3.6. Airfield Management (AM).
     3.6.1. Serves as the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the ADP.
     3.6.2. Conducts random spot checks for enforcement and compliance with this ADI in
     conjunction with periodic airfield checks.
     3.6.3. Routinely monitors radios for proper radio terminology/phraseology and
     discipline. Immediately responds to and corrects improper radio usage when notified by
     the Control Tower or through the monitoring of radio frequencies. Documents corrective
     actions on an AF IMT 3616, Daily Record of Facility Operations or electronic
     equivalent.
     3.6.4. AFM, wing ADPM, or NCOIC, Airfield Management Operations will sign off the
     airfield driving requirement on pre-deployment checklists to ensure deploying personnel
     are fully trained and possess a valid AF IMT 483 for airfield driving.
     3.6.5. Imposes and publishes restricted driving routes as required.
     3.6.6. Responds to reported or suspected airfield driving violations. At a minimum, AM
     personnel will:
        3.6.6.1. Escort individuals off the airfield.
        3.6.6.2. Confiscate individuals‘ AF IMT 483s.
        3.6.6.3. Request statements from individual(s) suspected of committing airfield
        violation(s).
        3.6.6.4. Document and report the incident to the Wing ADPM, AFM and AOF/CC.
        3.6.6.5. Participates in the RIPWG when manning allows. When AM personnel are
        in upgrade training attendance is highly encouraged.
14                                                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


  3.7. 6th Security Forces Squadron (6 SFS).
     3.7.1. Enforces all traffic rules and directives on the airfield.
     3.7.2. Monitors airfield vehicle operations for ADI compliance.
     3.7.3. Ensures unauthorized vehicles are prohibited from operating on the airfield and
     inform Airfield Management of violations.
     3.7.4. Detains all unauthorized POVs driving on the airfield. Notifies Airfield
     Management of POVs driving on the airfield not displaying a POV cone on the hood of
     the vehicle. Off-base contractors escorted by marked base-assigned civil engineer (CE)
     contractor vehicles are exempt from this policy.
     3.7.5. Assists in escorting violators (as needed) to airfield management and issue
     appropriate citation for violations.
     3.7.6. Provides assistance when requested by AM or the Control Tower to apprehend
     airfield driving violators and remove unauthorized persons from the airfield.
     3.7.7. Complies with all procedures outlined for entry into the CMA.
     3.7.8. Participates in the RIPWG.
     3.7.9. Coordinates with the Wing ADPM to establish a designated response location in
     support of in-flight/ground emergencies and or other emergency situations.
  3.8. 6th Medical Group ( 6 MDG).
     3.8.1. Conducts necessary color vision testing (i.e., Dvorine PIP Color Vision Test) to
     determine if individuals can distinguish between red, green, white, yellow, and blue.
     3.8.2. Signs color vision completion on MFR (Attachment 19).
  3.9. Control Tower.
     3.9.1. Controls all aircraft, vehicles, and approved pedestrian traffic on the CMA by two-
     way radio communications or, in the event of lost communications, by light gun signals.
     If use of light gun signals is unsuccessful when controlling vehicle or pedestrian traffic,
     contact AM to have vehicle and/or pedestrian traffic escorted off the CMA.
     3.9.2. Reports known CMA violations and problems with vehicle operator radio
     communications to AM. Assists AM in identifying and locating unauthorized personnel
     and vehicles or near the CMA.
     3.9.3. Assists unit ADPMs by conducting light gun signal test for individuals who cannot
     distinguish between red, green, white, yellow, and blue as tested by the 6th Medical
     Group.
         3.9.3.1. ADPMs will drive individuals to a safe location on the airfield, ensure the
         Control Tower is visible, and use the ramp net radio to communicate with the Control
         Tower.
         3.9.3.2. Individuals will relay colors to the ADPM as Control Tower conducts the
         test.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                               15


         3.9.3.3. ADPMs will relay colors to Control Tower over the radio and let them know
         when testing is complete.
         3.9.3.4. If an individual fails the light gun signal test, they will only be licensed for
         Non-CMA access.
  3.10. Airfield Personnel (Qualified Drivers and Operators).
     3.10.1. Ensure rules and safety practices are obeyed, and report any violation(s) to the
     proper level of authority. (Be familiar with driving points discussed in Attachment 10.)
     3.10.2. Ensure compliance at FOD checkpoints (e.g., check tires, secure loose items,
     properly dispose of FOD).
     3.10.3. Be alert for and pick up FOD at all times while on the airfield. If unable to
     remove FOD, report to Airfield Management (ext 828-2929) who, in turn, will respond to
     the location and/or request sweeper support. FOD such as aircraft parts, tools, nuts, or
     bolts will be turned in to the unit FOD monitor or Airfield Management. Note: A
     portion of the aircraft parking apron between the South Ramp and Hangar 5 has
     deteriorated to a point where it is unusable by aircraft and/or vehicles. This area is
     outlined with double yellow taxiway edge stripes and signifies ―NO AIRCRAFT, NO
     VEHICLES‖ due to the high potential for FOD (see Attachment 14 for a visual
     reference). Aircraft will not taxi, nor will any vehicle operate in this area.
     3.10.4. Have in their possession a valid state driver‘s license.
     3.10.5. Have in their possession a current AF IMT 483 stating ―AIRFIELD
     AUTHORIZED, MACDILL AFB FL‖, signed by the Airfield Manager or designated
     representative (Attachment 7). Temporary duty (TDY) personnel must have an AF IMT
     483 issued from their home base. This form will be in each person‘s possession while
     driving on the airfield.
     3.10.6. Provide feedback to the unit ADPM on the quality of training received.
  3.11. Contractor-Owned Vehicle Operators. To promote a safe and standard airfield
  driving environment, contractor personnel will be briefed on the contents of this instruction
  by qualified CE Contract Management personnel. Contractors not assigned to CE Contract
  Management or escorted by CE Contract Management personnel will be issued temporary
  airfield cones from Airfield Management after receiving and acknowledging an airfield
  driving briefing by the Airfield Manager or designated representative. CE Contract
  Management personnel will be issued an AF IMT 483 in accordance with this instruction.
  3.12. CE Contract Management Services.
     3.12.1. Designate in writing individual(s) who will brief airfield driving procedures to
     contractor personnel. Forward a copy to 6 OSS/OSAA no later than 3 duty days prior to
     the start date of the project on the airfield.
     3.12.2. Ensure contractor vehicle operators understand the procedures outlined in this
     instruction, and ensure contractors (non-CE contracted) report to Airfield Management
     (Hangar 3) to receive a temporary airfield cone.
     3.12.3. Maintain a list of qualified vehicle operators and a telephone number of
     supervisors for each contract. Forward a copy of this list to 6 OSS/OSAA upon request.
 16                                                MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


       3.12.4. Ensure contractor(s) maintain a copy of the briefing or equivalent they received
       on airfield driving procedures.
       3.12.5. In conjunction with the Airfield Manager and 6 SFS, designate during contract
       negotiations an access route and staging area for each contractor on the airfield.
       3.12.6. Designate, to the maximum extent possible, off-airfield POV parking for
       contractor personnel. Routes used to and from the work site will avoid the airfield as
       much as possible.
   3.13. TDY Personnel. TDY personnel may not operate a POV or GMV on the MacDill‘s
   airfield without a valid AF IMT 483 endorsed for airfield driving at their home station (see
   paragraph 7.14.). Sponsoring/host unit commanders will ensure that personnel deployed to
   their units are briefed on the provisions of this instruction (Attachments 7 as a minimum).
   See paragraph 5.14.2. for proper procedures.
   3.14. 6 AMW SAFETY (6 AMW/SE).
       3.14.1. Coordinates on this instruction to ensure safety requirements are addressed.
       3.14.2. Coordinates on wing test and lesson plans.
       3.14.3. Participates with the Wing ADPM in investigating airfield driving incidents,
       HATRs, and CMA violations. Provide a copy of all Class E CMA violation report
       submittals (initial, status, final) to AOF for review/concurrence as outlined in AFMAN
       91-223, Aviation Safety Investigation and Reports.
       3.14.4. Participates in the RIPWG.
       3.14.5. Reviews CMA violations for trends.
4. Vehicles Authorized on the Airfield.
   4.1. Applicability. Any vehicle operating on the MacDill‘s airfield must have a direct,
   mission-related purpose. The airfield will not be used for convenience or as a shortcut to
   move from one part of the base to another.
   4.2. Government Vehicles. Mission support GMVs, General Services Administration
   (GSA), commercial rental, and special purpose vehicles are authorized on the airfield.
   GMV/GSA vehicles are easily recognizable and are not required to display any special
   identification. Commercial rental vehicles are not easily recognizable and are required to
   display a POV cone on the hood of the vehicle. See paragraph 5.14.5 for temporary POV
   cone requirements. Mission support electrical, gas, or gasoline-powered golf-type carts or
   similar utility vehicles are permitted on the airfield.
   4.3. Non-Government Vehicles.
       4.3.1. Construction Contractors. Contractor vehicles working construction or repair
       projects on the airfield will be authorized access ONLY by the Airfield Manager or
       designated representative. CE Contract Management services or the Airfield Manager
       will brief contractors on control and safety requirements and acceptable routing at pre-
       construction meetings. POV cones (if issued) will be turned in at the end of the
       project(s).
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                              17


      4.3.2. Mission Contractors. The base agency/unit requesting contract work on the
      airfield will provide justification for access to the Airfield Manager. Upon approval, a
      POV cone will be issued for the period of the contract. Cones will be returned to the
      Airfield Manager when no longer needed or when the contract ends.
5. Airfield Operating Procedures.
   5.1. General. Personnel driving on the airfield and with a valid AF IMT 483 will comply
   with the procedures, directions, and limitations described in this instruction, AFMAN 24-
   306, Chapter 25, and AFOSHSTD 91-100, Chapter 6.
      5.1.1. Personnel required to drive on the airfield for mission-related duties will receive
      training as outlined in this instruction, a TDY brief from the sponsoring/host unit (for
      TDY personnel), and/or be escorted prior to entry on the airfield. The sponsoring/host
      unit will provide escorts for personnel who are not airfield qualified. Personnel acting as
      an escort must be qualified and certified to drive on MacDill‘s airfield.
      5.1.2. There are no vehicle radio problem areas on the airfield. However, there are two
      visual blind spots on the airfield--the South Ramp (Cal Docks) due to location/trees and
      the North Ramp due to fuel tanks.
          5.1.2.1. Drivers should use extreme caution while traveling through these areas and
          give way to any aircraft movement.
          5.1.2.2. Avoid leaving vehicles unattended for any length of time.
          5.1.2.3. Coordinate with Airfield Management prior to doing extended operations
          that could interfere with aircraft movement.
          5.1.2.4. Vehicle operators on a DOD installation and operators of government-owned
          vehicles will not use cell phones unless the vehicle is safely parked or using a hands-
          free device while on the airfield. The wearing of other portable headphones,
          earphones, or other listening devices (except for hands free cellular devices) while
          operating a motor vehicle is prohibited. Use of these devices impairs driving and
          prevents recognition of emergency signals, alarms or radio calls.
      5.1.3. Jogging is prohibited on the airfield (to include the South Perimeter road) unless
      written authorization is received from the Airfield Manager or the Airfield Operations
      Flight Commander (AOF/CC).
      5.1.4. The operation of privately owned two- or three-wheeled motorized or non-
      motorized vehicles (such as motorcycles, mopeds, scooters, bicycles, or tricycles) is
      prohibited on the airfield without prior coordination with the Airfield Manager.
      Exceptions include:
          5.1.4.1. 6 AMW/SE, in conjunction with United States Special Operations Command
          (USSOCOM) and United States Central Command (USCENTCOM), periodically
          conducts motorcycle safety classes on seldom-used portions of the airfield near
          buildings 1195/1196 and the South Ramp (Cal Docks). Students bring their own
          motorcycles to run on a closed course.
 18                                                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


          5.1.4.2. Organizational bicycles (government owned) are only permitted on parking
          aprons and inside the dispersed parking areas. Bicycles are not authorized on
          taxiways or the runway, and the use of privately-owned bicycles is prohibited.
      5.1.5. Use of government-owned golf carts is allowed; however, certain requirements
      must be met:
          5.1.5.1. All items inside the golf cart must be secured so as not to be blown out of the
          cart by wind or jet blast.
          5.1.5.2. Carts must remain at least 200 feet in front of and 800 feet behind all aircraft
          with engines running or about to start.

Figure 2. Caution.




          5.1.5.3. Most golf carts are not equipped with speedometers, so extra care must be
          used to ensure speed limits do not exceed 15 MPH on aprons.
          5.1.5.4. Carts must be equipped with headlights and taillights when operating during
          periods of darkness and/or inclement weather.
      5.1.6. Speed Limits. No vehicle will be operated at a speed in excess of that deemed
      reasonable and prudent for existing traffic and weather conditions. (Attachment 15
      depicts the speed limits on the airfield.) Emergency vehicles will not automatically
      assume the right of way, and the following speed limits will be observed:
          5.1.6.1. Aircraft Parking Ramps—15 MPH maximum. Note: The speed limit is 5
          MPH within 25 feet of an aircraft (close proximity).
          5.1.6.2. Taxiways/South Perimeter Road—25 MPH. Note: South Perimeter Road at
          the approach end of Runway 04 (pier side) is OFF LIMITS to vehicles. Only
          authorized vehicles with direct two-way radio contact with and approval from the
          Control Tower may operate on this road.
          5.1.6.3. Airfield Road —15 MPH. It is expressly forbidden for any vehicle to use the
          airfield area as a shortcut to any point on or off the airfield that is accessible by roads
          outside the airfield environment. Perimeter roads provide vehicle access from one
          area of the airfield to another. Even though the travel distance and time may be
          longer, ALWAYS use a perimeter road when it is available.
          5.1.6.4. Special Purpose Vehicles—10 MPH maximum. Special purpose vehicles are
          classified as tugs, forklifts, refueling vehicles, K-loaders, etc.
          5.1.6.5. Aircraft, Equipment, and Trailer Towing.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                             19


             5.1.6.5.1. Towing speed is 5 MPH for all aircraft. This speed also applies to the
             towing of two or more maintenance stands. Towing speed for one maintenance
             stand is 10 MPH.
             5.1.6.5.2. The maximum towing speed for Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE),
             such as compressors, ground power units, oxygen carts, and similar equipment is
             15 MPH (see AFOSHSTD 91-100, paragraph 8.3.4., for additional information on
             AGE).
             5.1.6.5.3. Do not tow more than two units of any type in tandem.
             5.1.6.5.4. Do not use ropes, chains, cables, or other flexible means of towing
             ground servicing equipment.
             5.1.6.5.5. AGE-towing vehicles may be placed in neutral and left running while
             the driver completes hook-up operations. This facilitates movement of the AGE
             towing vehicle by hand to align the pintle and hook. Drivers must shut off the
             vehicle, set the parking brake, and place the vehicle in park or reverse if the AGE
             equipment is not to be towed immediately following hook-up.
             5.1.6.5.6. Safety or cotter pins will be used to secure pintle hooks and trailer
             hitches.
          5.1.6.6. Emergency response vehicles may exceed established speed limits by 10
          MPH when responding to an emergency and with emergency flashers on. During
          Alert Force responses, drivers will refer to 6 AMW‘s OPLAN 8010--Alert and
          Standby Force Procedures Plan, for appropriate speed limits. However, vehicles will
          not assume the right-of-way and must use the utmost safety and caution when
          responding. Drivers will never exceed a safe and prudent speed limit and adjust for
          weather conditions. Within close proximity of the aircraft (25 feet), the speed limit
          remains 5 MPH.
          5.1.6.7. Follow-Me vehicles may be operated in excess of 15 MPH only to
          accommodate the optimum safe taxiing speed of aircraft and when safety is not
          compromised. Tugs will not be used as Follow-Me vehicles at any time.
          5.1.6.8. Driving within the CMA (i.e., the runway) will be at a safe speed. If at any
          time the Control Tower informs the operator to expedite off the runway due to
          arriving/departing aircraft or other situation that requires the runway to be free of
          vehicles, the ground vehicle operator will depart the runway immediately at the
          nearest taxiway and at a safe speed.

Figure 3. Caution.
20                                                MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


     5.1.7. Airfield Access Points Located at Hangar 3. When motor vehicles are operated on
     unpaved surfaces, rocks may become lodged between dual wheels and gravel may stick
     in the tire treads. For this reason, paved access roads will be utilized for all vehicles
     transitioning to and from the airfield. Entry onto the airfield via a non-paved access point
     is prohibited. Security Forces‘ vehicles responding to alert conditions are exempt;
     however, all-terrain vehicles will remain clear of the airfield unless mission essential.
     Ground vehicle operators will stop and check tires for FOD, and accomplish roll-over
     prior to entering any portion of the airfield. Any rocks pulled from the tires need to be
     collected and properly disposed of in a designated receptacle, not on the ground. If there
     is excessive debris that cannot be immediately cleaned up, the driver will contact Airfield
     Management via Land Mobile Radio (LMR) using the ramp net (call sign ―AM Ops‖) or
     landline (828-2929) and request a sweeper.
     5.1.8. Taxiways. Used by aircraft to get to and from the parking ramp/apron and the
     runway. Taxiways have edge lights that define the lateral limits and direction of a taxiing
     route (Attachment 26 depicts taxiway signs and markings.)
        5.1.8.1. Ground vehicle operators will not drive on the taxiway centerline or
        shoulders unless specifically checking the pavement condition or checking for FOD.
        Normally, the only vehicles that drive on the centerline are Airfield Management
        vehicles (Airfield 1), Follow-Me vehicles, and the airfield sweeper (Sweeper 1).
        5.1.8.2. Ground vehicle operators will drive on the right-hand side and within 25 feet
        of the taxiway centerline. (Attachment 15). Emergency response vehicles and alert
        vehicles may travel on the near right-hand side, but safety and caution will be
        observed.
        5.1.8.3. Taxiing Aircraft:
            5.1.8.3.1. Except for Follow-Me vehicles, vehicles will not be parked in front of
            or driven into the path of taxiing aircraft. Vehicles will not be driven between a
            taxiing aircraft and its Follow-Me vehicle.
            5.1.8.3.2. During the hours of darkness (sunset to sunrise), headlights of a vehicle
            shining towards a moving aircraft will be turned OFF immediately so the pilot‘s
            night vision is not impaired. The vehicle parking lights or emergency flashers
            will be turned on so its position is known. Headlights will remain OFF until the
            aircraft is out of range and turned back on prior to putting the vehicle in motion.
            All vehicles equipped with ―daytime running lights‖ will be positioned so that
            their headlights are not aimed toward aircraft flight deck.
            5.1.8.3.3. All vehicle drivers who operate on the parking ramp/apron and
            taxiways will give way to taxiing and towed aircraft. The responsibility to avoid
            aircraft rests with ground vehicle operators. Vehicle operators encountering an
            aircraft in front or behind will exit the taxiway by the shortest route and, if
            necessary, reverse course to quickly move out of the way. Only as a last resort
            should the vehicle be driven off prepared surfaces to ensure adequate taxiway
            clearance for the aircraft. Adequate taxiway clearance is a minimum of 200 feet.
            5.1.8.3.4. Ground vehicle operators will yield the right-of-way to all aircraft and:
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                             21


               5.1.8.3.4.1. Will not cross a taxiway or cross in front of an approaching
               aircraft until the aircraft has passed by at least 200 feet.
               5.1.8.3.4.2. Will remain at least 100 feet away from any helicopter with its
               rotors in motion.
               5.1.8.3.4.3. Will yield the right-of-way to emergency response and alert
               vehicles with rotating lights/flasher in motion.
               5.1.8.3.4.4. Will yield the right-of-way to any vehicle already operating on a
               taxiway.
        5.1.8.4. When a vehicle has a malfunction that prevents operation under its own
        power, every means will be used to alert taxiing aircraft in the vicinity. As a
        minimum, the ground vehicle operator will:
            5.1.8.4.1. Turn vehicle emergency flashers ON.
            5.1.8.4.2. If the vehicle has two-way radio capability, make the following
            transmission: ―All parties BREAK, BREAK—this is (call sign) with an
            emergency for Airfield Management, Control Tower, and Maintenance.‖ State
            the nature of the problem and report the current position on the airfield.
            5.1.8.4.3. Operators of other radio-equipped vehicles (Security Forces, Civil
            Engineering, Transportation, Transient Alert, etc.) should make every effort to
            assist getting the disabled vehicle off the airfield, especially the parking aprons,
            taxiways, and runway.
            5.1.8.4.4. If a vehicle is not equipped with a two-way radio, stay with the vehicle
            and continue attempts to alert any taxiing aircraft in the vicinity.
  5.2. Operating In or Across the Controlled Movement Area (CMA). Only
  vehicles/individuals possessing direct two-way radio contact with the Control Tower are
  permitted in the CMA. Ground vehicle operators/individuals must FIRST get permission
  from the Control Tower prior to entering or crossing the CMA. The instrument landing
  system critical areas depicted in Attachment 26 are an integral part of the CMA. Note:
  Regardless of emergency type (i.e., aircraft crash on runway, brush fire, etc.); ALL
  VEHICLES must have permission from Control Tower to enter/cross the runway.
     5.2.1. Control Tower Light Gun Signals.
        5.2.1.1. If radio contact is lost or suspected lost while operating in the CMA,
        operators will monitor the Control Tower for light gun signals while immediately
        exiting the CMA. A repeated change in intensity (flashing) of runway edge lights
        signifies a need from the Control Tower to communicate with the driver either by
        radio or light gun signal, and is an indication to immediately exit the CMA. If radio
        failure is known or suspected, proceed to Airfield Management and brief them on the
        incident.
        5.2.1.2. All vehicles operating on the airfield will have AFVA 11-240, Airport Signs
        and Markings, signal decal (available for order at e-Publishing website), AFVA 13-
        222 Controlled Movement Area, and an Airfield Diagram.
22                                              MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


        5.2.1.3. The decal will be permanently affixed in plain view of the driver or clipped
        to the inside of the sun visor on the driver‘s side of the vehicle so it can be flipped
        down for ready reference.
        5.2.1.4. All airfield vehicle operators must know and comply with all airfield signs,
        markings, and Control Tower signals.
     5.2.2. To enter or cross the CMA, the following procedures will be followed:
        5.2.2.1. Contact the Control Tower and receive permission. Upon receiving
        permission, repeat the Control Tower‘s instructions verbatim before proceeding. (See
        Attachment 9 and Attachment 23 for additional guidance, phraseology, and call sign
        listing.)
        5.2.2.2. If equipped, top-mounted rotating emergency lights/flashers must be in
        operation while in the CMA. Vehicles not equipped with top-mounted emergency
        lights may use dash or grill mounted lighting. As a minimum, the hazard lights will
        be turned on. Operators of disabled vehicles in the CMA will inform the Control
        Tower immediately.
        5.2.2.3. Personnel in the CMA must constantly monitor their two-way radio for
        instructions from the Control Tower.
        5.2.2.4. When departing the CMA, contact the Control Tower and report off.
        NEVER use the words ―Clear‖, ―Cleared‖ and ―Clearance‖ over the Ramp Net.
        (Example: MacDill Tower, Airfield-1 OFF the runway at Taxiway Echo).Note 1:
        Personnel requiring access in the CMA who do not have two-way radio contact with
        the Control Tower must be escorted. The escort must be authorized to drive on the
        airfield, be familiar with CMA procedures, and have direct two-way radio contact
        with AND approval from the Control Tower prior to entering the CMA. Note 2: The
        Control Tower is the only agency that authorizes ground vehicle operations in the
        CMA. Permission may not be requested/granted from any other source. Three-way
        relayed messages to the Control Tower are prohibited.
  5.3. Runway Hold Line. VFR Hold Line. See paragraph 2.4. for an explanation and visual
  reference of this term.
  5.4. Airfield Emergencies.
     5.4.1. Ground vehicle operators will yield the right-of-way to all emergency and
     fire/crash vehicles with emergency flashers/rotating lights in motion.
     5.4.2. Ground vehicles not in direct support of the emergency will remain clear of
     taxiways, the runway, and airfield access points until the emergency is terminated. Note:
     Security Forces vehicles WILL NOT enter the runway during or after aircraft in-flight
     emergencies unless requested by the Airfield Manager, Fire Chief, or designated
     representative.
     5.4.3. During emergency conditions, the Control Tower will advise aircraft to hold their
     positions so they will not interfere with responding emergency vehicles. At the Control
     Tower‘s discretion, aircraft may be taxied to a more suitable parking place or holding
     area that is clear of ground vehicles.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                             23


  5.5. USAF Airport Signs, Markings, and Runway/Taxiway Edge Lights. It is mandatory
  that ALL vehicles operating on the airfield be equipped with an AFVA 11-240 USAF Airport
  Signs and Markings and an AFVA 13-222 Controlled Movement Area decal. These decals
  may be obtained from https://www.e-publishing.af.mil. The decals should be displayed in
  plain view of the driver in all Air Force Motor Vehicles (AFMV). Vehicle operators will
  know and comply with the signs and markings while operating in the CMA:
     5.5.1. Mandatory Signs. Red signs with white legends indicate mandatory holding
     positions for runways, ILS critical area boundaries, and certain other mandatory
     instructions to pilots. (See Attachment 28.)
     5.5.2. Taxiway Guidance and Information Signs. Yellow signs with black legend;
     indicate direction, destination, runway exit, clear of a boundary, or other information.
     (See Attachment 28.)
     5.5.3. Runway Edge Lights. Provides visual guidance during takeoff and landing
     operations at night and under low visibility conditions. HIRLS are bi-directional and
     white in color. Last 2,000 feet of HIRLs are white and yellow.Note: Runway edge lights
     are installed along runway edge not more than 10 feet from the edge of the pavement.
     5.5.4. Taxiway Edge Lights. Taxiway edge lights define the lateral limits and direction
     of a taxiing route. Taxiway edge lights are blue in color.Note: Taxiway edge lights are
     installed no more than 10 feet from the edge of the full-strength pavement. Use caution
     when driving near the edge of a paved taxiway surface so damage to taxiway lights does
     not occur.
  5.6. Vehicle Parking and Operations Near Aircraft.
     5.6.1. Vehicles will not be backed or parked in the immediate vicinity (25 feet to the
     front, 200 feet to the rear) of any aircraft, except as authorized for operations such as
     loading, unloading, servicing, or towing. A spotter will be posted when a vehicle is
     backed towards an aircraft. Pre-positioned wheel chocks will be used to prevent vehicles
     from being backed into aircraft. Vehicle operators will not approach within 50‘ of
     aircraft being towed. Note: Vehicles (maintenance, contractors, mowers) operating near
     obstacles on the airfield such as taxiway/runway guidance signs, instrument landing
     system equipment, or approach lights, will use extreme caution. In the case of backing
     up towards these obstructions, use a spotter to avoid damage to the vehicle and
     equipment.
     5.6.2. The brakes on all parked vehicles will be set.
     5.6.3. All unattended vehicles will be parked so they do not interfere with aircraft being
     towed or taxied. Ignition will be turned off, keys left in the ignition, and the gear lever
     put in reverse for vehicles with manual transmissions and in the ―park‖ position for
     vehicles with automatic transmissions. All vehicles parked and left unattended will have
     brakes set or have wheel chocks placed in front of and behind one of the rear wheels.
     One chock will be placed between the tandem wheels of dual (tandem) axle vehicles.
     The only vehicles exempt from these requirements are alert and emergency vehicles
     responding to an alert or emergency.
 24                                               MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


          5.6.3.1. Park so that the direction of travel, either forward or backward, will not be
          toward any part of the aircraft.
          5.6.3.2. The driver’s side of the vehicle will be facing the aircraft. Drivers will
          circulate in a counter-clockwise direction around the aircraft. Exception: Due to
          military protocol, USCENTCOM, USSOCOM, and 6 AMW vehicles may require
          traveling in a clock-wise direction but will remain a minimum of 25 feet away from
          any point of the aircraft. Fire Department vehicles may be required to maintain the
          driver‘s side away from the aircraft in order to perform certain resource protection
          functions. In all cases, drivers will use extreme caution when approaching aircraft in
          this manner.
       5.6.4. All wheeled AGE and maintenance equipment will be braked or, if not equipped
       with brakes, chocked.
       5.6.5. When aircraft engines are operating or about to be started, no vehicle will be
       parked or driven closer than 25 feet in front of or 200 feet to the rear of any aircraft.
       Vehicles parked at the side of an aircraft will be located clear of the wingtips, clearly
       visible to personnel in the aircraft flight deck.

Figure 4. Flight Deck Visibility.




       5.6.6. NEVER drive a vehicle under any part of an aircraft, especially the wings.
       5.6.7. No vehicle will park in front of hangar doors. This area must be kept clear for
       aircraft towing operations, and a minimum 25 feet wing-tip clearance must be
       maintained. Exception: Airfield-1 GMV is authorized to park in front of Hangar 3 door.
       It is an emergency response vehicle.

Figure 5. Fuel Hydrant Pit Covers and Marking.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                             25


     5.6.8. Ground vehicle operators will not drive over fuel hydrant pit covers or the 5-foot
     yellow squares on the North Ramp. Driving over them may damage the vehicle and/or
     the cover. They are outlined in yellow for easy identification.
  5.7. Routes of Travel. Passenger buses and other large vehicles are prohibited from using
  taxiways to travel the length of the airfield, with the following exceptions:
     5.7.1. K-loaders may use Taxiway ―K‖ (Kilo) to transition to/from the Deployed Unit
     Complex (DUC) or the Alert Area/Ramp.
     5.7.2. Munitions convoys may operate on taxiways as required, but only when Security
     Forces escorts them. Security Forces must contact Airfield Management (828-2929)
     prior to escorting munitions convoys on the airfield to ensure the convoy movement does
     not interfere with paradrop operations.
     5.7.3. Other large vehicles may be permitted taxiway access only if the vehicle operator
     coordinates with and receives approval from the Airfield Manager. Authorized large
     vehicles entering the airfield should use the Hangar 3‘s south side gate (#27S).
  5.8. Passengers and Cargo in Vehicles.
     5.8.1. Personnel will not ride on any part of a vehicle not intended for carrying
     passengers nor will they ride in or upon trailers.
     5.8.2. Passengers will remain seated while the vehicle is in motion and will keep their
     arms and legs within the vehicle body.
     5.8.3. Passengers will use available seat belts at all times while the vehicle is in motion
     (T.O. 36A-1-6, Installation of Safety Belts and Head Restraining Devices in Air Force
     Vehicles).
     5.8.4. Passengers will not ride in the doorways or sit on the engine cover of metro vans
     (also called step vans). Rear door nets will be in place while passengers are transported
     when the doors are open.
     5.8.5. Side doors on passenger vans will be closed while the vehicle is in motion.
     5.8.6. Passengers are prohibited from riding on towed equipment.
     5.8.7. Passengers will not mount or dismount vehicles while the vehicle is in motion.
     5.8.8. Cargo will be secured using ropes, chains, or chocks to prevent injury or damage
     caused by falling or sliding. Cargo extended beyond the body of the vehicle will have a
     red flag attached during daylight hours or a red warning reflector/light during hours of
     darkness.
  5.9. Restricted Visibility, Night Operations, and Lightning Warnings.
     5.9.1. Flashing lights or parking lights will be used at night when vehicles are
     temporarily parked on any part of the aircraft parking ramp. This does not apply if a
     vehicle is parked in a designated area.
     5.9.2. In accordance with AFOSHSTD 91-100, paragraph 6.4.7.2., when visibility is less
     than 300 feet, refueling and explosive loaded (laden) vehicles will not be operated unless
     directed by the wing commander.
26                                                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


     5.9.3. When visibility is less than 100 feet, PMVs and airfield vehicles (except
     emergency response and alert vehicles) will not be operated on the airfield.
     Flashing/hazard lights will be used on all vehicles temporarily parked on the aircraft
     parking apron during periods of reduced visibility.
     5.9.4. When visibility is less than 50 feet, it is recommended that a walking guide,
     equipped with a flashing or luminescent wand, be used during emergency movement of
     alert vehicles.
     5.9.5. Vehicle operators will exercise caution to ensure headlights do not point toward
     taxiing aircraft or towing operations so aircraft and tow vehicle operators are not blinded.
     5.9.6. Safety is taken seriously at MacDill. When lightning within 5 NM of MacDill is
     declared by the 6 OSS Combat Weather Team, cease all outdoor activity. All personnel
     on the airfield, including contractors, will take immediate shelter inside a building or in a
     vehicle. No personnel will be outside walking around the airfield until the lightning
     warning has been terminated.
  5.10. Pedestrian Movement.
     5.10.1. Pedestrians on the airfield will walk facing oncoming traffic.
     5.10.2. Personnel will not sit or recline on the ramp in such a manner that interferes with
     normal ground vehicle and aircraft operations.
     5.10.3. Jogging is prohibited on the airfield (see paragraph 5.1.3.).
     5.10.4. Pedestrians/personnel will not enter the CMA without two-way radio contact and
     approval from the Control Tower.
  5.11. Paradrop Operations. Static line users will place an orange-colored RAM (Raised
  Angle Marker) and HALO users will place a wind indicator (flag/streamer) on the Point of
  Impact (PI). If required, both type of users will also utilize smoke (any color) during
  paradrop operations. During both types of paradrop operations on the airfield, Control
  Tower will give a notice via ramp net radio ‖jumpers out in 2 minutes.‖ Once heard or if the
  vehicle driver notices paratroopers in the air, all vehicles will STOP until all jumpers are
  safely on the ground. (See Attachment 13 for drop zone locations.)
  5.12. Exercises/Real-World Alerts.
     5.12.1. Speeding is not permitted during an exercise. Exception: During exercise and
     real-world alert vehicle responses, the driver may exceed the speed limit when safety
     permits; however, occupant safety must be ensured at all times (see paragraph. 5.1.6.6.).
     5.12.2. Non-emergency vehicles will yield the right-of-way to emergency response
     vehicles.
  5.13. Privately Owned Vehicles (POVs). POV access to the airfield is discouraged and
  prohibited without a magnetic POV cone issued by Airfield Management—no other means
  will be used to authorize POV access on the airfield. This does not preclude POVs from
  operating in the controlled area of the airfield, but does prohibit their use in restricted areas
  and associated clear zones. The AFM or designated representative will administer, issue, and
  strictly control airfield POV cones to ensure the total number of cones issued is kept to the
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                            27


  absolute minimum. Base-assigned and temporary personnel are limited to no more than two
  POV passes.
     5.13.1. Commanders and Key Personnel. Group and unit commanders will certify by
     letter to the AFM that they have a valid need to respond to the airfield in their POV for
     mission-related reasons. A cone is issued to the individual and is to be used for that
     individual‘s specific vehicle and license plate number. The cone will be returned when
     the individual no longer requires airfield access with the POV. Drivers must possess a
     MacDill AFB-issued AF IMT 483 prior to receiving a POV cone.
     5.13.2. Deployed/Transient/TDY Personnel. Use of POVs and rental vehicles on the
     airfield for deployed unit missions or inspection teams may be authorized by the AFM or
     designated representative on a case-by-case basis. However, they will not operate any
     vehicle in the CMA and must have an AF IMT 483 from their home-station prior to
     driving on the MacDill‘s airfield.          Additionally, they will be briefed by the
     sponsoring/host unit on the airfield layout and proper procedures prior to driving on the
     airfield. An airfield diagram will remain in the vehicle at all times. The sponsoring/host
     unit will, within 5 days, forward member‘s home-station AF IMT 483 along with a letter
     documenting that airfield training has been accomplished. Airfield Management will
     endorse the letter and the reverse side of AF IMT 483.
     5.13.3. Defense Courier Service (DCS). Personnel meeting DCS aircraft in their POV
     must stop by Airfield Operations (Hangar 3) and be issued a POV cone for access to the
     airfield. Once the cargo is picked up/dropped off, personnel will exit the airfield and
     return the POV cone to Airfield Operations. The DCS pilot will escort all personnel who
     do not possess an AFECC with open area ―K‖ to the aircraft and back to AMOPs when
     complete.
     5.13.4. Requesting/Issuing Calendar Year Cones.
        5.13.4.1. The requesting official will:
            5.13.4.1.1. Use Attachment 11 as a guide/template for requesting a POV cone.
            5.13.4.1.2. If approved for a POV cone and while driving on the airfield, place
            the cone on the HOOD of the vehicle so it is clearly visible by the driver.
            Remove the POV cone from the hood of the vehicle when not being used on the
            airfield.
            5.13.4.1.3. Use the POV cone for official business only—not for personal use.
            5.13.4.1.4. In writing, re-certify the need for a POV cone annually.
            5.13.4.1.5. Return POV cones to the AFM for accountability when they are no
            longer needed due to permanent change of station, reassignment, separation, or
            sale/disposal of vehicle. Note: POV cones are issued for a specific vehicle. Do
            not interchange them between multiple vehicles.
        5.13.4.2. The AFM/DAFM will:
            5.13.4.2.1. Ensure POV operators have been trained by the unit ADPM and have
            met all airfield qualifications as outlined in this instruction.
            5.13.4.2.2. Ensure POV operators have a current and valid AF IMT 483.
 28                                               MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


             5.13.4.2.3. Issue POV cones based on justification—not rank and/or convenience.
             5.13.4.2.4. Keep a record of each POV cone, including justification for issue and
             the name of the individual receiving the cone.
      5.13.5. Requesting/Issuing Temporary POV Cones.
          5.13.5.1. Temporary POV cones are issued and controlled by the AFM or designated
          representative.
          5.13.5.2. Temporary POV cones are issued to commercial rental vehicles when
          military transportation is not available. Note: Rental vehicles authorized on military
          orders will be considered GMVs; however, operators must obtain temporary orange
          POV cones from Airfield Management prior to driving on the airfield.
          5.13.5.3. Individuals requesting a POV cone must possess an AF IMT 483 for
          MacDill AFB or be escorted by an airfield qualified driver.
          5.13.5.4. The requesting individual will sign for the POV cone—not the escort.
          5.13.5.5. POV cones will be used for authorized trips to and from specific locations
          on the airfield—not the entire aerodrome complex.
          5.13.5.6. POV cones will be displayed in the same manner as permanent POV cones
          (see paragraph 5.14.4.1.2.).
          5.13.5.7. POV cones issued in support of construction or special projects will be
          issued on a daily basis or until end of contract, and limited to the construction site
          area or specific project.
          5.13.5.8. POV cones will be issued and returned to Airfield Operations (Hangar 3) at
          the end of the duty day for accountability, and stowed inside the vehicle when off the
          airfield. All misplaced, lost, broke or unreturned POV cones have a $20 replacement
          fee payable by the user to the AFM. Note: The AFM may waive the daily return
          policy.
   5.14. Distinguished Visitor (DV) Parking Spots 1 and 2. Personnel will avoid driving
   over the emblems (DV Spots 1 and 2) painted on the pavement in front (airfield side) of
   Hangar 3.

Figure 6. Distinguished Visitor Parking Spot Emblem.




   5.15. Lateral Distance Requirements.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                   29


      5.15.1. Mobile/permanent obstacles will not be placed within 1,000 feet on either side of
      the runway centerline or 200 feet on either side of taxiway centerline without
      coordination with the AFM. Maintain 115 feet clearance from the apron boundary unless
      in designated areas. Additional information on ground support equipment (mobile) and
      airfield vehicles can be found in UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and
      Design.
   5.16. Night vision devices (NVD) are prohibited from being used without prior
   coordination with the Airfield Operations Flight Commander (AOF/CC) or
   AFM. ADTP-generated AF IMT 483 will use restriction code ―N‖ to annotate NVD
   qualified drivers.
   5.17. Traction devices are not applicable to MacDill and are prohibited for use.
6. Unit Conducted Training.
   6.1. Base Lesson Plan. An airfield driving training plan (Attachment 2) signifies the
   MINIMUM required topics to be briefed to potential airfield drivers. Additional and unique
   unit requirements may also be added to this outline. This instruction will be used as a
   baseline to build the training program. Other sources of information are AFI 24-301, Vehicle
   Operations, AFJMAN 24-306, AFI 31-204, MACDILLAFBI 11-250, Airfield Operations,
   and AFOSHSTD 91-100. (Use Attachment 24 to gauge trainee‘s comprehension of the
   material). Note: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has runway safety awareness
   material available to download and/or order for free. ADPMs are highly encouraged to use this
   supplemental material to enhance unit programs. Visit http://www.faa.GMV/runwaysafety/ for
   further information and a list of available material.6.2 Unit Review. The AFM or
   designated representative will visit and inspect each unit at least annually to verify its airfield
   driving programs are in compliance with established directives. The results of this inspection
   will be forwarded to the respective unit/squadron commander.
7. AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency.
   7.1. Training Criteria. All personnel must be trained to the CMA access standards and
   day/night operations. The wing ADPM or unit ADPM may add more requirements for
   specialized or additional until training at any time; the requirements listed below are the
   minimum training requirements. If the unit ADPM chooses to incorporate specialized
   questions for their unit, the additional questions must be reviewed and approved by the wing
   ADPM and 6 AMW/SE.                MacDill‘s training criteria are located on the ADTP
   (https://private.amc.af.mil/ADTP/Login.aspx). Step 1 creates a user account and allows
   access to training requirements in Step 2 ―Get trained contains items in Attachment 7‖. Non-
   CAC holders must use the hard copy of Attachment 7. The unit ADPM must maintain this
   form in continuity binder.
   7.2. The training criteria in step 2 consist of the following:
      7.2.1. Verify personnel have state and government driver‘s licenses
      7.2.2. Airfield Driving CBT completed
      7.2.3. Airfield Driving Class room training (minimum review ADI)
      7.2.4. Airfield Driving Qualification Training Checklist (Attachment 6)
30                                                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


     7.2.5. Practical Day Airfield Driver Familiarization
     7.2.6. Practical Night Airfield Driver Familiarization Training
     7.2.7. Communication test (included in Step 4 General Knowledge test)
     7.2.8. Airfield Diagram test (included in Step 4 General Knowledge test)
     7.2.9. Runway Incursion test (included in Step 4 General Knowledge test)
     7.2.10. Color Vision MFR
  7.3. Unit ADPMs must add a comment in Step 2 for documentation/certification by the
  trainee and unit ADPM: ―Member trained using Attachment 6.‖
  7.4. Practical Day and Night (as applicable) Airfield Familiarization Training. At a
  minimum, the practical airfield drivers training involves taking the individual out on the
  airfield to show them how to get to and from their work areas. Use the Airfield Driving
  Training Documentation and Certification Checklist to document completion of training.
  7.5. Practical Driving Test. The individual must:
     7.5.1. Drive the vehicle during the check ride.
     7.5.2. Demonstrate the ability to operate a vehicle in all areas required for duty position
     and/or work areas without assistance.
     7.5.3. Identify the location of the runway.
     7.5.4. Demonstrate the ability to contact the Control Tower prior to entry on the runway
     and other CMAs.
  7.6. Completion of the USAF Airfield Driving CBT (http://golearn.csd.disa.mil/kc/
  login/login.asp, accessible on the ADLS website) is required for all wing- and/or base-
  assigned airfield drivers prior to issuance of an AF IMT 483. Note: Newly assigned or
  hired individuals may use a prior USAF Airfield Driving CBT completion date to fulfill this
  requirement if date completed is within the last 12 months. A link to this CBT is provided in
  the ADTP for all trainees to utilize.
  7.7. Personnel that have a mandatory requirement for normal color vision (entry and
  retention) in their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) only require verification that they
  successfully completed a color vision test by a 6 MDG’s Optometrist or off-base
  equivalent. Use Attachment 19 MFR to accomplish this. Note: Individuals that fail to
  pass the color vision test will be issued a ―Non-CMA‖ AF IMT 483. Access to CMA will
  not be granted.
  7.8. Testing requirements. Upon completion of all airfield driving training requirements,
  the trainer and trainee will select the completion date box. The trainer or program manager
  will certify that each training item on the ADTP has been taught and successfully passed by
  clicking on the certification box. Note 1: Copies of the CBT and color vision test should be
  kept on file. Copies of all tests must be kept on file for non-CAC card holders. All tests are
  contained in and administrated by the ADTP and to all trained in Steps 3 and 4. Unit tests are
  enabled by the unit ADPM for their members in Step 3. The wing ADPM will enable the
  wing test for all personnel in Step 4. Subsequent tests will be enabled by the unit ADPM.
  Note 2: All tests are enabled for 72 hours and members have 1 hour to finish after test start.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                               31


     7.8.1. Certification will allow access to Step 3 (Take Unit Test). The test consists of
     multiple choice questions from this instruction, the airfield driving CBT, airfield diagram,
     light gun signal recognition and phraseology test. It will gauge the members training and
     help pinpoint any deficiencies prior to taking the Step 4 wing tests.
     7.8.2. Once test is completed, trainee will go to Step 4 ―Visit Wing Airfield Driving
     Program Manager‖. The wing test is a combined test with identified sections General
     Knowledge, Communication Test, Airfield Diagram and Runway Incursions Test
     (passing score is 100%). A test pass allows trainee to print his/her AF IMT 483
     electronically signed by the DAFM. A test fail will require the trainee to go back to Step
     2 for additional training by the unit ADPM or trainer. First and second time failures will
     be permitted to test again within 24 hrs after remedial training is conducted by unit
     ADPM. Third time failures will require comprehensive remedial training and will be
     permitted to test again in 72 hours. Unit ADPMs must document all remedial training
     conducted. Note: A minimum passing score of 80 percent is required on the general
     knowledge test. Any missed questions on the airfield map or light gun signal recognition
     is an automatic failure.
  7.9. Authority for producing and signing AF IMT 483s is not allowed outside of AM.
  7.10. Annual refresher training is conducted on the ADTP website. Note: As a
  minimum, this training will include a review of this instruction and completion of the
  Airfield Driving CBT, Airfield Driving Instruction, and Runway Incursion Prevention test (at
  least 5 questions with a minimum passing score of 100%). Unit ADPMs will ensure all
  refresher training is complete and ensure the Airfield Driving CBT was successfully
  completed annually for each driver. After all training and testing is complete the driver can
  print the license through the ADTP website with the refresher date printed on the back of the
  license. Dispose of the previous license immediately to avoid confusion.
  7.11. Upon permanent change of station (PCS), separation, or retirement, delete
  driver’s record from database. It is recommended that the unit ADPM be added to the
  unit‘s out-processing checklist to enable conduct of proper out-processing actions.
  7.12. TDY Personnel. TDY personnel are not authorized to drive on MacDill‘s airfield
  without a valid AF IMT 483 issued from their home-station (see 5.14.2.). Unit ADPMs
  should question and validate the need for TDY personnel to drive on the airfield without an
  AF IMT 483 from their home station. The sponsoring/host unit ADPM is responsible for
  administering all training for issuance of an AF IMT 483 endorsed for airfield driving at
  MacDill AFB (See Attachment 7).
  7.13. Certificate Suspension/Surrender/Revocation/Reinstatement.
     7.13.1. General. Gross or repeated violations of safety or airfield driving rules, or an
     overall demonstrated lack of ability on the part of the certificate holder will result in a
     suspension of airfield driving privileges, surrender of the certificate, or revocation of the
     certificate. The AFM or designated representative is authorized to confiscate military
     vehicle keys, AF IMT 483, and/or airfield POV cones from any individual violating the
     provisions of this instruction without debate.
     7.13.2. Unit commanders, ADPMs, Security Forces, and Airfield Management personnel
     are authorized to revoke airfield driving privileges of individuals violating the provisions
32                                                MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


     of this instruction or performing unsafe acts on the airfield. A MacDill AFB
     CMA/Airfield Violation Worksheet (Attachment 18) will be sent to the offender‘s unit
     commander with a courtesy copy sent to the 6 AMW/SE and Commander, 6th Operations
     Support Squadron (6 OSS/CC). Note: All suspended/surrendered/revoked certificates
     require a written letter from the unit commander requesting reinstatement.
     7.13.3. A controlled movement area violation (CMAV) event is an airfield violation
     caused by aircraft, vehicles, or pedestrians entering the CMA without specific Control
     Tower approval. This definition also includes runway incursions. Unit commanders,
     unit ADPMs, and Airfield Management must be notified immediately of any CMAV
     event. Airfield Management will notify AMC/A3AP within 24 hours of CMAV/HATR.
     Verbal notification with a written follow-up within 72 hours, or next duty day, will fulfill
     this requirement.
     7.13.4. A runway incursion is a CMAV event that involves the incorrect presence of an
     aircraft, vehicle, or person on the protected area of a surface designated for the landing
     and take-off of aircraft. For the purpose of this instruction, the protected area is the same
     as the CMA. These are further classified into three operational categories (Operational
     Error, Pilot Deviation, and Vehicle/Pedestrian).
        7.13.4.1. Operational Error (OE) – A failure of the air traffic control system that
        results in loss of separation.
        7.13.4.2. Pilot Deviation (PD) – The action of a pilot that results in the violation of
        Air Traffic Control (ATC) instructions, AFIs and/or FARs.
        7.13.4.3. Vehicle/Pedestrian Deviation (V/PD) – Any entry or movement on the
        controlled movement area by a vehicle (including aircraft operated by non-pilots) or
        pedestrian that has not been authorized by the Control Tower.
     7.13.5. For a runway incursion, the individual‘s AF IMT 483 must be surrendered to AM
     and airfield driving privileges must be revoked until an investigation, retraining and
     certification is complete.
     7.13.6. Runway incursions and CMAV events will be reported to 6 AMW/SE.
     7.13.7. The AFM or designated representative is responsible for taking immediate
     actions to correct the problem or applying interim control measures.
     7.13.8. Runway incursions and CMAV events must be briefed at the Airfield Operations
     Board (AOB).
        7.13.8.1. Provide a detailed description of each incident (to include: what, when,
        where, how, type vehicle/aircraft involved, and action taken to prevent a reccurrence)
        to highlight any trends (e.g., annual/biannual chart showing upward or downward
        information). CMAV trend reports are available on the ADTP.
        7.13.8.2. The AFM must maintain a copy of the AF Form 651, Hazardous Air Traffic
        Report (HATR)/AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report, actions taken, results and
        supporting documentation.
     7.13.9. Suspension. Any supervisor in the driver‘s chain of command may suspend a
     driver‘s certificate. All suspensions will be reported to the unit ADPM and AFM.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                           33


     Failure to complete annual refresher training (or if there is no documentation of
     annual training) is cause for AF IMT 483 suspension. Unit ADPMs will suspend
     members profile in the ADTP; these forms are preloaded in the system. Only the wing
     ADPM can reinstate the member‘s profile.
     7.13.10. Surrender. All certificate holders will surrender their AF IMT 483 upon request
     by the unit ADPM and/or Airfield Management personnel. Surrendered certificates will
     be forwarded to Airfield Management. Airfield drivers who PCS, separate, retire, or no
     longer need their certificates must inform the unit ADPM to remove the driver from their
     database.
     7.13.11. Revocation. AF IMT 483s may be revoked by the unit ADPM, Airfield AFM,
     or designated representative. Once revoked, another certificate will not be reissued
     without the explicit approval of the AFM.
     7.13.12. As a minimum, violations of this airfield driving instruction within a 12-month
     period will carry the following penalties:
        7.13.12.1. FIRST VIOLATION: 30-day suspension of airfield driving privileges.
        7.13.12.2. SECOND VIOLATION: 1-year suspension of airfield driving privileges.
        7.13.12.3. THIRD VIOLATION: Permanent suspension of airfield driving privileges.
     7.13.13. UNAUTHORIZED CMA CROSSING/ENTRY: This is the most serious
     driving violation and results in an automatic 6-month suspension of airfield driving
     privileges and possible suspension of base driving privileges. A second CMA violation
     will result in a permanent ban from the airfield complex.
        7.13.13.1. For CMA/runway incursions that have an adverse impact on flight
        operations (arrivals, departures), an AF Form 651 will be submitted to 6 AMW/SE.
        7.13.13.2. For CMA/runway incursions that do not have an adverse impact on flight
        operations, an AF Form 457 will be submitted to 6 AMW/SE.
     7.13.14. Reinstatement Procedures. Unit/squadron commanders and ADPMs will ensure
     that, prior to seeking reinstatement of airfield driving privileges, the individual(s)
     concerned:
        7.13.14.1. Receives full airfield driving training, with the exception of color-vision
        testing. Documentation is signed by the unit/squadron commander or designated
        representative, and forwarded to the AFM for approval/disapproval.
        7.13.14.2. Access to print a new AF IMT 483 from the ADTP will be granted by the
        DAFM or designated representative.
 34                                              MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


8. Ramp Quiet Hours. Procedures during ramp quiet hours will be in effect for events such as
changes of command, concerts, and special dinners/events. Vehicle operations are not allowed
in the vicinity of Hangar 1, 2, or 3. ―In the vicinity‖ encompasses the Transient Spots (T-16
through T-25), DV Spots 1 thru 4, North Ramp parking spots A1 and A2, the main in/out taxi
route on the North Ramp, taxiway intersection of ―L‖ & ―E‖, and Transient Parking Ramp, row
52. (See MACDILLAFBI 13-204 for expanded procedures)




                                          SCOTT V. DETHOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                             35


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-213, Airfield Driving, 1 June 2011
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 29 June 2006
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 8 October 2009
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2002
AFMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Operator, 1 July 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFOSH Standard 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line - Ground Operations and Activities, 1 May 1998
AFVA 11-240, USAF Airport Signs and Markings, 2 June 2004
HQ AFFSA, Airfield Driving Computer Base Training Courseware
MACDILLAFB 11-250, Airfield Operations, 13 April 2007
MACDILLAFBI 21-101, Foreign Object Damage/Dropped Object Prevention Program, 29
October 2008
6 AMW OI 31-101, Installation Security Instruction/Physical Security/Resource Protection
(PA) (FOUO), 20 September 2006
6 AMW OPLAN 8044, Alert and Standby Force Procedures Plan (FOUO), 1 June 2005
T.O. 36A-1-6, Installation of Safety Belts and Head Restraining Devices in Air Force Vehicles,
30 June 1999
UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design, 1 November 2001
Forms Prescribed
None
Forms Adopted
AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report;
AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency;
AF Form 651, Hazardous Air Traffic Report (HATR)
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist;
FAA Form 5280-7, Ground Vehicle Guide to Airport Signs and Markings Sticker.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMW—6th Air Mobility Wing
 36                                          MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


6 AMW/CC—6th Air Mobility Wing, Commander
6 AMW/SE—6th Air Mobility Wing, Safety Office
6 AMXS—6th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
6 CES—6th Civil Engineer Squadron
6 CS—6th Communications Squadron
6 MDG—6th Medical Group
6 OG—6th Operations Group
6 OSS/OSAA—6th Operations Support Squadron, Airfield Management
6 OSS/OSAT—6th Operations Support Squadron, Air Traffic Control Tower
6 OSS/CC—6th Operations Support Squadron, Commander
6 SFS—6th Security Forces Squadron
ACC—Air Combat Command
ADI—Airfield Driving Instruction
ADPM—Airfield Driving Program Manager
ADTP—Airfield Driving Training Program
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFECC—Air Force Entry Control Card
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFM—Airfield Manager
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMV—Air Force Motor Vehicle
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFOSHSTD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRSAT—---Air Force Runway Safety Action Team
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFVA—Air Force Visual Aid
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMOPS—Airfield Management Operations
AM—-Airfield Management
AMW—Air Mobility Wing
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                           37


AOB—Airfield Operations Board
AOF—Airfield Operations Flight
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATCT—Air Traffic Control Tower
BASH—Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard
CB—Citizen‘s Band
CBT—Computer-Based Training
CC—Commander
CE—Civil Engineer
CMA—Controlled Movement Area
CMAV—Controlled Movement Area Violations
DAFM—Deputy Airfield Manager
DCS—Defense Courier Service
DUC—Deployed Unit Complex
DV—Distinguished Visitor
ECP—Entry Control Point
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FOD—Foreign Object Debris
FOUO—For Official Use Only
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
GSA—General Services Administration
HALO—High Altitude Low Opening
HAP—High Accident Potential
HQ AFFSA—Headquarters, Air Force Flight Standards Agency
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
ILS—Instrument Landing System
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
LOX—Liquid Oxygen
MA—Movement Area
MACDILLAFBI—MacDill Air Force Base Instruction
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MPH—Miles per Hour
 38                                                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


NVD—Night Vision Device
OE—Operational Error
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PA—Public Affairs
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PD—Pilot Deviation
PMV—Private Motor Vehicle
POC—Privately Owned Conveyance
POL—Petroleum, Oils, and Lubricants
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
TDY—Temporary Duty
TO—Technical Order
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
USAF—United States Air Force
USCENTCOM—United States Central Command
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
VIP—Very Important Person (Same as DV)
V/PD—Vehicle/Pedestrian Deviation

Terms
Airfield Manager—Works directly for the Airfield Operations Flight Commander and manages
airfield management facilities to ensure effective support to the base flying mission and transient
aircrews. Also referred to as the Chief, Airfield Management.
Airfield Facilities—Includes runways, taxiways, parking, and servicing areas. ATC facilities,
Airfield Management, navigational aids, aircraft fire suppression, and rescue services. Airfield
lighting systems and systems to hold or stop aircraft (where required).
Base Operations—Facility located near the airfield that consists of Airfield Management
Operations (AMOPS), Flight Planning Room, and Aircrew Lounge. Primary functions include:
coordinating and monitoring airfield maintenance and support, providing flight planning
assistance, coordinating Notice to Airmen and activities to provide a safe airfield environment.
At MacDill, it is located on the north side of Hangar 3.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                39


Airfield Operations Flight Commander (AOF/CC)—Responsible for the overall
operation/services provided by the airfield operations flight in support of the wing flying mission
and in compliance with USAF and FAA guidelines.
Host/Wing Commander—The individual with ultimate responsibility for operating the airfield.
Runway Intrusion/Incursion—A controlled movement area (CMA) violation that is a result of
an unauthorized entry or erroneous occupation of a runway or other surface used for takeoff and
landing of aircraft, regardless of impact on aircraft safety. These incidents can be caused by
aircraft, vehicles, pedestrians, or communication errors. This violation is referred to as a runway
incursion by the FAA. Note: Additional terms may be found in Paragraph 2, Terms
Explained, and Paragraph 3, Responsibilities.
 40                                                       MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


                                               Attachment 2
         AIRFIELD DRIVING PROGRAM MANAGER APPOINTMENT LETTER

                                 DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                 Letterhead

MEMORANDUM FOR 6 OSS/OSA
FROM: (Unit Commander Office Symbol)
SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit ADPMs and Trainers
1. The following individuals are appointed as unit primary and alternate Airfield Driving Program
Managers (ADPMs) and trainers. Individuals have received training IAW AFI 13-213 and the Local
Driving Instruction. Both Primary and Alternate ADPMs have the authority to certify personnel who are
qualified to drive on the airfield and will ensure completion and tracking of all airfield drivers training for
unit-assigned and TDY personnel.
NAME/Email                        OFFICE SYM DP                              483 # _____
PRIMARY:
MSgt Ann B. Smith                         OSAA              XXX-XXXX                 BLK######
Email: Ann.Smith@blank.af.mil
ALTERNATE:
TSgt John E. Doe                          OSAA              XXX-XXXX                 BLK######
Email: John.Doe@blank.af.mil

2. The following individuals are appointed as Airfield Driving Program Trainers:
NAME/Email                        OFFICE SYM DP                              483 #______
TSgt Jane C. Davis                        OSAA              XXX-XXXX                 BLK######
Email: Jane.Davis@blank.af.mil
SSgt Michael Johnson                      OSAA              XXX-XXXX                 BLK######
Email: Michael.Johnson@blank.af.mil


3. This letter supersedes all previous letters, same subject.




                                                            XXXX X. XXXXX, Lt Col, USAF
                                                            Commander
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                   41


                                               Attachment 3
                             UNIT ADPM TRAINING CHECKLIST

                              UNIT ADPM TRAINING CHECKLIST
 SECTION I – TRAINEE INFORMATION (Completed by Wing ADPM)

 Name (Last, First, Middle          Rank, Civilian Grade   Unit/Office Symbol or      Duty Phone
 Initial)                           or equivalent          Company Name



 SECTION II – QUALIFICATION TRAINING (Completed by Trainee and Wing ADPM)
                                                           Date            Trainee    Wing
                                                           Completed       Initials   ADPM
 1. Unit ADPM duties and responsibilities.
 2. Appointment of unit trainers.
 3. Runway incursion prevention.
 4. Governing Directives.
 4.1. AFMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle
 Operator.
 4.2. AFOSHSTD 91-100, Aircraft Flightline – Ground
 Operations and Activities, Chapter 6.
 4.3. AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
 Management.
 5. Testing requirements to include test
 security/compromise.
 6. Color vision testing requirements. See AFI 48-123,
 Medical Examinations and Standards for additional
 information.
 7. Airfield Driver‘s training requirements.
 7.1. Local Qualification.
 7.2. Refresher.
 8. Unit ADPM Continuity Binder.
 9. Reporting, Enforcement, and Violation
 Consequences.
 10. Vehicle Passes (Privately Owned/Government
 Leased).
 11. Controlled Movement Area (CMA) procedures
 and training for unit personnel.
 12. TDY personnel/Non-based assigned contractors
42                                                     MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


briefing and or training requirements.
13. Escort procedures.
14. Procedures for issuing revoking and reissuing an
AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency.
15. Participate with the Unit AFPM on an actual
training session and practical check ride.
16. AF IMT483 CERTIFICATE #                               STAMP:


SECTION III – TRAINING CERTIFICATION (Completed by the Trainee and Wing ADPM or
designated representative)
TRAINEE
I have received and completed all of the above training requirements and will comply with Local Base
Airfield Driving Instruction (ADI).
Name (Last, First, MI):     Rank, Civilian Grade or         Signature:                       Date:
                            equivalent:
WING ADPM or designated representative
Name (Last, First, MI):     Rank, Civilian Grade or         Signature:                       Date:
                            equivalent:
Note: A local form or electronic equivalent may be used as long as it includes all information listed
above.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                     43


                                               Attachment 4
        UNIT AIRFIELD DRIVER PROGRAM SELF-INSPECTION CHECKLIST

            UNIT AIRFIELD DRIVER PROGRAM SELF INSPECTION CHECKLIST

SECTION I – GENERAL INFORMATION (Completed by the Wing ADPM or Unit ADPM)
Unit                            Office Symbol or Company Name               Date:



SECTION II – INSPECTION ITEMS (Completed by the Wing ADPM or Unit ADPM)
                                                                 Yes   No   Not
                                                                            Applicable
1. Unit Commander.
1.1. Has the unit commander appointed, in writing, an
Airfield Driving Program Manager and alternate?
1.2. Is a current copy of the Airfield Driving Program
Manager appointment letter on file at Airfield
Management?
1.3. Does the unit commander limit the number of
personnel authorized to drive on the airfield to the absolute
minimum necessary to accomplish the mission?
1.4. Has the unit commander established procedures to
limit the number of runway crossings? Is the number of
unit drivers validated at least annually to include those that
enter or cross the runway?
1.5. Is the unit commander notified when individuals
commit a violation?
1.6. Does the unit commander notify the Airfield Driving
Program Manager and Airfield Management when revoking
an individual‘s driving privileges?
1.7. Has the unit commander appointed, in writing,
Airfield Driving Program Trainers? Is the list of names
current and accurate?
2. Unit Airfield Driving Program (ADPM) Manager.
2.1. Is the Unit ADPM trained and certified to drive on the
airfield?
2.2. Does the Unit ADPM ensure drivers have a valid state
driver‘s license and are qualified to operate applicable
vehicles?
2.3. Does the Unit ADPM ensure airfield drivers have their
 44                                                        MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


color vision tested? Is the AFSC exempt?
2.4. Does the Unit ADPM maintain a list of all drivers
authorized to drive on the airfield with at least the
minimum data (Full name, rank, unit, office symbol, AF
IMT 483 number, any restrictions and date refresher
training is due)?
2.5. Does the unit ADPM have current and accurate
training documentation on file for drivers that have been
issued an AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency,
endorsed for airfield driving?
2.6. Does the unit ADPM maintain a properly formatted
continuity binder or electronic equivalent with all required
documentation?
2.7. Are the training and testing materials current and
accurate?
3. TDY personnel/Non base assigned Contractors.
3.1. Are TDY personnel/Non-base assigned contractors
driving credentials verified (do TDY personnel/Non-base
assigned contractors have a valid state/GOV driver‘s
license and AF IMT 483 from their home base)? ADPM
should question the need to issue AF IMT 483 if TDY
personnel do not have an
AF IMT 483 from their home station.
3.2. Are TDY personnel being trained on driving
requirements in accordance with the local driving
instruction?
4. Training.
4.1. Are potential airfield drivers receiving classroom
training by the ADPM (as determined locally)?
4.2. Are potential airfield drivers receiving practical day
and night (as applicable) airfield familiarization training?
4.3. Are potential airfield drivers receiving a practical day
and night (as applicable) driving test?
4.4. Does the ADPM provide unit personnel with
references and materials necessary to complete training? Is
this material readily available for reference in the event the
program manager or alternate is not available?
4.5. Is remedial training conducted and documented on
personnel that fail a test or commit a violation?
4.6. Are drivers receiving annual refresher training within
the established time lines?
4.7. Does the ADPM have a mechanism established to
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                         45


track annual refresher training requirements? Is the
refresher training being documented on the back of the AF
IMT 483?
4.8. Are trainees administered a General Knowledge Test?
4.9. Are trainees administered a Runway Incursion
Prevention Test?
4.10. Are trainees administered a Communication Test to
individuals requiring CMA access?
4.11. Are trainees instructed on proper radio terminology
when communicating with the ATCT?
4.12. Are trainees shown the actual location of Runway
Hold-Lines and can they readily provide a verbal
description of Runway Hold-Lines?
4.13. Are trainees familiar with runway entry and exit
procedures and radio ―read back‖ requirement? (A random
interview of unit vehicle operators may be conducted.)
5. Miscellaneous.
5.1. Is FAA Form 5280-7/AFVA 11 -240, Airfield Visual
Aid Safety Placard, available for each vehicle operated on
the CMA?
5.2. Is FOD prevention and identification part of the Unit‘s
Airfield Driving Program?
5.3. Are vehicles used on taxiways and runways equipped
with Infrared Red Lights/Roof-mounted rotating beacons?
5.4. Is a current airfield diagram in unit assigned vehicles?


SECTION III – COMMENTS/NOTES (Completed by the Wing ADPM or Unit ADPM)
 46                                                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013



SECTION IV – CERTIFICATION (Completed by the Unit ADPM and Wing ADPM)
UNIT ADPM
Name (Last, First, MI):   Rank, Civilian Grade or       Signature:           Date:
                          equivalent:
WING ADPM
Name (Last, First, MI):   Rank, Civilian Grade or       Signature:           Date:
                          equivalent:
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                      47


                                              Attachment 5
                         AIRFIELD DRIVING TRAINING
                 DOCUMENTATION AND CERTIFICATION CHECKLIST

AIRFIELD DRIVING TRAINING
DOCUMENTATION AND CERTIFICATION CHECKLIST

SECTION I – TRAINEE INFORMATION (Completed by the Unit ADPM)
Name (Last, First, Middle          Rank, Civilian Grade       Unit/Office Symbol or       Duty Phone
Initial)                           or equivalent              Company Name


SECTION II – QUALIFICATION TRAINING (Completed by the Trainee and Unit Trainer)
                                                              Date            Trainee’s   Trainer’s
                                                              Completed
                                                                              Initials    Initials
1. Trainee possesses a valid (List State of Issue) Driver‘s
License (List restrictions).
2. Trainee possesses a valid Government Driver‘s
License.
3. USAF Airfield Driving Computer Base Training.
[Score: ]
4. Airfield Driver Training Classroom (as determined
locally).
5. Airfield Driving Qualification Training
Checklist/Curriculum. (See Attachment 6)
6. Practical Day Airfield Driver Familiarization Training
(See Attachment 6, Item 4)
7. Practical Night Airfield Driver Familiarization
Training as applicable. (See Attachment 6, Item 4)
8. Practical Driving Test. Includes day and night (as
applicable)
9. Communications Test. [Score:        ]
10. Airfield Diagram/Layout Test. [Score:        ]
11. General Knowledge Test (Written).
[Score:    ]
12. Runway Incursion Prevention Test.
[Score:    ]
 48                                                       MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013



SECTION III – COLOR VISION TEST FOR CMA DRIVERS ONLY. (Completed by
Hospital/Medical Treatment Facility Optometry For)
Check applicable.
       Normal Color Vision
       Color Blind/Deficient
Name (Last, First, MI):                   Grade:                Signature:                     Date:




SECTION IV – TRAINER CERTIFICATION (Completed by Authorized Airfield Driving Training
Instructor)
I certify that the trainee has received all required qualification training requirements annotated above.
Name of Trainer (Last,      Grade:                      Signature:                  Date:
First, MI):




SECTION V – TRAINEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT (Completed by Trainee)
I have received and completed all of the above training requirements and will comply with Local Base
Airfield Driving Instruction (ADI). I am also fully aware that no vehicle or pedestrian shall enter a
runway or other controlled movement areas without approval from the Air Traffic Control Tower
(ATCT).
Name of Trainee (Last, First, MI):        Grade:                Signature:                    Date:




Name of Trainee (Last, First, MI):        Grade:                Signature:                    Date:




SECTION VI – UNIT CERTIFICATION (Completed by Unit Commander or Unit ADPM)
I certify that the above trainee has successfully completed all training requirements to operate a vehicle at
Local Base. Check all applicable restrictions and or special access.
 Ramp only
 Daylight Hours only
 Other (Specify)
Name (Last, First, MI):                   Grade:                Signature:                    Date:
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                              49



SECTION VII – AIRFIELD DRIVING AUTHORIZATION (Completed by the Wing ADPM or
designated representative)
 Approved  Disapproved                       AF IMT483 CERTIFICATE #
Name (Last, First, MI):       Grade:           Signature:           Date:
 50                                                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 6
                    AIRFIELD DRIVING QUALIFICATION TRAINING
                            CHECKLIST (CURRICULUM)

AIRFIELD DRIVING QUALIFICATION TRAINING
CHECKLIST (CURRICULUM)

SECTION I – TRAINEE INFORMATION (Completed by Unit ADPM)
Name (Last, First, Middle       Rank, Civilian Grade or equivalent   Unit/Office Symbol or    Duty Phone
Initial)                                                             Company Name



                                                   Date              Trainee’s    Trainer’s   Not
                                                   Completed         Initials                 Available
                                                                                  Initials
                                                                                              (N/A)
1. Definitions and terms. Training Outcome(s):
Trainee must be knowledgeable of the terms used
on an airfield:
1.1. Runway
1.2. Controlled Movement Area (CMA)
1.3. Controlled Movement Area Violation
(CMAV)
1.4. Runway Incursion
1.5. Taxiway
1.6. Ramp/Apron
1.7. Foreign Object Damage (FOD)
control/prevention
1.8. Overrun
1.9. Taxilane
1.10. Light Gun
1.11. Jet Blast
1.12. Vehicle Service Road
1.13. Hot Cargo Area
1.14. Arm/De-Arm Area
1.15. Aircraft Arresting Gear
1.16. ILS Critical Area
1.17. Mandatory Sign
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                       51


1.18. Informational Sign
1.19. Emergency Response Vehicle
1.20. Circle of Safety
1.21. Restricted Area
1.22. Entry Control Point
1.23. Fixed/Mobile Obstacle
1.24. Airfield Management
1.25. Air Traffic Control Tower (ATCT)
2. Vehicle operator requirements. Training
Outcome(s): Trainee must be knowledgeable on
local procedures and requirements for operating a
vehicle on the airfield:
2.1. Use of vehicle lighting (e.g. Daytime
Running, Rotating/IR beacons, hazard/emergency
flashers)
2.2. Procedures for reporting an accident or vehicle
maintenance problems
2.3. Vehicle parking and chocking requirements
2.4. Use of perimeter and infield roadways
2.5. Lateral distance requirements for mobile
obstacles on an apron/ramp and taxiway
2.6. Speed limits for vehicles operating on an
apron/ramp and taxiway
2.7. Requirements for operating a vehicle within
the immediate vicinity of aircraft
2.8. Procedures for reporting and removing FOD
2.9. Restricted visibility and/or night driving
2.10. Procedures for operating of bicycles,
tricycles, etc. on the airfield
2.11. Use of traction control devices as applicable
2.12. Emergency Response Vehicle requirements
2.13. Vehicle Escort/Convoy Driving procedures
as applicable
3. Aircraft Operations. Training Outcome(s):
Trainee must be knowledgeable of hazards
associated with aircraft
3.1. Right of Way
3.2. Taxiing
 52                                                    MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


3.3. Jet Blast safety requirements
4. Practical Day and Night (as applicable)
Airfield Familiarization Training. Training
Outcome(s): Trainee must be knowledgeable of
the airfield environment. At a minimum, the
trainee must demonstrate the ability to operate a
vehicle to and from their designated work areas
5. Local Airfield Basics. Training Outcome(s):
Trainee must be knowledgeable of the airfield
environment:
5.1. Familiarize trainee with the following airfield
lighting
5.1.1. Runway
5.1.1.1. Edge Lights
5.1.1.2. Approach Lights
5.1.2. Taxiway
5.1.2.1. Edge Lights
5.1.2.2. Centerline Lights
5.1.2.3. Guard Lights (as applicable)
5.2. Familiarize trainee with the following airfield
signage:
5.2.1. Runway Hold Sign
5.2.2. Taxiway Location Sign
5.2.3. ILS Critical Area Sign
5.2.4. Direction Sign
5.2.5. Distance Remaining Sign
5.3. Familiarize trainee with the following airfield
markings:
5.3.1. Runway
5.3.1.1. Centerline
5.3.1.2. Edge
5.3.1.3. Runway ID Numbers
5.3.1.4. Threshold Markings
5.3.1.5. VFR Hold Line
5.3.2. Vehicle Stop Bars
5.3.3. Taxiways
5.3.3.1. Centerline
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                     53


5.3.3.2. Edge Markings
5.3.4. ILS Critical Areas
5.3.5. Non-movement Area Boundary Marking as
applicable
5.3.6. Non-standard Airfield Markings as
applicable
5.3.7. Aircraft Arresting Gear Marking as
applicable
5.4. Familiarize trainee with the locations or
airfield Navigational Aids and Visual Approach
Aid.
5.5. Familiarize trainee with the location of
Restricted Areas and Entry Control Points
5.6. Familiarize trainee with the location of Free
Zones as applicable
5.7. Familiarize trainee with the reduced
visibility/inclement weather driving techniques
5.8. Familiarize trainee with the location of the
Fire Department, Air Traffic Control Tower and
Airfield Management
5.9. Familiarize trainee with the location and use
of traffic control devices
5.10. Familiarize trainee with Jet Blast hazardous
locations on the airfield
5.11. Familiarize trainee with runway(s)
configuration (e.g. dimensions, location,
designation, etc.)
5.12. Familiarize trainee with the taxiway
configuration (e.g. dimensions, location,
designation, etc.)
5.13. Familiarize trainee with Controlled
Movement Area Boundaries
5.14. Familiarize trainee with Congested Areas
5.15. Familiarize trainee with Hot Spots as
required locally
5.16. Identify Smoking Areas as applicable
6. Communications. Training Outcome(s):
Trainee must be knowledgeable of proper radio
terminology and ATCT phraseology use on the
airfield:
 54                                                      MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


6.1. Ground Vehicle Communications
6.2. Procedural Words and Phrases
6.3. Aviation Phonetic Alphabet
6.4. Aviation Terminology
6.5. Procedures for Contacting the ATCT
6.6. Light Gun Signals (Description of ATCT
Light Gun signals)
6.7. ATCT and or vehicle blind spots
7. Other:
7.1. Review ADI
7.2. Runway Incursion Prevention Training
7.3. Demonstrate the ability to contact ATCT for
approval to enter/exit the CMA. Note: Required
for all personnel that require access on or across
taxiways, helipads and aprons located in the CMA
7.4. Demonstrate the ability to contact ATCT for
approval to enter/exit the runway. Note: Required
for all personnel that require access on or across the
runway


SECTION III – TRAINING CERTIFICATION (Completed by the Trainee, Unit ADPM and Wing ADPM)
TRAINEE
I have received and completed all of the above training requirements and will comply with Local Base Airfield
Driving Instruction (ADI). I am also fully aware that no vehicle or pedestrian shall enter a runway or other
controlled movement areas without approval from the Air Traffic Control Tower (ATCT).
Name (Last, First, MI):        Rank, Civilian Grade or         Signature:                         Date:
                               equivalent:
UNIT ADPM
I certify that the above individual has completed all local training requirements outlined in State Local Base
Airfield Driving Instruction (ADI). Check all applicable restrictions.
       Ramp only
       Daylight Hours only
       Other (Specify)
Name (Last, First, MI):        Rank, Civilian Grade or         Signature:                         Date:
                               equivalent:
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                     55


WING ADPM or designated representative (as required)
Name (Last, First, MI):     Rank, Civilian Grade or         Signature:                       Date:
                            equivalent:
Note: Electronic media such as videos, CBTs, and PowerPoint presentations may be used to provide training on
all items except for the practical training requirements in items 4 and 7 above.
 56                                                          MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


                                               Attachment 7
                TDY PERSONNEL/NON-BASE ASSIGNED CONTRACTORS
                            TRAINING CHECKLIST

TDY PERSONNEL/NON-BASE ASSIGNED CONTRACTORS
TRAINING CHECKLIST

SECTION I – TRAINEE INFORMATION (Competed by Unit ADPM or Wing ADPM)
Name (Last, First, Middle          Rank, Civilian Grade        Unit/Office Symbol or       Duty Phone
Initial)                           or equivalent               Company Name



SECTION II – QUALIFICATION TRAINING (Completed by the Trainee, Unit ADPM or designated
Trainer)
                                                                Date           Trainee’s   Trainer’s
                                                                Completed      Initials
                                                                                           Initials
1. Explain the difference between
mandatory/informational airfield signs. Provide examples
of mandatory/informational local airfield signs
2. Explain the different types of airfield markings (e.g.
runway, taxiway, and apron/ramp). Provide examples of
local airfield markings
3. Explain the different types of airfield lighting systems
(e.g. runway, taxiway, and apron/ramp). Provide
examples of local airfield lighting
4. Identify the speed limits for general/special purpose
vehicles operating on aircraft parking aprons/ramp and
taxiways
5. Identify the procedures for vehicle operating in the
immediate vicinity of base assigned and transient (if
applicable) aircraft
6. Explain the requirements for parking and chocking
vehicles and/or equipment on the airfield
7. Identify the lateral distance requirements for mobile
obstacles on taxiways and aprons
8. Discuss Foreign Object Damage (FOD)
control/prevention measures for the airfield
9. Identify methods/practices to prevent a runway
incursion
10. Explain the different types of airfield violations and
their consequences
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                            57


11. Identify the proper radio terminology and
phraseology
12. Provide a local Airfield Diagram
13. Identify all restricted areas and entry control points
14. Identify all Control Movement Area boundaries
15. Identify free-zones, when applicable
16. Practical airfield familiarization training. At a
minimum, familiarize individual on route(s) to and from
the designated work area
17. Explain procedures for night driving, reduced
visibility and inclement weather, when applicable
18. Explain procedures for reporting an accident or
vehicle maintenance problems


SECTION III – TRAINING CERTIFICATION (Competed by Trainee, Unit ADPM and Wing ADPM
as required)
TRAINEE
I have received and completed all of the above training requirements and will comply with Local Base
Airfield Driving Instruction (ADI). I am also fully aware that no vehicle or pedestrian shall enter a
runway or other controlled movement areas without approval from the Air Traffic Control Tower
(ATCT).
Name (Last, First, MI):        Rank, Civilian Grade or          Signature:                         Date:
                               equivalent:
UNIT ADPM
I certify that the above individual has completed all local training requirements outlined in State Local
Base Airfield Driving Instruction (ADI). Check all applicable restrictions.
       Ramp only
       Daylight Hours only
       Other (Specify)
Name (Last, First, MI):        Rank, Civilian Grade or          Signature:                         Date:
                               equivalent:
WING ADPM or designated representative (as required)
Name (Last, First, MI):        Rank, Civilian Grade or          Signature:                         Date:
                               equivalent:
Note: Electronic media such as videos, CBTs, and PowerPoint presentations may be used to provide
training on all items except for items 12 and 16 above.
 58                                                MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


TDY BRIEFING (TDY AIRFIELD DRIVERS)
A7.1. General. This letter reiterates policies and procedures for control of vehicle operations on
the airfield in accordance with MACDILLAFBI 13-213, Vehicle Operations on the Airfield. It
authorizes TDY personnel qualified to drive on their home station airfield, and in possession of
AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency, to operate on the airfield at MacDill AFB. Airfield
vehicle operations are covered in AFMAN 24-306, Chapter 25, AFOSH Standard 91-100, and
MACDILL AFBI 13-213, and must be strictly complied with. The following items must be kept
with personnel on TDY at MacDill AFB: a copy of this letter, a copy of the current Airfield
Diagram, and TDY orders. Airfield driving privileges are good only for the duration of the TDY
and/or contract.
A7.2. Precautions.
   A7.2.1. The MacDill airfield is a large and busy complex. Driving on taxiways and ramps
   will be kept to a minimum and in direct support of mission aircraft.
   A7.2.2. Never cross the runway, drive onto the runway, or operate on the runway unless
   specifically authorized to do so by the procedures outlined in MACDILLAFBI 13-213, and
   only with approval from the Control Tower (when operating within 175 feet of the runway
   and CMA).
   A7.2.3. Vehicle operators will do FOD checks prior to entering the airfield (taxiways,
   parking aprons). FOD checks will be accomplished when entering or crossing any taxiway,
   ramp, or runway from an access road, unpaved surface or when exiting a construction area.
   A7.2.4. Do not cross taxiways when an approaching aircraft is within 200 feet or until it has
   passed by at least 500 feet.
   A7.2.5. Always yield to taxiing aircraft and emergency response vehicles.
   A7.2.6. Vehicles stopped for aircraft holding on a taxiway will not cross the taxiway in front
   of the aircraft unless signaled to do so by the pilot.
   A7.2.7. Remain at least 100 feet from helicopters with rotors in motion.
   A7.2.8. Exercises or other priority maintenance missions are NOT emergencies.              The
   vehicle operator must adhere to established speed limits.
   A7.2.9. Personal radios will not be used in vehicles operating on the airfield. This includes
   AM/FM radios, tape players, and personal stereos (IPods).
   A7.2.10. The South Perimeter Road will not be used unless two-way radio contact is
   established with the Control Tower and permission received is from them.
   A7.2.11. Always drive on the right side of a taxiway centerline (within 25 feet). Do not
   drive on the shoulders (Attachment 12).
   A7.2.12. Do not pass a stopped or towed aircraft unless the aircrew or marshaller indicates
   the vehicle may proceed. Maintain at least 25 feet lateral clearance.
   A7.2.13. If an aircraft is approaching a vehicle/driver, do one of the following:
       A7.2.13.1. Turn around and exit the taxiway at the next paved surface.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                59


       A7.2.13.2. As a last resort, drive into a grassy area and maintain at least a 200-foot
       wingtip clearance for the aircraft to pass. However, before driving on to the paved
       surface again, a FOD check must be accomplished.
A7.3. Speed Limits.
   A7.3.1. Close proximity (within 25 feet) of aircraft - 5 MPH
   A7.3.2. Special purpose or vehicles towing equipment - 10 MPH
   A7.3.3. Ramp areas, general-purpose vehicles - 15 MPH
   A7.3.4. Taxiways – 25 MPH
A7.4. Parking.
   A7.4.1. Never leave a vehicle unattended on a taxiway.
   A7.4.2. Do not park within 25 feet in front of or 200 feet to the rear of any aircraft running
   or about to start.
   A7.4.3. All vehicles parked and left unattended on the airfield will have the ignition turned
   off. The keys will remain in the vehicle and the door will be unlocked.
   A7.4.4. Place the vehicle in ―PARK‖ with automatic transmissions, or ―REVERSE‖ with
   manual transmissions.
   A7.4.5. Set the foot/hand brake and do not point the vehicle where it will roll towards any
   aircraft. Additionally, the vehicle must not be parked in any manner that will impede other
   aircraft and/or vehicle traffic.
A7.5. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Prevention. A FOD potential exists at all airports. If
any personnel see debris on or near the airfield, it must be removed. If the debris is too large or
causes a hazard to personnel, call Airfield Management at x-2321/2350 and request a sweeper.
A7.6. Night Driving. During darkness (sunset to sunrise), vehicle operators will not shine
headlights toward oncoming aircraft. Pull over to the side, turn off headlights, and turn on
vehicle parking lights (yellow lights).
A7.7. Controlled Movement Area (CMA) Procedures.
   A7.7.1. Defined as Runway 04/22; overruns; and 175 feet east and west of the painted
   runway edge. Note: The eastern (ramp-side) limitation is identified by an imaginary line
   extended through the runway hold lines painted on taxiways A, B, C, D, and E. The western
   (Control Tower-side) limitation is identified by signs located on roads that penetrate the
   CMA. Radio contact with the Control Tower and permission to enter are mandatory prior to
   crossing any boundary of the CMA.
   A7.7.2. Come to a complete stop at the runway or instrument hold line.
   A7.7.3. Inform the Control Tower of the vehicle location and desired intentions.
   A7.7.4. Repeat the Control Tower‘s instructions verbatim and then comply with those
   instructions.
   A7.7.5. Advise the Control Tower when the vehicle/operator have departed the CMA.
 60                                               MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


A7.8. Contractors. Contractor personnel will follow a designated route to the work/project site
as identified by the AFM and/or designated representative.
   A7.8.1. Contractor vehicles will be escorted unless prior coordination and permission are
   granted from the AFM.
   A7.8.2. Vehicles and the work site will be clean, orderly and FOD free, to the maximum
   extent possible.
   A7.8.3. Contractors may be asked to leave the area due to mission requirements.
Note: These are the MINIMUM briefing requirements for TDY and contractor personnel.
ADPMs may add additional/unique unit requirements as necessary.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                              61


                                            Attachment 8
               AIRFIELD DRIVER TRAINING LESSON PLAN OUTLINE

A8.1. Administration.
   A8.1.1. Ensure the individual requiring airfield driving training has a current state driver‘s
   license, government driver‘s license and necessary unique vehicle training (e.g., operating
   forklifts, K-loaders, or tugs).
   A8.1.2. Consider physical and/or life skill problems/stress before assigning personnel
   airfield driving duties.
   A8.1.3. Have individual read AFMAN 24-306, Chapter 25, this instruction, and applicable
   unit material. Note: The FAA Runway Incursions video clip and FAA Driving on the
   Airport Operations Area are highly recommended supplemental training materials for unit
   ADPMs.
   A8.1.4. Conduct practical classroom training, daytime airfield orientation, nighttime airfield
   orientation, airfield driving check ride, multiple-choice written, airfield diagram, light gun
   signal, phraseology tests and Headquarters, Air Force Flight Standards Agency (HQ AFFSA)
   Airfield Driving Computer Base Training Courseware. Print results of all tests.
   A8.1.5. Once all training requirements are complete, fill out the Documentation of Airfield
   Driver‘s Training and Certificate, have the squadron/unit commander or ADPM sign, attach
   test results and management for issuance of AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency.
   A8.1.6. Retain all airfield driving training paperwork and proof of annual recurring training
   on all individuals. Airfield management will inspect these items during their annual review
   of the ADTP.
A8.2. Briefing Points.
   A8.2.1. Airfield entry control points.
       A8.2.1.1. Restricted area badge/controlled area badge requirements and use.
       A8.2.1.2. Commonly used entry control points and exits.
       A8.2.1.3. Airfield security and individual responsibilities.
   A8.2.2. Airfield traffic flow.
   A8.2.3. Speed limits and safety.
   A8.2.4. Restricted areas, hazards, and congestion points.
   A8.2.5. Vehicle parking and driving on taxiways, apron and ramps.
   A8.2.6. Airfield markings and signs.
   A8.2.7. Procedures for operating in the CMA.
       A8.2.7.1. Proper radio phraseology and coordination with the Control Tower.
       A8.2.7.2. Runway and taxiway markings and signs.
       A8.2.7.3. Control Tower light gun signals.
62                                                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


     A8.2.7.4. No-radio/communications-out procedures.
  A8.2.8. Restricted visibility and night operations.
  A8.2.9. FOD control and prevention.
  A8.2.10. Airfield violations and reporting procedures.
  A8.2.11. Unique unit requirements/operations and restrictions. Note: The items listed
  above are the MINIMUM required briefing points. Airfield driving program managers are
  encouraged to use all available resources to make MacDill‘s airfield the safest in Air
  Mobility Command (AMC) and in the Air Force. For example, it is recommended the
  program manager ask as many questions as he/she feels necessary to ensure the individual
  truly knows and understands the layout of the airfield and driving procedures. Airfield
  Management personnel may ask verbal questions prior to issuing AF IMT 483 and could, at
  their discretion, deny issuing this form if they feel the individual is not ready to drive on the
  airfield.
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                63


                                         Attachment 9
                                  RADIO PHRASEOLOGY

A9.1. General. When driving on the CMA, clear and proper communication is vital. Both
vehicle operator and air traffic controller must ensure communications are clearly understood.
   A9.1.1. Never assume anything.
   A9.1.2. Always ask for assistance from the Control Tower if there is any doubt about
   whether to proceed.
   A9.1.3. If the instructions from the tower controller are unclear, ask that they be repeated by
   stating, ―Say again.‖
   A9.1.4. If there is anything about the instructions that is not understood, ask for further
   explanation.
   A9.1.5. Always repeat or ―read-back‖ instructions to the tower controller.
A9.2. Radio Communication Procedures.
   A9.2.1. Use a two-way radio capable of communicating with the Control Tower. Normally,
   airfield vehicles are tuned in to the ramp net (frequency 163.875). Each vehicle must have a
   unique call sign identifying the vehicle (i.e., Afld 1) no two vehicles will have the same call
   sign. In accordance with AFI 13-213, paragraph 4.3.3.2.3., Airfield Management must
   approve all vehicle call signs on the airfield.
   A9.2.2. Before calling the Control Tower, ensure intentions are clearly thought out before
   announcing over the radio.
   A9.2.3. Know and use proper phraseology. (Refer to the Aviation Phraseology and Aviation
   Alphabet at the end of this section.) Never use Citizen‘s Band (CB) lingo, law enforcement
   ―ten‖ codes and ―Tango‖.
   A9.2.4. Use the proper sequence in calling the Control Tower. Before announcing
   intentions, make sure no one else is already talking. Ensure that no aircraft is about to depart
   or arrive. Then key the microphone and do the following:
       A9.2.4.1. State whom you are calling and identify yourself by using your vehicle call
       sign. Example: ―MacDill Tower, Airfield One.‖
       A9.2.4.2. Wait for the tower controller to respond. Be patient, as it sometimes takes a
       while if the controller is busy. When the controller responds, ―Airfield One, MacDill
       Tower,‖ state where you are and where you want to go. Example: ―Airfield One on
       Taxiway Alpha. Request access onto the runway.‖ Note: The order in which you state
       where you are and where you want to go is unimportant. You can easily state where you
       want to go and where you are located instead. For example, ―Airfield One requests
       access onto the runway from taxiway Alpha.‖ The important thing to remember is BOTH
       pieces of information are required—where you are and where you are going.
       A9.2.4.3. Wait for the controller‘s response. The controller will either approve or deny
       your request, or give you modified instructions. Example: ―Airfield One, proceed onto
       the runway. Report when off.‖
 64                                               MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


       A9.2.4.4. ALWAYS read back instructions from the Control Tower.            Example:
       ―Airfield One proceeding onto the runway. Will report when off.‖
       A9.2.4.5. If the controller‘s instructions are to ―hold short‖, DO NOT ENTER THE
       RUNWAY. Read back instructions to controller; ―Airfield One holding short‖. Wait for
       further instructions.

Figure A9.1. Caution.




A9.3. Aviation Phraseology.
   A9.3.1. Acknowledge—Let me know you have received and understand this message.
   A9.3.2. Advise intentions—Tell me what you plan to do.
   A9.3.3. Affirmative—Yes.
   A9.3.4. Confirm—My version is…is that correct?
   A9.3.5. Correction—An error has been made in the transmission, and the correct version
   follows.
   A9.3.6. Go ahead—State your request (NEVER means ―proceed).
   A9.3.7. Hold—Stop where you are.
   A9.3.8. Hold short of—Proceed to, but stop prior to a specific point.
   A9.3.9. Negative—No, or permission is not granted, or that is not correct.
   A9.3.10. Proceed—you are authorized to begin or continue moving.
   A9.3.11. Read back—Repeat my message back to me.
   A9.3.12. Roger—I have received all of your last transmission. (It should not be used to
   answer a yes or no question.)
   A9.3.13. Say again—Repeat what you just said.
   A9.3.14. Standby—Wait…I will get back to you. (Standby is not an approval or denial.
   The caller should reestablish contact if the delay is lengthy.)
   A9.3.15. Unable—Indicates inability to comply with a specific instruction, request, or
   clearance.
   A9.3.16. Verify—Request confirmation of information.
   A9.3.17. Wilco—I have received your message, understand it, and will comply.
A9.4. The Aviation Alphabet. The following tables show the International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO) phonetic alphabet that is used in radio communications. Use the words in
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                         65


place of letters to reduce confusion. For example, Taxiway B would be referred to as Taxiway
Bravo.

Table A9.1. Aviation Alphabet.
  A       Alpha          AL-FAH                  N      November       NO-VEM-BER
  B       Bravo          BRAH-VOH                O      Oscar          OSS-KAH
  C       Charlie        CHAR-LEE                P      Papa           PAH-PAH
  D       Delta          DELL-TAH                Q      Quebec         KEH-BECK
  E       Echo           ECK-OH                  R      Romeo          ROW-ME-OH
  F       Foxtrot        FOKS-TROT               S      Sierra         SEE-AIR-RAH
  G       Golf           GOLF                    T      Tango          TANG-GO
  H       Hotel          HOH-TEL                 U      Uniform        YOU-NEE-
                                                                       FORM
  I       India          IN-DEE-AH               V      Victor         VIK-THE
  J       Juliet         JEW-LEE-ETT             W      Whiskey        WISS-KEY
  K       Kilo           KEY-LOH                 X      X-ray          ECKS-RAY
  L       Lima           LEE-MAH                 Y      Yankee         YANG-KEY
  M       Mike           MIKE                    Z      Zulu           ZOO-LOO

Table A9.2. Aviation Alphabet (continued)
  1       One            WUN                     6      Six            SIX
  2       Two            TOO                     7      Seven          SEV-EN
  3       Three          TREE                    8      Eight          AIT
  4       Four           FOW-ER                  9      Nine           NIN-ER
  5       Five           FIFE                    0      Zero           ZEE-RO
 66                                                MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


                                         Attachment 10
                  QUICK FACTS/GENERAL POINTS TO REMEMBER

A10.1. General.
   A10.1.1. Know and understand vehicle operating procedures and NEVER deviate from
   them.
   A10.1.2. Be patient, observant, and non-assuming.
   A10.1.3. Drive slowly.
   A10.1.4. Always know your exact location and be aware of activity around you.
   A10.1.5. Never drive under any part of an aircraft or allow its wing to pass over the vehicle.
   A10.1.6. Maintain a safe distance from parked or taxiing aircraft.
   A10.1.7. Aircraft ALWAYS have the right-of-way.
   A10.1.8. Display proper identification and security access permits (i.e., AF Entry Control
   Card).
   A10.1.9. Make sure the vehicle is properly equipped for the area in which it is operating, i.e.,
   radio, beacons, reflective markings, and lighting.
   A10.1.10. Pilots have a limited field of view from the cockpit—do not assume they can see
   the vehicle/driver.
   A10.1.11. Be aware of emergency vehicles—always yield to them.
   A10.1.12. Report any accident, no matter how minor, to your supervisor immediately.
   A10.1.13. Use extreme caution when driving at night and/or in poor weather conditions.
   A10.1.14. Realize particular situations can become disorientating, even in the best
   conditions—when disoriented, stop and request assistance (as required).
   A10.1.15. Be alert to any FOD—either pick it up or notify someone who can.
   A10.1.16. When driving in the CMA:
      A10.1.16.1. DO NOT enter the CMA and NEVER drive the vehicle on or across the
      runway unless you have a mission requirement and permission from the Control Tower.
      A10.1.16.2. Monitor two-way radio with the Control Tower at all times.
      A10.1.16.3. After receiving permission from the Control Tower, proceed only after
      verifying it is clear of aircraft in all directions, including up.
      A10.1.16.4. Repeat all instructions from the Control Tower verbatim and read back all
      hold short instructions.
   A10.1.17. Always drive on the right side of the taxiway centerline, but not on the shoulders
   (Attachment 12).
   A10.1.18. Complete Annual refresher training
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                      67


                                            Attachment 11
                    REQUEST FOR PERMANENT AIRFIELD POV CONE

                                 DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

                                              Letterhead

                                                                                           Date:
MEMORANDUM FOR: 6 OSS/OSAA
FROM: (Unit and Office Symbol)
SUBJECT: PERMANENT AIRFIELD POV CONE
1. Request a permanent airfield vehicle cone for the following:
a. Name (Last, First, MI) and Rank: Doe, John C., Col
b. Organization/Office Symbol and Duty Phone: Group/CC, 828-xxxx
c. Vehicle Description (Make/Model/Color): Ford Explorer, Laser Red
d. License Plate State/Number: FL / D35 GHN
e. AF IMT 483 Number: 02-101
f. Justification: Self-explanatory.
2. I will comply with all procedures outlined in MACDILLAFBI 13-213, Airfield Driving, while driving
on the airfield.
3. I will contact 6 OSS/OSAA (Airfield Management) at 828-3700/2030 prior to reassignment,
separation, when the cone expires, or when the cone is no longer needed. I am also aware there is a $20
replacement fee for the cone should it be misplaced or lost.


                                                                  ____________________________
                                                                             Signature Element
1st Ind, 6 OSS/OSAA
Approved/Disapproved
Cone #: __________ Color: __________
Valid Until: _______________________
 68                                              MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


                                       Attachment 12
                                   TAXIWAY DRIVING

(Drive to the right and within 25 feet of the taxiway
centerline)
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                               69


                                        Attachment 13
                                MACDILL AFB DROP ZONES




Note 1: Diagram not to scale.
Note 2: During paradrops on the airfield, when drivers spot parajumpers, all ground vehicles
will stop until all parajumpers are safely on the ground.
70                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


           Attachment 14
     AIRFIELD DIAGRAM (FULL)
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                   71


                            Attachment 15
                  AIRFIELD DIAGRAM (SPEED LIMIT)
72                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


           Attachment 16
     AIRFIELD DIAGRAM (BLANK)
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                          73


                            Attachment 17
           AFVA 11-240, USAF AIRPORT SIGNS AND MARKINGS
 74                                                  MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 18
      MACDILL AFB CONTROLLED MOVEMENT AREA/AIRFIELD VIOLATION
                            WORKSHEET

To be completed by Airfield Management, Flight Safety or individual who identified the violation:


1. Was an aircraft involved?


      Yes             No


If yes, submit an AF From 651, Hazardous Air Traffic Report to the 6 AMW Safety Office.


If No, submit an AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report to the 6 AMW Safety Office.


2. If an aircraft was involved, obtain the following information:


Callsign: _____________


Type Aircraft: ____________


Location of Aircraft: ____________


Aircraft was: Taxiing      Arriving   Departing   Other (describe)




3. Date/Time of incident:


4. Description of incident/comments:


______________________________________________________________________


______________________________________________________________________


______________________________________________________________________
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                             75


______________________________________________________________________


______________________________________________________________________


______________________________________________________________________




Name/Rank of person filing report: _______________________________________


Signature: ____________________________________________________________




To be completed by violator:


Name/Rank: __________________________________________________________


Organization/Office Symbol (If TDY to MacDill, write both organizations):


______________________________________________________________________
Duty Phone: __________________________________________________________


Supervisor’s name and phone number: ___________________________________


Commander’s Name: ___________________________________________________


Vehicle type & registration number: ______________________________________


Description of incident/comments:


______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________
 76                                                 MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013



______________________________________________________________________


______________________________________________________________________


______________________________________________________________________


______________________________________________________________________


______________________________________________________________________




I have been briefed on the nature of my violation(s) of MACDI 13-213. I understand that I must
comply with the procedures in the above instruction in the future, and copies of this form along
with AF 457 or AF 651 (if applicable will be sent to 6 AMW Safety and my unit commander


Signature: __________________________________         Date: __________________
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                    77


                                            Attachment 19
                                       COLOR VISION MFR

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE


                                                                               (Date)


MEMORANDUM FOR: (Your Squadron/Unit) Airfield Driving Program Manager
FROM: 6th Medical Group
SUBJECT: Color Vision Testing Results


1. In accordance with 13-213, 3.2.5 and MACDILLAFBI 13-200, 3.4.8, the following individual has
been administered the color vision test. Results are documented below.
NAME/RANK:


Color Vision Test Results (Satisfactory / Unsatisfactory)
(must distinguish red, green, yellow, white and blue)


2. Upon completion of testing, member will return this signed memorandum to her/his unit Airfield
Driving Program Manager for web base system updating.




                                                        ________________________________
                                                        (Medical Examiner‘s Signature/Stamp)
78                        MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


                  Attachment 20
     AF IMT 483, CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013            79


                            Attachment 21
                        PHOTOS AND IMAGES
80   MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                        81


                                            Attachment 22
                      SAMPLE AIRFIELD DRIVING TEST QUESTIONS

The actual test consists of 30 multiple choice questions with one question being a PASS/FAIL question
for the entire exam.


1. If a airfield driving violation occurs, the Airfield Manager may revoke


A. the driver‘s government license
B. the driver‘s state license
C. the driver‘s controlled area badge
D. the driver‘s AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency


2. Who is required to have two-way radio contact with the Control Tower when on the airfield, or have
an escort with this capability?


A. Airfield Management personnel only
B. Personnel operating within the controlled movement area (CMA)
C. Transient Alert and Fire Department personnel only
D. Maintenance personnel only


3. What does a steady green ATC light gun signal indicate to the movement of vehicles, equipment, and
personnel?


A. Cleared to cross; proceed; go
B. Exercise extreme caution
C. Stop; do not proceed
D. Return to starting point


4. When approaching a parked aircraft, the __________ of the vehicle should be towards the aircraft.


A. drivers side
B. passenger side
C. front portion
D. rear portion
 82                                                     MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


5. What distance can a vehicle be parked or operated near an aircraft when the engines are in operation or
about to be started?


A. 20 feet in front and 100 feet to the rear
B. 25 feet in front and 500 feet to the rear
C. 15 feet in front and 150 feet to the rear
D. 10 feet in front and 100 feet to the rear


6. Except in unusual circumstances, general purpose vehicles will not operate at speeds greater than
__________ while on the aircraft parking ramp.


A. 05 MPH
B. 10 MPH
C. 15 MPH
D. 25 MPH




Answers: 1. D; 2. B; 3. A; 4. A; 5. B; 6. C
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                                                                          83


                                            Attachment 23
                                  VEHICLE CALL SIGN LISTING

Unit                 Call Sign                     Position
6 AMW                Cmd-1                         6 AMW Wing Commander
6 AMW                Cmd-2                         6 AMW Vice Commander
6 OG                 Ops 1                         Operations Group Commander
6 OSS                Tower/Ground                  Control Tower
6 OSS                Airfield Ops-1                Airfield Operations Flight Commander
6 OSS                Airfield Ops/AMOPS            Airfield Management Operations (former Base
                                                   Operations)
6 OSS                Airfield-1                    Airfield Manager
6 OSS                Airfield-2                    Deputy/Assistant Airfield Manager
6 OSS                Airfield-3                    NAMO, NAMT, AMOPS/Civilian Personnel
6 AMW/SE             Wildlife-1                    BASH Team
6 CES                Airfield Lighting             Exterior Electric Personnel
6 CES                Barrier Maintenance (1 &      Barrier Maintenance Personnel
                     2)
6 CES                Power Pro 1/2/3/4             Power Production Personnel
6 CES                Sweeper 1 & 2                 Airfield Sweeper
6 CES                Tractor 1 & 2                 Airfield Mower/Grass Cutters
6 CES                Chief 1 & 2                   Fire Chief and Deputy Chief
6 CES                Crash 4/5/6/7                 Fire Department Emergency Response/Crash Vehicles
6 CS                 Airfield Systems 1 & 2        Airfield Systems
6 AMXS               Transient Alert               Transient Alert Personnel


This list contains only those ground vehicle operators/units who have mission essential requirements to
drive on the airfield (within the Controlled Movement Area) and/or need to communicate with the
Control Tower on a regular basis. It does not include those operators who occasionally communicate
with Control Tower personnel.
84                  MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


            Attachment 24
     CRITICAL AREA BOUNDARIES F
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013                              85


                                       Attachment 25
     AIRFIELD DRIVING PROGRAM MANAGER TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

A25.1. Unit ADPM duties and responsibilities.
A25.2. Appointment of unit trainers.
A25.3. Runway incursion prevention.
A25.4. Governing Directives.
A25.5. Testing requirements.
A25.6. Color vision testing.
A25.7. Training requirements.
A25.8. Unit ADPM Continuity Binder.
A25.9. Refresher training.
A25.10. Reporting, Enforcement and Violation Consequences.
A25.11. Airfield Driving Training Program (ADTP) online.
86                         MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013


                   Attachment 26
     MANDATORY SIGNS AND INFORMATIONAL SIGNS
MACDILLAFBI13-213 7 JANUARY 2013              87


                            Attachment 27
                       FOD/ECP CHECK POINTS
