BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                         INSTRUCTION 32-108
                                                                                    5 SEPTEMBER 2003

                                                                                            Civil Engineer

                                                                  KEY CONTROL, KEYING POLICIES,
                                                                                    AND LOCKS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 6 CES/CEPC (Mr Stromberg)                                      Certified by: 6 CES/CC (Lt Col Foti)
Supersedes MACDI 32-108, 7 November 1997                                                        Pages: 9
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policies and procedures for control and duplication of keys and replacement
locks. It applies to all Air Force real property, units, and personnel assigned to MacDill Air Force Base
(AFB). This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed in this instruction is found in 10
U.S.C. 8013 and 10 U.S.C. Chapter 55, Privacy Act Statements, and AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act
Program.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision further defines responsibility for lock systems and multi-organization facilities; provides
additional detail for requesting enhanced lock systems such as cipher lock systems, cardkey, and other
new technology; updates estimated costs for replacement locks; updates office symbols and offices of
responsibility; and updates forms for facility manager assignment and requests for keys. A bar ( | ) indi-
cates new or revised material since last revision.


1. Responsibility. Commanders, building managers, and housing occupants are responsible for ensuring
individual and master keys are controlled according to this instruction.

2. Terms Explained.
   2.1. Base facilities: Facilities consisting of administrative offices, work shops, hangars, and miscella-
   neous structures that could have locks.
   2.2. AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request: Used to request work through 6th Civil
   Engineer Squadron (6 CES).
   2.3. Dormitories: Facilities that house enlisted permanent party personnel.
   2.4. Billeting: Visiting Officer Quarters, Visiting Airman Quarters, and Temporary Living Quarters.
2                                                        MACDILLAFBI32-108 5 SEPTEMBER 2003


    2.5. Housing: Military Family Housing (MFH) units on MacDill AFB to include MFH storage cubi-
    cles and garages.

3. General.
    3.1. MacDill AFB uses a grand master key system supplied by Best Manufacturing. There are five
    patterns to be used with this system. Separate patterns are designated for MFH, United States Central
    Command (USCENTCOM), United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), 6th Medical
    Group (6 MDG), and Base Facilities.
    3.2. Lock and Key Responsibility: 6 CES is responsible for the overall management of all door locks
    and keys on MacDill AFB base facilities. The MFH, USCENTCOM, USSOCOM, and 6 MDG will
    manage their own system and make their own keys in accordance with the Pattern 2 of the Best Lock
    System. Billeting (cardkey systems) will be managed and maintained by the 6th Services Squadron (6
    SVS).
    3.3. Special Use Systems:
       3.3.1. Cipher locks will be permitted as a convenience item and approved on a case-by-case basis
       by the Base Civil Engineer (BCE). Cipher locks will be allowed when it is necessary to isolate
       large visitor waiting areas from administrative areas that require separation due to sensitive mate-
       rial or mobility processing activities. Cipher locks on exterior doors must include a timeout tamper
       function that delays the code entry after an incorrect code. All approved cipher lock systems will
       be purchased by the requesting organization and maintained/repaired by 6 CES locksmith. Code
       changes will be performed by the using organization.
       3.3.2. Electrically operated door openers will be authorized in facilities such as command posts,
       fire alarm control rooms, or where an attendant is not authorized to leave their control station
       within a locked room.
       3.3.3. Requests for XO-7 or XO-8 lock systems must be submitted on an AF Form 332 and
       approved prior to installation on any facility. These lock systems will be installed, managed, and
       maintained by the using organization.
       3.3.4. Automatic opening doors are authorized for public use facilities where deemed appropriate
       by the BCE. These doors will be maintained and repaired by 6 CES through a service contract.
       Security turnstile doors will be installed, managed, and maintained by the using organization.
       3.3.5. Cardkey, optical, or other high security systems will be installed, managed, and maintained
       by the using organization.

4. Base Facility Procedures.
    4.1. General Concept: Each facility will have a separate master lock system with a master key to fit
    all locks in that facility, except mechanical rooms. When a facility is z-keyed, the Key Control Con-
    troller (6 CES/CEPC) will issue to the primary building manager one master key and the number of
    individual keys requested and justified for that facility. Signature for the keys will be on the format at
    Attachment 2.
    4.2. Duplication of Keys: 6 CES/CEPC will provide additional keys if the request is submitted on an
    AF Form 332 (format at Attachment 3) and signed by the facility manager. Requests for additional
    master keys must have the organizational commander’s signature in Blocks 11-13. This AF Form 332
MACDILLAFBI32-108 5 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                      3


   will be delivered to 6 CES/CEPC (Customer Service) for review and approval/accomplishment. If the
   request is approved, a Direct Scheduled Work Order will be issued to the locksmith for execution. The
   locksmith will fabricate the keys and give them to the Key Control Controller. The Key Control Con-
   troller will issue the keys to the primary facility manager. The primary building manager will be
   required to sign for the keys (Attachment 2). Master keys for custodial contractor will be issued
   directly to the Custodial Contract Specialist for issue to the base custodial contractor.
   4.3. Lock replacement: Arrangements for lock replacement will be made using an AF Form 332 sub-
   mitted to 6 CES/CEPC. When the replacement is required because of obvious abuse, vandalism, or
   burglary, the request must be signed by the organizational commander with a copy of the statement of
   charges or a police report attached. If replacement is required due to inadequate key control by the
   building manager or members of the organization, the organization will be responsible for the actual
   expenses required to duplicate keys or replace lock cores.
   4.4. Emergency Access: One grand master key will be issued to the Fire Protection Flight (6 CES/
   CEF) and kept in the alarm room. In emergencies, either 6 CES or 6th Security Forces Squadron (6
   SFS) personnel may sign out this key. The key will be returned as soon as possible, but will not be
   returned beyond 4 hours without calling the alarm room with an explanation. A Department of
   Defense (DoD) picture identification card or Company identification badge (for DoD contractors) will
   be required to sign out this key.

5. Housing Procedures.
   5.1. Key duplication: MFH occupants are issued four door keys and two cubicle or garage keys upon
   initial occupancy. Arrangements for additional or replacement MFH keys will be done at the 6 CES
   Housing Office at occupant’s expense at the cost listed in paragraph 5.3. Payment will be made at the
   6 CES Housing Office by cashier’s check or money order payable to the “Accounting and Finance
   Officer.”
   5.2. Lock replacement: Arrangement for lock replacement can be made by calling the 6 CES Housing
   Office. When lock replacement is required because of vandalism or burglary, a copy of the police
   report will be provided to the occupant. When the replacement is required because of obvious abuse,
   the Housing Officer will be notified by the housing maintenance contractor. In cases of abuse, replace-
   ment will not be made until the government is reimbursed at the rates shown in paragraph 5.3. Pay-
   ment will be made at the Housing Office by cashier’s check or money order payable to the
   “Accounting and Finance Officer.” After payment has been made, the Housing Officer will authorize
   the housing maintenance contractor to replace the locks.
   5.3. Reimbursement rates (estimated and subject to change):
      5.3.1. Duplicate key: $2.50 each.
      5.3.2. Replace entry locks: $124.00 each.
      5.3.3. Replace dead bolt lock: $64.00 each.
      5.3.4. Change out lock core: $12.00 each.
   5.4. Housing clearance: Upon clearance of housing unit, the occupant is required to return to the
   Housing Officer all keys that were issued. The Housing Officer will initiate reimbursement proce-
   dures at the rates indicated in paragraph 5.3. above for keys not returned.
4                                                      MACDILLAFBI32-108 5 SEPTEMBER 2003


6. Dormitory Procedures.
    6.1. Concept: Dormitories will have a master lock system incorporating the interchangeable remov-
    able core system. When a dormitory is re-keyed, the dormitory manager will be given one master key
    and two keys per room.
    6.2. Key duplication: Duplication of individual room keys will require an AF Form 332 signed by the
    dormitory manager. The form will be delivered to 6 CES/CEPC for approval/accomplishment. If a
    key is lost for a shared dormitory room, the lock core will be replaced and the individual losing the
    key will be charged the cost in paragraph 6.3.4. below. Payment for lost keys will be made to the dor-
    mitory manager by cashier’s check or money order payable to the “Accounting and Finance Officer.”
    6.3. Cost (estimated and subject to change):
       6.3.1. Replace lock: $155.00 plus labor.
       6.3.2. Install door repair kit: $30.00.
       6.3.3. Duplicate keys: $2.50.
       6.3.4. Replace one core: $12.00 plus labor.
       6.3.5. Replace master key and all locks in one dormitory: $1,300 material plus labor.
       6.3.6. Replace one door including lock and painting: $550.

7. Key Control.
    7.1. Building manager responsibility: Primary building managers are responsible to account for and
    the security of all keys that service their area. Commanders must establish security procedures to
    ensure no duplication of keys without the building manager’s knowledge and 6 CES approval. Build-
    ing managers are not responsible for keys to controlling areas that organizations use for safeguarding
    specialized equipment, sensitive documents, personal tool kits, etc. Building managers are responsible
    for collecting all keys from personnel on permanent change of station, discharge, or termination of
    employment. Building managers should establish their own internal key control system. Keys issued
    to personnel going on extended leave or on temporary duty assignment for over 30 days should be
    held by the building manager for safekeeping. Upon vacating a building or any assigned space, the
    building manager must return all keys to 6 CES/CEPR. Also, see MACDI 32-101, Designation of
    Individuals to be Responsible for Real Property Buildings and Facilities.
    7.2. Multi-organizational facilities: Facility keys should remain under one master key system. In
    facilities where more than one master key system is used, each area will have its own facility “Key
    Issue” document. Each area will be managed by the designated person responsible for their master key
    system and signed for prior to issuing new keys.
    7.3. Building managers terminated: When primary building managers out-process or are changed, the
    outgoing building manager is required to out-process/transfer accountability of keys through 6 CES/
    CEPC. The outgoing building manager will bring a Facility Manager Assignment Letter (Attachment
    4) signed by their organizational commander appointing the new facility manager and, accompanied
    by his/her replacement, report to 6 CES/CEPC to have key accountability transferred at that time.
    7.4. Dormitory managers terminated: When primary dormitory managers out-process or are changed,
    the outgoing dormitory manager is required to out-process/transfer accountability of keys through 6
MACDILLAFBI32-108 5 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                5


   CES/CEPC. The outgoing dormitory manager will bring a Facility Manager Assignment Letter signed
   by their organizational commander appointing the new facility manager and coordinated through the
   6 CES/CEH Dormitory Manager. The primary dormitory manager accompanied by his/her replace-
   ment, report to 6 CES CEPC to have key accountability transferred at that time.

8. Authority to Duplicate Keys. No agency or organization other than 6 CES, USCENTCOM, USSO-
COM, 6 MDG, NOAA, or MFH contractors on MacDill AFB has the authority to duplicate keys.



                                                 DAVID M. SNYDER, Colonel, USAF
                                                 Commander
6                                                    MACDILLAFBI32-108 5 SEPTEMBER 2003


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program
MACDI 32-101, Designation of Individuals to be Responsible for Real Property Buildings and Facilities
MACDILLAFBI32-108 5 SEPTEMBER 2003                 7


                              Attachment 2

                     ACCEPTANCE OF FACILITY KEYS
8               MACDILLAFBI32-108 5 SEPTEMBER 2003


        Attachment 3

    SAMPLE AF FORM 332
MACDILLAFBI32-108 5 SEPTEMBER 2003                  9


                              Attachment 4

                  APPOINTMENT OF BUILDING MANAGER
