BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                               34-610
                                                                                      17 AUGUST 2001

                                                                                                 Services

                                                            PRIME KNIGHT TRANSIENT AIRCREW
                                                                                   SUPPORT


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 6 AMW/CP (Lt Col M. Ho)                                                   Certified by: 6 AMW/CC
Supersedes MACDI 34-610, 27 February 1997                                                       Pages: 6
                                                                        Distribution: F; X-HQ AMC/SV

This instruction implements the Air Mobility Command (AMC) policy regarding support provided to all
transient aircrews entering crew rest at MacDill Air Force Base (AFB). This instruction establishes the
MacDill Prime Knight Program and defines policies and procedures to be followed by base agencies
when providing Prime Knight support to transient aircrews.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This publication supplements Air Force Instruction 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, Section 2.2.8
(Transient Aircrew Lodging), and provides specific guidance on implementation of the Prime Knight pro-
gram. Responsibility has been updated to reflect a new Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The
information from the data collected on 21 AF Form 1, Aircrew Support Questionnaire, and procedures
to report data are also reflected in this instruction. This instruction does not take precedence over AFI
34-246 and, if a discrepancy should arise, AFI 34-246 takes precedence.



1. General.
   1.1. Prime Knight is an all-encompassing activity for 6th Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW) units and is
   intended to maximize the mission readiness and effectiveness of any transient aircrew. The consoli-
   dated effort of aircrews, command post, base operations, transportation, food services, and lodging are
   critical in ensuring total mission support.
   1.2. The Command Post (6 AMW/CP) is the lead agency for the Prime Knight Program at MacDill
   AFB and will coordinate with the 6th Operations Group (6 OG), 6th Logistics Group (6 LG), and 6th
   Support Group (6 SPTG) as needed to provide necessary assistance for transient aircrews from arrival
   to departure. The appropriate group commander will ensure a Prime Knight point of contact (POC) is
   provided for transportation, food services, lodging, and base operations as a minimum. Each group is
   responsible for ensuring their staffs are trained and organized for Prime Knight support.
2                                                             MACDILLAFBI34-610 17 AUGUST 2001


2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. The Chief, Command Post (6 AMW/CP), serves as the MacDill AFB OPR, directs program
    implementation, reviews progress of the program and, in coordination with tasked agencies, provides
    recommendations to the Wing Commander (6 AMW/CC) on program adjustment. 6 AMW/CP col-
    lects 21 AF Forms 1 from Base Operations and compiles Prime Knight metrics to be forwarded to 21st
    Air Force Director of Operations (21 AF/DO) by the 10th of each month. Additionally, 6 AMW/CP
    will direct tracking of all inbound aircraft, initiate notification to tasked agencies on inbounds that will
    generate Prime Knight support, and inform tasked agencies of changes that impact Prime Knight sup-
    port.
    2.2. The Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) of Lodging, 6th Services Squadron (6 SVS/
    SVML), serves as action officer for 6 SVS in implementation of Project Prime Knight, reports
    progress of the program to 6 SVS/CC and higher levels of command, and serves as OPR for imple-
    mentation of Prime Knight lodging procedures.
    2.3. The NCOIC, Food Services (6 SVS/SVMF), serves as OPR for implementation of Prime Knight
    food service procedures.
    2.4. The Vehicle Operations Flight Commander, 6th Transportation Squadron (6 TRANS/LGTO),
    ensures availability of aircrew taxi or UDI support and ensures the key packet is picked up from 6
    SVS/SVML for Prime Knight transient aircrews, reports vehicle support problems to 6 SVS/SVML
    on an advance-notice basis, serves as OPR for implementation of Prime Knight vehicle operations
    procedures, and designates subordinate action officers as appropriate.
    2.5. The Chief, Airfield Management, 6th Operations Support Squadron (6 OSS/OSAA), in the nor-
    mal course of duty, alerts the Command Post of any inbound aircraft that requests Prime Knight sup-
    port, keeps the Command Post informed of changes in aircraft arrival status, collects and forwards 21
    AF Forms 1 to 6 AMW/CP by the 25th of each month, serves as OPR for implementation of Prime
    Knight Base Operations procedures, and designates subordinate action officers as appropriate.

3. Definition.
    3.1. Prime Knight is a Chief of Staff Air Force initiative to improve support to transient aircrews. The
    concept is to provide aircrews “keys, wheels, and ready access to meals” upon arrival at an installa-
    tion. This ensures the aircrew gets into “crew rest” as quickly as possible.
    3.2. Crew rest is a required break during a flying mission, prescribed in accordance with AFI 11-202,
    V3, Chapter 9, General Flight Rules, lasting up to 12 hours. During this break in flight mission, flight
    crews must be afforded uninterrupted rest.
    3.3. Transient aircrews, by the nature of their mission, require and must receive rapid, hassle-free ser-
    vice from host air base support agencies. Agencies tasked by this instruction will work together to
    ensure that Prime Knight aircrews are given a quiet, comfortable atmosphere to appropriately fulfill
    crew rest requirements.

4. Procedures.
    4.1. The 6 AMW Prime Knight Manager will:
       4.1.1. Develop plans and policies for the management of the Prime Knight program to ensure
       effective delivery to transient aircrews of transportation, lodging, and access to meals.
MACDILLAFBI34-610 17 AUGUST 2001                                                                      3


     4.1.2. Provide a central point for temporary storage of classified aircrew material.
     4.1.3. Provide an appropriate program critique system and monitor the effectiveness of the pro-
     gram through established management indicators.
     4.1.4. Ensure an Aircrew Coordinator meets each aircraft. This person will provide the aircraft
     commander with transportation, lodging keys or hotel assignments, packaging material for classi-
     fied information (if needed), current mission cut, 21 AF Form 1, and a base information package.
     In times of aircraft over-saturation or limited manning, information packages and keys can be
     picked up at the 6 AMW Command Post.
  4.2. Aircrew Coordinator will:
     4.2.1. Confirm crew rest accommodations on or off base have been reserved by installation lodg-
     ing function, and room keys, contracts, hotel assignments, or reservation numbers are provided to
     aircrew upon block-in.
     4.2.2. Confirm transportation has been secured for aircrew movement from the aircraft to crew
     rest accommodations upon arrival, and from crew rest accommodations to aircraft to begin depar-
     ture sequence.
     4.2.3. Meet aircraft within 10 minutes of block-in or the time requested by the aircraft com-
     mander with items identified in paragraph 4.1.4.
     4.2.4. Provide prompt resolution (with assistance from the Prime Knight Manager) of C2, trans-
     portation, lodging, or food service problems during the aircrew’s stay at MacDill AFB.
  4.3. 6 SVS will:
     4.3.1. Provide reservations capability to Prime Knight aircrews 24-hours a day.
     4.3.2. Prepare Prime Knight packages as required to support on base and off base lodging require-
     ments.
         4.3.2.1. On Base Lodging: Pre-register aircrews, assemble keys and put them in the Prime
         Knight information packet for pickup by 6 TRANS/LGTO. (On base lodging will be used to
         the maximum extent possible to maximize mission execution and limited demand on support
         activities.)
         4.3.2.2. Off Base Lodging: Coordinate lodging accommodations with local area hotels and
         assemble the necessary documents (certificates of nonavailability, maps, directions to contract
         quarters, community information, etc.) to support off base lodging for pickup by 6 TRANS/
         LGTO.
     4.3.3. Ensure keys and information packets are prepared prior to aircrew arrival and provide for
     pickup by 6 TRANS/LGTO.
     4.3.4. Establish an express checkout system for aircrews staying in government quarters.
     4.3.5. Assign each aircrew member to a single room. (Aircrew members are defined as anyone on
     the flight crew order. Crew integrity will be maintained. All members of the same crew will be
     housed either all on base or all off base.) If the crew is to be divided into multiple buildings on
     base, ensure rooms are conveniently located such that no more than two stops will be required to
     pick up all aircrew members. During contingency operations, refer to AFI 34-246.
4                                                           MACDILLAFBI34-610 17 AUGUST 2001


          4.3.5.1. Ensure rooms will be available for immediate occupancy upon aircrew arrival.
          4.3.5.2. Ensure rooms are clean and comfortable to be conducive to crew rest.
       4.3.6. Ensure gender is considered when assigning lodging to aircrews.
    4.4. 6 SVS/SVMF will:
       4.4.1. Provide the Lodging Office with a menu from the flight kitchen and operation hours of the
       flight kitchen and base appropriated fund dining facilities for inclusion in the Prime Knight infor-
       mation packet.
       4.4.2. Respond to aircrew requests for meals.
       4.4.3. Develop aircrew 24-hour dining plan (location and times) that will allow aircrews access to
       a hot meal upon arrival and departure. Off-base dining facilities in this plan should be no more
       than 20 minutes travel time from MacDill AFB to dining facilities. A hot meal is defined as a
       breakfast, lunch, or dinner style serving at an establishment that allows for a choice of menu selec-
       tions and allows an aircrew to sit down and dine in a comfortable environment. Base Dining Facil-
       ities fulfill the intent and requirement for hot meals.
    4.5. 6 TRANS/LGTO will:
       4.5.1. Meet aircraft within 10 minutes of the time requested by the aircrew or command post. If
       over-saturation limits this ability, notify the command post and respond as soon as possible, or
       arrange for alternate means of transportation.
       4.5.2. Provide authorized transportation to aircrew members during their stay to ensure mission
       and support requirements are met (i.e., transportation to Base Operations, C2 facilities, Base
       Exchange, Dining Facilities, Fitness Center, transport crew chiefs to and from aircraft, etc). Trans-
       portation will attempt to pick up aircrew at requested time, workload permitting, in accordance
       with published transportation priorities.
       4.5.3. Respond to the aircrew’s request for departure pickup within 10 minutes of established
       pickup time. If over-saturation limits this ability, notify the aircrew and respond as soon as possi-
       ble or arrange for alternate means of transportation.
       4.5.4. Ensure keys and information packets are picked up at the Lodging Front Desk and deliv-
       ered to the command post prior to the aircraft arrival.
    4.6. 6 AMW/CP will:
       4.6.1. Track all inbound/outbound aircraft under the installation’s command and control.
       4.6.2. Not accept Prime Knight requests if the aircraft is due to arrive at MacDill AFB with less
       than 24-hours lead-time to prepare Prime Knight support. (reference AFI 34-246, paragraph
       2.2.8.6).
       4.6.3. Obtain PPR number, all crew member’s names, rank, and gender, a government credit card
       number of at least one crew member, aircraft call sign, arrival and departure times, and POC infor-
       mation from the requesting individual during the initial request for Prime Knight support. If the
       requesting party does not provide any of the above information, controllers will not process the
       Prime Knight request and explain to the requestor the reason support cannot be provided. Control-
       ler will inform the requestor that they will be responsible for canceling reservations to preclude
MACDILLAFBI34-610 17 AUGUST 2001                                                                    5


     “No Shows” and guarantee hold charges due to mission changes, i.e., weather diverts, cancella-
     tions, re-routes, etc. (reference AMCI 34-1, paragraph 3.9.3).
     4.6.4. Notify tasked agencies (transportation, lodging, and food service) of inbounds that may
     generate Prime Knight support. All information is required to perform the Prime Knight program.
     4.6.5. Inform tasked agencies of any change in anticipated Prime Knight support immediately
     when notified by aircrew or their representative of requested changes.
     4.6.6. If an Aircrew Coordinator is not available due to limited manning, provide Prime Knight
     package to aircrews on arrival at the command post.
     4.6.7. If applicable, temporarily store classified material for aircrews.
  4.7. 6 OSS/OSAA will:
     4.7.1. Take the initial call from the aircrews inquiring if they request “Prime Knight”. If Prime
     Knight is requested, 6 OSS will transfer the caller to the Command Post. If Prime Knight is not
     requested, 6 OSS will annotate the information and forward to 6 AMW/CP by the 25th of each
     month to be included in the monthly metrics slide.
     4.7.2. Collect the 21 AF Form 1 from aircrews and provide them to 6 AMW/CP by the 25th of
     each month to be consolidated and reported in slide metrics form.
     4.7.3. Alert the Command Post of any inbound aircraft that would generate Prime Knight support.
     4.7.4. Notify the Command Post immediately of changes in aircraft arrival status.



                                                   WILLIAM W. HODGES, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                   Commander
6                     MACDILLAFBI34-610 17 AUGUST 2001


            ATTACHMENT 1

    AIRCREW SUPPORT QUESTIONNAIRE
