BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                              INSTRUCTION 31-200

                                                                                25 APRIL 2013

                                                                                        Security

                                                  JUVENILE CURFEW AND SUPERVISION



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 6 SFS/S5S                                                           Certified by: 6 SFS/CC
                                                                          (Lt Col James Zirkel)
Supersedes:   MACDILLAFBI31-200,                                                         Pages: 5
              4 June 2010


This instruction establishes juvenile curfew and supervision policies that affect all military
family members and guests on MacDill Air Force Base (AFB). Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force      Records     Information      Management        System     (AFRIMS)      located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Para 3.1 adds
custody verification by BDOC; Para 4.1. changes “guidelines” to “standards”; Para 4.2.2.1
through 4.2.3.1 changes all instances of “should” to “will”; and Para 4.4. adds the Florida State
Statute standards as they relate to child abuse.
 2                                                       MACDILLAFBI31-200 25 APRIL 2013


1. Curfew Policy.
     1.1. Unsupervised family members and guests under the age of 16 years will not loiter, play,
     drive, walk, or wander on any part of MacDill AFB, including all housing areas, between the
     hours of:
        1.1.1. 2200 - 0500, Sunday through Thursday nights.
        1.1.2. 2400 - 0500, Friday and Saturday nights and evenings before legal holidays.
     1.2. Family members and guests under the age of 16 years will leave all base activities in
     sufficient time to comply with the established curfew hours and go to their homes by the
     most direct sidewalk or street. Loitering in the areas of base facilities after their closing is
     prohibited.
     1.3. Unaccompanied family members and guests will not enter any building, structure, or
     area not expressly designed for their use unless prior approval has been obtained from the
     controlling agency.
     1.4. The military sponsor, parent, or another responsible adult will personally escort family
     members’ children and guests after curfew hours.
2. Exceptions to Curfew Policy.
     2.1. If requested in writing by the military sponsor, an extension of the curfew hours may be
     granted by the Commander, 6th Mission Support Group (6 MSG/CC).
     2.2. Curfew hours may be extended by 6 MSG/CC for special community activities. These
     extensions will be published in the official bulletin and/or base newspaper.
3. Violations of Curfew.
     3.1. 6th Security Forces Squadron (6 SFS) patrols will detain curfew violators and transport
     them to Building 203, Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC). The military sponsor or
     parent will be notified and requested to respond and receive custody of his/her family
     member(s) or guest(s). In the event the parent or sponsor cannot be contacted, the sponsor’s
     first sergeant and/or commander will be notified, and respond to assume custody of the
     juvenile until contact with the sponsor is established by the person assuming custody. (Note:
     The first sergeant or commander may designate an individual from their squadron to respond
     and assume custody.) Prior to assuming custody, BDOC will verify the identity of the
     individual or designee.
     3.2. In all cases, a blotter entry will be accomplished on the Security Forces Blotter without
     indicating the juvenile’s name or the name of the sponsor. The blotter entry will contain the
     sponsor’s organization and the juvenile’s age and gender. In addition, an AF Form 3545,
     Incident Report, will be accomplished for curfew violations and notification will be made to
     Family Advocacy.
     3.3. Incident/complaint reports documenting violations of this instruction may be referred to
     the Juvenile Corrections Board (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”). Pursuant to
     MACDILLAFBI 51-100, Disposition of Juvenile Misconduct Cases, the Board shall have the
     authority to hear any and all cases involving violations of this instruction. The Board
     administrator shall have the primary responsibility to determine whether the referred case is
MACDILLAFBI31-200 25 APRIL 2013                                                                 3


   worthy of the Board’s consideration. Upon presentation to the Board, the Board shall have
   the authority and discretion to recommend to the installation commander the imposition of
   any punishment or combination of punishments as prescribed under MACDILLAFBI 51-
   100.
4. Juvenile Supervision.
   4.1. Children are important to us. We must all ensure their safety and well being. Failure to
   meet these minimal standards places a child in danger, and could result in a referral to Family
   Advocacy. If standards are not followed and a child is injured, the parents could be held
   responsible.
   4.2. These guidelines are written to assist the parents with developing a child safety plan. It
   is important before deciding to leave children alone to assess whether or not the children are
   comfortable being left alone, whether they are emotionally mature enough to be left alone
   and, finally, whether or not there is a safety plan in place. In general, always use common
   sense to guide your actions. Remember, if you leave your child alone and something
   happens that could have been prevented by the presence of adequate supervision, you may be
   held responsible for the consequences of your child’s actions. When leaving your child alone
   for the first time, do so only for a short period of time and work up to longer periods. Family
   Advocacy recommends the following Home Alone Guidelines:
      4.2.1. Within the community:
          4.2.1.1. Age 5 and under: Need constant supervision. Cannot walk to school unless
          under the supervision of an adult or a child at least 9 years old.
          4.2.1.2. Ages 6 to 8: Need periodic supervision (recommend hourly checks). Can
          play outside in the vicinity of their own homes as long as they are not near high
          traffic areas. They may walk to school. The child must be in a designated area where
          the supervisor can check on him/her and the child must know where their supervisor
          is at all times.
          4.2.1.3. Ages 9 to 15: Need occasional supervision (recommend checks every two to
          three hours).
          4.2.1.4. Ages 16 to 18: Free to be out in community with the express permission of
          their guardian without direct supervision.
      4.2.2. Inside the home:
          4.2.2.1. Age 8 and under: Will not be left unsupervised at home.
          4.2.2.2. Ages 9 to 11: Will not be left unsupervised at home except for reasonably
          short periods of time (no longer than three hours).
          4.2.2.3. Only children 12 years or older may baby-sit. Recommend the Red Cross
          Babysitting course.
          4.2.2.4. When a child age 9 and over is left alone, he/she is left with a key,
          emergency telephone numbers (including the number where parents can be reached),
          and the expected time of parents’ return. In addition, the child will have the name
          and telephone number of an adult who can be immediately available in case of an
          emergency. The designated adult must be aware of his/her responsibility.
 4                                                      MACDILLAFBI31-200 25 APRIL 2013


        4.2.3. In motor vehicles:
            4.2.3.1. A child under the age of 12 shall not be left unattended in a vehicle for any
            period. Furthermore, the vehicle will not, under any circumstances, be left with the
            keys in the ignition.
     4.3. For more information on these guidelines, contact the Family Advocacy Program staff
     members.
     4.4. Florida Statutes will be used when the individual is non-military (dependent, retiree,
     civilian, etc). The following Florida Statute is current as of the date of this instruction but
     may change. Additionally, they are not all inclusive.
        4.4.1. FL Statute 827.03 outlines all forms of child abuse. Refer to the statute for
        specific paragraph reference(s) when writing your citation.
5. Responsibilities. The on-duty Flight Leader/Flight Chief is responsible for ensuring
compliance with the procedures outlined herein. He/she will make a determination of proper
action in cases not covered by instructions.




                                              SCOTT V. DETHOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
MACDILLAFBI31-200 25 APRIL 2013                                                5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
MACDILLAFBI 51-100, Disposition of Juvenile Misconduct Cases, 2 January 1996
Forms Prescribed
None
Forms Adopted
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF3545, Incident Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 SFS—6th Security Forces Squadron
6 SPTG—6th Support Group
6 MSG—6th Mission Support Group
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
CC—Commander
MACDILLAFBI—MacDill Air Force Base Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
