BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 33-114

                                                                             25 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                     SOFTWARE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 6 CS/SCOO                                                              Certified by: 6 CS/CC
                                                                            (Lt Col Marlyce Roth)
                                                                                           Pages: 7


This instruction establishes policies and procedures for acquisition, approval, and use of
Commercial-Off-the-Shelf (COTS), Government-Off-the-Shelf (GOTS) software applications in
accordance to Executive Order (E.O.) 13103, Computer Software Piracy, September 30, 1998. It
also outlines the duties and responsibilities of the Base Computer Systems Officer (CSO), unit
commanders, Base Software License Managers (BSLM), and Unit Software License Managers
(USLM). This instruction applies to all units on MacDill Air Force Base utilizing the AREA52
network. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. (T-1)

1. 6 CS/CC:
   1.1. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate BSLM. Appointment letters will be
   reviewed annually and forwarded to the Command Software License Manager (CSLM) at
   Headquarters, Air Mobility Command (HQ AMC).
   1.2. Ensure overall program functionality and provide assistance to the BSLM when
   necessary.
 2                                              MACDILLAFBI33-114 25 FEBRUARY 2014


2. Roles and Responsibilities:
     2.1. All unit commanders will:
        2.1.1. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate USLM and ensure the appropriate
        training is completed. Appointment letters will be reviewed annually and forwarded to
        the BSLM.
        2.1.2. Ensure incoming and outgoing software license managers conduct a joint
        inventory of all licensed software and endorse all inventories.
        2.1.3. Certify to the BSLM an annual inventory was accomplished for all unit computer
        software. Accomplish certification by signing the annual inventory or memorandum and
        indicate the unit’s annual software license inventory has been accomplished. Complete
        this certification each year no later than the day the USLM was officially appointed or
        when directed by the BLSM.
        2.1.4. Ensure software acquisitions are coordinated through the respective channels as
        outlined in paragraph 5 of this instruction.
        2.1.5. Ensure the USLM is notified of all deliveries of new software licenses and copies
        of licensing material are provided to the USLM. Ensure the BSLM is informed so the
        software is added to the unit’s software inventory.
        2.1.6. Ensure necessary training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique
        software purchased or developed by the unit.
        2.1.7. Ensure the Air Force enterprise license agreement contracts are used to procure
        common-user desktop software on new computer orders.
        2.1.8. Alternatively, waived from 1.1, Unit CCs annually certifies they have no software
        requiring USLM responsibilities. Unit CC will notify BSLM if unit requires software
        and appoint USLMs.
     2.2. BSLM Responsibilities:
        2.2.1. The BSLM is the overall 6th Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW) focal point for software
        license management. The BSLM will contact the major command (MAJCOM) Software
        License Manager (AMC/A6NN) for any assistance with the program or direction on
        established software site licenses.
        2.2.2. Perform the duties of the USLM for the 6 CS only and complete the required
        Computer Based Training (CBT).
        2.2.3. Maintain a locked cabinet to store COTS software licenses and associated
        documentation for 6 CS users only. A locally developed database or spreadsheet will be
        maintained on SharePoint® listing necessary information for each software title stored.
        2.2.4. Conduct annual meetings/training with all USLMs. Provide software license
        training for newly appointed BSLMs, USLMs, and Client Support Administrators (CSA).
        Utilize the base Intranet and SharePoint® to the maximum extent possible as a tool to
        educate all users. This training will include, but should not be limited to:
MACDILLAFBI33-114 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                           3


        2.2.4.1. Ensure USLMs complete the U.S. Air Force Software License Management
        and Anti-Piracy computer-based training, located on the Air Force Portal > IT-
        ELearning > USAF Custom Courses.
        2.2.4.2. Explain the basics of software licenses and The Copyright Act.
        2.2.4.3. Ensuring USLMs are familiar with AFI 33-114, paragraph 9
        2.2.4.4. Explaining how to maintain accurate records of installed software.
        2.2.4.5. Ensuring Commercial-off-the-Shelf (COTS) application has a license.
        2.2.4.6. Identifying software that does not have associated licenses, coordinating with
        USLMs for assembling proofs of purchase, and requesting replacement licenses from
        publishers, as needed.
     2.2.5. Ensure USLMs maintain a software inventory of all government owned/COTS
     software in use within their unit.
     2.2.6. Ensure each unit performs an annual inventory of all software, licenses, and
     corresponding documentation of unit software. Ensure the unit commander endorses and
     forwards a copy to the BSLM.
     2.2.7. Perform periodic compliance visits to base units and tenant organizations who
     utilize the AREA52 domain. Inspect each unit account annually to verify compliance.
     2.2.8. Maintain a current list of all USLMs.
     2.2.9. Ensure automated tools are used to the maximum extent possible for tracking
     software installed on the base network.
     2.2.10. Verify new acquisitions against the approved software list. Do not approve
     acquisitions without a valid Certificate to Operate (CTO). Functional areas requesting
     approval to purchase software not on the approved list must follow the established
     process to obtain a CTO unless the software is exempt from requiring a CTO.
     2.2.11. Publish a formal “Base Software Users Guide” that provides implementation
     information on how to obtain software and methods to cross check installed copies of
     software with licenses held.
     2.2.12. Annually certify in writing to the CSLM that an annual software inventory was
     accomplished and the provisions of this directive have been met. Reports will be due to
     the CSLM not later than the anniversary date of the BSLM’s appointment.
  2.3. USLM Responsibilities:
     2.3.1. The USLM is the focal point to assist unit members with the acquisition and/or
     approval process for any required COTS software. The USLM will maintain a continuity
     binder that will include their appointment letter, unit software license tracking sheets,
     loose software and documentation, applicable Air Force Instructions (AFI), and this
     instruction. The USLM will also complete the Air Force Software Licensing Manager &
     Anti-Piracy CBT located on the IT-ELearning website within 30 days of appointment.
     This training or a local training provided by the BSLMs will be accomplished annually.
     The CBT is located on the Air Force Portal at IT E-Learning/USAF Custom Courses Air
     Force Software Licensing Management & Anti-Piracy.
4                                               MACDILLAFBI33-114 25 FEBRUARY 2014


       2.3.2. Ensure all COTS software purchased by unit personnel is registered with the
       appropriate unit designation as the owner of the software licenses. A locally developed
       database or spreadsheet will be used to record necessary data from each software item
       and updated as items are added or deleted.
       2.3.3. Conduct (and document) an annual inventory and audit of all licensed COTS
       software within the organization. During this annual inventory, the software manager
       will dispose of old or outdated versions according to the license agreement.
       2.3.4. Store evidence of license agreements (user manuals, purchase documentation, CD-
       ROMs, etc.) and physical software media in a secure location (locked drawer, file
       cabinet, room, etc.). If software needs to be issued, it will be documented on the software
       license tracking sheet in the continuity binder.
       2.3.5. Identify software without associated licenses, assemble proofs of purchase, and
       request replacement licenses from publishers, as needed.
       2.3.6. Perform a joint inventory of COTS software before transferring responsibility to
       another software license manager. Ensure the unit commander endorses the hard-copy
       report.
       2.3.7. Act as liaison between personal computer (PC) users and BSLM.
       2.3.8. Support and implement the base software license program.
       2.3.9. Coordinate training with the BSLM, as needed.
       2.3.10. Coordinate with the BSLM, Functional System Administrators (FSAs), users,
       and/or purchasers on all software acquisitions.
       2.3.11. Receive all new software, inform the BSLM of the new software, and become
       familiar with license agreements prior to releasing software for installation.
       2.3.12. Become familiar with license agreements of software used in his/her
       organizations.
       2.3.13. Do not approve purchases of any software until it is in compliance with
       paragraph 3.10 requirements.
    2.4. CST/FSA Responsibilities:
       2.4.1. Notify USLMs when installing software from shared folders or using installation
       compact read-only memory disks.
       2.4.2. Notify USLMs when uninstalling, upgrading, or performing any actions that
       change the amount or number of licensed software products installed on the base
       network.
       2.4.3. Ensure software covered by an enterprise license agreement is not transferred with
       hardware when performing Information Technology Hardware Asset Management
       transfers.
       2.4.4. Not purchase or obtain software without prior coordination of the USLM.
    2.5. Each PC User Responsibilities:
       2.5.1. Assist USLMs with software inventories on PCs as required.
MACDILLAFBI33-114 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                          5


     2.5.2. Not install or remove any software application without first coordinating with the
     USLM.
     2.5.3. Not make any illegal copies of copyrighted software.
     2.5.4. Not install personally owned software on his/her government system unless DAA
     approval is obtained and documented in the Certification and Accreditation package or
     the Department of Defense (DoD) Information and Technology Security Certification
     Process (DITSCAP). Refer to DoD Instruction 52040, Information and Technology
     Security Certification.
     2.5.5. Report all unauthorized or illegal software on his/her system to the USLM for
     resolution.




                                          SCOTT V. DETHOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 6                                           MACDILLAFBI33-114 25 FEBRUARY 2014


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Program (AFCAP), 23 December
2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Executive Order 13103, Computer Software Piracy
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMW—6th Air Mobility Wing
6 CS/SCOO—6th Communications Squadron, Network Control Center
AFCA—Air Force Communications Agency
AF—GIG - Air Force Global Information Grid
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AIS—Automated Information System
BSLM—Base Software License Manager
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CoP—Community of Practice
COTS—Commercial Off-The-Shelf
CSA—Client Support Administrator
CSLM—Command Software License Manager
CSO—Computer Systems Officer
CTO—Certificate to Operate
DoD—Department of Defense
E/APL—Enterprise/Approved Products Listing
MACDILLAFBI33-114 25 FEBRUARY 2014         7


FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
GOTS—Government Off-the-Shelf
HQ AMC—Headquarters Air Mobility Command
IA—Information Assurance
IS—Information System
IT—Information Technology
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SDC—Standard Desktop Configuration
SMS—System Management Server
USLM—Unit Software License Manager
