BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                             INSTRUCTION 10-243

                                                                          6 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                   Operations

                                                       AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 6 AMW/XPI                                        Certified by: 6 AMW/XP (Maj Johnston)
                                                                                  Pages: 11
Supersedes:   MACDILLAFBI10-243,
              11 February 2013


This instruction establishes local guidelines for a successful Augmentation Duty (AD) Program
at MacDill Air Force Base (AFB). This publication applies to all officer and enlisted personnel
assigned to MacDill AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at.
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 through
the appropriate chain of command. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the following: Changed “Mission Partners” to “Teammates” (1). Amended augmentee
requirement to Security Forces (SF) and Search and Recovery (S&R) only (2). Amended wing
manning standard ratios (4.8). Added note stating Honor Guard personnel will “augment” the
S&R AD team (5.3). Added note with location and title of augmentee database (5.5). Complete
Re-write of Attachment 1, 2, 3, and 4 (A1, A2, A3, A4). Complete Re-write of Tables A4.1,
A4.2, and A4.3 (A4.1, A4.2, A4.3).
 2                                               MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013


1. Program Mission. The AD Program is designed to identify, place, and train a pool of
individuals to temporarily augment 6th Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW) units that will be short of
required manpower during exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations to include
deployments. This program is not intended to augment unit manning shortages during normal,
routine work schedules or for long term operations.
2. Policy. Installation plans and scenarios drive the requirement for AD work center teams.
Units that lead these teams appoint AD Team Chiefs who develop proposed augmentation
requirements, equipment needs, and training plans. The AD Program, governed by AFPAM 10-
243, exists to utilize people assets in other than their normal assigned or Air Force Specialty
Code (AFSC) duties. Augmentees will perform AD duties in accordance with this instruction
and AFPAM 10-243. Once appointed, the standard obligation is to serve a minimum of one year
in their AD position following full training. The use of civilians in the MacDill AD Program is
not normally encouraged due to legal, regulatory, bargaining agreement, and financial concerns.
These issues must all be addressed before assigning qualified, volunteer civilian personnel to AD
duties.
3. Assumptions. The MacDill AD Program is designed to activate the deployment related
functions of SF and S&R augmentation.
4. Responsibilities. The agencies key to the success of the AD Program and their individual
responsibilities are the Vice Commander; Group commanders; 6th Force Support Squadron;
Manpower and Organization Section (6 FSS/FSMM); group AD Monitors, AD Team Chiefs,
squadron commanders, the AD Council (ADC), and Wing Plans (6 AMW/XP). The ADC
approves the request and forwards the requirement to the 6 AMW/XP for certification with a
validation by 6 FSS/FSMM. Once these taskings are approved by the ADC, the group AD
monitors fill the taskings. A well thought out, effective AD Program is essential to the success
of any augmented operation.
     4.1. Wing Commander. The Wing Commander (6 AMW/CC) may authorize the activation
     of AD personnel at any time deemed necessary. Group commanders and 6 AMW Director of
     Staff (DoS) will release AD personnel immediately.
     4.2. Vice Commander. The Vice Commander (6 AMW/CV) is the owner of the MacDill
     AD Program, serving as chair of the ADC. 6 AMW/XP will chair the Augmentation Duty
     Working Group (ADWG) and manage the AD Program on behalf of the CV.
     4.3. Group Commanders and 6 AMW DoS. Serve as members of the ADC and appoint (in
     writing) group AD monitors to manage their group AD programs. Group commanders and 6
     AMW DoS will forward copies of the appointment letters to 6 AMW/XP. Group
     commanders and 6 AMW DoS will use the ADC as the venue for new augmentation
     requirements, to include validated numbers by 6 FSS/FSMM.
     4.4. 6 AMW/XP. Serves as the MacDill AD Program Facilitator and is directly responsible
     to the 6 AMW/CV for program administration, and managing and coordinating all aspects of
     the AD Program. 6 AMW/XP will coordinate a semiannual review of team requirements and
     unit tasks, report statistical data as required, and attend the ADC meetings. As AD Program
     Facilitator, 6 AMW/XP will produce ADC meeting agendas, maintain appointment letters for
     all group AD monitors and Team Chiefs and, as ADC recorder, publish meeting minutes.
MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                         3


     4.4.1. 6 FSS/FSMM will assist the ADC in determining manpower requirements under
     locally defined scenarios and appropriately compute augmentation requirements. They
     will review and validate all requirements, presenting their recommendation to the ADC.
  4.5. Squadron Commanders. Squadron commanders will appoint, in writing, an AD Team
  Chief for each team assigned to their squadron, and appoint in writing augmentees to AD
  teams. Forward copies of appointment letters to 6 AMW/XP, the group AD Monitor, and
  supported AD Team Chief.
     4.5.1. The commander, the group AD monitors, and the AD Team Chief should make
     every attempt to replace departing augmentees as soon as possible, generally not later
     than 60 days prior to removal from AD, to allow time for appropriate replacement
     qualification training.
     4.5.2. Ensure augmentees are assigned to AD teams for a period of at least one year.
     Squadron commanders must release augmentees for scheduled AD training, release
     augmentees to their AD Team Chiefs at Warning Order, again at Execution Order, and as
     determined during recalls. Immediately inform group AD monitor when unable to fill
     taskings (shortfalls).
  4.6. AD Council (ADC). The ADC approves and prioritizes requirements and is chaired by
  the 6 AMW/CV. The ADC is attended by Group commanders or their designated
  representatives, the 6 AMW DoS, and Group AD monitors. 6 FSS/FSMM and the 6th Force
  Support Squadron Commander (6 FSS/CC) serve as principal advisors to the ADC.
  Squadron commanders and/or group AD Team Chiefs may attend the ADC at group
  commander discretion.
     4.6.1. The ADC, scheduled by 6 AMW/XP, will meet twice a year or as needed to
     provide oversight of the AD Program, review and approve any new requirements,
     allocate/reallocate taskings to fill augmentation requirements as deemed necessary,
     resolve any issues requiring attention, and approve taskings. 6 AMW/XP will coordinate
     with 6 FSS/FSMM for any reviews in conjunction with the meetings.
  4.7. 6 FSS Manpower and Organization Section. The 6 FSS/FSMM will assist the ADC in
  determining manpower requirements under locally defined scenarios and appropriately
  compute augmentation requirements. They will review and validate all requirements,
  presenting their recommendation to the ADC.
  4.8. Group AD Monitors.         Program management oversight is provided to Group
  commanders and 6 AMW DoS through group monitors. Group monitors will provide the
  equitable distribution of AD tasks within their group and coordinate with other group
  monitors for any additional support. Group monitors ensure sufficient numbers of personnel
  and alternate personnel are trained, equipped, and available to serve, should the primary
  assigned individual be unavailable for duty. The MacDill manning standard for SF
  Augmentees is a 2.0 ratio above the requirement. Maintenance Group’s (MXG) manning
  standard is a 3.0 ratio above the requirement. The MacDill manning standard for S&R is a
  1.25 ratio above the requirement.
     4.8.1. Group AD monitors will work with squadron commanders in their group to
     identify replacements as soon as current members are projected for departure.
     Replacement personnel should be trained before the previous member is no longer
4                                               MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013


      available. If an augmentee receives a profile or notice for extended temporary duty
      (TDY), the group monitor will work with their respective squadron commander to
      provide a permanent replacement. Group monitors notify AD team chiefs in writing
      under the signature of member’s squadron commander of any change in augmentee
      status.
      4.8.2. Ensure augmentees are identified and selected that have at least one year of
      retainability. When selecting personnel for the AD program, group monitors and
      commanders should consider that personnel might be activated for extended periods of
      time based on the nature of the contingency. Coordinate with Unit Deployment
      Managers (UDM) to select augmentees that do not fill known unit type code (UTC)
      deployment requirements to the maximum extent possible. Ensure the squadron
      commander signs letters of notification.
      4.8.3. Maintain a roster to track individual augmentee status. This data consists of the
      individual’s rank, name, date assigned to AD, date trained, and status. Group monitors
      shall populate one shared wing master tracking system developed by XP to which the
      Team Chiefs have access. Group AD monitors will immediately notify team chiefs and
      squadron commanders when personnel assigned are unavailable for duty. Validate use of
      AD Master Database.
    4.9. AD Team Chiefs. AD Team Chiefs are supported by group monitors with AD
    augmentees with the following responsibilities:
      4.9.1. AD Team Chiefs will be appointed by squadron commanders for their respective
      teams. AD Team Chief and group monitor should not be the same person. AD team
      chiefs will develop training programs, schedule, conduct, and document augmentee
      training within their respective team. AD Team Chiefs will brief their augmentees on the
      requirements. They will provide a quarterly AD training schedule to appropriate Group
      AD monitors and may track augmentee training using any method they see as appropriate
      for their unique team needs. Team Chiefs will provide training documentation, such as
      AF Form 2426, Training Request and Completion Notification, or a training certificate to
      provide a written record of training to the individual’s assigned unit. As training is
      conducted, they will provide a list of augmentee training no-shows, vacancies, and
      problems to respective squadron commanders and group monitors, with copy to 6
      AMW/XP not later than 24 hours after augmentees are declared no-shows for training.
         4.9.1.1. 6th Medical Group (6 MDG) AD personnel will be provided at least four-
         week notice prior to any scheduled training event.
      4.9.2. AD Team Chiefs will provide quarterly training reports to group AD monitors and
      6 AMW/XP, identifying all assigned augmentees and their status of training. The report
      should address augmentee usage, any upcoming scheduled training, any no-shows for
      duty or training, and highlight any unit not meeting their AD tasking. This report is due
      not later than close of business on the 5th day of the quarter following the report period.
      4.9.3. AD Team Chiefs will maintain an accurate, up-to-date listing of all augmentees
      assigned to their teams. AD Team Chiefs will coordinate all changes of team
      requirements with group AD monitors and their respective group commander, and then
MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                              5


      send changes to group AD monitors and 6 AMW/XP for FSMM who will address
      changes at the ADC.
      4.9.4. AD Team Chiefs ensure augmentees are aware of the required equipment and any
      specialized clothing not normally issued. Augmentees are responsible for maintaining a
      clothing inventory for required duties, however the augmentee’s unit will fund for
      required training, necessary equipment, uniform items (rain gear, cold weather gear, etc.),
      and safety gear (steel-toed boots, leather work gloves, reflective belts, etc.).
   4.10. AD Personnel. The personnel assigned to augmentation duty will be informed in
   writing by their squadron or group commanders. They will receive briefings from their AD
   Team Chief on required training and equipment. Members will inform their group AD
   monitors through their chain of command of any discrepancy that would prevent them from
   accomplishing their duty (i.e., TDY, leave, medical disqualification, etc.).
5. Implementing the Augmentee Program. The following recall/contingency conditions
indicate the proper reporting procedures for augmentees:
   5.1. Activation. Group commanders and 6 AMW DoS will inform group AD monitors and
   AD Team Chiefs. Group AD monitors/Unit Control Centers (UCC) will recall and account
   for tasked AD personnel prior to directing them to report to the duty location. However, if
   the activation of the AD Program is in conjunction with a wing recall, augmentees will report
   to work centers first, and then sign out through group AD monitor/UCC to their AD Team
   Chiefs. Group AD monitors will inform affected work centers of AD Program activation.
   5.2. Sustainment. Group commanders and 6 AMW DoS will decide in advance which group
   functions will cease to operate when AD implementation extends. The 6 AMW/CC shall
   direct the priorities of the wing when extending augmentation to include the curtailment of
   flying operations.
   5.3. Honor Guard. Personnel assigned to Honor Guard duty will not be assigned to the AD
   teams outlined in this instruction. Units must train sufficient personnel to accommodate the
   temporary assignment of their personnel to the base Honor Guard. NOTE: Honor Guard
   personnel will augment the AD team when required.
   5.4. Excusing or Replacing Individuals. If an individual is assigned to an AD team and is
   unable to perform AD for a bonafide reason, the losing group must continue to fill the
   tasking unless relieved by the ADC. The AD program takes precedence over ordinary leave,
   and mission priorities should be strictly considered before an individual is released from an
   AD tasking. The AD position does not move with the individual when assigned to a new unit
   without ADC approval. Commanders and augmentees should clearly understand that
   unapproved absence may be treated as a failure to perform their duty, punishable under the
   Uniform Code of Military Justice.
   5.5. Military Personnel Data System (MILPDS). MILPDS will not be used for
   administration of the AD program or to track training. 6 AMW/XP will use a single locally
   devised method for tracking participation and training in the AD Program (AD Master
   Database). NOTE: The augmentee training and tracking database is located on the Team
   MacDill SharePoint® page under Links titled “6 AMW Master Augmentee List.”
 6                                               MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013


6. Exemptions. Some personnel assigned to critical functions should be exempt from AD
assignments. Units may forward requests for exemptions to the ADC for review and approval.
Unless specifically exempt, all active duty personnel are eligible for assignment to an AD team.
     6.1. Additional Duties or Details. Fire protection personnel will not be assigned additional
     duties or details outside of the fire department when it compromises mission support and Air
     Force acceptable levels of risk for safe fire fighting operations. The fire chief determines
     when additional duties or details impact mission support or acceptable levels of risk and
     advises the base civil engineer and installation commander.




                                             SCOTT V. DETHOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                        7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 Aug 2002
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 Sep 2012
AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 29 Jun 2012
AFI 34-242 AFGM2, Mortuary Affairs Program, 4 Jun 2013
AFI 36-2646, Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs, 13 Apr 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Forms Prescribed: None
Forms Adopted:
AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 2426, Training Request and Completion

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMW—6th Air Mobility Wing
6 FSS—6th Force Support Squadron
6 LRS—6th Logistics Readiness Squadron
6 MDG—6th Medical Group
AD—Augmentation Duty
ADC—Augmentation Duty Council
ADWG—Augmentation Duty Working Group
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
CV—Vice Wing Commander
DoS—Director of Staff
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
FSMM—Manpower Office
IDO—Installation Deployment Officer
MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
 8                            MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013


MSG—Mission Support Group
MXG—Maintenance Group
OG—Operations Group
S&R—Search and Recovery
SF—Security Forces
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCC—Unit Control Center
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
UTC—Unit Type Code
MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                              9


                                        Attachment 2
                                    SECURITY FORCES

A2.1. Duties. Security Forces augmentation provides additional personnel to the 6 SFS in
response to base/accident scene security needs, increased Force Protection Conditions, or
resource security requirements. To meet the increases in Force protection or 6 AMW 8010 Alert
and Standby Force Procedures Plan posting, additional personnel are required for 24-hour
operations. 6 SFS/CC will determine the augmentation requirement based upon current manning
levels.
A2.2. Required Training. As directed by 6 SFS training manager under AFI 36-2646, Security
Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs. Augmentee training need not be as
complex as SFS Air Force Specialty (AFS) training. Minimum augmentee training should
include initial training in the following areas over three days: Weapons qualification or
recurrency, use of force, rules of engagement, communication procedures, tactics, searching and
handcuffing, blood borne pathogens, legal considerations and jurisdiction, and Security Forces
concepts and operations. Training will also include training on a non-lethal weapon in
accordance with AFI 31-117. All personnel will be armed with a lethal weapon will additionally
be armed with a non-lethal weapon (Baton, OC Spray, Taser). Chief Security Forces may direct
additional training to meet local mission requirements.
A2.3. Specialized Equipment Needs. Varies depending on assigned duties.
A2.4. Personnel Required. 38.
   A2.4.1. Installation Entry Controller--Process      vehicular/pedestrian traffic onto the
   installation.
   A2.4.2. Response Force Member--Provide security for and immediate armed response to
   restricted areas; detect/report unauthorized personnel, activities, and breeches of security;
   respond, investigate and react to neutralize potential threats to Protection Level 1, 2, and 3
   resources.
 10                                               MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 3
                             SEARCH AND RECOVERY (S&R)

A3.1. Duties. Search and Recovery team members are responsible for locating and recovering
remains after accidents and natural disasters, such as vehicle accidents, hurricanes, and military
aircraft mishaps.
A3.2. Required Training. 6 FSS personnel receive S&R training semiannually as a part of
home station training (HST). Just in time training is also utilized. All active members of the
honor guard are trained annually. During their inactive month, honor guard team members may
be subject to recall to assist with S&R recovery operations.
A3.3. Specialized Equipment Needs. S&R team members will be equipped with hand-held
radios or cell phones for communication with the Mortuary Officer. In determining
equipment/supplies needed, terrain and weather conditions should be considered under which the
team would have to operate. Supplies will include but are not limited to:
   A3.3.1. Pouch, human remains (NSN) 9930-00-451-1231), 8 ea.
   A3.3.2. Bag, plastic, 18” x 12” (NSN 8105-00-902-6508), 1000 ea.
   A3.3.3. Pencil, grease, china marker (NSN 7510-00-436-5210), 24 ea.
   A3.3.4. Tag, shipping, cloth with wire tie (NSN 8135-00-178-9193), 5000 ea.
   A3.3.5. Stakes, at least 4 feet long (locally fabricated), 1000 ea.
   A3.3.6. Bed sheets, white (NSN 7210-00-171-1099), 12 ea.
   A3.3.7. Gloves, leather, workman cowhide, sizes small – large (NSN 8415-00-268-7868) 26 ea.
   A3.3.8. Gloves, surgeon (NSN 6515-00-782-6475), 5 pks.
   A3.3.9. Mask, surgical (NSN 6515-00-982-7493), 5 ea.
A3.4. Personnel Required. In accordance with AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, the
S&R team will consist of one core team of 11 people. The manpower requirement will be
handled in-house with 6 FSS personnel manning the key positions and honor guard personnel
augmenting.
MACDILLAFBI10-243 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                            11


                                          Attachment 4
              MACDILL AUGMENTATION DUTY TEAM DISTRIBUTION

NOTES:
1. Allocations listed below are based upon E-6 and below populations in each group and DoS.
Group/CCs and DoS have the option to use E-7 and below if desired/required. Omitted from
these calculations is the Wing Command Post as it is a critical support function. Required
training/manning ratios are shown below in Tables A4.1., A4.2., and A4.3.

2. Security Forces required manning ratio below includes 30 personnel for installation security
and 8 personnel for security of the MacDill Air Force Base Alert Facility (as required).
Assignment of augmentee to either security detail is at the discretion of the SFS/CC or
designated representative.

3. LRS is exempt from providing augmentation due to the internal augmentation of the
deployment process during contingency operations.

4. Groups need to establish fair-share taskings at the squadron level.

Table A4.1. 1.00 Required Manning Ratio.

 POSITION                                 OG      MDG       MSG          DoS   MXG   TOTAL

 Security Forces (SF)                      5        7        11           2    13       38
 Search and Recovery (S & R)               0        0        11           0    0        11

 TOTAL                                     5        7        22           2    13       49

Table A4.2. 1.25 Training/Manning Ratio for Search and Recovery Augmentees.

 POSITION                                 OG       MDG       MSG         DoS   MXG   TOTAL

 Search and Recovery (S & R)                0        0        14          0     0      14

 TOTAL                                      0        0        14          0     0      14

Table A4.3. Training/Manning Ratio for Security Forces Augmentees.

 2.0 for OG, MDG, MSG, DoS.
 3.0 for MXG.

 POSITION                                 OG      MDG       MSG          DoS   MXG   TOTAL

 Security Forces (SF)                      10       14        22          4     39     89

 TOTAL                                     10       14        22          4     39     89
