BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                        INSTRUCTION 33-102
                                                                                            3 JULY 2006

                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                          AUTHORIZATION AND PLACEMENT OF
                                                           LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE CALLS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY:There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 6 CS/SCMP                                                   Certified by: 6 CS/CC (Lt Col Krause)
Supersedes MACDILLAFBI33-102,                                                                Pages: 8
           8 September 1995

This instruction establishes policy and procedures for the effective management and control of long dis-
tance telephone toll calls at MacDill AFB. This instruction implements the policy and procedures estab-
lished in AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of
prescribed processes according to the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, accessible on-line at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision deletes rescinded requirements, information, and procedures. General information has been
updated. Changes title and office symbol of Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) (paragraph 3.1.2.).
Deletes all references to MACD Form 10. Deletes paragraph 3.2.5. and paragraph 5.4. Changes Attach-
ment 3 and Attachment 4. A bar ( | ) indicates new or revised material since previous edition.


1. Applicability. This instruction applies to all persons using the base telephone system or making offi-
cial calls on MacDill AFB.

2. General. The base telephone system is provided for official government business only. Commercial
long distance is considered any call outside of the local calling area. Telephone service beyond the local
calling area is provided by the following:
   2.1. Defense Switched Network (DSN): This network provides unsecure long distance service to
   most military installations worldwide. Other military installation switchboards accessible through the
   DSN can be used to offnet calls into their local (commercial) calling area. Calls from commercial
   telephone numbers (e.g., home telephones) requesting DSN service from the MacDill AFB switch-
   board are considered off-base access. Special authorization is required in accordance with paragraph
   4.3.
2                                                                MACDILLAFBI33-102 3 JULY 2006


    2.2. Commercial Long Distance Telephone Service: Any telephone call made outside the local dial-
    ing area. The Federal Telephone Service-2001 (FTS-2001) network is the mandatory method for
    completing official commercial long distance telephone calls. FTS-2001 service should be utilized
    when DSN facilities are not available.

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. Staff agencies and/or tenant organizations will:
       3.1.1. Appoint a primary and alternate Telephone Control Officer (TCO). The primary and alter-
       nate TCO should be E-5, GS-5 or above.
       3.1.2. Furnish 6th Communications Squadron, Commercial Communications Service Manage-
       ment (6 CS/SCMP), with the rank, name, organization/office symbol, and telephone number. The
       names will be reviewed annually and/or whenever a change occurs.
    3.2. 6 CS/SCMP will:
       3.2.1. Brief all newly appointed TCOs on their duties and responsibilities with respect to the con-
       trol of commercial long distance telephone calls and the verification of bills for the same.
       3.2.2. Maintain monthly records of all base toll call charges.
       3.2.3. Forward a list of toll telephone calls to each TCO for verification in accordance with para-
       graph 5. of this instruction.
    3.3. TCOs will:
       3.3.1. Upon notification of their appointment, contact 6 CS/SCMP to schedule training.
       3.3.2. Ensure all assigned personnel are trained on the proper use of the base telephone system.
       Limit the use of commercial long distance telephone service to those essential official calls that
       cannot be placed through the DSN system.
       3.3.3. Verify bills for toll calls charged to their organizations in accordance with paragraph 5. of
       this instruction. Investigate to determine the nature of unidentified calls billed to their organiza-
       tions.
       3.3.4. Advise unit commanders of unofficial toll calls made by members of their unit.
       3.3.5. Supplement procedures with further controls when necessary to satisfy local requirements.
       3.3.6. Ensure, when applicable, MINIMIZE procedures pertaining to voice communications are
       followed.
       3.3.7. Submit requests for off-base access to DSN to 6 CS/SCMP.

4. Procedures.
    4.1. TCOs will:
       4.1.1. Instruct the calling party on the proper procedures for direct dialing a long distance call.
       From on-base telephones, dial 98-XXX-XXX-XXXX. It is not necessary to dial 1 before dialing
       long-distance numbers when dialing 98.
MACDILLAFBI33-102 3 JULY 2006                                                                                3


       4.1.2. Establish local control procedures for the placement of long-distance calls. These proce-
       dures will include measures for preventing and identifying fraudulent/unauthorized long-distance
       calls
   4.2. Incoming collect calls. Incoming collect calls, whether official or unofficial are not allowed.
   4.3. Off-base Access to DSN. Services are for official use only and will be requested by submitting a
   letter to 6 CS/SCMP, using the format shown in Attachment 2. Once approval is granted, the base
   switchboard operators will connect the calling party after they have identified themselves.

5. Verification of Bills for Long Distance Toll Calls.
   5.1. At the end of each billing period, each TCO will be furnished a bill/listing of long distance tele-
   phone calls charged to their unit's telephone extensions. The Federal Telephone System (FTS) bill is
   sent by the applicable telephone company to the Defense Commercial Communications Office. They
   collate the bill for the various military installations, generate data tapes if requested, add on their sur-
   charge, and mail the bills/tapes to the applicable installation. The 6 CS collates the bill for the appli-
   cable TCOs and distributes it to them. The above takes time and explains why the FTS bills are late
   getting to the applicable TCOs.
   5.2. Each TCO will review and verify all calls listed in the telephone services bill. After all calls are
   validated as official, TCOs will prepare an AF IMT 3131, General Purpose (see sample at Attach-
   ment 3). AF IMT 3131 will contain the following statement: “I certify that a verification check has
   been performed on all of the listed calls on the telephone services bill and payment is due”. The TCO
   will sign AF IMT 3131 and forward a copy to 6 CS/ SCMP.
   5.3. If any calls listed in the telephone services bill are validated as unofficial, the TCO will log and
   document the calls on a separate AF IMT 3131 (see sample at Attachment 4) with the following
   information: Number called, date, time, and location of call, duration of call, and originating number.
   Sign the AF IMT 3131 and forward a copy to 6 CS/SCMP. Refer all unofficial calls on the bill for
   which a responsible party can be identified to the unit commander for corrective action. Inform 6 CS/
   SCMP of action taken.

6. Unofficial Long Distance Calls. By Air Force directive and Federal Statutes, any fraudulent use of a
military telephone system is illegal. Using Air Force telephones to place personal long distance telephone
calls to avoid payment of tolls is illegal by military standards and by civil laws. In any instance of an
unauthorized long distance call, the offender's unit commander will be notified. Penalties for fraudulent
calls can range from Article 15, Commanding Officer’s Non-Judicial Punishment, up to 5 years in prison
and a dishonorable discharge if prosecuted under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, or up to 5 years in
prison and a $1,000 fine if found guilty by a civil court. For this reason, commanders and TCOs should
frequently brief all their personnel. Further, misuse of the base telephone system will be cause for down-
grading of the authorized class of service or removal of service.

7. Documentation. Documentation created by this publication will be retained for one year.



                                                TIMOTHY S. SMITH, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander
4                                                     MACDILLAFBI33-102 3 JULY 2006


                                       Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management
MACDILLAFBI33-102 3 JULY 2006                                                                        5


                                             Attachment 2

             SAMPLE REQUEST FOR OFF-BASE ACCESS TO DSN NETWORK


                          DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                          6TH AIR MOBILITY WING (AMC)
                       MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE, FLORIDA


                                                                                   DD-MM-YY




MEMORANDUM FOR 6 CS/SCMP


FROM: (YOUR UNIT)


SUBJECT: Request for Off-Base Access to DSN


1. Request off-base access to DSN and include the following:


         a. An explanation of your requirements.


         b. A statement that access will be used for official Department of Defense business only.


         c. Acknowledgment that you will notify this office immediately of any changes to the
         access list.


         d. Name and rank of individuals who will be requesting access. (Please limit to key
         personnel whose normal duties would require frequent access.)


         e. Time period access is needed.


2. Your point of contact and phone number.
6                          MACDILLAFBI33-102 3 JULY 2006




                   TELEPHONE CONTROL OFFICER/
                   UNIT CC SIGNATURE BLOCK




    AMC--GLOBAL REACH FOR AMERICA
MACDILLAFBI33-102 3 JULY 2006                            7


                                Attachment 3

                 SAMPLE OF OFFICIAL CALLS VERIFICATION
8                                MACDILLAFBI33-102 3 JULY 2006


                  Attachment 4

    SAMPLE OF UNOFFICIAL CALLS VERIFICATION
