BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                          INSTRUCTION 32-104
                                                                                       3 FEBRUARY 2003

                                                                                             Civil Engineer

                                                               OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF
                                                                 AIRCRAFT ARRESTING BARRIERS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 6 CES/CEOP (Dan Gress)                                          Certified by: 6 CES/CC (Lt Col Foti)
Supersedes MACDI 32-104, 26 May 1998                                                             Pages: 6
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction outlines the responsibility for the operation and maintenance of all aircraft arresting sys-
tems at MacDill Air Force Base.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision is due to the contract removal of the BAK-9/MA1A system and installation of new textile
brake system. Other changes are as follows: Deleted “and for forwarding changes to HQ AMC/CE
between 1 January and 15 February” (para 2.2.); changed “San Antonio Air Logistics Center” to “Robins
Air Force, Air Logistics Center (WR/ALC)” (para 2.3.); added “Normal duty hours for Power Production
are Mon-Fri, 0730-1630.” (para 2.4.). Para 2.4.6. changed to read “A qualified technician will accomplish
this”. Added “and maintaining”, changed “minimum/maximum levels” to “special level stock” (para
2.4.6.2.); deleted “with the highest standards of housekeeping.” (para 2.4.7.); changed “bound log” to
“binder or logbook” and “senior SEI 397 and 398 technician” to “technician(s)”; deleted “and the Power
Production Supervisor” (para 2.4.8.); changed “HQ AMC/CEO” to “WR-ALC/LESGF, Robins AFB,
Georgia,” and SA-ALC/LDEA, Kelly AFB, Texas,” to “HQ AMC/CEO,” (para 2.4.10.); changed “Civil
Engineer” to “Power Production and Fire Department” (para 2.4.11.); changed para 2.4.11.4. to read
“Training will consist of those actions necessary to reconfigure a barrier system subsequent to an engage-
ment. An actual rewind of the BAK-12 aircraft arresting systems will be accomplished.” Deleted “BAK-9
and” and “damaged pendant support discs,” (para 2.5.1.); deleted para 2.5.2. Remaining paragraphs
renumbered as necessary. Changed “and weight of aircraft” to “weight of aircraft, and distance aircraft
traveled after hook engagement.” (para 2.5.3.); changed to read “Provide Power Production personnel
with tape and hook cable condition, and all readings noted after the arrestment. If Fire Department person-
nel suspect the tapes or hook cable to be damaged to the point they should be replaced they will discon-
nect the cable from one side and pull the tapes and hook cable off to the edge of the runway. Upon arriving
the scene Power Production personnel will inspect the barrier and make a determination whether or not
the barrier will be certified operational and placed back in-service.” (para 2.5.6.). Added “The Power Pro-
duction technician conducting monthly training will sign AF Form 1085 as the trainer. (para 2.5.7.);
2                                                        MACDILLAFBI32-104 3 FEBRUARY 2003


deleted para 3.3.2. Remaining paragraphs renumbered as necessary. Changed “Commander” to “Chief.”
(para 3.3.2.). A bar ( | ) indicates a change since the last edition.


1. References. The operation, inspection, and maintenance of the barrier systems will be in conformance
with the applicable documents listed in this instruction including subsequent revisions, modifications, and
changes. A complete set of current technical orders, regulations, and manuals will be retained in the 6th
Civil Engineer Squadron, Fire Protection Flight (6 CES/CEF) and in the Operations Flight, Power Pro-
duction Shop.
    1.1. T.O. 35E8-2-1-101, USAF Aircraft Arresting Systems.
    1.2. AERAZUR Tech Manual, Volume 0.1, Parts 1-3, Textile Brake and Hook Cable Aircraft Arrest-
    ing System.
    1.3. T.O. 35E8-2-5-1WC-1, Periodic Inspection and Lubrication Work Cards, BAK-12.
    1.4. T.O. 35E8-2-5-1, Operations, Maintenance Instructions, BAK-12.
    1.5. T.O. 35E8-2-5-3, Overhaul Instructions, BAK-12.
    1.6. T.O. 35E8-2-5-4, Illustrated Parts Breakdown, BAK-12.
    1.7. AFI 32-1043, Managing Aircraft Arresting Systems.

2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) is responsible for ensuring the full implementation and effective
    utilization of this instruction.
    2.2. The Operations Flight Commander (6 CES/CEO) is responsible for reviewing and updating this
    instruction annually.
    2.3. The Power Production Shop is responsible for obtaining waivers from Robins Air Force Base,
    Air Logistics Center (WR/ALC) through Headquarters, Air Mobility Command, Director of Civil
    Engineering, Operations Branch (HQ AMC/CEO), if modifications to the Aircraft Arresting System
    are necessary.
    2.4. The Power Production Shop will be responsible for the following barrier maintenance and train-
    ing activities, including installation, preparing, and maintaining an instruction for confined space
    access and removal of aircraft arresting systems. Normal duty hours for Power Production Shop are
    Mon-Fri, 0730-1630:
       2.4.1. Performing all required daily inspections of barrier systems installed.
       2.4.2. During other than normal duty hours (including weekends and holidays), the Power Pro-
       duction Shop will maintain the capability to respond to calls for emergency maintenance and oper-
       ational assistance.
       2.4.3. During normal duty hours, available Power Production Shop personnel will respond to bar-
       rier engagements. They will report to the senior fire protection supervisor in charge at the scene.
       2.4.4. Certifying the condition of the barrier following any engagement and runway end changes.
MACDILLAFBI32-104 3 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                          3


     2.4.5. Instructing the 6 CES/CEF and the 6th Operations Support Squadron, Air Traffic Control
     Tower (6 OSS/ OSAT) personnel in the proper operation of the barrier systems upon request from
     the respective unit, or as deemed necessary by the Power Production Section.
     2.4.6. Performing all mechanical and operational status checks of all installed aircraft arresting
     systems. This will be accomplished by a qualified technician.
         2.4.6.1. Ensuring barrier pit exhaust fan is operating on low speed when pit is closed up.
         Switch fan to high speed before entering pit for maintenance.
         2.4.6.2. Establishing and maintaining an adequate spare parts inventory of bench stock and
         special level stock to ensure a constant reliability of the barrier system. Special level listing of
         spare parts should be reviewed annually.
     2.4.7. Accomplishing all echelons of maintenance, including corrosion control, to ensure a com-
     pletely operational barrier complex at all times.
     2.4.8. Maintaining daily records of periodic inspections, repairs, and authorized modifications in
     a binder or logbook in the Power Production Shop. Information recorded must include time, date,
     and detailed description of operational inspections, repairs, parts replaced, etc., for each barrier.
     The above information will be recorded and signed by the technician(s) performing the work.
     2.4.9. Conducting air sample tests of each barrier pit once each month and recording data in the
     barrier logbook.
     2.4.10. Completing the Report of Aircraft Arresting Barrier Contact and forwarding it to
     WR-ALC/LESGF, Robins Air Force Base, Georgia, with information copy to HQ AMC/CEO,
     within eight working hours of engagement.
     2.4.11. Training requirements: All Power Production Shop and Fire Department personnel will
     maintain a satisfactory level of barrier operations and maintenance capability through full use of
     the on-the-job training program.
         2.4.11.1. Ensure all personnel required to maintain/operate barrier systems are properly
         trained.
         2.4.11.2. Ensure Power Production Shop technicians are certified and awarded an AF Form
         483, Certificate of Competency.
         2.4.11.3. Develop, maintain, and use appropriate lesson plans for instructing those 6 CES/
         CEF personnel responsible for supporting barrier operations.
         2.4.11.4. Conduct monthly exercises to train and/or provide continuation training for 6 CES/
         CEF and Power Production Shop personnel designated to operate the arresting systems during
         aircraft engagements. Actual engagements may be used to satisfy this requirement. Training
         will consist of those actions necessary to reconfigure a barrier system subsequent to an
         engagement. An actual rewind of the BAK-12 aircraft arresting systems will be accomplished.
         This phase of training should be scheduled during monthly barrier inspections.
  2.5. The Base Fire Chief will be responsible for the following barrier and training activities:
     2.5.1. Re-cock of the BAK-12 systems following engagements to include spacing pendant sup-
     port discs and installing pendant tie downs. After all arrestments and periodic tape pullout
     sequences, assist Power Production Shop personnel to perform a complete inspection of the hook
4                                                        MACDILLAFBI32-104 3 FEBRUARY 2003


       cable and both purchase tapes. This inspection will include the full exposed length on both sides
       and edges prior to retraction.
       2.5.2. Pendant tension adjustments.
       2.5.3. Recording all operational activity and engagements in the fire station logbook. Information
       recorded must include the date, time, and description of the event, tachometer, and pressure gauge
       readings, pilot’s engaging speed, weight of aircraft, and distance aircraft traveled after hook
       engagement.
       2.5.4. Advising the barrier maintenance personnel on the scene immediately of the engaging air-
       craft speed and weight so that a determination of pendant and tape replacement can be made from
       the appropriate technical order.
       2.5.5. In the event of a failed aircraft arrestment resulting from barrier equipment failure or sus-
       pected barrier equipment failure, immediately contact the barrier maintenance team through the
       service call desk.
       2.5.6. Provide Power Production Shop personnel with tape and hook cable condition and all read-
       ings noted after the arrestment. If Fire Department personnel suspect the tapes or hook cable to be
       damaged to the point they should be replaced, they will disconnect the cable from one side and
       pull the tapes and hook cable off to the edge of the runway. Upon arriving the scene, Power Pro-
       duction Shop personnel will inspect the barrier and make a determination whether or not the bar-
       rier will be certified operational and placed back in service.
       2.5.7. Submit training requirements to the Power Production Shop through the Operations Flight
       Chief. A sufficient number of barrier-trained personnel must be available to accomplish required
       tasks. Conduct refresher training by utilizing experienced 6 CES/CEF personnel during daily
       visual inspections. All fire protection personnel will have training annotated on AF Form 1085,
       Fire Protection Training. The Power Production Shop technician conducting monthly training
       will sign AF Form 1085 as the trainer.
       2.5.8. Ensure records of each barrier training class are maintained to include the names of attend-
       ees and dates training was received. A copy of the training record will be given to the Power Pro-
       duction Shop Supervisor.
       2.5.9. Furnish the Power Production Shop Supervisor with the monthly training requirements to
       ensure that sufficient barrier trainer personnel are available to accomplish required tasks.

3. Procedures.
    3.1. Coordination to obtain runway closures will be accomplished between Power Production Shop
    personnel and the Chief of Airfield Management when any type of repair, modification, or mainte-
    nance, other than minor repair, is required. The person normally responsible for coordinating these
    functions is the Operations Flight Chief or the Supervisor of Power Production Shop. The person nor-
    mally contacted at Base Operations is the Airfield Operations Flight Commander or Chief of Airfield
    Management. Aircraft arresting systems will not be modified or altered without the approval of the
    Systems Manager, WR/ALC/LEEG and HQ AMC/CE. Modification or alterations by Civil Engineer
    personnel will be coordinated with the Base Civil Engineer and Chief of Airfield Management before
    accomplishment.
MACDILLAFBI32-104 3 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                      5


  3.2. Any situation that impairs the full readiness status of any installed barrier system will be imme-
  diately reported to the Civil Engineer, airfield manager, wing command post, and flight safety.
  3.3. Should the described situation occur during non-normal duty hours, the Fire Station Chief at the
  crash station will be responsible for reporting the described situation to the CE Service Call desk who
  will, in turn, notify the responsible individuals in the following sequence:
     3.3.1. Supervisor Power Production Shop.
     3.3.2. Operations Flight Chief.
     3.3.3. Civil Engineer or Deputy Civil Engineer.



                                                   DAVID M. SNYDER, Colonel, USAF
                                                   Commander
6                                                      MACDILLAFBI32-104 3 FEBRUARY 2003


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-1043, Managing Aircraft Arresting Systems
T.O. 35E8-2-1-101, USAF Aircraft Arresting Systems
T.O. 35E8-2-5-1, Operations, Maintenance Instructions, BAK-12
T.O. 35E8-2-5-1WC-1, Periodic Inspection and Lubrication Work Cards, BAK-12
T.O. 35E8-2-5-3, Overhaul Instructions, BAK-12
T.O. 35E8-2-5-4, Illustrated Parts Breakdown, BAK-12
AERAZUR Tech Manual, Volume 0.1, Parts 1-3, Textile Brake and Hook Cable Aircraft Arresting System
