BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 48-100

                                                                             3 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                              Aerospace Medicine

                                                   USAF RADIATION SAFETY AND AS LOW
                                                   AS REASONABLY ACHIEVABLE (ALARA)
                                                                           PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 6 AMDS/SGPB                                                          Certified by: 6 MDG/CC
Supersedes: MACDILLAFBI48-100, 27                                              (Col Dennis Beatty)
            October 2005                                                                  Pages: 10


This instruction outlines the responsibilities for ensuring proper management of radioactive
materials and ionizing radiation producing devices, maintaining a quality personnel dosimetry
monitoring program for personnel occupationally exposed to ionizing radiation, and maintaining
exposures to ionizing radiation as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA). It implements Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the USAF; Title 10, Code of
Federal Regulations, Part 20 (10 CFR 20), Standards for Protection Against Radiation; AFMAN
48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry; and AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation
Protection. It pertains to all units (including tenants) using or handling radioactive materials or
radiation producing devices, and personnel exposed to ionizing radiation. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Executive Order 12196. System of records notice F044 AF
SG O, United States Air Force Master Radiation Exposure Registry (November 18, 2003, 68 FR
65042), applies.
2                                                MACDILLAFBI48-100 3 DECEMBER 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: updated and reviewed the ALARA Investigation Action Level for Total Effective Dose
Equivalent (TEDE) to 125 mrem for all quarterly monitored areas and added 40 mrem for
monthly monitored areas; added the following sentences to paragraph 1.4: “which justifies
further investigation. Such investigation should include a review of the circumstances associated
with the apparently abnormal internal or external personnel dose equivalent, assessment of the
consequences, and mitigation or prevention of such a personnel dose equivalent of similar
magnitude in the future.” In paragraph 2.1.3., deleted “By submission of a bid, quote or
proposal, the contractor acknowledges and agrees that the base Radiation Security Officer (RSO)
has the right to conduct periodic inspections of the work site where radioactive material is being
used and or stored without prior notice.” Added paragraph 3.1.9. and paragraph 3.1.10. Added
requirement in paragraph 3.3.8. that a written training program shall be developed by the unit,
organization or installation RSO, as appropriate. Deleted paragraph 3.6., and renumbered
remaining paragraphs accordingly. Added requirements for proper usage of issued dosimeters
(paragraph 3.8.1.). Added paragraph 4, Forms Adopted.
1. Terms Explained.
    1.1. As Low as Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) Program: A set of management and
    administrative actions taken to reduce personnel radiation exposures to as low as reasonably
    achievable. The ALARA concept was developed in response to scientific evidence that
    suggests no level of ionizing radiation exposure is totally risk free.
    1.2. Thermoluminescent Dosimeter (TLD): The personnel dosimeter is used to indicate a
    close approximation of the exposure dose to ionizing radiation to ensure exposures are
    maintained ALARA. The TLD is generally exchanged quarterly, or monthly if the worker is
    pregnant.
    1.3. Occupationally Exposed to Ionizing Radiation: Likely to be exposed in excess of 10
    percent of the applicable quarterly Radiation Protection Standard in accordance with 10 CFR
    20.
    1.4. ALARA Investigation Action Levels: Locally established radiation exposure limits less
    than the Air Force established criteria; used to flag exposure above normal or higher than
    expected which justifies further investigation. Such investigation should include a review of
    the circumstances associated with the apparently abnormal internal or external personnel
    dose equivalent, assessment of the consequences and mitigation or prevention of such a
    personnel dose equivalent of similar magnitude in the future. ALARA investigation action
    levels are 125 mrem/qtr for the TEDE for all areas and 40 mrem/month of areas/individuals
    enrolled in the monthly dosimetry program.
    1.5. Abnormal Exposure Action Level: Air Force established radiation exposure limits of
    417 mrem per month for collar or body TLDS. Requires an informal investigation as
    directed by the Air Force Institute for Operational Health (AFIOH) and AFI 48-125.
    1.6. Overexposure Action Level: Air Force established Radiation Protection Standard, when
    exceeded, requires a formal investigation in accordance with 10 CFR 20.
MACDILLAFBI48-100 3 DECEMBER 2009                                                               3


   1.7. General License Items. Byproduct material contained in devices designed and
   manufactured for the purpose of detecting, measuring, gauging, or controlling thickness,
   density, level, interface location, radiation, leakage, or qualitative or quantitative chemical
   composition, or for producing light or an ionized atmosphere (10 CFR 31.5, Certain
   Detecting, Measuring, Gauging, or Controlling Devices and Certain Devices For Producing
   Light or an Ionized Atmosphere). Examples include Ion Scans, tritium exit signs and tritium
   compasses.
2. Procedures.
   2.1. Contractors who are required to transport radioactive materials onto MacDill Air Force
   Base (AFB) as part of contract performance, or who conduct operations that require the use
   of radioactive materials on MacDill AFB, must obtain approval from the Base RSO. The
   RSO is located in the Bioenvironmental Engineering Office, 6th Medical Group.
      2.1.1. Contracts establishing performance at MacDill AFB must inform contractors of
      the requirement to contact the RSO at least 30 days prior to the date the material is
      scheduled to be transported on base and to obtain necessary approval and instructions.
      All units (including tenants) must delineate this process within contract performance
      criteria when establishing requirements prior to contract award.
      2.1.2. Requests must be in writing and should include the following: a brief description
      of proposed activities, name, local address, and telephone number of the contractor's local
      project manager; name, address, and telephone number of the contractor's RSO; a copy of
      the portion of the contract requiring the use of radioactive material; and the inclusive
      dates the radioactive material will be on base. A copy of Nuclear Regulatory
      Commission (NRC) license or State issued license and a NRC Form 241, Report of
      Proposed Activities in Non-Agreement States, Areas of Exclusive Federal Jurisdiction, or
      Offshore Waters, must also be forwarded to the Base RSO.
   2.2. The Winston Salem Industries for the Blind (WSIB) Hazardous Materials Pharmacy
   shall identify all type cargo code A and general license items with an issue exception code 9
   to allow Bioenvironmental Engineering the opportunity to review and approve the
   distribution of radioactive materials. WSIB will provide Bioenvironmental Engineering a list
   of all radioactive material items issued or due out by national stock number, item, quantity
   and user. This product will be provided quarterly as applicable. The point of contact is
   WSIB.
   2.3. Squadrons using or handling radioactive material or radiation producing devices must
   appoint Squadron RSOs (primary and alternate) according to AFI 40-201 and develop a
   written program that details local procedures that ensure radiation safety and compliance
   with Air Force Instructions and Federal Regulations.
   2.4. Functional areas using or handling radioactive material or radiation producing devices
   must formally implement the ALARA concept to minimize exposure to ionizing radiation.
   This may include the use of TLDs.
   2.5. The following are examples of procedures that implement the ALARA concept:
      2.5.1. Minimizing the number of personnel exposed.
      2.5.2. Performing operations when personnel are not normally in the area.
4                                                MACDILLAFBI48-100 3 DECEMBER 2009


       2.5.3. Restricting entrance into the area during operations.
       2.5.4. Using personal shielding such as aprons, gloves, thyroid shields.
       2.5.5. Placing a barrier or distance between personnel and the source.
       2.5.6. Minimizing the duration of the operation.
3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. Base RSO will:
       3.1.1. Serve as the wing commander’s single point of contact for all radiation safety
       matters.
       3.1.2. Assist in the proper maintenance of USAF Radioactive Material Permits.
       3.1.3. Ensure Squadron RSOs are assigned and annually trained for all units that may
       use, possess, or come in contact with ionizing radiation.
       3.1.4. Review plans and design specifications for any use of radioactive materials or
       radiation producing equipment.
       3.1.5. Exert oversight of all Squadrons and/or permit RSOs to ensure all requirements
       are met.
       3.1.6. Review the Radiation Safety and ALARA program quarterly and report annually
       to the Aeromedical Council.
       3.1.7. Assist or direct his Bioenvironmental Engineering staff to assist unit RSOs with
       development of training plans tailored for the specific hazards and type of radiation
       producing device/source.
       3.1.8. Review all pregnancy profiles for radiation workers and make appropriate
       recommendation of work assignments and dosimetry monitoring through Public Health
       Flight, 6th Aerospace Medicine Squadron (6 AMDS/ SGPM).
       3.1.9. Brief at least annually the Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council
       (ESOHC) or equivalent, on use(s) of radioactive material on the installation. Provide
       summaries and trends of personnel dosimetry results and surveys to demonstrate
       exposures are ALARA.
       3.1.10. Establish a program to ensure compliance with AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation
       Protection. Collect and present metrics according to paragraph 1.15.6. of AFI 48-148.
       Establish investigation levels to ensure exposure to personnel is maintained ALARA.
       Investigational levels should be developed for each occupational group and are intended
       to identify adverse trends, assess their causes and implement appropriate corrective
       actions.
    3.2. Squadron RSOs will:
       3.2.1. Be appointed in writing by squadron commanders.
       3.2.2. Establish a squadron radiation safety and ALARA program, and coordinate annual
       training for personnel exposed to radiation through Base RSO/Bioenvironmental
       Engineering. Training will include their unit's specific responsibilities, the radiation
MACDILLAFBI48-100 3 DECEMBER 2009                                                            5


     hazards associated with those duties, the ALARA concept, and the specific ALARA
     procedures implemented in their area.
     3.2.3. Keep an inventory of and accountability for all radioactive materials (including
     War Readiness Materiel and general license items) and devices producing radiation
     belonging to or handled by the unit.
     3.2.4. Maintain copies of all permits issued by the radioisotope committee for radioactive
     materials in their unit.
     3.2.5. Ensure procedures are in place to control access to general license materials in
     unrestricted areas.
     3.2.6. Be the point of contact for disposal instructions for their unit.     He/she will
     coordinate disposal instructions with the Base RSO.
  3.3. The Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BEF) (6 AMDS/SGPB), will:
     3.3.1. Determine those persons who require monitoring under the TLD program.
     3.3.2. Enroll those personnel in the USAF Personnel Dosimetry Program.
     3.3.3. Exchange badges and forward them to the AFIOH, Brooks-City Base, Texas, for
     processing. Brief personnel on the hazards of ionizing radiation and the use, care, and
     handling of the dosimetry badges at the time of initial enrollment in the program.
     3.3.4. Receive, review, and maintain in the Bioenvironmental Engineering office files
     the AL Listing 1499, Report of Occupational Exposure to Ionizing Radiation, until the
     AF Form 1527, History of Occupational Exposure to Ionizing Radiation, is received for
     that time period. Upon receipt of AF Form 1527, the AL Listing 1499 may be destroyed
     in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) (available on-line at
     https://webrims.amc.af.mil.).
     3.3.5. Forward a copy of the AL Listing 1499 along with the names of area personnel
     whose TLD results exceed ALARA, abnormal exposure, or over exposure action levels to
     the appropriate TLD monitor and/or unit RSO.
     3.3.6. Perform scatter radiation surveys of areas identified as using ionizing radiation
     sources/equipment to protect workers and the general public in accordance with ALARA.
     3.3.7. Perform an annual radiation protection inspection of each area handling
     radioactive material or radiation producing devices.
     3.3.8. Conduct ALARA training and maintain/monitor each unit/shop's radiation safety
     training documentation on AF Form 2767, Occupational Health Training and Protective
     Equipment Fit Testing, filed in the shop folder. A written training program shall be
     developed by the unit, organization or installation RSO, as appropriate. Training topics
     are detailed in AFI 48-148, paragraph 3.3. The training program shall be reviewed and
     revised as necessary to reflect changes in practices in the workplace. Training programs
     presented, course curricula, and attendance shall be maintained for a period of five years
     unless otherwise specified. Training shall be documented on personnel’s AF Form 55,
     Employee Safety and Health Record.
6                                               MACDILLAFBI48-100 3 DECEMBER 2009


       3.3.9. Perform inventories and leak tests for all radioactive materials as specified in AF
       permit requirements or as governed by a general license.
    3.4. 6 AMDS/SGPM will:
       3.4.1. Assist RSO in investigation and follow-up of potentially exposed individuals.
       3.4.2. Brief female workers potentially exposed to ionizing radiation on hazards of
       radiation during pregnancy and procedures to follow if pregnant. This training will be
       documented in the individual's medical record.
       3.4.3. Route pregnancy profiles (SF 513, Medical Record - Consultation Sheet) of all
       radiation workers through base RSO.
    3.5. The 6th Medical Support Squadron, Medical Equipment Repair Center (6
    MDSS/SGSLR), will:
       3.5.1. Notify the Bioenvironmental Engineer of any newly installed or modified x-ray
       systems (ref AFI 41-201, paragraph 2.28).
       3.5.2. Notify the Base RSO (Bioenvironmental Engineer) upon replacement of any major
       component of an x-ray system to determine the need for a radiation protection survey (ref
       AFI 41-201, paragraph 2.28.).
       3.5.3. Maintain documentation of all scheduled and unscheduled maintenance performed
       on radiology equipment, including semiannual post-calibration radiation inspection
       results (AF Form 2025, Post-Calibration Radiation Inspection Record-Radiographic, and
       AF Form 2026, Post-Calibration Radiation Inspection Record-Fluoroscopic) (ref AFI
       41-201, paragraph 2.29).
       3.5.4. Document actions taken to resolve discrepancies noted on radiation protection
       surveys and provide copies to the Bioenvironmental Engineer (ref AFI 41-201, paragraph
       2.28).
    3.6. Packing and Crating (6 LRS/LGRDDC) will:
       3.6.1. Ensure radioactive material/wastes are handled and shipped in accordance with
       AFJI 24-210, 49 CFR Parts 100-185, Dangerous Goods Regulation (IATA Resolution
       618, Attachment “A”), International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Codes, and
       Recommendation on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations
       ST/SG/AC.10/1Rev.12.
       3.6.2. Ensure radiological monitors are trained on their duties and responsibilities as
       outlined in AFJI 24-210, 49 CFR Parts 100-185, Dangerous Goods Regulation (IATA
       Resolution 618, Attachment “A”), International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG)
       Codes, and Recommendation on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations
       ST/SG/AC.10/1Rev.12.
       3.6.3. Ensure RSO is contacted whenever radioactive shipments are shipped/received for
       technical and regulatory assistance, support, oversight, and survey.
       3.6.4. Establish procedures, with the installation RSO, for the safe movement of
       radioactive material within or on an AF installation.
    3.7. Area TLD Monitors/Supervisors will:
MACDILLAFBI48-100 3 DECEMBER 2009                                                           7


     3.7.1. Have newly assigned personnel make an appointment with and report to BEF so
     enrollment procedures into the TLD program can be accomplished.
     3.7.2. Notify BEF by telephone of personnel departing MacDill AFB for permanent
     change of station, separation, or retirement so clearance procedures can be accomplished.
     TLD monitors will collect TLD badges on these personnel and turn in to BEF monthly.
     3.7.3. Provide a TLD storage rack/board, away from the radiation source, that is capable
     of storing TLDs for all department personnel on the TLD program.
     3.7.4. Ensure the TLD badge is worn only during activities involving exposure/potential
     exposure to ionizing radiation while performing work related duties; when not involved
     in these duties, TLD must be stored at the storage rack. Storage in areas other than the
     specialized rack (desk drawers, clothing, vehicle glove compartments, etc.) is prohibited
     as such actions may bias results.
     3.7.5. Brief all personnel on the requirements of the dosimetry program and ensure
     personnel comply with the requirements of wearing the badge and returning the badge to
     the storage rack when departing the immediate work area.
     3.7.6. Notify Bioenvironmental Engineering of any TLD wearer being employed in a
     second job that involves ionizing radiation.
     3.7.7. Notify Bioenvironmental Engineering of any TLD wearer going temporary duty
     (TDY) where they will be exposed to ionizing radiation, therefore, requiring their TLD.
     3.7.8. Ensure all TLDs are present and accounted for during Bioenvironmental
     Engineering's monthly/quarterly exchange. Report instances where TLDs cannot be
     located to the section supervisor.
     3.7.9. Apprise personnel of any TLD results that exceed ALARA, abnormal exposure, or
     overexposure action levels.
  3.8. Personnel enrolled in the TLD Program will:
     3.8.1. Properly use issued dosimeters per instructions provided by the installation RSO
     and in this instruction. The Air Force may take UCMJ disciplinary action against anyone
     who wilfully engages in deliberate exposure, destruction, contamination, falsification or
     tampering with dosimeters, bioassay samples, or records of dosimetry results.
     3.8.2. Store TLDs, when not worn, on the provided storage board with the control TLD.
     Storage anywhere else will bias results; therefore, it is strictly prohibited.
     3.8.3. Wear TLDs whenever performing primary duties that may expose them to ionizing
     radiation, including TDYs. The TLD must be worn only within the normal work area.
     3.8.4. Wear TLD outside of normal clothing but beneath any leaded aprons or other
     whole body protective clothing used.
     3.8.5. Not wear their TLD at any time when they are receiving diagnostic or therapeutic
     x-rays.
     3.8.6. Not hold patients during x-raying (family members may hold patients). If this is
     not possible, then non-occupationally exposed Medical Technicians, wearing lead
     aprons/gloves or shielded as much as feasible, should hold the patient.
8                                                MACDILLAFBI48-100 3 DECEMBER 2009


       3.8.7. Immediately advise BEF and SGPM of pregnancy.
       3.8.8. Ensure AF Form 1527-1, Annual Report of Individual Exposure to Ionizing
       Radiation, is filed in personal medical record.
    3.9. Personnel using radiation producing devices or permitted materials will:
       3.9.1. Attend annual ALARA training.
       3.9.2. Ensure all operations are carried out with ALARA principles and immediately
       notify squadron and/or base RSO of any hazards, problems with radioactive sources, or
       radiation equipment.

4. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record; AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; AF Form 1527, History of Occupational Exposure to Ionizing Radiation; AF
Form 1527-1, Annual Report of Individual Exposure to Ionizing Radiation; AF Form 2025, Post-
Calibration Radiation Inspection Record-Radiographic; AF Form 2026, Post-Calibration
Radiation Inspection Record-Fluoroscopic; AF Form 2767, Occupational Health Training and
Protective Equipment Fit Testing; DD Form 2005, Privacy Act Statement- Health Care Records;
NRC Form 241, Report of Proposed Activities in Non-Agreement States, Areas of Exclusive
Federal Jurisdiction, or Offshore Waters; AL Listing 1499, Report of Occupational Exposure to
Ionizing Radiation; SF 513, Medical Record - Consultation Sheet.




                                             LAWRENCE M. MARTIN, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
MACDILLAFBI48-100 3 DECEMBER 2009                                                          9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFJI 24-210, Packaging of Hazardous Material, 22 Oct 2007
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 Jan 2004
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the USAF, 13 Apr 2007
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, 7 Aug 06
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, 12 Oct 2001
10 CFR 20, Standards for Protection Against Radiation
10 CFR 31.5, Certain Detecting, Measuring, Gauging, or Controlling Devices and Certain
Devices for Producing Light or an Ionized Atmosphere
49 CFR 100-185, Transportation of Hazardous Material
10 U.S.C. 8013 and E.O. 9397
System of Records Notice F044 AF SG O, United States Air Force Master Radiation Exposure
Registry (November 18, 2003, 68 FR 65042)
Dangerous Goods Regulation (IATA Resolution 618, Attachment “A”)
International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Codes
Recommendation on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations
ST/SG/AC.10/1Rev.12

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMDS/SGPM—6th Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Public Health Flight
6 LRS—6th Logistics Readiness Squadron
6 MDSS/SGSLR—6th Medical Support Squadron, Medical Equipment Repair Center
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIOH—Air Force Institute for Operational Health
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ALARA—As Low As Reasonably Achievable
BEF—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
LGRMS—Storage and Issue
LGRTC—Packing and Crating
10                                            MACDILLAFBI48-100 3 DECEMBER 2009


NRC—Nuclear Regulatory Commission
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RSO—Radiation Safety Officer
TDY—Temporary Duty
TEDE—Total Effective Dose Equivalent
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeter
U.S.C.—United States Code
WSIB—Winston Salem Industries for the Blind
