BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                          INSTRUCTION 32-700
                                                                                             23 JULY 2004

                                                                                             Civil Engineer

                                                               HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (HAZMAT)
                                                                 MANAGEMENT PROCESS (HMMP)

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 6 CES/CEV (Mr Frahn)                                           Certified by: 6 AMW/CC (Col Kelly)
                                                                                             Pages: 15
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Instruction 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 August
1997, and AMC Supplement 1, 1 December 1998. It establishes the procedures and assigns responsibili-
ties for implementing the Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT) Management Process (HMMP) at MacDill
Air Force Base (AFB). Organizational responsibilities for HAZMAT management are delineated and the
“cradle to grave” management process is defined. It applies to all 6th Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW) units
including Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) activities and all Department of Defense (DoD) contractor and
tenant units that procure, store, package, handle, or use hazardous materials.


1. General Information. AFI 32-7086 contains information on general procedures and HMMP program
requirements. This instruction supplements and implements AFI 32-7086.

2. Concept of Operations – Organizational Relationships.
   2.1. The Base Hazmart Pharmacy serves as the primary hazardous materials retail outlet for the
   HMMP. The Hazmart Pharmacy is aligned within the 6th Logistics Readiness Squadron (6 LRS),
   under the 6th Mission Support Group (6 MSG), and is operated by the Winston-Salem Institute for the
   Blind (WSIB) through a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). MacDill AFB utilizes the Air Force
   Environmental Management Information System (AF-EMIS) as the Defense Environmental Security
   Corporate Information Management (DESCIM) approved tracking system to track HAZMAT on the
   installation. All applicable base functional areas and work centers that purchase and use HAZMAT
   will be enrolled in AF-EMIS. The AF-EMIS HMMP Coordinator, 6th Civil Engineer Squadron, Envi-
   ronmental Engineering Flight (6 CES/CEV), serves as the focal point for the submission of HAZMAT
   Authorization Requests and data entries to AF-EMIS necessary to create an authorization record. In
   addition, the AF-EMIS HMMP Coordinator manages the free-issue program and acts as final author-
   ity for determining if an item qualifies for inclusion in the free-issue inventory. Contractors, transient
   aircraft, and temporary duty (TDY) personnel bringing HAZMAT onto the installation must also com-
   ply with portions of this instruction.
2                                                             MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004


    2.2. HAZMAT Chemical Staging Areas (CSA). CSA is synonymous with Installation Source of Sup-
    ply (SOS), AFI 32-7086, paragraph 2.6.5., and Hazardous Materials Control Center (HMCC), AMC
    Supplement 1, AFI 32-7086, paragraph 2.6.5. (Added).
       2.2.1. The Base Hazmart Pharmacy (WSIB operated Paperclips Etc. store) is the primary CSA on
       MacDill AFB and is designated in AF-EMIS as CSA 99. Paperclips Etc. is available to provide
       HAZMAT requisitioning support to all MacDill AFB HAZMAT customers.
       2.2.2. The Joint Communications Support Element (JCSE) is designated in AF-EMIS as CSA 01
       and provides HAZMAT support for JCSE and the 290th Joint Communications Support Squadron
       (JCSS). Purchases of HAZMAT through the JCSE CSA are tracked and managed internally by
       JCSE. Although JCSE operates an independent acquisition program, that does not prevent JCSE/
       JCSS work centers from utilizing CSA 99 as a source of supply for authorized HAZMAT require-
       ments.
       2.2.3. The 6 CES Contractor Operated Civil Engineer Supply Store (COCESS) is designated in
       AF-EMIS as CSA 02 and managed by the CE Logistics Flight. The 6 CES manages HAZMAT
       procurement and tracking internally. The Pollution Prevention Program Coordinator (AF-EMIS
       HMMP Coordinator) is the focal point for managing 6 CES HAZMAT authorizations and posting
       shop inventory reconciliations. Although 6 CES operates an independent acquisition program, this
       does not prevent 6 CES work centers from purchasing authorized HAZMAT from CSA 99.
       2.2.4. The 6th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Vehicle Management Flight (6 LRS/LGRV) Con-
       tractor Operated Parts Store (COPARS) is designated in AF-EMIS as CSA 03. Purchases of
       HAZMAT through the COPARS CSA are tracked and managed internally. Although LGRV oper-
       ates an independent acquisition program, that does not prevent LGRV work centers from purchas-
       ing authorized HAZMAT from CSA 99.
       2.2.5. The 6th Maintenance Squadron (6 MXS) operates the “Flightline Hazmart” and is desig-
       nated in AF-EMIS as CSA 04. CSA 04 is a forward satellite pharmacy in direct support of flight-
       line HAZMAT requirements. CSA 04 purchases HAZMAT from both CSA 99 and other sources
       as necessary, maintaining sufficient balances for uninterrupted flightline mission support.
       HAZMAT issued by CSA 04 is tracked and managed internally by flightline Hazmart personnel.
       2.2.6. The 6th Services Squadron (6 SVS) procures HAZMAT using NAF and purchases
       HAZMAT from both CSA 99 and other sources as necessary.
       2.2.7. Each CSA is responsible to ensure HAZMAT purchased by their activity is authorized, pro-
       cessed, bar coded, and tracked through AF-EMIS.
       2.2.8. Additional CSAs can be added to AF-EMIS to manage HAZMAT procured by independent
       acquisition programs. When a requirement exists for the addition of a CSA, the requesting organi-
       zation will coordinate with the 6 CES AF-EMIS HMMP Coordinator.
    2.3. Each group within the wing will appoint in writing a group environmental manager (EM).
    Appointment letters will be forwarded to 6 CES/CEV and be updated at least annually. Group EM
    responsibilities are contained in roles and responsibilities.

3. Roles And Responsibilities.
    3.1. Environmental Protection Committee (EPC) Chair:
MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004                                                                     3


     3.1.1. Provides all necessary resources to include manpower, facilities, and equipment needed to
     effectively and efficiently run the HMMP.
     3.1.2. Charters an HMMP Team as a subcommittee of the installation EPC to recommend policies
     and procedures for control of HAZMAT on MacDill AFB.
     3.1.3. Ensures that all base agencies, tenants, and contractors using HAZMAT on MacDill AFB
     are active participants in the HMMP.
     3.1.4. Promotes and supports the HMMP.
  3.2. 6th Mission Support Group (6 MSG):
     3.2.1. Provides the necessary resources and support for the successful operation of the Base
     Hazmart Pharmacy (CSA 99).
     3.2.2. Overall responsible for the management and operation of the Base Hazmart Pharmacy
     (CSA 99).
     3.2.3. 6 MSG Environmental Manager (6 MSG/EM):
        3.2.3.1. Participates as a permanent member of the Hazardous Materials Management Process
        Team.
        3.2.3.2. Responsible to the 6 MSG Commander for the administration, management, and con-
        tinuous conformity of the Environmental Compliance and Management Assessment Program
        (ECAMP).
        3.2.3.3. Ensures 6 MSG compliance with all Federal, State, Local, DoD, and Air Force envi-
        ronmental regulations.
        3.2.3.4. Monitors storage, management, inventory, and reporting of hazardous materials for
        the 6 MSG.
        3.2.3.5. Monitors the AF-EMIS database and identifies to the HMMP Team expired hazard-
        ous materials authorization records.
        3.2.3.6. Assists all 6 MSG assigned activities in the proper use of AF-EMIS, provides reports
        when requested, and performs data entry inputs to maintain current and accurate AF-EMIS
        data records.
        3.2.3.7. Assists the 6th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (6 LRS/CC), Base
        Hazmart Pharmacy personnel, Vehicle Management Flight Hazmart personnel, and the
        AF-EMIS HMMP coordinator with the management of the AF-EMIS.
        3.2.3.8. Assists the AF-EMIS HMMP Coordinator with data entries required to establish
        authorization records in the AF-EMIS database.
     3.2.4. 6 LRS Management and Systems Flight (6 LRS/LGRS):
        3.2.4.1. Performs Quality Assurance oversight for Hazmart (CSA 99) operations as prescribed
        in the Memorandum of Agreement, Winston-Salem Industries for the Blind, Inc. and MacDill
        AFB, 19 Jul 00 (OPR: 6 LRS/CC).
        3.2.4.2. Provides written reports of Quality Assurance evaluations related to WSIB to the
        HMMP Team.
4                                                         MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004


    3.2.5. 6 LRS Material Management Flight (6 LRS/LGRM):
       3.2.5.1. Provides flammable and corrosive storage space for the free issue inventory.
       3.2.5.2. Grants warehouse access/space in building P-49 to 6 CES/CEV for the purpose of
       managing the free issue inventory.
    3.2.6. 6th Contracting Squadron (6 CONS):
       3.2.6.1. Provides Air Force Government Wide Purchase Card cardholder and billing official
       training consistent with the requirements set forth in AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide
       Purchase Card Program.
       3.2.6.2. Provides the AF-EMIS HMMP Coordinator a schedule of training dates, times, and
       locations.
       3.2.6.3. Performs annual surveillance of billing officials as prescribed in AFI 64-117 and
       reports to the HMMP Team any unauthorized HAZMAT purchases noted.
       3.2.6.4. Ensures that all contracts under the control of 6 CONS that may require or result in
       contractors using HAZMAT on MacDill AFB contain Federal Acquisition Regulation contract
       clauses 52.223-3 and 52.223-5. (NOTE: Information required to comply with section 312 of
       EPCRA includes quantities of Hazmat used during contract period.)
       3.2.6.5. Participates in the HMMP Team as necessary.
    3.2.7. 6th Civil Engineer Squadron (6 CES):
       3.2.7.1. Provides the necessary resources and support for the successful operation of the CE
       CSA (CSA 02).
       3.2.7.2. Responsible for the management and operation of the CE CSA.
       3.2.7.3. Advocates for funding and support of the HMMP to Headquarters, Air Mobility Com-
       mand (HQ AMC), Installation Wing leadership, and assigned tenant units.
       3.2.7.4. Ensures that all contracts under the control of 6 CES/CELC, Contracts Branch, that
       may require or result in contractors using HAZMAT on MacDill AFB contain Federal Acqui-
       sition Regulation contract clauses 52.223-3 and 52.223-5. (NOTE: Information required to
       comply with section 312 of EPCRA includes quantities of Hazmat used during contract
       period.)
       3.2.7.5. 6 CES/CEV:
           3.2.7.5.1. Chairs the HMMP Team.
           3.2.7.5.2. Reviews HAZMAT authorization requests to identify all impacts to the environ-
           ment the proposed use of the HAZMAT may cause, i.e., Air Emissions, Storm Water,
           Wastewater Treatment, Hazardous Waste, etc.
           3.2.7.5.3. Programs authorized funding requirements for all CSAs, i.e., training, equip-
           ment, Automated Data Processing Equipment, etc., through the A-106 process.
           3.2.7.5.4. Serves as the AF-EMIS HMMP Coordinator for the submission and data entry
           of new HAZMAT authorization requests.
           3.2.7.5.5. Manages the free issue program and inventory.
MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004                                                                        5


            3.2.7.5.6. Manages the HMMP pre-approval process for Air Force Government-Wide
            Purchase Card HAZMAT purchase requests.
            3.2.7.5.7. In conjunction with 6 CONS (LGC), conducts Air Force Government-Wide
            Purchase Card cardholder and billing official training for MacDill’s HMMP.
            3.2.7.5.8. Assists all CSAs in managing their HAZMAT data management duties and
            assists in resolving discrepancies when requested.
            3.2.7.5.9. Serves as the HMMP Team point of contact for the 6 LRS/LOGNET AF-EMIS
            System Administrator for all AF-EMIS Server requirements.
     3.2.8. 6th Communications Squadron (6 CS):
        3.2.8.1. Maintains necessary network connectivity for agencies identified by the HMMP
        Team that require access to AF-EMIS.
        3.2.8.2. Participates in the HMMP as necessary.
     3.2.9. Hazmart Manager (CSA 99):
        3.2.9.1. Participates in the HMMP.
        3.2.9.2. Ensures HAZMAT issued by CSA 99 is authorized, processed, bar coded, issued, and
        tracked through AF-EMIS.
        3.2.9.3. Complies with the additional responsibilities defined in the Memorandum of Agree-
        ment, Winston-Salem Industries for the Blind, Inc., and MacDill AFB, 19 Jul 00 (OPR: 6 LRS/
        SUPS).
  3.3. 6th Maintenance Group (6 MXG):
     3.3.1. Provides the necessary resources and support for the successful operation of the Flight Line
     Hazmart (CSA 04).
     3.3.2. Overall responsible for the management and operation of the Flight Line Hazmart (CSA
     04).
     3.3.3. 6 MXG Environmental Manager (6 MXG/EM).
        3.3.3.1. Participates as a permanent member of the Hazardous Materials Management Process
        Team.
        3.3.3.2. Responsible to the 6 MXG Commander for the administration, management, and con-
        tinuous conformity of the Environmental Compliance and Management Assessment Program
        (ECAMP).
        3.3.3.3. Ensures 6 MXG compliance with all Federal, State, Local, DoD, and Air Force envi-
        ronmental regulations.
        3.3.3.4. Monitors storage, management, inventory, and reporting of hazardous materials for
        the 6 MXG.
        3.3.3.5. Assists all 6 MXG assigned activities in the proper use of AF-EMIS, provides reports
        when requested, and performs data entry inputs when required to maintain current and accu-
        rate AF-EMIS data records.
6                                                            MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004


           3.3.3.6. Assists the 6th Maintenance Squadron Flight Line Hazmart personnel and the
           AF-EMIS HMMP coordinator with the management of the AF-EMIS.
       3.3.4. 6th Maintenance Operations Squadron, Logistics Network Office (6 MOS/LOGNET).
           3.3.4.1. Performs System Administrator duties for the AF-EMIS server.
           3.3.4.2. Coordinates with 6 CES/CEV for equipment/software support requirements (see
           paragraph 3.2.6.5.3. above).
           3.3.4.3. Coordinates with 6 CES/CEV for scheduled server down time.
           3.3.4.4. Maintains AF-EMIS on client systems and provides client systems access/connectiv-
           ity to the Hazardous Materials Information System (HMIS).
           3.3.4.5. Participates in the HMMP as necessary.
    3.4. 6th Operations Group
       3.4.1. Appoints, by submission of appointment letter to 6 CES/CEV, a Group Environmental
       Manager.
       3.4.2. 6th Operations Group, Environmental Manager (6 OG/EM).
       3.4.3. Participates as a member of the Hazardous Materials Management Process Team on an as
       required basis.
       3.4.4. Responsible to the Operations Group Commander for the administration, management,
       continuous conformity and participation in the Environmental Compliance Assessment and Man-
       agement Program (ECAMP).
       3.4.5. Ensures the Operations Group compliance with all Federal, State, Local, DOD and Air
       Force environmental regulations.
       3.4.6. Monitors storage, management, inventory and reporting of hazardous materials for the
       Operations Group.
    3.5. 6th Medical Group.
       3.5.1. Appoints, by submission of appointment letter to 6 CES/CEV, a Group Environmental
       Manager.
       3.5.2. 6th Medical Group Environmental Manager (6 MDG/EM).
       3.5.3. Participates as a member of the Hazardous Materials Management Process Team on an as
       required basis.
       3.5.4. Responsible to the Medical Group Commander for the administration, management, con-
       tinuous conformity and participation in the Environmental Compliance Assessment and Manage-
       ment Program (ECAMP).
       3.5.5. Ensures the Medical Group’s compliance with all Federal, State, Local, DOD and Air Force
       environmental regulations.
       3.5.6. Monitors storage, management, inventory and reporting of hazardous materials for the
       Medical Group.
    3.6. Bioenvironmental Engineering, 6th Aerospace Medicine Squadron (6 AMDS/SGPB).
MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004                                                                          7


     3.6.1. Be a permanent member of the HMMP Team.
     3.6.2. Reviews HAZMAT authorization requests to identify all potential health concerns the pro-
     posed use of the HAZMAT may cause, i.e., Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) requirements,
     engineering controls, etc.
     3.6.3. Serves as the primary focal point for MSDSs, evaluate MSDSs for adequacy of informa-
     tion, and research and/or obtain any missing data with the assistance of the hazardous material
     requestor.
     3.6.4. Maintains the installation’s master HAZMAT authorization request file.
     3.6.5. Evaluates materials on hand in each shop during workplace Activity Assessments, aka
     Industrial Hygiene (I.H.) surveys, as prescribed in AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program, to
     ensure stockpiling is not taking place and each HAZMAT found is authorized in AF-EMIS.
     3.6.6. Evaluates data contained in AF-EMIS Shop records for accuracy during I.H. surveys and
     update AF-EMIS shop records as required.
     3.6.7. Reports findings of I.H. surveys to the SGPB HMMP Team representative.
  3.7. 6th Air Mobility Wing Safety Office (6 AMW/SE).
     3.7.1. Be a permanent member of the HMMP Team.
     3.7.2. Reviews HAZMAT authorization requests to identify all potential safety concerns associ-
     ated with the proposed use of the HAZMAT, i.e., special storage requirements, safety equipment,
     etc.
     3.7.3. Identifies during periodic ground safety inspections any noted use of unauthorized
     HAZMAT and report such use to the HMMP Team.
  3.8. 6 AMW HMMP Team.
     3.8.1. The HMMP Team is comprised of representatives from 6 CES/CEV (team leader), 6
     AMDS/SGPB, 6 AMW/SE, 6 AMW/JA (as required), and 6 AMW/PA (as required). The HMMP
     Team reports directly to the EPC chairperson.
     3.8.2. Meets weekly to review new HAZMAT authorization requests submitted to the AF-EMIS
     HMMP Coordinator.
     3.8.3. Periodically reviews this instruction and updates as necessary.
     3.8.4. Develops metrics to indicate how well the HMMP is serving the customers’ needs and
     meeting the requirements of the HMMP.
     3.8.5. Provides briefings on the status of the MacDill AFB HMMP to the Wing Environmental
     Protection Committee (EPC).
     3.8.6. Annually reviews shop authorizations to determine if authorizations reflect actual needs.
     3.8.7. Provides customers assistance in completing HAZMAT Authorization Requests and assists
     in obtaining MSDSs for HAZMAT products.
  3.9. Work Center Supervisors.
8                                                              MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004


       3.9.1. Responsible for the control, implementation, and management of the HMMP within their
       work center.
       3.9.2. Appoint a primary and alternate HM point of contact (POC) and provide this information to
       the SGPB HMMP Team representative. Update POC information as necessary.
       3.9.3. Ensure all HAZMAT used in the work center is authorized, processed, and tracked through
       AF-EMIS. This includes HAZMAT purchased via the Air Force Government-Wide Purchase
       Card.
       3.9.4. Ensure that bar code information for consumed HAZMAT is provided to either the 6 CES/
       CEV AF-EMIS HMMP Coordinator or the CSA where the materials were obtained.
       3.9.5. Maintain an AF-EMIS authorization list and MSDSs for HAZMAT authorized for the work
       center.
       3.9.6. Participate in the free issue program by coordinating with the AF-EMIS HMMP Coordina-
       tor when excess serviceable HAZMAT is identified (see paragraph 2.1. and paragraph 9.).
       3.9.7. Contact the AF-EMIS HMMP Coordinator prior to purchasing new HAZMAT so that the
       HMMP Coordinator can check for the availability of free issue materials to satisfy the request.
       3.9.8. Maintain no more than a 10 working day supply of HAZMAT within the work center (as
       practicable) unless authorized by the HMMP. This applies only to unopened containers.
    3.10. TDY/Deployed Units.
       3.10.1. Units deploying to MacDill AFB with HAZMAT in their deployment kits will be required
       during the pre-deployment discussions to provide the following information on HAZMAT in the
       kits to their host unit at MacDill AFB:
       3.10.2. National Stock Number (NSN) for each HAZMAT item in the kit.
       3.10.3. MSDS for each HAZMAT in the kit.
       3.10.4. Quantity of each HAZMAT in the kit.
       3.10.5. The unit host at MacDill will maintain a copy of the list and provide a copy to 6 CES/CEV.
       3.10.6. Not later than the conclusion of the deployment, the MacDill AFB host unit will identify
       to 6 CES/CEV the items and quantities of HAZMAT used during the deployment.

4. Hazardous Materials Management Functions.
    4.1. AF-EMIS Processing and Inventory Management:
       4.1.1. The following procedures apply to all CSAs.
       4.1.2. AF-EMIS for MacDill AFB is configured to assign a bar code number upon receipt. This
       allows for items in the CSA inventory to be bar coded prior to issuing the items to the customer.
       CSA workers use the “Staging Area” menu in AF-EMIS to process a “receive from off base”
       transaction in order to add the item(s) to the CSA inventory.
       4.1.3. Bar codes are assigned manually by each CSA. Bar code number configuration consists of
       the current days’ Julian date followed by a three to four-position serial number. Serial numbers are
       assigned to CSAs as follows:
MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004                                                                         9



Hazmart Pharmacy                CSA 99                             001 through 999
JCSE                            CSA 01                            1000 through 1999
Civil Engineering               CSA 02                            3000 through 3999
6 LRS/LGRVM                     CSA 03                            2000 through 2999
6 MXS                           CSA 04                            4000 through 4999
6 SVS                           CSA 05                            5000 through 5999

      EXAMPLE: The Julian date for the 31st of January 2002 is 2031. The first item of the day
      received by CSA 02 on that date would be assigned bar code number 20313000.
      4.1.4. CSAs will maintain a log for tracking their bar code numbers. The log will contain as a
      minimum, the name of the item, the NSN or Local Stock Number (LSN), and the bar code number
      assigned. Additional information such as the AF-EMIS Shop Code for issues or the word “Stock”
      for inventory replenishment items can be added at the discretion of the CSA supervisor.
      4.1.5. All CSAs will reconcile their inventory at least annually to verify items on hand match
      inventory records in AF-EMIS. More frequent reconciliations may be warranted (and are encour-
      aged) for CSAs with a high volume of transactions. Results of the inventory reconciliation will be
      summarized and forwarded to the HMMP EMIS Coordinator.
      4.1.6. Transfer of Items Between CSAs:
          4.1.6.1. HAZMAT purchased from a CSA is transferred from the issuing CSA inventory to the
          receiving CSA inventory. This is accomplished by the issuing CSA personnel using the “stag-
          ing area” menu, issue to Chemical Staging Area screen. Subsequently, the receiving CSA per-
          sonnel use the “staging area” menu, receive materials from Chemical Staging Area screen to
          receive the item(s). This completes the transfer of the item(s) and the receiving CSA personnel
          can then process an issue to the shop (if required). (NOTE: On transfers of HAZMAT between
          CSAs, the receiving CSA must process the receive materials from Chemical Staging Area to
          complete the transaction in AF-EMIS.. This applies regardless of the CSAs involved.)

5. Data Base Management and User Access.
   5.1. Agencies requiring access to AF-EMIS submit requests to the HMMP Team. User access levels
   are assigned by the HMMP Team commensurate with the duties assigned to the user.
   5.2. Agencies with user access to AF-EMIS will notify the HMMP Team of personnel changes to
   ensure that departing individuals are removed from the users table.
   5.3. Nightly back up routines will be performed by the AF-System Administrator to ensure that, in
   case of server failure, no more than one day’s data will be lost.
   5.4. The AF-System Administrator will perform software and hardware upgrades to the AF-EMIS
   server and, with the assistance of CES/CEV, perform client software updates as required.

6. Authorization Process.
   6.1. Requests for new authorizations are submitted on AF Form 3952, Chemical Hazardous Mate-
   rial Request/Authorization, AF-EMIS Electronically generated AF Form 3952 or AF-EMIS Elec-
10                                                                  MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004


     tronically Generated Authorization Request Worksheet. Requestors complete the document, sign, and
     obtain the signature of the Shop Certifying Official. Requestors and certifying officials can be the
     same person provided the individual is identified on the AF-EMIS shop record as a certifying official.
     Requestors can also go to 6 CES/CEV, Bldg. 147, room 309, with all the necessary information (NSN,
     LSN, Mfg. Part #, MSDS, etc.) and have an electronically prepared AF Form 3952 generated. For-
     ward completed forms to 6 CES/CEV for review and data entry.
     6.2. Requests for new authorizations are reviewed weekly (normally on Thursdays at 0800) by
     HMMP Team approving officials. Requestors with immediate requirements can walk through com-
     pleted requests to each of the HMMP Team approving officials for review/approval (SGPB/SE/CEV).
     6.3. Requests for new authorizations must be accompanied by the manufacturer’s specific MSDS.
     MSDSs can be obtained from a number of sources such as the retail establishment, the manufacturer
     or manufacturer’s web site, Bioenvironmental Engineering, Paperclips Etc., and the HMMP Coordi-
     nator.

7. Issue and Tracking Process.
     7.1. All CSAs will bar code all HAZMAT issued using the bar code numbering system described in
     paragraph 4.1.3. above (exceptions are cited in paragraph 7.4. below and Attachment 2). Issue quan-
     tities can be for all or part of the authorized quantity as long as multiple issues do not exceed the
     shop’s authorized quantity. Requests for HAZMAT in excess of authorized quantities will be evalu-
     ated by the HMMP Team on a case-by-case basis. CSA personnel will check the shop’s current inven-
     tory balance prior to processing an issue to determine current inventory balances. This is
     accomplished using the “staging area” menu and the receive materials from shop, empty containers
     screen. If the database reflects a current quantity for the requested item and the requestor indicates he
     no longer has the item, the requestor will be instructed to provide an inventory usage update prior to
     the issue being processed.
     7.2. Work centers that receive HAZMAT delivered directly from vendors for items such as com-
     pressed gases will notify their servicing CSA to ensure the quantities are properly issued through
     AF-EMIS, and previously issued quantities are processed as consumed (see paragraph 7.4.).
     7.3. Work centers will periodically report consumed HAZMAT items to either the HMMP Coordina-
     tor or the CSA from where the items were issued. This action completes the “grave” portion of “cradle
     to grave” tracking. Information will include, at a minimum; AF-EMIS Shop Code, NSN, and bar code
     number. Frequency of reporting will be dependent on frequency of consumption but will be submitted
     at least monthly. Contact the HMMP AF-EMIS coordinator for an automated usage reporting log
     sheet and shop inventory printout.
     7.4. Special processing procedures.
        7.4.1. Batteries: It is not practical to track a battery throughout its service life. Therefore, batteries
        will be processed through AF-EMIS using the following procedures, provided the shop requesting
        the battery has a valid authorization as cited in paragraph 6. above:
            7.4.1.1. Using the “staging area” menu, process a receive materials from off base and assign a
            bar code number as cited in paragraph 4.1.3. above.
            7.4.1.2. Using the “staging area” menu, process an issue to the shop or CSA as applicable.
            7.4.1.3. Once the battery(s) has been issued to the shop, use the “staging area” menu and pro-
MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004                                                                         11


          cess a receive materials from shop empty container.
      7.4.2. Compressed gases: Cylinders of compressed gases are often delivered directly to the
      requestor by a vendor and therefore often outside the normal visibility of the hazardous materials
      management process. To ease the administrative burden on both the user and the vendor, the fol-
      lowing procedures will be used to track compressed gases. The requesting shop must have a valid
      authorization as cited in paragraph 6. above.
          7.4.2.1. The requestor will notify the servicing CSA when delivery/refill of gas cylinders
          occurs.
          7.4.2.2. The servicing CSA, using the “staging area” menu, will process a receive from shop
          empty containers transaction to remove the previously issued quantity (if any). Using the
          “staging area” menu, process a received from off base for the new quantity and then process an
          issue to the shop for the requested compressed gas in the applicable size. The bar code will
          then remain in the shop’s AF-EMIS inventory record until replenishment occurs. (Printed
          labels will be provided to users when requested.)

8. Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card Procedures.
   8.1. HAZMAT items purchased with the Government-Wide Purchase Card (hereafter referred to as
   the purchase card) are subject to the same pre-approval and tracking requirements cited in paragraphs
   2.2. and 6.1. above. Prior to purchasing any HAZMAT using the purchase card, the user will contact
   the HMMP Coordinator to verify that a valid authorization exists and that the material is not available
   in the free issue inventory. (Recurring authorized purchases from Paperclips Etc. only require coordi-
   nation for availability of requested materials in free-issue.)
   8.2. If a valid authorization does not exist in AF-EMIS, the requestor will follow the procedures in
   paragraph 6.1. above.
   8.3. Once a valid authorization is established in AF-EMIS, the requestor contacts the HMMP Coordi-
   nator for a HAZMAT purchase authorization number (except second and subsequent purchases from
   Paperclips Etc.). Immediately after purchasing the HAZMAT from a source other than Paperclips
   Etc., the requestor will go to Paperclips Etc. for AF-EMIS processing and bar coding (reference AFI
   32-7086, Chapter 2, paragraph 2.6.4.12.). No HAZMAT obtained from the use of the purchase card
   will be taken to the work center until after AF-EMIS processing and bar coding. Any exceptions must
   be approved by the HMMP Coordinator.
   8.4. Usage reporting for HAZMAT acquired with the purchase card will be accomplished as cited in
   paragraph 7.3. or 7.4. above.
   8.5. The HMMP Coordinator will notify the 6th Contracting Squadron’s purchase card program man-
   ager of any unauthorized deviations from these procedures.

9. Free Issue Management.
   9.1. The concept of a free issue inventory was devised to divert excess serviceable HAZMAT from
   management as hazardous waste. Certain excess serviceable HAZMAT may qualify for inclusion in
   the free issue inventory for subsequent re-issue. Qualification is contingent on the conditions cited
   below.
12                                                               MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004


     9.2. Excess HAZMAT must be serviceable as determined by user knowledge, the HMMP Coordina-
     tor’s assessment, or both. Materials must have at least 60 days shelf life remaining. Container labels
     must be completely legible. Containers must be at least half full. There must be at least two authorized
     users loaded in AF-EMIS.
     9.3. The free issue inventory will be stored in the appropriate storage bay, based on hazardous char-
     acteristics, in Building P49, 6 LRS/LGRM. The inventory will be physically segregated from the
     Paperclips Etc. owned HAZMAT inventory and will be stored in compliance with all appropriate reg-
     ulations.
     9.4. The HMMP Coordinator will manage the free issue inventory and be available to accept qualified
     materials at least once weekly and more often as necessary. Free issue HAZMAT items are subject to
     all of the management requirements as non-free issue HAZMAT. The HMMP Coordinator will deter-
     mine at what point in time a free issue HAZMAT item will be turned over to the MacDill AFB Haz-
     ardous Waste manager for disposal as waste.
     9.5. HAZMAT items accepted into the free issue inventory that are void of a bar code will be assigned
     a bar code number as described in paragraph 4.1.3. above, using serial numbers 9000-9999. In addi-
     tion, non-bar coded turn-ins will be documented and tracked by the HMMP EMIS coordinator to iden-
     tify organizations that exhibit trends in unauthorized purchasing.

10. HAZMAT Reports.
     10.1. CSA Required Reports.
        10.1.1. CSA personnel utilize the AF-EMIS Report Generator to generate reports required to
        manage their respective inventories. Reports used to accomplish this include but are not limited to
        Staging Area, Inventory, Current Inventory Listing; Staging Area, Bar Code Reports, and Inven-
        tory.
        10.1.2. CSA and shop personnel can contact the HMMP EMIS Coordinator to request reports.



                                                       BRIAN T. KELLY, Colonel, USAF
                                                       Commander
MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004                                                                          13


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7045, Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program (ECAMP)
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management
AFI 32-7086/AMC Sup 1, Hazardous Materials Management
AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card Program
MACDI 48-104, Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program

Terms
AF-EMIS—Air Force Environmental Management Information System. A server based automated
database specifically designed to manage, track, and generate reports specific to the use of hazardous
materials on Air Force installations.
AUTHORIZATION—A record maintained in AF-EMIS to identify the manner, quantity, frequency, and
task associated with the use of a hazardous material within a shop. A valid authorization record must exist
before HAZMAT can be issued to the shop through AF-EMIS.
BAR CODE NUMBER—A number assigned as cited in paragraph 4.1.3. that records a specific unit of
hazardous materials as an inventory record in AF-EMIS.
BAR CODE LABEL—A label that contains the NSN/LSN and Bar Code Number that is affixed to a
hazardous material for tracking purposes.
CSA—Chemical Staging Area. A location where procurement of HAZMAT occurs. CSAs may or may
not maintain an inventory of hazardous materials on hand to meet recurring customer requests. CSAs that
store hazardous materials must ensure all applicable storage requirements are complied with.
DESCIM—Defense Environmental Security Corporate Information Management.
ECAMP—Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program. Air Force internal audit
program to assess an installation’s environmental compliance status. (See AFI 32-7045, Environmental
Compliance Assessment and Management Program (ECAMP).)
FREE ISSUE INVENTORY—An inventory of excess, serviceable HAZMAT available to authorized
users at no cost. Access/submission of items to the MacDill free issue inventory is controlled by 6 CES/
CEV.
HAZMAT (HAZARDOUS MATERIAL)—An item considered hazardous by Federal, State, or local
regulations. See AFI 32-7086, Attachment 1, for a more complete definition of HAZMAT.
HAZMART PHARMACY—The central facility on an Air Force installation, assigned to the Mission
Support Group, where personnel stock, store, issue, and distribute HAZMAT. The MacDill AFB Hazmart
Pharmacy is operated by the Winston-Salem Institute for the Blind, Paperclips Etc. office.
14                                                     MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004


HMIS—Hazardous Materials Information System. Automated material safety data sheet (MSDS)
database.
SHOP CODE—A unique five-position number assigned to shops enrolled in the HMMP and a primary
index record loaded in AF-EMIS. Synonymous with AF-EMIS “account number”.
MACDILLAFBI32-700 23 JULY 2004                                                                      15


                                           Attachment 2

                                          EXEMPTIONS

A2.1. The following items are exempt from AF-EMIS tracking under the circumstances cited. This does
not eliminate these items from the requirements set forth in the Hazardous Communications (HAZCOM)
program as defined in MACDI 48-104, Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program, or disposal rules
promulgated in the Resource Conservation Recovery Act and Florida Department of Environmental Pro-
tection Laws. This exemption applies only to the AF-EMIS Hazardous Materials Management Process
Program.

A2.2. These items do not require authorization and/or AF-EMIS bar code tracking provided they are
ordered and stored in quantities one could reasonably expect to be commensurate with a normal con-
sumer. It is required that shops have an MSDS on hand for these items for HAZCOM program compli-
ance.
   A2.2.1. Commercial household cleaning items used to maintain facilities:
       Bleach
       Floor Wax
       Floor Stripper
       Windex/Window Cleaner
       Restroom Cleaning Products
       Tile Cleaner
   A2.2.2. Office Supplies/Products:
       Shredder Oil
       Printer Cartridges
       Printer Toner
       Desiccant
   A2.2.3. Vehicle Care Products:
       Windshield Cleaner
       Armor All/Tire Care Products
       Car Soap/Wax
   A2.2.4. Laboratory Use: Items used in a research laboratory under the direct supervision of a quali-
   fied laboratory technician are exempt.
