BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                   MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 23-302
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                    8 JULY 2011

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                               VEHICLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE/
                                                                     INCIDENT PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 6 LRS/LGRV                                          Certified by: 6 LRS/CC (Maj Holcomb)
                                                                                     Pages: 10
Supersedes:    MACDILLAFBI24-301,
               3 May 2000


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 23-302, Vehicle Management, and
outlines definitions, responsibilities, and procedures for an effective vehicle accident and abuse
program with the visibility and emphasis placed at the unit level and under the direct control of
the unit commander. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a rewrite of MacDill Air Force Base (AFB) Instruction (MACDILLAFBI) 24-301,
Vehicle Accident/Abuse/Incident Program. The number of the instruction has been changed to
coincide with the implemented directive, AFI 23-302. This document has been substantially
revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include: paragraph 1 changed to
include leased vehicles/equipment; significantly changed paragraph 3 to address how using
organizations pay for accidents and abuses involving leased General Services Administration
(GSA) vehicles; deleted the requirement to track and provide costs to be reimbursed to the 6th
 2                                                      MACDILLAFBI23-302 8 JULY 2011


Comptroller Squadron, Accounting and Finance Flight (6 CPTS/FMF) monthly (paragraph
4.1.6). Added new Attachment 5, Notification of Body Damage to GSA Vehicle. Inserted new
Attachment 3, Sample Accident/Abuse Notification, and changed previous Attachment 2 to read
Attachment 4.
1. General. This instruction is applicable to all persons operating government owned vehicles
(GOV) or leased vehicles/equipment and GSA vehicles assigned or attached to MacDill AFB
and supported by the 6th Logistics Readiness Squadron (6 LRS). It also applies to
geographically separated units with vehicles/equipment that are loaded in the MacDill Air Force
Base On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management System and GSA vehicles loaded in the
Automated Fleet Information System.
2. Definitions.
     2.1. Fair Wear and Tear: The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment based
     on its age, usage, and life expectancy.
     2.2. Vehicle Accident: Any situation where a GOV strikes or is struck by another GOV,
     commercial vehicle, privately owned vehicle (POV), and/or object, structure, or animal
     where action by the vehicle operator could have prevented the outcome.
     2.3. Vehicle Incident: Any situation where a GOV sustains damage where the actions of the
     vehicle operator could not have prevented the outcome (i.e., act of nature).
     2.4. Vehicle Abuse: Damage caused by willful or negligent acts of improper operation or
     care. An act or omission that has caused or may cause damage that cannot be attributed to
     fair wear and tear, accident, or incident. Some examples of vehicle abuse are listed in
     Attachment 2.
3. Policy. Using organizations fund repairs resulting from vehicle accidents and abuse. Using
organizations are not required to reimburse for damage caused by acts of nature, natural
disasters, mechanical failures, or other phenomenon that in no way could have been avoided by
safe operation or adequate vehicle care.
     3.1. Reimbursement will come from a dedicated wing account or, if a wing account is not
     available, the using organization will coordinate reimbursement with Vehicle Management
     Flight (6 LRS/LGRV) using operation and maintenance (O&M) funds, Government Purchase
     Card (GPC), or AF Form 9, Request for Purchase. In all cases, payment or reimbursement
     will be made to 6 LRS/LGRV regardless of determination of pecuniary liability within 30
     days of the accident. In addition, if the using organization cannot pay or make
     reimbursement, the owning organization will assume the responsibility.
     3.2. The Vehicle Fleet Manager (VFM) or Vehicle Maintenance Superintendent (VMS) will
     identify whether the vehicle damage was caused by accident, abuse, or incident and forward
     his/her opinion to the 6 LRS Commander (6 LRS/CC) who will make the final determination
     on classifying the vehicle damage as accident, abuse, or incident.
     3.3. If a GOV or leased vehicle/equipment is involved in an accident with a POV and the
     POV is the negligent party, 6 LRS/LGRV will coordinate with the 6th Air Mobility Wing,
     Judge Advocate (6 AMW/JA), to have the liable party’s insurance company make direct
     payment to the repairing contractor. If the operator of the POV is uninsured, vehicle
     management will coordinate repairs on the GOV or leased vehicle/equipment at no cost to
MACDILLAFBI23-302 8 JULY 2011                                                                  3


   the owning/using organization, and 6 AMW/JA will pursue reimbursement for non-GSA
   assets.
   3.4. If a GOV or leased vehicle/equipment is involved in an accident with a POV and the
   GOV or leased vehicle/equipment operator is the negligent party, that individual’s
   organization is responsible for reimbursement of repair costs for the GOV or leased
   vehicle/equipment. 6 AMW/JA will resolve the POV liability issue if a claim is filed.
   3.5. Accident/Abuse letters of release will be completed within a 10-day period, unless the
   owning organization, in coordination with VFM/VMS, determines more time is needed for
   investigative purposes. Maintenance repairs will commence after the tenth day of the vehicle
   being reported to vehicle maintenance. Accidents/abuses to GSA leased assets require repair
   approval through the GSA accident center with notification to 6 LRS/LGRV. Units will
   provide Vehicle Management and Analysis (VM&A) copies of all estimates, accident forms,
   pictures, and repair bills for GSA leased vehicles. GSA will determine repairs required to
   vehicles and where the unit will take the vehicle for repairs.
4. Procedures.
   4.1. 6 LRS/LGRV will:
      4.1.1. Identify vehicle damage caused by accident, abuse, or incident.
      4.1.2. Provide a letter of accident/abuse notification for non-GSA assets (Attachment 3)
      to the squadron commander of the using organization with a copy of the repair estimate.
      If responsibility cannot be determined, the letter will be sent to the owning organization.
      4.1.3. Coordinate vehicle repairs upon receipt of a Letter of Release/Acceptance of
      Financial Responsibility (Attachment 4) from the using organization for non-GSA assets.
      4.1.4. Maintain accident/abuse case files to track repair cost data.
      4.1.5. Provide an AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement, when
      requested by the owning/using organization.
   4.2. The Vehicle Operations Flight (6 LRS/LGRDD) may withhold issuing replacement
   vehicles for vehicles involved in accident/abuse action(s) until the Letter of
   Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility is received by LGRV.
   4.3. Owning & using organizations will:
      4.3.1. Report all vehicle damage to 6 LRS/LGRV by the next duty day. Report all GSA
      vehicle damage to the GSA Accident Management Center, 6 AMW/JA, and Wing Safety
      (6 AMW/SE).
      4.3.2. Forward Notification of Body Damage to GSA Vehicle (Attachment 5) to 6
      LRS/LGRV. If involved in an accident, forward copies of the notification letter to 6
      AMW/JA and 6 AMW/SE.
      4.3.3. Report U-Drive-It or loaned vehicle damage to 6 LRS/LGRDD and LGRV within
      24 hours.
      4.3.4. Initiate a Report of Survey (DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of
      Property Loss) as required in accordance with AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air
      Force Property.
4                                                      MACDILLAFBI23-302 8 JULY 2011


       4.3.5. Forward a copy of the Letter of Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility to
       LGRV when the vehicle is no longer needed for any investigation for non-GSA assets.
    4.4. The using organization’s Resource Advisor (RA) will coordinate reimbursement
    through the Group RA if organization is inter-Group. The Budget Flight (6 CPTS/FMA) will
    transfer O&M funds from the appropriate account into 6 LRS/ LGRV O&M account if using
    organization is intra-Group.
    4.5. The Commander, 6th Mission Support Group (6 MSG/CC), is the final decision
    authority to resolve any conflicts concerning the vehicle accident and abuse program.




                                           LENNY J. RICHOUX, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
MACDILLAFBI23-302 8 JULY 2011                                         5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement;
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMW—6th Air Mobility Wing
6 CPTS—6th Comptroller Squadron
6 LRS—6th Logistics Readiness Squadron
6 MSG—6th Mission Support Group
6 SFS—6th Security Forces Squadron
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
CC—Commander
FMA—Budget Flight
FMF—Accounting and Finance Flight
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSA—General Services Administration
JA—Judge Advocate
LGRDD—Vehicle Operations Flight
LGRV—Vehicle Management Flight
MACDILLAFBI—MacDill Air Force Base Instruction
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
 6                                       MACDILLAFBI23-302 8 JULY 2011


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RA—Resource Advisor
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROS—Report of Survey
SE—Wing Safety
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis
VMS—Vehicle Maintenance Superintendent
MACDILLAFBI23-302 8 JULY 2011                                                                     7


                                          Attachment 2
                             EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

Note: The examples below are not an all-inclusive list of vehicle abuses.
A2.1. Vehicle reimbursement action will be initiated for vehicle/equipment damage or failure
resulting from:
   A2.1.1. Tampering with governors or distributors.
   A2.1.2. Operating vehicles with insufficient oils or coolants because of failure to check
   levels according to established requirements or failure to monitor dash instrumentation.
   A2.1.3. Operating a vehicle with applied/dragging parking brakes.
   A2.1.4. Improper distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo areas of vehicle or
   not following established loading/unloading procedures.
   A2.1.5. Using a vehicle for other than its intended or designed purpose (i.e., 6K F/L used to
   transport a 10,000 pound pallet, bobtail tow-tractor used to transport passengers).
   A2.1.6. Failure to clean/maintain a vehicle’s interior/exterior to meet corrosion control and
   appearance requirements.
   A2.1.7. Unauthorized wiring, marking, modification, or adding special equipment
   unauthorized in or on vehicles.
   A2.1.8. Operating a vehicle with improperly inflated tires not in accordance with the
   manufacturer’s recommended inflation pressure as marked on the vehicle or tire wear is
   beyond recappable limits (i.e., cord exposed).
   A2.1.9. A vehicle being operated by an unqualified/untrained operator.
   A2.1.10. Intentional destruction/disfigurement of vehicle interior/exterior.
   A2.1.11. Operation of a vehicle/equipment in conflict with published Department of
   Defense, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Air Force Occupational Safety and
   Health, Air Force regulations/instructions/manuals/ technical orders, or Florida law
   concerning vehicle safety.
A2.2. Other situations where vehicle abuse action may be initiated:
   A2.2.1. Failure to report malfunctions, defects in, or damage to a vehicle to Vehicle
   Maintenance within 24 hours of discovery. A preapproved delay of this action to satisfy
   immediate mission needs can be authorized, but must be coordinated through the Vehicle
   Management and Analysis Section.
   A2.2.2. Failure to bring a vehicle/equipment to Vehicle Maintenance for scheduled
   maintenance before an overdue condition exists. Preapproved rescheduling for early
   accomplishment of scheduled maintenance in order to meet urgent mission requirements can
   be accomplished to prevent this condition from occurring.
   A2.2.3. Failure to use reasonably available alternative fuels (e.g., E-85) in an alternative fuel
   vehicle.
 8                                                           MACDILLAFBI23-302 8 JULY 2011


                                            Attachment 3
                        SAMPLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE NOTIFICATION

                                                                     Date
MEMORANDUM FOR X XXX/CC
FROM: 6 LRS/CC
SUBJECT: Vehicle Abuse Notification
References: AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management
             AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property
             MACDILLAFBI 23-302, Vehicle Accident/Incident/Abuse Program
1. The following GSA leased vehicle utilized by 6th Security Forces Squadron (6 SFS) was turned in to
Vehicle Management for vehicle damage that occurred and was not attributed to fair wear or tear on 12
July 2006:
a. Vehicle Registration: XXXXXXXX.
b. Vehicle Damage: Dents in left door and rear quarter panel (see attached photos).
2. The damage had not been previously reported; no statement was turned in with the vehicle. The
estimated material cost to repair the vehicle is $X.XX.
3. An investigating official should be appointed to review the circumstances and determine if processing
a Report of Survey (ROS), DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, is required.
In accordance with AFMAN 23-220, para 18.4.1.1., for cases involving government vehicles, the
requirements for processing an ROS and imposing financial liability are gross negligence, willful
misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use. If additional information is needed, please contact Vehicle
Management & Analysis at DSN 968-3598/3705 or Commercial 813-828-3598/3705.


MARSHALL C. PERRY, Maj, USAF
Commander


3 Attachments:
1. Accident Photos
2. Accident Report
3. Repair Estimate


cc:
6 AMW/JA
6 AMW/SEG
MACDILLAFBI23-302 8 JULY 2011                                                                        9


                                           Attachment 4
       SAMPLE MEMORANDUM OF RELEASE/ACCEPTANCE OF FINANCIAL
                         RESPONSIBILITY

                                                                        Date
MEMORANDUM FOR 6 LRS/LGRV
FROM: (Assigned/Using Organization)
SUBJECT: Memorandum of Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility
1. Vehicle (Registration Number) that is assigned to or used by (your organization) was
involved in an (accident/abuse) on (date). Our investigation is now complete and the vehicle is
released to maintenance for repairs.
2. I understand that all costs associated with these repairs to include parts, materials, and civilian
labor will be charged to our Government Purchase Card (GPC) or transferred from our unit’s
operation and maintenance (O&M) account to the 6 LRS/LGRV O&M account.


VCO/VCNCO or Unit Commander Signature Block
 10                                                        MACDILLAFBI23-302 8 JULY 2011


                                           Attachment 5
           SAMPLE NOTIFICATION OF BODY DAMAGE TO GSA VEHICLE

                                                                     Date
MEMORANDUM FOR 6 LRS/LGRV
FROM: (Assigned/Using Organization)
SUBJECT: Notification of Body Damage to GSA Vehicle
1. Vehicle (GSA Tag Number) that is assigned to or used by (your organization) was involved in
an (accident/incident) on (date). I notified the GSA Accident Management Center and have
begun to coordinate needed repairs. (If accident) The accident that occurred did/did not involve
a privately owned vehicle (POV).
2. I understand that all costs associated with these repairs to include parts, materials, and civilian
labor must be reimbursed to the 6 LRS/LGRV operation and maintenance (O&M) account from
our unit’s O&M account.


VCO/VCNCO or Unit Commander Signature Block
cc:
6 AMW/SEG
6 AMW/JA (If POV involved is at-fault)
