BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                  INSTRUCTION 40-301

                                                                              29 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                 Medical Command

                                                              MANAGEMENT OF THE FAMILY
                                                             ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP) (PA)


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 6 MDOS/SGOH                                                           Certified by: 6 MDG/CC
                                                                             (Col Robert F. Rocco)
Supersedes:    MACDILLAFBI40-300,                                                           Pages: 8
               16 July 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 40-3, Family Advocacy Program,
and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 40-301, Family Advocacy. It establishes policy and procedures for
the administration of the Air Force Family Advocacy Program (FAP) at MacDill Air Force Base
(AFB). This instruction applies to all military members and civilian personnel and their dependents
entitled to receive care in a military facility as specified in AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and
Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services System (MHSS). This instruction establishes the
responsibilities and procedures to be followed by base personnel and agencies for all allegations of
child or spouse maltreatment and to identify family members with exceptional medical or educational
needs. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the
field through the appropriate functional chain of command.This instruction requires the collection
and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to collect and
maintain the records prescribed in this instruction is found in 10 United States Code (U.S.C.) 8013
and 10 U.S.C. Chapter 55. Privacy Act statement required by AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy
Program, is annotated on DD Form 2005, Privacy Act Statement- Health Care Records. Maintain
and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes according to the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule, accessible on-line at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims
 2                                              MACDILLAFBI40-301 29 DECEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a rewrite of MacDill AFB Instruction (MACDILLAFBI) 40-300, Management of the
Family Advocacy Program (FAP) (PA). This document has been substantially revised and must
be completely reviewed. Major changes include the removal of all references to Special Needs
Identification and Assignment Coordination (SNIAC) as the name has changed to Exceptional
Family Member Program and separate instruction exists. Changed Element Leader FAP to
Family Advocacy Officer (paragraph 2.3.).
1. Policies. Depending upon the nature of the offense, child and/or spouse maltreatment can
lead to judicial or administrative action, which could result in separation from the Air Force.
2. Assigned Responsibilities.
     2.1. Installation Commander/Designated Representative:
        2.1.1. Responsible for implementation and general oversight of the base Family
        Advocacy Program (FAP).
        2.1.2. Designates the Commander, 6th Medical Group (6 MDG/CC), as administrator
        and monitor of the base FAP.
        2.1.3. Establishes the Family Advocacy Committee (FAC). The FAC will comply with
        Air Force directives and has policy and resource management responsibilities for the base
        FAP.
        2.1.4. Chairs the Central Registry Board (CRB) or appoints a designee.
     2.2. 6 MDG/CC:
        2.2.1. As designated by the installation commander, manages and monitors the base
        FAP.
        2.2.2. Serves as chairperson for the base FAC or appoints a designee.
        2.2.3. Establishes protocol for the medical identification, evaluation, and management of
        suspected child and spouse maltreatment cases.
        2.2.4. Ensures medical staff is trained to identify child and spouse maltreatment and can
        manage Family Advocacy cases.
        2.2.5. Directs medical personnel to notify the Family Advocacy office if cases of
        suspected child and spouse maltreatment cases or special needs family members are
        encountered.
        2.2.6. Appoints a clinical social worker as the element leader of FAP.
     2.3. Family Advocacy Officer:
        2.3.1. Provides oversight to the FAP.
        2.3.2. Ensures the FAP provides quality services to the MacDil1 AFB community.
        2.3.3. Provides oversight to ensure timely evaluations and appropriate notifications are
        made to all appropriate agencies.
MACDILLAFBI40-301 29 DECEMBER 2011                                                            3


     2.3.4. Ensures the activation of the Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team
     (CSMRT) in all cases of alleged child sexual maltreatment and the High Risk for
     Violence Response Team (HRVRT) to manage potentially dangerous situations involving
     FAP clients or staff.
     2.3.5. Ensures the FAP participates in the base-wide Integrated Delivery System (IDS).
     FAP prevention activities will be coordinated with installation prevention activities to
     ensure they are complimentary and make efficient use of installation prevention
     resources.
     2.3.6. Serves as a facilitator and member of the CRB.
     2.3.7. Ensures timely safety assessments of all maltreatment cases and accomplishment
     of a safety plan for each case.
     2.3.8. Ensures the evaluation of all reported cases of child and spouse maltreatment
     according to existing Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force guidance.
     2.3.9. Ensures coordination with Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) and
     6th Security Forces Squadron (6 SFS) in the assessment and evaluation of all applicable
     cases of maltreatment.
  2.4. All 6 MDG personnel:
     2.4.1. Notify FAP during duty hours if a patient is suspected to be a victim of
     maltreatment. As mandated abuse reporters, medical personnel are to report information
     and observation of suspected child abuse to the Florida Abuse Registry at 1-800-96-
     ABUSE. After duty hours, 6 SFS and the Wing Command Post (6 AMW/CP) will be the
     points of contact. AFOSI will also be notified of incidents resulting in serious bodily
     harm or death of a suspicious nature.
     2.4.2. Explain restricted reporting option to known or suspected adult victims of
     domestic violence including sexual assaults in addition to notifying FAP of these
     patients. For any patient involved in a non-domestic violence sexual assault, explain the
     restricted reporting option and contact the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC)
     at DSN 968-7272, Comm 813-828-7272.
  2.5. 6 SFS:
     2.5.1. Dispatch duty personnel to evaluate the situation when a report is received of child
     or spouse maltreatment on base or other areas within the jurisdiction of 6 SFS. When
     required, provide immediate intervention to prevent abuse from occurring or continuing.
     2.5.2. Obtain necessary information for reporting suspected or known child or spouse
     maltreatment and documents such as a desk blotter entry and/or an AF Form 3545,
     Incident Report. Provide a copy of AF Form 3545 to the sponsor's unit commander.
     Incident/complaint reports and applicable portions of the desk blotters pertinent to this
     investigation will be made available to FAP personnel for review and photocopy.
     2.5.3. Investigate applicable cases of family maltreatment according to AFI 31-206,
     Security Forces Investigations Program. Notify AFOSI and 6 SFS Investigations Section
     (S2I) of incidents of serious bodily injury and all incidents of reported child sexual
4                                              MACDILLAFBI40-301 29 DECEMBER 2011


       maltreatment. Ensure a photographer is utilized in cases where a victim's injuries should
       be depicted by photograph in order to complete Security Forces investigations.
       2.5.4. Notify the sponsor's unit commander and first sergeant when law enforcement
       personnel have investigated or intervened in any case of domestic violence.
       2.5.5. Notify the FAP of all suspected incidents of child or spouse maltreatment. (After
       duty hours, the on-call Mental Health provider is available through the 6 AMW/CP. Unit
       commanders and first sergeants will be contacted in cases of maltreatment to assist in
       initial management.)
       2.5.6. Appoint members to serve on the CRB, FAC, and HRVRT.
    2.6. AFOSI:
       2.6.1. Indexes appropriate suspected maltreatment cases, opening criminal investigations
       when appropriate. Ensures a photographer is utilized in cases where a victim's injuries
       should be depicted by photograph in order to complete AFOSI investigations.
       2.6.2. Notifies Security Forces of cases that do not meet AFOSI criteria so they may
       investigate applicable cases of family maltreatment according to AFI 31-206.
       2.6.3. Monitors investigations if civil authorities assume investigation and agree to
       release their report to Air Force officials.
       2.6.4. Reviews the Defense Clearance and Investigations Index (DCII) on family
       members suspected of child maltreatment, informing the FAP of results. Will also
       prepare new index of all family members with new FAP cases after cases are
       substantiated.
       2.6.5. Appoints members to serve on the CRB, FAC, HRVRT, and CSMRT. Assists in
       the development of initial management plan where prosecution is possible, the alleged
       victim is in imminent danger of further maltreatment, or there is a possibility of multiple
       victims.
       2.6.6. Notifies FAP of all suspected cases of child or spouse maltreatment. (After duty
       hours, the on-call Mental Health provider is available through the 6 AMW/CP. Unit
       commanders and first sergeants will be contacted in cases of maltreatment to assist in
       initial management.)
    2.7. Unit Commander:
       2.7.1. Responds to the scene in person or designates a representative to assist medical or
       investigative authority in case management of suspected child or spouse maltreatment
       cases. Assistance may include arranging alternative housing for sponsor when there is a
       continued risk of violence to members of the family.
       2.7.2. Notifies FAP of all suspected cases of child or spouse maltreatment. (After duty
       hours, the on-call Mental Health provider is available through the 6 AMW/CP. Unit
       commanders and first sergeants will be contacted in cases of maltreatment to assist in
       initial management.)
MACDILLAFBI40-301 29 DECEMBER 2011                                                              5


       2.7.3. Provides follow-up and treatment recommendation support for child or spouse
       maltreatment in cases not involving law enforcement intervention. Provides updates and
       coordinates activities with FAP.
       2.7.4. Attends or sends designee to the CRB and HRVRT meetings to discuss
       recommendations and safety planning for active duty members assigned to unit.
   2.8. Staff Judge Advocate (6 AMW/JA):
       2.8.1. Coordinates and advises on enforcement of civil laws and the Uniform Code of
       Military Justice in cases of child and spouse maltreatment.
       2.8.2. Appoints members to serve on the CRB, FAC, CSMRT, and HRVRT. Assists in
       the development of initial management plan where prosecution is possible, the alleged
       victim is in imminent danger of further maltreatment, or there is a possibility of multiple
       victims.
       2.8.3. Coordinates and advises on enforcement of the Victim and Witness Assistance
       Program in cases of child and spouse maltreatment.
   2.9. Family Advocacy Committee (FAC):
       2.9.1. Provides base level oversight of the FAP.
       2.9.2. The wing commander (6 AMW/CC) will appoint the FAC chair and the
       membership in accordance with AFI 40-301.
       2.9.3. Establishes the membership of the CRB. This team meets at the call of the
       chairperson, or at least monthly, to review all cases of suspected child and spouse
       maltreatment.
       2.9.4. Establishes the membership of the CSMRT and the HRVRT.
3. Operating Instructions. The Family Advocacy Officer (FAO), under the guidance of the
FAC, will assist all appropriate agencies in the development and implementation of operating
instructions that cover responsibilities beyond the scope of those identified in this base
instruction in relation to child/spouse maltreatment.
4. Conclusion. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to take precedence over the FAP
standards as determined by the DoD Family Advocacy Program Manager or the Office of the Air
Force Surgeon General.




                                            LENNY M. RICHOUX, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                            MACDILLAFBI40-301 29 DECEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigations Program, 16 September 2009
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009
AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services
System (MHSS), 28 December 2001
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,1 March 2008
AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 10 March 2005
Title 10, United States Code, Chapter 55, and Section 8013
Forms Prescribed
None
Forms Adopted
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 3545, Incident Report, 11 May 2005
DD Form 2005, Privacy Act Statement- Health Care Records, February 1976

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMW—6th Air Mobility Wing
6 MDG—6th Medical Group
6 SFS—6th Security Forces Squadron
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CC—Commander
CP—Command Post
CRB— Central Registry Board
CSMRT—Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team
DCII—Defense Clearance and Investigations Index
MACDILLAFBI40-301 29 DECEMBER 2011                            7


DoD— Department of Defense
FAC—Family Advocacy Committee
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAP— Family Advocacy Program
HRVRT—High Risk for Violence Response Team
IDS—Integrated Delivery System
JA—Staff Judge Advocate
MACDILLAFBI—MacDill AFB Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFOI—Security Forces Office of Investigations
SNIAC—Special Needs Identification and Coordination Process
U.S.C.—United States Code
 8                                              MACDILLAFBI40-301 29 DECEMBER 2011


                                          Attachment 2
                             COMMUNITY RESPONSE TEAMS

A2.1. The Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) will ensure that all referrals of child sexual
maltreatment, to include out-of-home/DoD-sanctioned activities referrals and high risk for
violence situations, are responded to immediately. The Child Sexual Maltreatment Response
Team (CSMRT) will manage all child sexual maltreatment referrals and the High Risk for
Violence Response Team (HRVRT) will manage all potentially dangerous situations, such as
threats to seriously harm family members or Family Advocacy Program (FAP) staff.
A2.2. The CSMRT composition includes at a minimum (may be modified depending on
incident):
     A2.2.1. Family Advocacy Officer (FAO) (Element Leader of FAP) who will serve as
     chairperson;
     A2.2.2. 6 AMW/JA (Legal Advisor);
     A2.2.3. AFOSI (Lead Investigative Agent) or designee.
A2.3. The HRVRT composition includes at a minimum (may be modified depending on
incident):
     A2.3.1. FAO (Element leader FAP) who will serve as the chairperson;
     A2.3.2. Family Advocacy Treatment Manager involved with the family;
     A2.3.3. Squadron Commander or designee of family sponsor;
     A2.3.4. 6 SFS (Operational Flight Commander) or designee;
     A2.3.5. 6 AMW/JA (Legal Advisor);
     A2.3.6. Mental Health Provider;
     A2.3.7. AFOSI (Lead Investigative Agent) or designee.
A2.4. The primary responsibility of these teams is to develop and implement a plan for the
overall management of such referrals or crises. The goal is to minimize the trauma to the
victims, their families, the alleged offenders' families, the community at large, and to ensure a
coordinated approach to both the investigation and management of the incidents.
A2.5. Local policies and procedures will reflect the activation of these teams for out-of-
home/DoD-sanctioned activity child sexual maltreatment referrals and high risk for violence
situations.
A2.6. Following activation of either team, the FAO will call a timely meeting to:
     A2.6.1. Ensure development and implementation of the initial plan in a timely fashion.
     A2.6.2. Coordinate the ongoing management of the team and other action agencies involved.
     A2.6.3. Determine resources needed to manage case in addition to available local resources.
