BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                         INSTRUCTION 84-100
                                                                                           20 APRIL 2006

                                                                                                    History

                                                           MAINTENANCE OF DISPLAY AIRCRAFT



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 6 MXS/MXMF (Lt Foss)                                    Certified by: 6 MXG/CC (Col Norsworthy)
Supersedes MACDILLAFBI84-100,                                                                Pages: 4
           26 October 1994                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction outlines procedures and responsibilities for the maintenance, inspection, and upkeep of
any display aircraft on loan from the Air Force Museum within the confines of MacDill Air Force Base
(AFB). This instruction expands on the requirements outlined by the Air Force Museum for the upkeep
and maintenance of all "on loan" aircraft. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed
processes according to the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, accessible on-line at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision transfers
office of primary responsibility to the 6th Maintenance Squadron (6 MXS), and incorporates logical
changes from the previous version, aligning responsibilities for maintenance and upkeep in accordance
with current Air Force instructions. This includes making the 6th Maintenance Group (6 MXG) responsi-
ble for maintenance of the aircraft, while retaining upkeep of the surrounding grounds with the base civil
engineers. This revision also updates office symbols that have changed since the previous revision.


1. Objectives. This instruction prescribes cleaning, inspection, and maintenance requirements that will
ensure displayed aircraft are maintained in accordance with AFI 84-103, U.S. Air Force Heritage Pro-
gram, and AMC Supplement 1. Additionally, as the present display aircraft and location have been desig-
nated as "The Prisoner Of War/Missing In Action (POW/MIA) Memorial" for MacDill AFB, the upkeep
and appearance of the site, as a whole, must represent our pride and commitment to those individuals who
have made the ultimate sacrifice in the defense of our great nation and the United States Air Force.

2. Responsibilities. The 6th Air Mobility Wing Commander (6 AMW/CC) is responsible for the static
display aircraft at MacDill AFB (excludes Avon Park Air Force Range) and will sign for any and all static
display aircraft. The 6 AMW/CC has delegated upkeep and maintenance oversight of static display air-
craft to the 6 MXG/CC. Additionally, the 6 AMW/CC has delegated oversight of the upkeep and mainte-
2                                                            MACDILLAFBI84-100 20 APRIL 2006


nance of the grounds surrounding and adjacent to the static display aircraft to the 6th Mission Support
Group Commander (6 MSG/CC). The following units and individual positions are tasked to provide/per-
form required procedures to ensure compliance with this instruction.
    2.1. The 6 MXG will:
       2.1.1. Maintain inspection and maintenance reports.
       2.1.2. Maintain the required Air Force Museum forms and documents.
       2.1.3. Ensure that Loan Agreement is updated biannually as required by the Air Force Museum.
       A copy will be sent to the Air Mobility Command, Historian Office (AMC/HO).
       2.1.4. Perform an annual aircraft cleaning, as a minimum. Annual cleaning should be accom-
       plished just prior to POW/MIA Day in September.
       2.1.5. Perform a corrosion control inspection at least annually. Document findings and schedule
       repairs and/or painting of aircraft in accordance with established technical order procedures.
       2.1.6. 6 MXG/CC will coordinate with the necessary agencies for any required maintenance not
       covered under this instruction (i.e., sheet metal repairs, components removal, systems inspections,
       etc.).
    2.2. The 6 MXS will:
       2.2.1. Appoint the Historical Property Custodian (HPC) for the KB-50, serial number (S/N)
       49-0389, F-4, S/N 66-0306, and F-16, S/N 81-0721. The HPC will manage the overall mainte-
       nance efforts of the static display aircraft.
       2.2.2. A 6 MXS Aircraft Structural Maintenance (ASM) technician will perform an annual static
       aircraft structural integrity and paint condition inspection and document all discrepancies on AF
       Form 3581, USAF Museum Aerospace Vehicle Static Display Maintenance Log. This inspec-
       tion will be performed and findings submitted to the HPC by 15 October of each year.
       2.2.3. An ASM technician will perform an aircraft structural integrity and paint condition inspec-
       tion after all hurricanes and tropical storms in the Tampa Bay area and document all discrepancies
       on AF Form 3581. Funding to repair any damage caused by named storms will be coordinated
       through the Resource Advisor (6 MXG/RA).
       2.2.4. ASM will be the main advisory technician to the HPC for preservation and maintenance,
       and provide technical assistance, training, guidance, special tooling, chemicals, and consumables
       to personnel working on static display aircraft.
       2.2.5. HPC will coordinate with the 6 MXG Deputy Commander to work with the 6th Comptrol-
       ler Squadron (6 CPTS) and 6th Contracting Squadron (6 CONS) for funding all contractor support
       for paint requirements and major repair discrepancies noted within 90 days of the annual inspec-
       tion.
       2.2.6. The HPC will coordinate and validate work required or discovered during the annual
       inspection performed by specialists from ASM.
    2.3. The 6 MSG will provide grounds support:
       2.3.1. The 6th Civil Engineer Squadron (6 CES) will provide grounds maintenance to include
       grass cutting and bush trimming, and will also provide sidewalk maintenance and repair.
MACDILLAFBI84-100 20 APRIL 2006                                                                        3


     2.3.2. 6 CES will inspect and maintain the aircraft display supports including concrete pads, light-
     ing, and aircraft tie downs. Maintenance and repair work will be identified through the recurring
     work program. The 6 CES will provide environmental staff assistance for any paint work accom-
     plished on static aircraft to ensure compliance with environmental protection standards.
     2.3.3. 6 CES will create and track internal work orders when park conditions require maintenance
     to meet minimum safety and appearance standards. All findings will be communicated to the HPC
     for information; any safety related findings will be communicated immediately to the 6th Air
     Mobility Wing, Safety Division (6 AMW/SE), for assessment.
  2.4. The 6 CONS will solicit aircraft painting and repairs contractor support based on assessment
  results provided by the HPC.



                                             TIMOTHY S. SMITH, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
4                                                       MACDILLAFBI84-100 20 APRIL 2006


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 84-103, U.S. Air Force Heritage Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ASM—Aircraft Structural Maintenance
CC—Commander
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
CONS—Contracting Squadron
HO—Historical Office
HPC—Historical Property Custodian
MSG—Mission Support Group
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
POW/MIA—Prisoner Of War/Missing In Action
RA—Resource Advisor
S/N—Serial Number
