BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                           MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
6TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                                                   INSTRUCTION 44-105
                                                                                                                               27 JULY 2006

                                                                                                                                        Medical

                                                                                CONTROLLING OCCUPATIONAL
                                                                       EXPOSURES TO BLOOD, BODY FLUIDS, AND
                                                                             OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS
                                                                                             MATERIALS (PA)

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 6 AMDS/SGPM                                                          Certified by: 6 MDG/CC (Col Charles E. Potter)
                                                                                                             Pages: 27

This instruction implements AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, and establishes guidelines for personnel
who have reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to blood borne pathogens (BBP) in the course of
their duties at MacDill Air Force Base (AFB). It applies to all organizations on base whose personnel
have reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
materials in the course of their assigned duties. This primarily involves personnel working in the Medical
Group, Fire Department, Security Police, and Office of Special Investigations. Also included are employ-
ees required to provide first aid response as part of their duties. However, all personnel working on Mac-
Dill AFB should understand how blood borne pathogens are transmitted in case they must respond to an
injured/ill coworker, dried blood found on an object, or a biohazardous spill. This instruction does apply
to US Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units and their personnel. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropri-
ate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance
of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain the
records prescribed in this publication are 10 United States Code (U.S.C.) 55, Medical and Dental Care;
10 U.S.C. 8013, Power and Duties of the Secretary of the Air Force; and Executive Order 9397, Systems
of Records Notice. 62 FR 31793, Reporting of Medical Conditions of Public Health and Military Signif-
icance, applies.
      1.     Definitions. ................................................................................................................   3
      2.     Exposure Determination. ...........................................................................................             4
      3.     Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................     6
2                                                                                 MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


    4.   Procedures. .................................................................................................................    9
    5.   Contracted Operations. ..............................................................................................           11
    6.   Record Keeping. ........................................................................................................        11

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          13

Attachment 2— MACDILL AFB BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS EXPOSURE
           CONTROL PLAN/TRAINING PROGRAM TEMPLATE
           (SAMPLE PROGRAM WITH DETAILED EXPLANATIONS)                                                                                   14

Attachment 3— INCIDENT REPORTING SAMPLE FORMS (AF FORM 765)                                                                              21

Attachment 4— HEPATITIS B DECLINATION SAMPLE STATEMENT                                                                                   23

Attachment 5— DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR SPILLS
           OF BLOOD AND BODY SUBSTANCES                                                                                                  25

Attachment 6— BIOHAZARD LABEL                                                                                                            27
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                                            3


1. Definitions.
   1.1. Employee. All personnel working in any capacity for the United States Government at MacDill
   AFB, Florida (i.e., military, hired civilians, civilian/military volunteers, housekeeping personnel, and
   students).
   1.2. Exposure. Any encounter, direct or indirect, with an injured person’s blood and body fluids, or
   their personal items (i.e., clothing, bed linens, bandages, etc..) contaminated by blood or body fluids.
   1.3. Other Definitions:
       1.3.1. Bloodborne Pathogens: Disease-causing microorganisms that are present in human blood
       and other potentially infectious materials (PIM) that can cause disease in humans. Examples
       include (but are not limited to) Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, and the Human Immunodeficiency
       Viruses (HN).
       1.3.2. Potentially Infectious Materials (PIM): Include blood and human body fluids that the Cen-
       ters for Disease Control and Prevention (CDCP) recommend handling with standard precautions.


PIMs Include:
Semen             Vaginal Secretions              Cerebrospinal Fluid             Synovial Fluid
Pleural Fluid     Pericardial Fluid               Peritoneal Fluid                Amniotic Fluid
Saliva In Dental Procedures                        Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with
                                                  blood.
All body fluids in situations where it is difficult or impossible to differentiate between body fluids.
Any unfixed tissues or organs other than intact skin from a human (living or dead).
HIV-containing cells or tissue cultures, organ cultures, and HIV-HBV containing culture medium
or other solutions; and blood, organs, or other tissues from experimental animals infected with
HIV or HBV.

       1.3.3. Occupational Exposure: Eye, skin mucous membrane, or parenteral exposure (see Note 1)
       (through the skin/mucous membrane barrier) or non-intact skin (see Note 2) exposure to blood or
       PIMs during the course of an employee’s duties:

NOTES:
           1. PARENTERAL exposure includes human bites that break the skin, cuts and abrasions.
           2. NON-INTACT skin includes skin with dermatitis, hang-nails, chafing, etc.
       1.3.4. Standard Precautions: An approach to infection control in which all human blood and
       PIMs (discussed above), or contaminated items that would release blood or PIMs, are treated as if
       known to be contaminated with blood borne pathogens. The approach includes the use of barriers
       between the body fluid of the patient and skin, or mucous membranes of the employee.
NOTE: Other body fluids such as feces, nasal secretions, sputum, saliva, sweat, tears, urine, and vomitus
are not known to carry blood borne pathogens unless they contain visible blood but can be infectious with
other microorganisms. Therefore, the definition of Standard Precautions at MacDill AFB is
expanded to include those methods used to prevent exposure to any body fluid or body substance.
4                                                                MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


       1.3.5. Contaminated: Refers to the presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
       other PIMs on an item or surface.
       1.3.6. Sharps: Any object that can penetrate the skin, including but not limited to needles, scal-
       pels, broken glass, broken capillary tubes, and exposed ends of dental wires.
       1.3.7. Source Individual: Any individual (living or dead) whose blood or other PIMs may be a
       source of occupational exposure to the employee. Examples include, but not limited to, hospital
       and clinic patients; clients in institutions for the developmentally disabled, trauma victims, clients
       of drug and alcohol treatment facilities, residents of hospices and nursing homes, human remains,
       and individuals who donate or sell blood or blood components. Suspect all individuals as poten-
       tial source.
       1.3.8. Victim or Exposed Patient: Worker exposed to blood or other PIM.
       1.3.9. Decontamination: Use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy
       blood borne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of trans-
       mitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or disposal.
       1.3.10. Engineering Controls: Exposure control measures that isolate or remove the blood borne
       pathogen hazard from the workplace (e.g., sharps containers, self-sheathing needles, hand wash-
       ing facilities).
       1.3.11. Exposure Incident: An incident in which blood or PIMs contacted the mucous membranes
       of the eye, nose, or mouth, or made contact with broken, non-intact, or irritated skin. It also
       includes any incident where a potentially contaminated item penetrates the skin (e.g., needlestick).
       Human bites will also be considered an exposure incident for purposes of screening and fol-
       low-up.
       1.3.12. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): Specialized clothing or equipment worn by an
       employee for protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g., uniforms, pants, shirts, or
       blouses) not intended to function as protection against a hazard are not considered PPE.
       1.3.13. Work Practice Controls: Measures that reduce the chances of exposure by altering the
       manner in which a task is performed (e.g., prohibiting the recapping of needles, avoiding picking
       up broken glass with bare hands, procedures for collecting and disposing of PIMs).
       1.3.14. HBV: Hepatitis B Virus.
       1.3.15. HCV: Hepatitis C Virus.
       1.3.16. HIV: Human Immunodeficiency Virus.
    1.4. For additional terms, see 29 CFR 1910.1030, Occupational Safety and Health, or CDC Guide-
    lines for the Prevention of Tuberculosis in Healthcare Facilities.

2. Exposure Determination.
    2.1. Exposure Categories: Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has established
    three exposure categories for protection against occupational exposure to infectious disease to include
    Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, and Human Immunodeficiency Viruses. These categories are as follows:
       2.1.1. Category I: Tasks that involve routine exposure to human blood, body fluids, or tissues.
       All procedures or other job-related tasks that involve an inherent potential for mucous membrane
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                                           5


       or skin contact with human blood, body fluids, or tissues, or a potential for spills or splashes of
       them are Category I tasks. Use of appropriate personal protective equipment will be required for
       employees engaged in Category I tasks.
          2.1.1.1. Category I job classifications shall include employees in the following job classifica-
          tions: physicians, dentists, nurses, physician assistants, laboratory officers, medical lab tech-
          nicians, dental and dental lab technicians, dental hygienists, dental assistants, dental
          volunteers, radiologists, radiology technicians, optometrists, optometry technicians, immuni-
          zation technicians, aeromedical technicians, nursing assistants, emergency medical techni-
          cians, paramedics, mortuary affairs, and medical clinic housekeepers.
          2.1.1.2. Category I job classifications are considered High Risk.
       2.1.2. Category II: Routine tasks that involve no exposure to human blood, body fluids, or tis-
       sues, but employment may require performing unplanned/emergency Category I tasks. The nor-
       mal work routine involves no exposure to blood, body fluids, or potentially infectious materials,
       but exposure or potential exposure may be required as a condition of employment. Appropriate
       personal protective equipment, as determined by the supervisor in consultation with Bioenviron-
       mental Engineering Flight, will be readily available to every employee engaged in Category II
       tasks.
          2.1.2.1. Category II job classifications and tasks, which may incur exposure, include:


JOB                                TASK
Firefighters                       Emergency Rescue Procedures/Rendering First Aid
Security Police                    Emergency Rescue Procedures/Rendering First Aid
Office of Special Investigations   Crime Scene Investigations
Housekeepers                       Sorting Laundry/Trash
Clinic Employees/Volunteers        Potential Contact with Infectious Patients/ Equipment (not in
                                   Category I)
Medical Maintenance                Repair of Contaminated Equipment
Technicians
Designated First Aid               First Aid Response in the Workplace
Responders
Other Maintenance, Repair          Plumbing, Filter Changes, Working in/around
Personnel, Contractors That        Section
Perform Tasks in Section
Veterinary Section Personnel       Handling Infectious Wastes
DoD School Nurses                  Potential Exposure From Injured Students
Child Care Center Employees        Potential Contact with Infectious Child/Products
Family Home Day Care               Potential Contact with Infectious Child/Products
Providers
MWR Lifeguards                     Potential Contact with Infectious Persons
6                                                                MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


JOB                                TASK
Special Operations                 Potential Contact with Infectious Persons
Egress                             Potential Contact with Infectious Persons
           2.1.2.2. Moderate Risk = Category II.
       2.1.3. Category III: Tasks that involve no exposure to human blood, body fluids, or tissues, and
       Category I tasks are not conditions of employment. The normal work routine involves no expo-
       sure to human blood, body fluids, or tissues (although situations may be imagined or hypothesized
       under which anyone, anywhere, might encounter potential exposure to body fluids). Persons who
       perform these duties are not called upon as part of their employment to perform or assist in emer-
       gency medical care or first aid, or to be potentially exposed in some other way. These workers
       may perform care as “Good Samaritans”. Category III tasks and procedures that may result in
       occupational exposure of almost any person in any job classification (i.e., administrative workers,
       food handlers, routine laborers, etc.):
           2.1.3.1. Disposing of soiled tissues or other debris soiled with visible blood from restrooms or
           offices.
           2.1.3.2. Physical contact with other employees or visitors with exudative lesions or weeping
           dermatitis.
           2.1.3.3. Provision of emergency first aid or cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) until profes-
           sional help arrives.
           2.1.3.4. No Anticipated Risk = Category III.
NOTE: Personnel who must be immunized against Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) on MacDill AFB include all
Category I personnel and all active duty personnel who work in medical, firefighting, security forces, and
OSI work centers. All other personnel in Categories II and III will receive post-exposure prophylaxis to
HBV if an incident occurs that is related to their occupational tasks. These individuals can be assured
that, with this protocol, they are as protected as immunized persons.

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. As the “employer,” the Commander, 6th Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW/CC), is responsible for all
    facets of the MacDill AFB Bloodborne Pathogen (BBP) Exposure Control Program. The commander
    shall establish a written Exposure Control Program designed to eliminate or minimize employee
    exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. This program must:
       3.1.1. Identify duties that conceivably pose a risk of occupational exposure to blood, body fluids,
       or other potentially infectious materials.
       3.1.2. Ensure initial and annual training is accomplished for personnel considered at risk.
       3.1.3. Ensure that each unit (group and squadron) commander complies with the guidance
       referred to in Attachment 1, as well as the expanded policies set by this program.
    3.2. Unit commanders will identify the OSHA exposure risk category (see para 2.1.). They will
    ensure all personnel at risk for occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infec-
    tious materials are adequately protected, receive initial and annual training, and comply with estab-
    lished guidelines and requirements defined in this program and 29 CFR 1910.1030.
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                                            7


  3.3. Commanders of organizations with personnel at risk for occupational exposures will designate an
  office of primary responsibility (OPR) for facilitating completion of the unit’s BBP template (Attach-
  ment 2), monitoring compliance with engineering and work practice controls, personal protective
  equipment (PPE), housekeeping, elements of hazard communication, and training documentation, as
  stipulated by this program.
  3.4. Each at-risk individual (active duty member, government employee, contract employee, student,
  or volunteer assigned or attached to work in any affected organization) is responsible for knowledge
  of and compliance with this program. Each supervisor must document personnel training on AF Form
  55, Employee Safety and Health Record (PA).
  3.5. All training for self-aid and buddy care as well as CPR will include basic information concerning
  bloodborne and other potentially infectious pathogens, their transmission, and method of exposure
  control. NOTE: For contracted services, the contractor, not the Air Force, assumes responsibility for
  compliance with OSHA standards and for the safety and health of their employees. Air Force contract
  specifications for services and materials must stipulate strict adherence to 29 CFR 1910.1030 and
  specify who provides PPE to whom, who provides Hepatitis B vaccinations, who gives the training,
  and who investigates and documents bloodborne or other potentially infectious pathogen exposure
  incidents.
  3.6. The 6th Medical Group (6 MDG) will provide:
     3.6.1. Medical oversight for eligible workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
     infectious materials in the course of their duties. Medical oversight for potentially exposed work-
     ers includes:
         3.6.1.1. Immunizations (with documentation) to protect authorized workers against blood-
         borne pathogens.
         3.6.1.2. Medical follow-up, treatment, and documentation for authorized personnel exposed
         to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties. See
         Bloodborne Pathogen Protocol at Attachment 3.
         3.6.1.3. Health Care Providers will document written opinions for employees exposed to
         blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. Written opinions will be given
         within 15 days of exposure.
     3.6.2. Infection Control Officer or Public Health Technician will provide medical education to
     authorized workers exposed to potentially infectious materials in routine course of their duties.
     3.6.3. Review and approval through the Infection Control Function of Unit Exposure Control Pro-
     grams and educational programs developed for workers potentially exposed to blood, body fluids,
     or other potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties. NOTE: Attachment 2
     includes a suggested BBP Education and Training Program template for organization commanders
     to designate their BBP program OPR to utilize.
     3.6.4. Disposal of contaminated waste (when requested by organizations) through the medical
     waste disposal contract for waste contaminated with blood and body fluids and biohazard bags
     used for gathering and transporting said waste.
     3.6.5. Technical advice and supervisory assistance on:
8                                                              MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


           3.6.5.1. The types of PPE needed to protect workers from exposure to blood, body fluids, or
           other potentially infectious materials.
           3.6.5.2. Training of workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
           materials in the course of their duties.
           3.6.5.3. Decontamination of surfaces contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other poten-
           tially infectious materials (see Attachment 5)
       3.6.6. A medical consultant (Internal Medicine Clinic) who will evaluate exposure incidents.
    3.7. All organizations with workers in Category I and II job classifications and any with workers
    exposed to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials will:
       3.7.1. Develop an Exposure Control Program for their workers using the template at Attachment
       2. The completed program must be sent to Public Health Infection Control Officer (ICO) initially
       and annually to be reviewed, then forward for approval by the 6 MDG Infection Control Function.
       3.7.2. Ensure the unit’s written Exposure Control Program and its documentation are available to
       its workers and to authorized program evaluators for required review.
       3.7.3. Ensure workers with reasonably anticipated occupational exposures to blood, body fluids,
       or other potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties, in-process through PH prior
       to starting duties in which potential for exposure is anticipated.
       3.7.4. Ensure workers with reasonable anticipated occupational exposures to blood, body fluids,
       or other potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties, out-process through PH upon
       termination of employment, (permanent change of station (PCS), permanent change of assignment
       (PCA), separation, or retirement).
       3.7.5. Develop, schedule, provide training materials, and document training to workers on the
       medical aspects of exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials, orga-
       nizational procedures, and the storage and use of PPE (see Attachment 2).
       3.7.6. Purchase, properly store, and ensure the use of PPE needed to protect workers from expo-
       sure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. There must be enough PPE on
       hand to protect all workers involved in procedures with potential exposures. Additionally, PPE
       must be available in sizes that appropriately fit all workers potentially exposed.
       3.7.7. Clean, launder, and/or dispose of PPE at no cost to the employee.
       3.7.8. Repair or replace PPE as needed to maintain its effectiveness, at no cost to the employee.
       3.7.9. In the event a blood or body fluid exposure takes place, follow procedures outlined below:
           3.7.9.1. Ensure worker washes exposed area thoroughly with soap and water. Do not use soap
           on eyes or in nose or mouth. If skin has been punctured, promote bleeding by squeezing area
           before washing. Record name, address, and phone number of source person, if known. Imme-
           diately notify supervisor on duty and report to the 6th Medical Group, Internal Medicine
           Clinic, or call PH for information and action at 813-827-9601. If the incident occurs after duty
           hours, report to the Emergency Department at Tampa General Hospital (or closest). Call Pub-
           lic Health the next duty day to report incident.
           3.7.9.2. Document on the AF Form 765, Medical Treatment Facility Incident Statement,
           information that includes the department/work area where the incident occurred; type, brand,
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                                            9


          and lot number (if available) of device involved in the incident; and explanation of how the
          incident occurred.
          3.7.9.3. Refer the exposed individual and, if possible, the source of exposure, to 6th Medical
          Group, Internal Medicine Clinic, for evaluation, appropriate treatment, and follow-up within 2
          hours. Supervisor must complete BBP Exposure report form (Attachment 3) and forward to
          PH.
          3.7.9.4. Appropriately decontaminate surfaces soiled with blood, body fluids, or other poten-
          tially infectious materials as soon as feasible, using personnel trained on bloodborne patho-
          gens to limit exposure of others (see Attachment 5).
          3.7.9.5. Transport wastes to the 6th Medical Group, Building 711, for proper disposal in
          accordance with Attachment 5. (Contact 6 MDG Facilities Management at 827-9522 prior to
          transporting.) Bagged waste need not be transported immediately. It can be containerized and
          held in a secure manner until regular duty hours.

4. Procedures.
   4.1. Supervisors of Category I personnel and all medical, firefighting, security forces, and OSI per-
   sonnel will ensure their workers in-process through PH prior to starting work involving reasonably
   anticipated occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
      4.1.1. All Category I individuals and fire department, security forces, OSI, and other military
      members with potential for occupational blood or body fluid exposure, will report to PH to verify
      the status of the Hepatitis B vaccine or titer. Civilian employees are highly encouraged to receive
      vaccinations. Volunteers must be offered the vaccine prior to working in Category I areas. The
      Hepatitis B vaccine will always be available at no cost to the employee.
      4.1.2. 6 MDG Immunizations Clinic personnel will immunize and document each vaccine of
      employees/volunteers who have received the Hepatitis B series. Civilians declining this vaccine
      must sign a declination statement (Attachment 4). If the employee later wishes to receive the
      vaccine, they may receive it at no cost.
   4.2. At risk workers will be given initial training prior to working in a work center with risk of expo-
   sure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials, and annual training as required by
   29 CFR 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens.
   4.3. Upon request, PH and/or 6 MDG Infection Control Officer (ICO) will assist supervisors in train-
   ing on Bloodborne Pathogens and/or tuberculosis to help meet both initial and annual training require-
   ments.
      4.3.1. Supervisors will ensure initial training is documented on the employee’s AF Form 55 as
      Initial Bloodborne Pathogen Training (IBBPT may be used to indicate training).
      4.3.2. Supervisors will ensure annual training is documented on the employee’s AF Form 55 as
      Annual Bloodborne Pathogen Training (ABBPT abbreviation may be used to indicate training).
   4.4. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Supervisors will:
      4.4.1. Ensure adequate PPE (gloves, masks, goggles, face shields, outer protective garments, etc.)
      is available for workers to use at all times where there is a potential for occupational exposure to
      blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials (see para 3.7.6.).
10                                                                 MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


        4.4.2. Enforce the wearing of PPE during procedures in which there is a potential for occupational
        exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. Failure of workers to
        comply with policies and directives of this program must be addressed immediately and docu-
        mented through appropriate administrative procedures. This policy is established to protect the
        worker’s health as worker’s health is first.
        4.4.3. Evaluate worker’s duty performance during an exposure incident. If a worker does not don
        appropriate PPE or PPE is breached during the incident, the supervisor will complete a narrative
        summary of the incident (which will include the individual’s name, job description, source of the
        blood, body fluid, or other infectious materials if known, and a statement on how the exposure
        occurred) and forward copies to Ground Safety (6 AMW/SEG) and PH (6th Aerospace Medicine
        Squadron, Public Health (6 AMDS/SGPM)) for their information and action.
     4.5. If a worker is actually exposed to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials in
     the course of their duties (i.e., a needle puncture wound, getting cut with a contaminated object such
     as glass, having blood splash on the skin or mucous membranes of the eyes), after cleaning the wound
     in accordance with para 3.7.9.1., the supervisor will immediately send the exposed worker and, if pos-
     sible, the source individual to 6 MDG Internal Medicine Clinic for appropriate evaluation, treatment,
     and follow-up (see Attachment 3).
        4.5.1. Internal Medicine Clinic, with assistance from PH, in accordance with 6 MDG HI 48-5,
        Occupational Blood and Body Fluid Exposure Control Plan, will:
            4.5.1.1. Evaluate the worker’s potential exposure to bloodborne pathogens using criteria
            developed by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention based on the type of exposure and
            source risk factors.
            4.5.1.2. If indicated, ensure appropriate testing of the source as well as testing, treatment, and
            follow-up care for the exposed worker are accomplished.
            4.5.1.3. The medical provider will notify the worker and the employing organization of the
            necessity for treatment and follow-up of the exposed worker.
            4.5.1.4. The medical provider will provide a written opinion on the individual’s exposure inci-
            dent and recommended follow-up care. Ensure the written opinion is placed in the individ-
            ual’s medical record.
            4.5.1.5. PH will ensure appropriate follow-up is accomplished for blood, body fluid, and
            potentially infectious materials exposure following the guidelines outlined in 6 MDG HI 48-5.
        4.5.2. The organization where the exposure incident occurred will:
            4.5.2.1. Ensure that areas, equipment, clothing, and materials contaminated by blood, body
            fluids, or other potentially infectious material are appropriately decontaminated. This may be
            done by properly trained unit employees or by certified contractors. Consultation with the PH/
            ICO office on spills that may be beyond the scope of the unit to take care of internally is appro-
            priate (see Attachment 5).
        4.5.3. Individuals performing decontamination will (see Attachment 5):
            4.5.3.1. Decontaminate and dispose of any blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
            materials using appropriately trained personnel and the procedures outlined in Attachment 5.
            If it is determined that use of bleach is not feasible due to its caustic nature (i.e., on equipment
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                                          11


          panels), the unit should consult with the PH/ICO office for an alternate method of decontami-
          nation.
          4.5.3.2. Place all contaminated articles that are to be disposed of in a biological hazard bag.
          Biological hazard bags are double bagged. This task will be accomplished by appropriately
          trained organizational personnel wearing the proper PPE, including puncture-resistant water-
          proof gloves, a protective outer garment, and shoe coverings, if there is a potential for contam-
          inating the workers shoes. If aerosolization or splattering of blood, body fluids, or other
          potentially infectious materials is expected, individuals must wear a mask and goggles or face
          shield. Contact the 6 MDG Facility Management Office prior to transporting biohazard bags
          to 6 MDG, Building 711. The biohazard bags will be disposed of in the medical waste dis-
          posal system by personnel from the originating organization. If waste contains sharp items,
          such as broken glass, needles, or knives, these must be placed in a puncture resistant container,
          which is sealed prior to placing it in the Biohazard bag. NOTE: A regular plastic garbage bag
          can be used instead of a biohazard bag if it is clearly marked with a Biohazard Label (see
          Attachment 6) and double bagged.

5. Contracted Operations.
   5.1. The Administrative Contracting Officer, with assistance from PH and work area supervisor (if
   requested), will advise contractors of the need to follow OSHA guidance provided in 29 CFR
   1910.1030. Protection for contract employees and appropriate disposal of collected waste should be
   the responsibility of the contractor.

6. Record Keeping.
   6.1. Document training on AF Form 55 for all organizations with Category I and II workers for the
   duration of the worker’s employment.
   6.2. Supervisors are responsible for maintaining training rosters on an annual basis.
   6.3. Medical Record: The 6 MDG will:
      6.3.1. Maintain all civilian and military medical records and all documentation pertaining to the
      medical records.
      6.3.2. Maintain the following in each individual’s medical record that is identified as having rea-
      sonably anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens in the course of his/her duties
      on MacDill AFB.
          6.3.2.1. A copy of the employee’s Hepatitis B vaccination status, including the dates of Hep-
          atitis B vaccinations, and any medical records relative to the employee’s ability to receive the
          vaccination or the employee’s declination statement.
          6.3.2.2. A copy of all results of examinations, medical testing, and follow-up procedures per-
          taining to an occupational exposure (to include tuberculin skin testing).
          6.3.2.3. Medical provider’s written opinion if exposure has occurred during employment.
12                                                          MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


     6.3.3. Provide upon request from authorized authority (as required by law) the pertinent portions
     of the employee’s medical record of examination and copying.



                                            TIMOTHY S. SMITH, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                               13


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-206, Security Police Investigation (PA)
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFI 44-108, Injection Control Program
AFI 48-105, Control of Communicable Diseases
AFI 91-204, Investigating and Reporting U.S. Air Force Mishaps
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health Program
AFOSH STD 48-21, Hazard Communication
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations
29 CFR 1910.1030, “Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens”‘ Final Rule, December 6, 1991,
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
29 CFR 1910.1030, “Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens” Amendments, 18 April 2001,
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens Standard, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
MMWR, 29 June 2001/50 (RRI 1): 1-42
10 USC 55, Medical and Dental Care
10 U.S.C. 8013, Power and Duties of the Secretary of the Air Force
Executive Order 9397, Systems of Records Notice
62 FR 31793, Reporting of Medical Conditions of Public Health and Military Significance
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR), “Guidelines for Prevention of Human Immunodefi-
ciency Virus and Hepatitis B Virus to Health Care and Public Safety Workers”, 1989
Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Guidelines for the Prevention of Mycobacterium
Tuberculosis Transmission in Healthcare Facilities, 1994; MMWR 1994; 43 (no. RR-13)
6 MDG HI 48-05, Occupational Blood and Body Fluid Exposure Control Plan
14                                                             MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


                                             Attachment 2

          MACDILL AFB BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS EXPOSURE CONTROL
     PLAN/TRAINING PROGRAM TEMPLATE (SAMPLE PROGRAM WITH DETAILED
                             EXPLANATIONS)


Unit:
__________________________________________________________________________________
Preparation Date:
_________________________________________________________________________
Certifying Official:
_______________________________________________________________________
(This sample program is provided ONLY AS A GUIDE to assist in complying with 29 CFR 1910.1030,
OSHA’s bloodborne pathogens standard. Organizations will need to add relevant information or change/
delete information nonrelevant to their particular organization/function in order to develop an effective,
comprehensive exposure control program. Organizations must review the standard for particular
requirements applicable to their specific situation. The exposure control program must be reviewed
annually and updated when necessary.)
In accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1030, the following exposure control program has been developed.
1. Exposure Determination. OSHA requires employers to perform an exposure determination
concerning which employees may incur occupational exposure to blood, body fluids or other potentially
infectious materials. The exposure determination is made without regard to the use of personal
protective equipment. This exposure determination requires a listing of all job classifications in which
all employees may be expected to be exposed, regardless of frequency.
1.1. List job classifications where all employees have been determined to have a reasonably anticipated
occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens.
JOB TITLE                                                        JOB SERIES/AFSC
(List Title and Job Series or AFSC) (i.e., Public Health (PH) (4EOX1)
Technician)
In addition, if the organization has job classifications in which some employees may have occupational
exposure, a listing of those classifications is required. Since not all the employees in these categories
would be expected to incur exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials, a
listing of tasks or procedures is required to clearly understand which employees are considered to have
occupational exposure.
1.2. List job classifications where some employees have been determined to have a reasonably
anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens while performing specific job tasks and
procedures.
JOB CLASSIFICATION                                 TASKS/PROCEDURES
List Title/Job Series or AFSC                      (List Task/Procedure such as emergency rescue/first aid
                                                   procedures)
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                                          15


1.3. Hepatitis B Vaccine: At no cost to the employee, the Hepatitis B vaccine will be given to all
appropriately designated individuals (i.e., section personnel, fire department personnel, security policy,
OSI, and other military members with potential occupational blood or body fluid exposure) who have
been identified as having exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. All
other civilian employees will be offered the vaccine at no cost to the employee. The vaccine will be
offered within 10 working days of their initial assignment to work involving the potential for
occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials unless the
employee has previously had the vaccine. Civilian employees who decline must sign the Hepatitis B
declination statement (Attachment 4) that is placed in their medical record.
2. Implementation Schedule and Methodology. This plan also requires a schedule and method of
implementation for the various requirements of the standard. The following complies with this
requirement:
2.1. Standard Precautions: The mandatory use of standard precautions is in effect. The term “standard
precaution” refers to an infectious disease control system intended to prevent health care and public
safety workers from parenteral, mucous membrane, and non-intact skin exposures to blood borne
pathogens. Assume all blood and body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, cerebrospinal, lymph, pericardial,
etc.) are potentially infectious and appropriate barriers must be established between the patient’s blood,
body fluids, and other infectious materials and the health care and public safety worker. Under
circumstances where differentiation between body fluid types is difficult or impossible, consider all body
fluids potentially infectious. Consider all blood, body fluid, or other potentially infectious materials
infectious regardless of the perceived status of the source individual.
2.2. Engineering and Work Practice Controls: utilize engineering and work practice controls to
eliminate or minimize exposure to employees. Where occupational exposure remains after institution of
these controls, use personal protective equipment.
THE FOLLOWING ENGINEERING CONTROLS WILL BE UTILIZED:
CONTROLS
(List controls, i.e., sharp containers, hand washes, eye washes, etc.)
The above controls will be examined and maintained on a regular schedule. The schedule for reviewing
the effectiveness of the controls is as follows (list schedule such as daily, weekly, etc.). List who
(individual or section) has responsibility to review the effectiveness of the individual controls.
INSPECTIONS WILL BE CONDUCTED FOR THE FOLLOWING CONTROLS:
CONTROL                                           INSPECTION CONTROL
(Hand Wash)                                       (Weekly/Inspected by XXXX/or list responsible
                                                  section
16                                                               MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


2.2.1. Hand Washing Facilities: Employees who incur exposure to blood, body fluids or other infectious
materials will wash at a readily accessible area. If hand washing facilities are not feasible, the
organization is required to provide either an appropriate waterless antiseptic hand cleanser or antiseptic
towelettes. If these alternatives are used, wash the hands with soap and running water as soon as
feasible. Also, after removal of protective gloves, employees shall wash hands and any other potentially
contaminated skin area immediately or as soon as feasible with soap and water. If employees incur
exposure to mucous membranes, wash or flush those areas with running water immediately following
contact. Organizations shall list locations of readily accessible hand washing facilities and alternatives to
hand washing facilities. Organizations that must provide alternatives to readily accessible hand washing
facilities must ensure the maintenance and accessibility of these alternatives.
HAND WASHING STATIONS ARE LOCATED IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS:
PERMANENT STATION LOCATIONS                       PORTABLE STATION LOCATIONS
(List locations, i.e., patient rooms, procedure areas, vehicles, specific areas in hangars, etc.)
2.2.2. Procedures:
2.2.2.1. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
2.2.2.1.1. All employees will use PPE to minimize or eliminate exposure risks. Consider equipment
appropriate only if it does not permit blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials to pass
through or to reach the employee’s clothing, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes under
normal condition of use and for the duration of use.
2.2.2.1.2. Providing PPE: It is the responsibility of the individual organization to provide PPE for their
employees at no cost to the employee. PPE includes, but is not limited to gloves, gowns, coats, masks,
eye protection, and mouthpieces, resuscitation bags or other ventilation devices. Choose PPE based on
the anticipated exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. Make
hypoallergenic gloves, latex free or other similar alternatives, available for those employees who are
allergic to the gloves normally used.
2.2.2.1.3. Enforcing the Wearing of PPE: The supervisor or section head will enforce the use of PPE by
all employees. Not wearing PPE when exposed to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
materials is not allowed. When the employee fails to use proper PPE, he/she shall be investigated by the
supervisor and document the incident to determine whether changes need to be instituted to prevent
further incidents where PPE is not worn. A copy of this report will be forwarded to Public Health.
2.2.2.1.4. Accessibility of PPE: The supervisor or section head will ensure availability and distribution
of PPE in the work place.
2.2.2.1.5. Coordinate with Medical Supply on types of PPE available for purchase.
3. Personal Protective Equipment is Stored.
PPE TYPE                                          STORAGE LOCATION
(List equipment type and storage location.)
3.1. Remove all PPE contaminated by blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials
immediately or as soon as feasible. Remove all PPE prior to leaving the work area (see Attachment 3).
3.2.. Place all contaminated PPE in an appropriately designated area or container for storage prior to
decontamination or disposal. Handle contaminated disposable PPE as follows:
3.2.1. The buddy system should be used if more than one individual is involved.
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                                             17


3.2.2.. Remove outer protective garment, (i.e., gown, apron, lab coat, etc.), fold garment in on itself as
the garment is being removed and place in the biohazard-hazard bag.
3.2.3.. Remove shoe covers and place in the biohazard-hazard bag.
3.2.4.. Remove the face shield/goggles and place in designated storage area identified for holding
contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for re-use.
3.2.5.. Remove gloves by turning inside out and place in designated storage area identified for holding
contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for re-use or place in biohazard-hazard bag for disposal.
4. The Following Protocol Has Been Developed to Facilitate Leaving the Equipment at the Work
Area.
PLACE/ROOM                                      CONTAINER/DISPOSAL SITE
(List where employees are expected to place the PPE upon leaving the work area, and other protocols,
etc.)
4.1. The organization will clean, launder, and dispose of all PPE at no cost to employees. The
organization will make all repairs and replacement at no cost to the employee.
4.2. Employees will wear gloves when it is reasonably anticipated that hands could make contact with
blood, body fluids, other potentially infectious materials, non-intact skin, or mucous membranes and
when handling or touching contaminated items or surfaces.
4.3. Gloves will be made available at the following locations:
GLOVE DISPERSAL SITE                              RESPONSIBLE PARTY
(State location and person responsible for distribution of gloves.)
4.3.1. Wear heavy duty, industrial grade, utility gloves when any activity such as handling trash,
decontamination of instruments/equipment, or environmental cleaning is performed. Wash utility gloves
when minimal soiling occurs (see Attachment 5). Change utility gloves when heavily soiled or when
the integrity of the barrier has been compromised. After removing gloves, employees will wash their
hands with soap and water immediately or as soon as possible. Utility gloves may be decontaminated for
reuse provided the integrity of the gloves is not compromised. Discard utility gloves when cracked,
peeling, torn, punctured, or exhibiting signs of deterioration or when their ability to function as a barrier
is compromised.
4.3.2. Do not reuse disposable gloves. Do not wash or decontaminate disposable gloves for reuse.
Replace gloves as soon as practical when they become contaminated, torn, punctured, or their ability to
function as a barrier is compromised.
4.3.3. You must wear masks in combination with eye protection devices such as goggles or glasses with
solid side shields, or chin length face shields, whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood,
body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials may be generated and if you anticipate eye, mouth,
or nose contamination.
4.3.4. The OSHA standard also requires the use of appropriate protective clothing such as lab coats,
gowns, aprons, section jackets, or similar outer garments. The type and characteristics will depend upon
the task and degree of exposure anticipated.
18                                                               MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


5. Handling Contaminated Needles, Sharp Instruments, or Other Contaminated Articles.
Education programs are to stress proper management of needles, sharp instruments, or other
contaminated articles. Workers are to be aware of the occupational health hazards concerning their use.
Common sense, safety, and environmental concerns are paramount in the worker’s handling and disposal
of needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated articles. Place emphasis on the minimal handling of
these items.
5.1. Do not use hands to pick up sharp instruments, broken glass, needle/syringe units, or other sharp
objects contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. Pick the object
up using other methods not requiring an individual to come in direct contact with the contaminated
object, (i.e., tongs, forceps, a broom and dust pan, cardboard, etc.).
5.2. Place the contaminated objects in a puncture resistant, leak proof biohazard container, or other
impervious, puncture resistant container to be placed in a biohazard bag and take to the 6th Medical
Group (6 MDG), Building 711, Facilities Management, for disposal. If the organization does not have a
suitable biohazard container, contact the 6 MDG to pick one up. You must exercise extreme caution
when disposing of needles and sharp instruments/objects.
5.3. Place contaminated non-sharps (i.e., contaminated gauze, towels, clothing, etc.) in a leak proof
biohazard bag.
5.4. Needles: Do not bend, recap, remove, shear, or purposely break contaminated needles and other
contaminated sharps. OSHA allows an exception to this if the procedure requires the contaminated
needle be recapped or removed and no alternative is feasible and the medical procedure requires the
action. Use a mechanical device or one-handed technique if recapping or removal is required.
5.5. Sharp containers must be replaced when three-quarters full.
5.6. Place contaminated sharps immediately, or as soon as possible, into appropriate sharps containers.
The sharp containers must be puncture resistant, labeled with Biohazard label, and are leak proof.
LOCATION OF SHARPS                         RESPONSIBLE              INSPECTION FREQUENCY
CONTAINERS                                  PARTY
(Every 90 days)
6. The Following Methods Will be Used to Accomplish Work Area Restrictions.
PROCEDURE                                          CONTROL METHOD USED
(List the procedures and methods used, i.e., covers on centrifuges, usage of dental dams if appropriate,
etc., to control spraying, splattering, splashing, etc.. Also list other appropriate work area restrictions,
i.e., designated break rooms, no eating, smoking signs, etc.)
6.1. Employees are not to eat, drink, apply cosmetics, lip balm, smoke, or handle contact lenses in work
areas where there is a reasonable likelihood of exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
infectious materials are present.
6.2. Do not keep food and beverages in refrigerators, freezers, shelves, cabinets, on counter tops or
bench tops where blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials are present.
6.2.1. Refrigerators must be labeled for type of use.
6.3. Mouth pipetting/suctioning of blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials is
prohibited.
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                                           19


6.4. Conduct all procedures in a manner that will minimize splashing, spraying, splattering, and
generation of droplets of blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
7. Contaminated Equipment and Surfaces (see Attachment 5, Decontamination Procedures).
PROCEDURE                                       METHOD OF CONTROL
(List procedures and methods used, i.e., covers on centrifuges, usage of dental dams if appropriate, etc.,
to control spraying, splattering, splashing, etc. Also list other appropriate work area restrictions, i.e.,
designated break rooms, no eating, smoking signs, etc.)
8. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow Up: When the employee incurs an exposure incident, the
supervisor will report the exposure to PH and direct the employee to the 6 MDG, Internal Medicine
Clinic for initial evaluation and treatment within 2 hours. Post exposure evaluation and follow up will be
done in accordance with 29 CFR 19 10.1030 and the 6 MDG HI 48-5.
9. Training. Supervisors will be trained by the 6 MDG Infection Control Officer on an annual basis.
Supervisors will ensure training of all employees prior to initial assignment to tasks where occupational
exposure may occur. Conduct the training in the following manner:
9.1. Training for employees will include the following and an explanation of:
9.1.1. The OSHA standard for bloodborne pathogens.
9.1.2. Epidemiology and symptomology of bloodborne diseases and tuberculosis, if required by
occupation.
9.1.3. Modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens and tuberculosis, if potential for risk of exposure
exists.
9.1.4. This exposure control program will cover all major aspects (i.e., key points of the program, lines
of responsibility, how the program will be implemented, etc.) and also explain how an individual can
obtain a copy of the program.
9.1.5. Procedures that might cause exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
materials.
9.1.6. Personal protective equipment available.
9.1.7. Post exposure evaluation and follow-up.
9.1.8. Signs and labels used.
9.1.9. Hepatitis B Vaccine Program.
9.1.10. All employees will receive annual refresher training. (NOTE: This training is to be conducted
within one year of the employee’s previous training. (Employers should list here if training will be
conducted using video tapes, written material, etc. Also the employer is to indicate who is responsible
for conducting the training.)
THE OUTLINE FOR THE TRAINING MATERIAL IS LOCATED:
(List where the training materials are located.)
10. Record Keeping. All records required by the OSHA standard will be maintained by (all records and
documents are subject to the Privacy Act of 1974):
10.1. Document all training of AF Form 55, Employee Health and Training (PA).
10.2. Unit supervisors should maintain copies of training plans and attendance rosters yearly. (Insert
name or department responsible for maintaining and securing records.)
20                                                            MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006


(All medical records, civilian and military, will be maintained by the Records Section of the 6 MDG.
Each organization is responsible for maintaining training records.)
11. Dates. All provisions required by the standard will be implemented by:
(Insert date for implementation of the provisions of the OSHA standard.)


APPROVED/DISAPPROVED


NCOIC/OIC Signature
6th Medical Group, Infection Control Function
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                              21


                                          Attachment 3

                 INCIDENT REPORTING SAMPLE FORMS (AF FORM 765)




Personal information contained on this form is to be protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
and AFI 33-332.
22                                                         MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006




Personal information contained on this form is to be protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
and AFI 33-332.
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                              23


                                          Attachment 4

                    HEPATITIS B DECLINATION SAMPLE STATEMENT




Personal information contained on this form is to be protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
and AFI 33-332.
24                                                         MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006




Personal information contained on this form is to be protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
and AFI 33-332.
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                                                                                25


                                                Attachment 5

          DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR SPILLS OF BLOOD AND BODY
                               SUBSTANCES

A5.1. For spills containing large amounts of blood or other body substances, workers should first remove
visible organic matter with absorbent material (e.g., disposable paper towels discarded into leak-proof,
properly labeled containment), and then clean and decontaminate that area.

A5.2. Prompt removal and surface disinfection of an area contaminated by either blood or body sub-
stances are sound infection control practices and OSHA requirements. HBV, HIV and HCV are inacti-
vated with a variety of germicides, which include quarternary ammonium compounds. Commercially
available germicides registered for use as “hospital disinfectants” with a tuberculocidal claim (registered
with the Environment Protection Agency) or intermediate-level disinfectants, a solution of sodium
hypochlorite (household chlorine bleach), prepared daily is an inexpensive and effective broad-spectrum
germicide. A 1:10 or 1:100 dilution of household bleach is effective depending on the amount of organic
matter. Appropriate personal protective equipment (e.g., gloves, goggles) should be worn when preparing
hydrochloride solutions.

A5.3. Procedure:
    A5.3.1. Person cleaning the spill will wear gloves and personal protective equipment.
    A5.3.2. Remove the majority of residual organic matter and place in a leak-proof, properly labeled
    container.
    A5.3.3. Clean surface to remove residual organic matter.
    A5.3.4. Decontaminate the area with an approved germicidal.

A5.4. Absorb the Spill: Absorb the bulk of spilled material with disposable absorbent material (paper
towels, gauze pads, or if a small spill, sponge) prior to disinfecting. If the spill is large, granular absorbent
material like the one used to absorb caustic chemical spills may be used (e.g., kitty litter). Blot (do not
wipe) up the spill allowing the fluids to be absorbed by the towels, etc. After the absorption of the liquid,
discard all materials into a biohazard waste bag.

A5.5. Flood the site or wipe down the spill site with disposable towels or sponge soaked in bleach to
make the site “glistening wet.” Allow the bleach solution to remain in contact with the infectious material
for 10 minutes. Absorb the disinfectant with paper towels and dispose of the paper towels in a biohazard
waste bag. Alternatively, the spill site may be permitted to air dry. Rinse the spill site with water to
remove a chemical residue. Dry the site to prevent slipping.

A5.6. Dispose of PIMS: Specimens of blood or other PIN/Is shall be double-bagged to prevent leakage
during collection, handling, processing, storage, transport, or shipping. The container for storage, trans-
port or shipping shall be closed prior to being stored, transported, or shipped and labeled with the follow-
ing text.
26                                                               MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006



BIOHAZARD TURN IN TAG
ORGANIZATION/WORK PLACE:________________________________________________
DATE: _______________ TURNED IN BY: _______________________________________
CONTENTS: _________________________________________________________________

     A5.6.1. If the contaminated material could puncture the primary container, the primary container
     shall be placed within a secondary container which is puncture-resistant in addition to the above char-
     acteristics.
     A5.6.2. The PIMS container shall be transported in a secure manner outside the passenger area of the
     transport vehicle (i.e., the closed trunk of the vehicle). Vehicles or equipment that may become con-
     taminated with blood or other PIMs shall be examined prior and shall be decontaminated as necessary,
     unless the employer can demonstrate that decontamination of such equipment or portions of such
     equipment is not feasible.
     A5.6.3. The employer shall ensure the information is conveyed to all affected employees, as appropri-
     ate, prior to handling, servicing, or shipping PIMS so that appropriate precautions will be taken.
     A5.6.4. Decontaminate reusable materials and equipment following above procedures.
     A5.6.5. If clothing becomes contaminated with blood or body fluids, it should be removed as soon as
     possible and placed in a biohazard bag, then disposed of or cleaned by a laundry capable of handling
     blood contaminated clothing. The exposed skin area should be washed with soap and water.
     A5.6.6. Dispose of the remaining disinfectant by pouring down the sanitary sewer.
     A5.6.7. The above disinfecting solution is approximately a 1:10 dilution of household bleach. Larger
     or smaller amounts may be made following this dilution rate.
MACDILLAFBI44-105 27 JULY 2006                  27


                                 Attachment 6

                            BIOHAZARD LABEL
