BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 21-107

                                                                                    6 JUNE 2014

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                                        WING TOOL CONTROL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 6 MXG/MXQA                                                          Certified by: 6 MXG/CC
                                                                       (Col Reginald O. Godbolt)
                                                                                          Pages: 5
Supersedes:    MACDILLAFBI21-107,
               16 July 2009



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, and fulfills the requirements of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aircraft and
Equipment Maintenance Management, and Air Mobility Command (AMC) supplement
(AMCSUP1) to AFI 21-101, to develop a coordinated wing instruction to control tools,
equipment, and electronic devices from all wing agencies dispatching to aircraft
parking/runway/taxi areas and 6th Maintenance Group (6 MXG) aircraft maintenance facilities.
This instruction applies to all units assigned to the 6th Air Mobility Wing (6 AMW) and the
927th Air Refueling Wing (927 ARW). Units developing separate instructions based on
requirements set forth in this instruction will reference Maintenance Group Operating Instruction
(MXGOI) 21-101, Maintenance Procedures, for minimum and general program requirements.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified in Tier 3. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities
associated with this Tier. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
 2                                                         MACDILLAFBI21-107 6 JUNE 2014


appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered
compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the website link to download for TCMAX if removed. The
TCMAX software is available through your unit computer administrator. The “Certified by”
block to the current 6th Maintenance Group Commander (6 MXG/CC) and the final signature
block to the current 6th Air Mobility Wing Commander (6 AMW/CC), and improves the
readability of paragraphs 3 and 3.1.
1. Purpose. Positive control and accountability of tools, equipment, and electronic devices used
on aircraft parking, runway, and taxi areas are essential for the elimination of Foreign Object
Damage (FOD). FOD related accidents cost the Air Force millions of dollars each year. The
purpose of this publication is to provide all units that require a tool control program the
necessary guidance to implement a sound program to control the tools and equipment taken onto
the airfield. Due to the diverse nature of agencies located on MacDill Air Force Base, one size
does not fit all when it comes to tool control policy. Some units may have only a few items, such
as Airfield Management, while others have literally hundreds of pieces of equipment, like Fire
Protection and Security Forces. To be in compliance with this instruction, units must establish a
program or demonstrate that existing programs meet the intent of positive tool and equipment
accountability and control
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. Unit commanders are responsible for ensuring an effective program is in place and
     compliance with this instruction for those sections that perform duties on the airfield or in
     aircraft maintenance facilities. Commanders must also ensure that contractors who work on
     the airfield or in and around aircraft maintenance facilities understand the importance of tool
     control in these areas. (Example: The designated squadron liaison to any contractor that has
     been hired to complete work on the airfield or in and around aircraft maintenance facilities
     must ensure these businesses employ an acceptable tool control program.)
     2.2. Flight chiefs/section noncommissioned officers in charge (NCOIC) (or equivalent)
     determine what tools, equipment, and electronic devices fall under the scope of this
     instruction and will develop a system of inventory and control for all items brought out to the
     airfield or maintenance facilities to ensure they are returned to the section upon the
     completion of the job.
     2.3. Everyone who performs duties on the airfield or in and around maintenance facilities is
     responsible for safeguarding their equipment against loss by ensuring accountability before
     and after each trip. Immediately notify the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) of items
     suspected to be lost near an aircraft or in a maintenance facility. MOC will run the
     appropriate checklist. If an item is suspected lost on the airfield, contact the MOC and the
     Command Post.
     2.4. 6 MXG Quality Assurance is the OPR for this instruction and will serve as subject
     matter experts to assist sections with setting up an effective program. Once a tool control
     program is established, each unit will perform an annual self-inspection. Inspections will be
MACDILLAFBI21-107 6 JUNE 2014                                                                   3


   graded as either “compliant” or “non-compliant” with this instruction. Results will be
   provided to the applicable chain of command for follow-up.
3. Tool Control Asset Management Control (TCMAX). This is a computer program
developed for the Air Force, designed to meet the tool and equipment accountability and control
requirements of the aircraft maintenance community. While not mandatory for non-aircraft
maintenance units, TCMAX is the preferred automated method to effectively manage a tool
control program. TCMAX use is required for aircraft maintenance units. Units that do not
already have an automated system in place may want to implement TCMAX; the software is
very adaptable. The TCMAX software is available through your unit computer administrator.
   3.1. Non-aircraft maintenance units that elect not to use TCMAX will be required to employ
   a method of tool control that will meet the same criteria as TCMAX. Any locally developed
   method of tool control (chits, locally developed forms, etc.) must follow the tool control
   guidelines established by AFI 21-101.
4. Program Elements. A sound tool control program, in the context of this instruction, must
include the following:
   4.1. Master Inventory Listing (MIL): A listing of all items dispatched out. Individual
   toolboxes will include an inventory of all items in that box.
   4.2. Daily Inventory Log: Proof of physical accountability of all items on the MIL before
   and after each duty day or shift.
   4.3. Sign In/Sign Out Log: Method to show custodial responsibility of items checked out for
   use on the airfield or in maintenance facilities. Note: Ideally, a second person (if available)
   should sign in the item upon turn-in.
   4.4. Program continuity book: Specific content is at the discretion of the flight chief/section
   NCOIC (or equivalent), but should include shop policy and the MIL.




                                            SCOTT V. DeTHOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 4                                                      MACDILLAFBI21-107 6 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
MXGOI 21-101, Maintenance Procedures, 16 April 2013
Prescribed Forms No forms prescribed
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6 AMW—6th Air Mobility Wing
6 MXG—6th Maintenance Group
927 ARW—927th Air Refueling Wing
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
MIL—Master Inventory Listing
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
TCMAX—Tool Control Asset Management Control

Terms
Aircraft maintenance facilities—Includes those buildings occupied full time by aircraft
maintenance personnel. These include but are not limited to buildings 193, 189, and all hangars.
Airfield—Includes all areas of the installation involved in aircraft operation such as taxiways,
parking ramps, hardstands, and the runway.
Daily Inventory Log—Proof of physical accountability of all items on the MIL before and after
each duty day or shift.
MACDILLAFBI21-107 6 JUNE 2014                                                                     5


Electronic Device—Portable items such as land mobile radios, cell phones, and laptop
computers.
Equipment—A device required to accomplish a task or carry out work, such as surveyors’
transit, portable generator, etc.
Master Inventory Listing (MIL)—A listing of all items dispatched out. Individual toolboxes
will include an inventory of all items in that box.
Program continuity book—Specific content is at the discretion of the flight chief/section
NCOIC (or equivalent), but should include shop policy and the MIL.
Sign In/Sign Out Log—Method to show custodial responsibility of items checked out for use on
the airfield or in maintenance facilities. Note: Ideally, a second person (if available) should sign
in the item upon turn-in.
Tool—A hand-held implement used in accomplishing work, such as a hammer, saw, wrench,
drill, shovel, axe, etc.
