                      INSPECTOR GENERAL
                                            452 AMW, March ARB




                                              SMSgt Catherine Celentano
   Col Michael Fortanas                       Inspector General Assistant              Lt Col Donald Robison
    Inspector General                                                                 Assistant Inspector General




                           Office Location: Bldg 470
                          Walk-in Hours: 1100 – 1300
                     Saturday and Sunday of UTA Weekends
                    DSN: 447- 4478 Comm: (951) 655-4478
                              Inspector General Complaints Resolution Program
   The primary charge of the Inspector General (IG) is to sustain a credible Air Force Inspector General system by
   ensuring the existence of responsive complaint investigations and fraud, waste and abuse programs characterized
   by objectivity, integrity and impartiality. They serve as a means of redress where none exists and to ensure the
   established means of redress are functioning properly. (IAW AFPD 90-3 and AFI 90-301)
   There are certain responsibilities expected of an individual bringing a concern to the Inspector General:
   1. Give the chain of command and/or established agency the first opportunity to address your complaint. This is
   the quickest and most efficient way to resolve any issue.
   2. If these avenues do not resolve the concern, use the IG system for assistance. However, dissatisfaction with an
   answer from the chain of command or agency is not a basis for an IG complaint. If you are not sure whether your
   concern is a reportable matter, contact the IG office for guidance.
   3. The Inspector General resolves complaints using facts; providing accurate and complete information will
   expedite resolution of your concern.
   A military member has the right to communicate with members of Congress and the Inspector General without fear
   of reprisal. If your access has been restricted or you suspect actions have been taken against you because of your
   communication, contact the 452d Air Mobility Wing Inspector General immediately.



MARBVA 90-301, 26 Feb 2010                                                  OPR: 452/IG
PRESCRIBED BY AFI90-301                                                    CERTIFIED BY:452/IG(COL MICHAEL FORTANAS)
RELEASABILITY:There is no releasability restriction on this publication.
