                       Maxwell Installation Commander’s
                        ALTERNATE DISPUTE
                      RESOLUTION (ADR) POLICY
                                            To accomplish our mission, we must work together
                                            and treat each other with dignity. Workplace
                                            conflicts are costly and detract from our team’s
                                            ability to reach our potential. If conflict occurs,
                                            I urge all of our personnel (military and civilian)
                                            to take advantage of the ADR process. ADR
                                            encompasses a variety of resolution processes such
                                            as mediation, facilitation and fact-finding; as such,
                                            ADR is an invaluable tool for resolving workplace
                                            disputes.

                                            It is Air Force policy to resolve disputes at the
                                            earliest stage and lowest organizational level
                                            using the most efficient means possible. ADR
                                            complements traditional methods of resolving
                                            conflict (grievances, discrimination, etc.) with the
                                            benefits of expedient response times, reduced costs
                                            in terms of time and resources, creative problem
                                            solving and improved work relationships.

While not all disputes lend themselves to resolution through ADR, most conflicts can be settled
using this process. Using ADR is voluntary and highly encouraged. We rely on Commanders
and supervisors to support this program by pursuing and using ADR whenever possible.

For additional information or training, contact the Equal Employment Opportunity Alternative
Dispute Resolution (EO/ADR) office at 953-5107.




                                                   ANDREA D. TULLOS
                                                   Colonel, USAF
                                                   Commander




MAXWELLAFBVA 51-1201 (per AFI 51-1201), 6 August 2014
OPR: 42 ABW/EO; Supersedes MAXWELLAFBVA 51-1201, 14 September 2012
RELEASABILITY: There are no access restrictions on this publication.
