BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  MAXWELL AFB INSTRUCTION 32-6001
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)
                                                                                                            26 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                                                     Civil Engineering

                                                                                  UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING (UH)
                                                                                               MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 CES/CEQ                                                                        Certified by: 42 MSG/CC (Col Chris
                                                                                                                  Milner)
                                                                                                                Pages: 21


This instruction implements AFPD 36-20, Housing. It defines Air Force, UH Manager, and
resident responsibilities during occupancy of military unaccompanied housing. Failure to
comply with policies set forth in paragraphs 2.1, 2.16, 3.3, and 4.4 by residents is a violation of
Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Violations may result in administrative
disciplinary actions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for
violations of related laws. This instruction directs the collection and maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 and AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program; authority:
10 U.S.C. 8013. System of Records notice F032 AF CE F, Unaccompanied Personnel Quarters
Assignment/Termination, applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.            This publication applies to all
personnel residing in military unaccompanied housing on Maxwell AFB. Refer recommended
changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of
command. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.



SECTION 1—- AIR FORCE RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                   2
       1.1.    Initial Inspections. ..................................................................................................   2
Table 1.1.     Work Order Response Times. ................................................................................               3
 2                                                                     MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


SECTION 2 -—UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING STANDARDS AND POLICIES                                                                                             4
        2.1.    Prohibitions in UH Rooms. ....................................................................................                       4
Figure 2.1.     Prohibitions in UH Rooms. ....................................................................................                       4

SECTION 3—FIRE PROTECTION                                                                                                                           11
        3.1.    Fire Evacuation Plan. .............................................................................................                 11

SECTION 4—SECURITY FORCES                                                                                                                           12
        4.1.      ...............................................................................................................................   12

SECTION 5—GOOD NEIGHBORS                                                                                                                            13
        5.1.    Resident Courtesy. .................................................................................................                13

SECTION 6—SPECIAL CLIMATIC CONDITIONS                                                                                                               14
        6.1.    Humidity. ...............................................................................................................           14

SECTION 7—MAXWELL-GUNTER ANNEX SPECIFIC TOPICS                                                                                                      14
        7.1.    Business Enterprises. .............................................................................................                 14

SECTION 8—SELF-HELP WORK                                                                                                                            15
        8.1.    Requesting Self-Help Work. ..................................................................................                       15

SECTION 9—TERMINATION OF UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING                                                                                                      15
        9.1.    Giving Notice. ........................................................................................................             15

SECTION 10—UH COUNCIL                                                                                                                               16
        10.1.   General Information. ..............................................................................................                 16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                      17
Figure A1.1.    Key Telephone Numbers. ......................................................................................                       18

Attachment 2—CRIME PREVENTION TIPS                                                                                                                  19

Attachment 3—BAY ORDERLY DUTIES                                                                                                                     21


Section 1— - AIR FORCE RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Initial Inspections. A UH Manager or designated representative will escort new residents
to their room and make an initial inspection. At this time, they will identify all discrepancies
with the room and appliances, and document them on AF Form 228, Furnishings Custody
Receipt and Condition Report. The initial inspection will be done when quarters are assigned.
     1.2. Maintenance and Repairs. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) has primary responsibility
     for ensuring maintenance of rooms and UH facilities. If maintenance needs to be performed
     on quarters, use the following procedures:
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                            3


         1.2.1. Monday through Friday, 0700-1600, contact the UH Manager. On weekends,
         holidays or after normal duty hours, contact the Base Civil Engineering Helpdesk at 953-
         3333 for maintenance issues.

Table 1.1. Work Order Response Times.
Type            Response Time                             Example
Emergency       As soon as possible. Work is continued    A structural, utility, or mechanical
                until the emergency is resolved.          problem that could cause loss of life or
                                                          property or serious damage affecting
                                                          health, safety, security, or mission.
                                                          These could also be complete utility
                                                          failure (electricity, gas, heat, water,
                                                          sewage, or air-conditioning).
Urgent         Completed within 5 work days.              Backed-up commode but other
               Completion date may be longer pending      commodes are available.
               materials requisition. Maintenance will
               normally be performed from 0730-1630.
Routine        Completed within 30 days. Completion Minor faucet leaks, repair wall locker
               date may be longer pending materials    doors or shelving, repair interior walls,
               requisition. Maintenance will normally or repair any appearance item.
               be performed from 0730-1630.
NOTE: All inquiries on maintenance issues will be performed by the UH Manager or
occupant’s First Sergeant.
   1.3. Refuse Collection and Disposal. Residents will place their room trash and garbage in
   the dumpsters provided. Exterior garbage cans are provided and used for minor trash or
   litter, not room trash. Residents will take their personal dayroom garbage to the dumpster or
   throw it out with their room trash. Do not place trash on balconies or stairwells. BCE will
   dispose of dead animals found on base. Maxwell and Gunter residents call 953-3333 to report
   dead animals.
   1.4. Insect Control. Alabama has a tropical climate and, therefore, has its share of insects.
   If needed, BCE will treat the room before you move in; however, all residents need to take
   preventive action to control insects. For example, keep food in sealed plastic containers,
   remove trash and garbage from quarters daily, discard empty paper bags and boxes as
   quickly as possible. These items provide nesting and breeding areas for roaches. If
   infestation occurs that is beyond a resident’s control, call the UH Manager.
   1.5. Lockouts. The UH Manager keeps a master key to all rooms. If locked out, contact the
   UH Manager during duty hours, 0700-1600, (See Figure A1.1); if after duty hours or on
   weekends, contact your First Sergeant. Lost keys will be replaced when approved by the UH
   management office. If locks or cores to locks have to be replaced due to damage, the
   resident may be charged for labor and replacement cost.
   1.6. Ground Care. UH residents will be scheduled for Bay Orderly duties. Bay Orderlies
   are responsible for removing trash and other debris from the grounds and notifying UH
   Manager of any trees or limbs down that need attention. Residents are responsible for
   keeping the grounds around the facility clean and neat at all times.
 4                                              MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


     1.7. Appliances. Refrigerators and microwave ovens are government-furnished. They are
     assigned by serial number and verified at check-in and termination inspections. Notify the
     UH Manager immediately if you experience any problems with appliances.
     1.8. Heaters/Air Conditioner Unit (HVAC). Gunter residents are required to change the
     filters in the HVAC. Gunter residents may pick up replacement HVAC filters at the UH
     Manager’s office. Change disposable-type filters quarterly. Only operate the HVAC unit
     with a filter in place. Damage to HVAC System caused by filters not being changed
     quarterly is costly and could be the responsibility of the resident. Remove dust from all vent
     covers. Report any malfunction of the HVAC system to the UH Manager immediately, or to
     the BCE at 953-3333 after normal duty hours.

Section -— UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING STANDARDS AND POLICIES

2.1. Prohibitions in UH Rooms. Failure to comply with this paragraph by residents is a
violation of Article 92, UCMJ, and may result in administrative disciplinary actions. Figure 2.1
lists prohibitions in UH rooms.

Figure 2.1. Prohibitions in UH Rooms.




        2.1.1. Some pictures may be offensive to other people. The display of genitalia is
        considered pornographic material and is not permitted. If there are any questions about
        this subject, contact the UH Manager.
        2.1.2. Pictures that depict or show the act of sexual intercourse or profanity in either
        word or picture symbols are not considered acceptable as room decorations.
        2.1.3. Items or pictures that degrade national or military leaders are not acceptable as
        decorations.
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                         5


     2.1.4. Profanity or other lewd messages are not authorized on message boards. Decals,
     stickers or posters are not allowed on the outside of the door, in the window, or on any
     furnishings.
     2.1.5. Fraternization: Building 696 and 697 permanent party dorm occupants are
     prohibited from any type of fraternization with the pipeline students in building 696
     rooms 101-110.
  2.2. Cleanliness. UH Facilities will be maintained within Air Force standards as outlined in
  AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, the AETC supplement, and this
  instruction.
  2.3. Inspections. The Wing Commander, Unit Commanders, First Sergeants, and
  designated personnel inspect government UH facilities to evaluate living conditions.
  Dignitaries visit the UH facilities from time to time because UH facilities are an important
  Air Force quality-of-life issue. Render all appropriate customs and courtesies when officials
  enter an occupant’s room. Commanders and First Sergeants have the right for no-notice
  inspections. Scheduled inspections will be posted in advance; rooms will be in inspection
  order prior to 0800 daily. The First Sergeant inspects as needed for health, safety, and
  general cleanliness using the A, B, C method, and initially inspects rooms using the
  MAXWELLAFB Form 41, Inspection Criteria for Military Unaccompanied Housing. All
  rooms rated “A” should not be inspected for a period of 1 month. Rooms receiving a “B”
  rating will be inspected weekly, and rooms receiving a “C” rating will be inspected daily
  until brought up to a minimum “B” standard. Discrepancy notices are issued when daily
  standards are not met. The following provides a more detailed breakdown of cleanliness
  standards. Remember the entire UH facility is part of each occupant’s room.
     2.3.1. Wall Lockers/Closets. Any unlocked closets are subject to inspection; arrange
     items neatly.
     2.3.2. Floors. Clean and vacuum. Ensure there is no dirt build-up in the corners, behind
     the doors, or under beds or other furniture. Sweep and mop bathroom floors.
     2.3.3. Carpets. Any damage caused by misuse, abuse, burns, etc. may be chargeable to
     the resident. Carpets should be vacuumed and shampooed when needed. See the UH
     Manager to sign out a carpet shampoo machine.
     2.3.4. Walls. Walls must be clean and maintained in good repair. Do not apply
     adhesive-backed materials, wallpaper, or decals to furnishings as these cause damage
     upon removal. Use nail or "J" type hangers only and remove them prior to termination.
     Make sure door stops are serviceable to prevent damage to walls. If holes or depressions
     are in the walls contact the UH Manager for assistance with repairs. Residents may obtain
     materials from the UH Manager for normal “wear and tear” repair.
     2.3.5. Sink. Clean hair from drain trap. Clean fixtures so they are free of dirt,
     mildew/mold, and water spots. Report any leaks to the UH Manager immediately. Use
     spray cleaner to clean the inside and outside of the under-sink cabinet. Ensure that
     mirrors are clean and free of fingerprints and dust.
     2.3.6. Refrigerators. Clean any spills on the inside. Clean interiors of refrigerators
     regularly with water and baking soda. Pay special attention to shelves; clean under,
6                                           MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


    inside, outside, and behind the bottom drawer if so equipped. Wash off the metal strips
    on the inside of the door. Be sure there is no food residue splattered on the inside. The
    seal around the edge of the door must be clean and without food particles or dust/dirt.
    Dust off the wire framework in the rear of the refrigerator to improve cooling and extend
    the life of the unit. Clean the exterior of the refrigerator. Clean around and under the
    refrigerator.
    2.3.7. Microwave. Government provided microwaves will be kept clean at all times,
    inside and out. If a microwave is purchased for private use, it must be maintained in the
    same fashion. When using a microwave, never leave it unattended.
    2.3.8. Toilet/Bathing Area. The entire area must be especially cared for due to the
    potential for bacteria growth. Roommates that share a bathroom are both held equally
    responsible for the cleanliness of the entire bathroom. Clean the toilet inside and out with
    a disinfectant-type cleaner. Clean the shower tile, bathtub and shower curtain with a
    disinfectant-type cleaner to ensure no mildew, mold or soap scum. The shower curtain
    must be clean without mold or mildew stains. If the stains will not come off, the UH
    Manager will issue a new one. Pay particular attention to the curtain wall, as it will mold
    quickly if allowed to remain damp for extended periods of time. The ceiling light and
    exhaust fan, if equipped, must be clean and operational. The bulb must be bright enough
    to see and shower safely. Ensure the entire ceiling is clean and has no build-up of mold
    or mildew that is subject to grow under conditions of extreme dampness. Clean the floor,
    to include behind the toilet and in the corners.
    2.3.9. Living Area. Dust all furnishings to include privately owned items. Vacuum the
    carpets. Neatly organize clothing and shoes. Remove all clutter. Empty trash and
    ashtrays daily. Clean the area in front of the entry to include the outer door, walkways,
    railings, lights, windows, and windowsills. Clean all mirrors and ceiling fans. Make up
    beds with a mattress cover, two sheets, a pillow, and pillowcase. Issue sheets and
    pillowcases will be brought to the UH Manger weekly or cleaned by the resident. A
    blanket and bedspread must cover the sheets. Take blankets and mattress covers to UH
    Manager. Residents may purchase and use their own bedding. All personal linen must
    be cleaned weekly.
    2.3.10. Furniture. Furniture must be clean and neatly arranged in the room. Items on top
    of tables, dressers and desks must be neat and dusted.
    2.3.11. Windows. Clean inside and outside windows, channels and windowsills. Report
    damaged windows and missing or damaged window screens to the UH Manager. Lock
    windows when leaving the room for security reasons.
    2.3.12. Doors. Clean doors, frames and sills above the door. Doors must have a current
    and correct nametag. See the UH Manager to have a new one made when changes are
    needed.
    2.3.13. Room Decorations. Personal decorations must be neat and in good taste. Picture
    frames are not required; however, if pictures and posters are taped on the walls, any
    damage done by the tape must be repaired by the resident 1 month prior to being released
    from responsibility for the room.
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                             7


     2.3.14. Holes. Any holes put in the walls to support shelves, pictures, or other wall
     decorations need to be identified to the UH Manager.
  2.4. Furnishings. Residents sign for the furniture/equipment in the room on the AF Form
  228 that will be maintained in the UH Manager’s office. Occupants are responsible for the
  furnishings signed for, and will be held liable for loss or damages. Annual inventory
  performed by the UH management office will identify missing or misplaced items. It is the
  resident’s responsibility to maintain the furniture and to contact the UH Manager when
  furnishings are damaged.
     2.4.1. Personal Furniture. Personal furnishings must be in good and safe condition, and
     they must present a neat and acceptable appearance. Government provided furniture
     must remain in the assigned room. There is no storage available for government furniture
     to allow use of personal items.
  2.5. Dayroom Furniture and Equipment. UH residents are not allowed to remove any
  furniture or equipment items from the dayrooms. Do not rearrange the dayroom furniture. If
  dayroom furnishings or entertainment equipment items are damaged or missing, the
  dayrooms will be locked down pending investigations or repair. These rooms are for all
  residents; help keep them clean and in good repair. Report any misuse of government
  furniture or equipment to the UH Manager, the UH Council members, or the Security Forces
  immediately.
  2.6. Visitors. Guests are permitted in the rooms if all residents of the suite agree. Guests
  must be escorted while in the UH at all times, and the resident is responsible for their
  behavior: language, dress, courtesy and conduct. No guest will be left in a UH room
  unattended. No overnight guests without prior written approval from unit commander
  or First Sergeant will be allowed in the UH facilities. No guests, other than the military
  member’s family, under the age of 18 will be permitted in the UH room, unless
  accompanied by their parent(s); coordinate with the UH Manager.
  2.7. Hospitality Rooms. Hospitality rooms have been established for use by the UH
  Manager to meet temporary (72 hours or less) housing needs for incoming and outgoing PCS
  personnel and permanent party personnel which meet circumstances outlined in AFI 32-
  6005. Newly assigned personnel may be housed in the hospitality room when no other
  rooms are available. Departing personnel will be given a hospitality room when available or
  they may remain in their assigned rooms until the day of PCS. Upon check out, the room
  will be cleaned according to standards and all fees, if any, will be paid in full. All linen will
  be turned in. A final room inspection will be accomplished prior to check out. Sponsors of
  inbound personnel may sign out a key in advance. Military sponsors will contact the UH
  Manager no later than 2 days prior to arrival.
  2.8. Room Assignment and Termination. Rooms are assigned in accordance with space
  authorizations outlined in AFI 32-6005 and this instruction.
     2.8.1. Upon room assignment, residents will complete a MAXWELLAFB Form 44,
     Condition of Occupancy for Military Unaccompanied Housing. This form outlines
     policies and procedures for occupying a UH room.
     2.8.2. Upon room assignment, residents will also complete a MAXWELLAFB Form 43,
     Resident’s Information Sheet; this form must be updated annually and when any of your
8                                               MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


       information changes. The purpose of this form is to give the UH Management Office
       required information to identify and communicate with UH residents. This information
       will be entered into the automated computer system, maintained by the Base Housing
       Office. The forms will be maintained in the UH Manager’s Office. Vehicle information
       must be provided to report damage or to have vehicle moved to facilitate building
       maintenance. It is the residents’ responsibility to ensure the information is current.
       2.8.3. Residents will be required to complete an AF Form 4422, Sex Offender Disclosure
       and Acknowledgement prior to assignment to UH facilities.
       2.8.4. Residents may not move from their assigned quarters without the UH Manager’s
       approval. Room assignments will be terminated by contacting the UH Manager for a pre-
       inspection 30 days prior to departure. Residents will be provided a termination clearance
       checklist by the dorm manager, and must have the room prepared for new residents prior
       to final inspection. This includes removing all personal items.
    2.9. Security. All high-cost items should be securely stored when absent from the room.
    Bulky items such as televisions and stereos should be marked with personal ID. The Air
    Force will not pay claims on stolen items that are not secured. Closet, window, bathroom
    door, storage cages, and exterior room door must be locked when unoccupied.
    2.10. Exterior Room Doors. Room numbers and nameplates will be the only things
    mounted on outer door. Nameplate will be updated to reflect the most current status. See the
    UH Manager for a new one when needed. Decal stickers or posters are not allowed on the
    outside doors or windows.
    2.11. Care of Exterior. Room occupants are responsible for sweeping the walkway and
    cleaning any railings, lights, fan exhaust, doormats, windowsills, door and frame and ceiling
    areas, in front of their room. Maintain exterior space midway to adjacent rooms. Help keep
    the UH clean and neat; if you see trash, pick it up and properly discard it.
    2.12. Kitchen. Maintaining the appliances, cabinets, and walls in the kitchen requires
    special attention. UH facilities with kitchens will be cleaned after each use by the individual
    using the facility to include cleaning ovens, broiler units, as well as the top burners. DO
    NOT use oven cleaner; all ovens are self-cleaning. Residents are liable for any damage they
    cause to the range. NOTE: Do not put grease in the garbage disposals as it will solidify in
    the pipes and cause stoppages. Avoid placing hot utensils on counter tops as this can cause
    permanent damage. Clean walls after use to prevent surface grease buildup.
    2.13. Insect Control. If insect control treatment is needed, contact the UH Manager. Room
    occupant is responsible for protecting and arranging furniture to allow proper application of
    insecticides by BCE.
    2.14. Supplies. Room cleaning supplies and standard light bulbs are supplied by the UH
    Manager. Special lights (fluorescent, mercury vapor, etc.) will be provided by the UH
    Manager.
    2.15. Extended Absences. If leaving quarters unoccupied for extended periods of time
    (over 7 days), make arrangements for security, prudent care, and periodic inspections of
    quarters. Inform the UH Manager and your First Sergeant of projected absence. Provide the
    name of a person designated by the room occupant to have access to perform normal resident
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                          9


  maintenance. If requested, the UH Manager may check on quarters. Do not turn off HVAC
  system during absence.
     2.15.1. Ghost Room Policy. A “ghost room” is defined as a room that has been assigned
     to an occupant and the occupant has chosen to reside elsewhere. Personnel are assigned
     to government quarters and not authorized BAH when adequate quarters are available.
     Occupants may live off base at their own expense (without BAH) if they are not required
     to live on base for reasons of military necessity, readiness, or discipline. Personnel who
     wish to live off base at their own expense must maintain their assigned room to
     established standards, and they will be assigned regular UH clean-up duties (bay orderly).
     Room will not be reassigned until the individual has been authorized BAH and released
     from the UH.
  2.16. Liability For Damage To Furnishings. Under federal law, members of the Armed
  Forces occupying military housing shall be held liable and accountable for loss or damage to
  housing, equipment, or furnishings caused by the abuse or negligence of the member, or the
  member's guests. Punishment under Article 92, UCMJ, may also be levied against occupant
  if found liable for loss or damage resulting from abuse or negligence.
  2.17. Insurance. Insurance is currently not available in the State of Alabama for Military
  UH Quarters. The Base Staff Judge Advocate can answer specific questions concerning
  insurance topics.
  2.18. Damage To Quarters. Damages to quarters beyond reasonable wear and tear are the
  occupant’s responsibility. Repairs and replacements must meet Air Force standards. The
  UH Manager will establish a date repairs or replacements are to be completed. For damages
  not corrected within the time allowed, the Air Force may elect to make repairs and bill the
  room occupant. The UH Manager can fully explain the options to repair or replace damaged
  items or the methods of reimbursement to the government.
  2.19. Energy Conservation. Keep exterior doors closed during heating and cooling period
  to conserve energy. Do not prop entry doors open because of the added strain to HVAC units
  and the humidity drawn into the building.
     2.19.1. Water. Use normal and reasonable amounts of water, however don’t be wasteful.
     Excessive use results in increased costs and depletion of the source of supply.
     2.19.2. Heating and Cooling. Conservation efforts result in large monetary and heating
     fuel savings without jeopardizing the health of any individual. Each occupant should do
     their part to conserve energy. UH facilities are a permanent living area. Room
     temperatures should be set at a comfortable level.
     2.19.3. Heating and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems. There are different types of
     systems used in the UH facilities. All use hot or cold water in a closed loop for either
     winter heating or summer cooling. NOTE: Gunter occupants must replace room filter on
     a quarterly basis to keep the air flowing through the room’s unit. Blockage of the HVAC
     vents with a dirty filter, furniture, boxes or other items, cuts airflow off and mold and
     mildew start to grow. If moisture develops on the HVAC outlets or on the windows
     during the cooling season, raise the thermostat setting a few degrees to help eliminate the
     problem. Keep all windows and doors closed to ensure the HVAC system operates
     properly.
10                                           MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


     2.19.4. Electricity. An organized effort must be expended to conserve electricity by
     eliminating unnecessary use. Minimize the use of all electrical appliances and lights,
     especially during the peak demand periods of 0900-1130 and 1400-1900. Do not leave
     televisions or radios on unattended. When leaving the room, unplug irons and turn off all
     appliances and room lights.
     2.19.5. Laundry Facilities. Washing with full loads is recommended to conserve energy.
     Do not over-load washers or dryers. Overloading causes damage to the machine. Never
     place plastic articles, pens, or other markers in dryers. Clean the dryer vent before and
     after each use. Limit use to a maximum of two machines at a time. Any laundry left in
     machines will be collected as “Lost and Found.” The washers and dryers are maintained
     by a BCE. Unauthorized users must be reported immediately to the UH Manager, the
     UH Council, or the Security Forces. Report all problems with the laundry facilities to the
     UH Manager as soon as possible. Throw trash in the trashcans and keep the laundry
     rooms neat.
  2.20. Environment. DO NOT pour trash, engine oils, engine coolants, car grease, drain
  cleaners, and other similar products into plumbing, drainage system or on the ground.
  Contact the UH Manager for proper disposal procedures of automotive tires and batteries.
  2.21. Smoking and Drinking.
     2.21.1. Smoking. Smoking in bed is absolutely prohibited. Any smoking material will
     be thoroughly soaked with water before being discarded. Smoking is not allowed in
     common areas. These areas include: dayrooms, entry halls, hallways, stairwells, laundry
     rooms, and bathrooms. When a smoker and non-smoker are assigned to a shared room,
     the non-smoker’s rights take precedence. The legal age to use tobacco products in
     Alabama is 19. Residents under the age limit are not to have tobacco products in their
     room or possession.
     2.21.2. Drinking. Legal age for drinking is 21. Individuals under 21 may NOT drink.
     There are no exceptions—it’s state law. Residents under the age limit are not to have
     alcoholic beverages in their room or possession.
  2.22. Bicycles. Lock up bicycles at the bike racks provided at each UH. Bicycles will not
  be stored under staircases, on walkway balconies, or chained to railings. Abandoned bicycles
  will be tagged, picked up by Security Forces and later turned into the Defense Reutilization
  Management Office.
  2.23. Vehicles. Vehicle repairs are not authorized in the UH areas or parking lots. Vehicle
  work shall be done in the Auto Hobby Shop. Authorized minor work consists of : cleaning
  or waxing, and air filter changes. No cleaning or washing of vehicles will be done on
  sidewalks, grass, or seeded areas. There are car wash facilities on base for use. Do not park
  on seeded areas. The UH Manager has ticket books and issues parking tickets. NOTE:
  Vehicles not operational or not registered are not authorized in the UH area.
     2.23.1. Oil changes in parking lots are prohibited. Offenders will be ticketed by
     Security Forces or UH Manager. Dumping oils or any vehicle fluids in any unauthorized
     manner is subject to a fine of up to $10,000.
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                            11


       2.23.2. Storing recreational vehicles, “quad runners”, utility trailers and motorcycle
       trailers in the UH area is unauthorized. Contact Base Outdoor Recreation for further
       assistance.

Section 3—FIRE PROTECTION

3.1. Fire Evacuation Plan. Each UH facility will display a UH fire evacuation plan showing
both primary and alternate routes of escape in the event of a fire. Furnishings will be arranged so
as not to obstruct or impede entering or opening of doors leading from rooms to exit access or
exit doors. Know the plan and practice the escape route. The plan can be found on the UH
bulletin board. Direct any questions on fire prevention to the UH Manager or base fire
department at 953-7360 (Maxwell) or 416-3400 (Gunter).
   3.2. Fire Extinguishers. Fire extinguishers are located in the UH laundry rooms. The fire
   extinguishers are for fire fighting, and not for horseplay. Notify the UH Manager if you
   notice an extinguisher is over/under charged, has been discharged or damaged. UH Manager
   will inspect and initial all extinguishers monthly, and will document the inspection
   discrepancies found. All discrepancies will be corrected as soon as possible. Kitchens are
   equipped with fire suppression systems above the stove.
   3.3. Smoke Detectors. All residents must evacuate the UH facility if the alarm sounds.
   Tampering with alarm call boxes or fire fighting equipment is a serious offense; residents are
   subject to punishment under Article 92, UCMJ, or otherwise applicable laws, if they or their
   guests are found guilty of such offenses. Inspection of the smoke detector is performed by
   the UH Manager and fire department. Articles will not be mounted on or attached to any fire
   protection device, wiring, or smoke detector. Combustible material must be kept a minimum
   of 18 inches from light fixtures, heat, or smoke detectors, and heating appliances.
   3.4. Fire Reporting. If a fire occurs in the UH facility, immediately notify the base Fire
   Department at 911 (953-9911 from a personal phone). Give the fire alarm operator your
   name, UH room number and street if known. Do not hang up until told to do so. All fires
   must be reported.
   3.5. Flammable Storage. Storage of flammables is prohibited. Prohibited flammables
   include: gasoline, kerosene, candles (with wicks showing having been burnt), incense or any
   open flame. The only flammable liquids allowed are for cigarette lighter refilling, or
   cosmetics (nail polish or polish remover).
   3.6. Barbecue grills. Barbecue grills are provided at the UH facilities. Do not attempt to
   move them from the current location. Damage from barbecue grills or grease drippings are
   considered the resident’s responsibility for repair or cleanup. Report low fuel indications to
   the UH Manager so propane bottles can be properly replenished.
   3.7. Space Heaters. Space heaters of any type are prohibited in the UH facilities without
   prior written approval from the Fire Department and UH Manager.
   3.8. Cooking Appliances. Cooking in the dorm room is prohibited except in microwaves.
   The only appliances allowed in UH rooms are microwave ovens using less than 1600 watts
   each.
 12                                           MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


   3.9. Extension Cords. Extension cords must be of continuous length without splices and
   must have the UL seal of approval. Extension cords represent a tripping hazard; have all
   cords positioned in a manner that will not pose this threat. Extension cords will not be
   secured to walls, placed under floor coverings or through holes in walls/floors, or ceilings.
   Multiple head or cobra head type extension cords are not authorized nor are multiple outlet
   adapters.
   3.10. Housekeeping.
       3.10.1. Heat Producing Devices. Coffee pots, irons, hair dryers, fans, and curling irons
       must be unplugged when not in use or when leaving the room, even for short periods of
       time. Hot plates, toaster ovens, convection ovens, and similar items are NOT permitted.
       3.10.2. Trash should be discarded daily to prevent accumulation in living areas. Do not
       discard smoking materials in waste containers. Empty ashtrays daily in approved butt
       cans located throughout the UH facilities.
       3.10.3. Daily Housekeeping. Room inspections/visits are a part of UH life; residents
       should not risk an embarrassing situation for themselves, their commander, First Sergeant
       or the UH Manager. The following housekeeping actions will be accomplished daily:
          3.10.3.1. Trash must be taken to the dumpsters. Do not leave trash outside the door,
          in the dayroom, or in the entrance trashcans around the facility.
          3.10.3.2. Ensure the bed is made and room is clean, to include bathroom.
          3.10.3.3. Dust.
       3.10.4. Storage. When possible, residents should store large boxes and luggage in storage
       rooms, not in personal rooms. Storage cages are available for personnel requiring
       additional storage space on a “first come, first served” basis. Due to limited storage
       space, sharing may be necessary. Contact the UH Manager for further details.

Section 4— SECURITY FORCES

4.1. General Information. The installation commander is responsible for the control and
safeguarding of all base property. Patrolling the UH area is accomplished on a routine basis by
the Security Forces, and when notified, will investigate all incidents. Direct all inquiries
concerning law enforcement to the Security Forces at 953-7222 (Maxwell) or 416-4250
(Gunter). Contact the UH Manager problems.
   4.2. Parking. Parking is prohibited in reserved slots, on grass, seeded, or dirt areas. Do not
   park in a crosswalk, fire lane, or within 15 feet of a fire hydrant. Park motorcycles in the
   designated motorcycle parking areas, and not under gazebos, under UH stair cases, or on
   sidewalks. UH residents with vehicles are issued a vehicle parking pass from the UH
   Manager when rooms are assigned. This pass must be displayed in the driver’s side window
   for ID purposes.
   4.3. Visitor Reception. If planning to have visitors, go to the Visitor’s Center at the main
   gate prior to guest’s arrival, with the following information: name, arrival time, and
   expected departure time. All visitors have to undergo a 100% background check. Sponsors
   are responsible for the actions of their guests while on Maxwell AFB.
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                            13


   4.4. Weapons, Firearms, and Fireworks. Violations of this paragraph are punishable
   under Article 92, UCMJ or otherwise applicable laws. Violators—UH residents or their
   guests—may be subject to administrative disciplinary actions if found guilty of such
   offenses. Weapons, flares, fireworks, ammunition, or any type of explosive devices are
   prohibited in UH facilities. Local laws and military regulations govern registration,
   possession and storage of privately owned weapons. No weapons of any type will be stored
   or displayed in the room. This includes bows and arrows, martial arts weapons, and knifes
   with blades longer than 3 inches. All types of guns designed to propel a missile (BB, pellet,
   bullet, paint, etc.) whether by air, gas or other means, are prohibited. Items such as stun guns
   are prohibited. All firearms must be registered and stored at the Security Forces armory. For
   information on storing firearms, contact the Security Forces at 953-7222 (Maxwell) or 416-
   4250 (Gunter).
   4.5. Crime Stop. Residents should always be on the watch for vandalism and promptly
   report it to the UH Manager, the UH council, or Security Forces; for fast response report a
   crime in progress. See crime prevention tips Attachment 2.

Section 5—GOOD NEIGHBORS

5.1. Resident Courtesy. It can be difficult for large numbers of people from different walks of
life to live together in close quarters. Courtesy goes a long way in helping reduce tension among
UH residents.
   5.2. Noise Control. Stereo or other noise should not be heard outside the room or through
   the walls. Excessive noise is the primary complaint received by Security Forces. Many Air
   Force members work shifts and are sleeping during the day. Keep volume levels down.
   Contact the UH Manager or UH council representative with any noise complaints prior to
   contacting the Security Forces. Continuous complaints will lead to residents being reported
   to Commander and First Sergeant for further action.
   5.3. Parties and Social Gatherings. Parties and other social gatherings are permitted;
   however, contact the UH Manager for scheduled gatherings. Take into consideration that
   other dorm residents may be asleep. Residents are responsible for cleaning up after
   themselves. Do not rearrange dayroom furniture. Do not remove dayroom furniture from the
   dayrooms. Dispose of trash properly. Keep noise levels down to a level that will not disturb
   other residents. The Maxwell Event Center, Stripes Lounge, and the Maxwell and Gunter
   Community Centers are available for parties. Make reservations through the applicable
   agency in charge.
   5.4. Pets. The only pets allowed in the UH facilities are fish. Aquariums should be limited
   to a 35-gallon aquarium per single room. The resident further understands they assume
   responsibility for damage caused to the unit by pet(s). Exotic pets, such as snakes, alligators,
   wild cats, skunks, monkeys, and so forth, are prohibited. No farm animals, wild animals, or
   wild fowl are permitted. The cleaning of deer or any other wild animals—to include
   domestic—is prohibited in the UH area.
   5.5. Parking. There is very little parking space in the UH area. Visitors and additional
   vehicles should be parked outside the UH areas if possible. Be reasonable and considerate,
   talk to neighbors when problems or misunderstandings occur.
 14                                           MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


   5.6. Recreation Vehicles. Storing recreational vehicles in UH areas is not authorized. Do
   not store motorcycle trailers, personal watercraft, etc., in UH areas. Outdoor Recreational at
   953-6168 for storage information.
   5.7. Motor Vehicles. No motor vehicle being operated on Maxwell AFB or in the UH area
   shall have music emitting from the vehicle that could disturb or be a nuisance to other
   residents.
   5.8. Repair Work. No vehicle/boat repair work is authorized in the UH area. The Auto
   Hobby Shop should be used for this repair work.

Section 6— SPECIAL CLIMATIC CONDITIONS

6.1. Humidity. The following is a list of some actions that can be taken to help eliminate mold
and mildew problems in the UH rooms. Using bleach products usually produces favorable
results when fighting mildew and mold.
       6.1.1. Keep windows and doors closed when using air conditioner/heater to prevent
       system overload and mold and mildew development on walls, ceiling, and furniture.
       6.1.2. When on leave or TDY do not turn off HVAC or fans during the Summer or
       Winter. Inform the UH Manager and First Sergeant so he/she can make a weekly check
       of the room for either maintenance or mildew.
       6.1.3. Gunter occupants replace the air HVAC air filter quarterly. See the UH Manager
       for filters and replacement instructions.
       6.1.4. Gunter occupants must keep furniture away from wall mounted HVAC units.
       Maxwell occupants must not obstruct overhead HVAC vents. Following this instruction
       will ensure good airflow to the room.
       6.1.5. When taking a shower, close the bathroom door to reduce the moisture in the
       room, leave the vent fan on to remove the steam and excess humidity. This is one of the
       major causes of mildew.
       6.1.6. Keep all dayroom, hallway, laundry room, and foyer doors closed at all times. If
       passing by and a door is open, close it.

Section 7—MAXWELL-GUNTER ANNEX SPECIFIC TOPICS

7.1. Business Enterprises. Some businesses for profit may be conducted from UH rooms. Any
such enterprise must be requested in writing to UH Manager for review and further guidance.
NOTE: Signs for advertising businesses are prohibited in the UH areas. Contact the base
housing flight for additional information and guidance.
   7.2. Solicitation In Unaccompanied Housing. All forms of solicitation are prohibited in
   the UH facilities. Report solicitors to the Law Enforcement Desk, 953-7222 (Maxwell) or
   416-4250 (Gunter) immediately.
   7.3. Waterbeds. Waterbeds are not authorized.
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                           15


   7.4. Telephones. UH common area phones are maintained by the 42d Communications
   Squadron. Report in-house line problems to the UH Manager. UH occupants may obtain
   room phones at their own expense.
   7.5. Cable Television. Satellite dishes are not authorized in UH facilities.

Section 8— SELF-HELP WORK

8.1. Requesting Self-Help Work. Self-help work in military UH facilities must be relatively
simple and is designed primarily for resident benefit. Normally, a self-help project is to improve
living conditions. Self-help work must not generate additional maintenance or repair costs. All
self-help work requires completing an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request,
coordination as directed by the UH Manager. No work will be accomplished until this procedure
has been followed and approval received.
   8.2. Antennas. Citizen Band, Short Wave and TV antennas will not be installed on UH
   buildings.
   8.3. Painting Interior Walls. Painting requires an approval before accomplishing. The
   UH Manager will inspect before and after painting. While government furnished paint is
   available, any other color is at resident’s expense. The room must be returned to original
   color and condition prior to terminating the room. To obtain paint to return the room to the
   original color contact the UH Manager who will get the paint and issue the required tools and
   equipment.
   8.4. Disposition of Improvements. Self-help improvements may be donated by the resident
   and accepted by the Air Force when workmanship and aesthetics meet acceptable
   construction standards. When removal is required, the area must be restored to its original
   configuration.

Section 9—TERMINATION OF UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING

9.1. Giving Notice. Orders are not required to set up termination inspections. UH management
requires 30 days notice prior to vacating (short notice PCS accepted with orders). At that time,
the UH Manager will schedule a final inspection.
       9.1.1. UH management can be of great assistance when moving; ask about availability of
       housing at the next location. Members terminating the dorms will be provided with a
       termination checklist (attachment) prior to your final out inspection by the UH Manager.
       9.1.2. If a substitute is needed to conduct the final inspection, notify the UH Manager in
       advance and the necessary forms and guidance will be provided. Ensure substitute has a
       Special Power of Attorney.
       9.1.3. Mailbox keys MUST be returned to the POST OFFICE and your termination
       checklist must be signed by a Post Office employee prior to termination of the UH room.
NOTE: The responsibility for final clearance of unaccompanied housing rests solely with the
resident.
   9.2. Final Inspection. Occupants are responsible for accomplishing cleaning tasks and
   turning in Mail Box keys to the Post Office as directed by the UH Manager prior to the
 16                                           MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


   scheduled time of the final inspection. If you fail your final inspection, the UH Manager will
   schedule another inspection at his or her earliest convenience. (See Section 2)
   9.3. Pregnancy. Pregnant service members may, with their unit commander’s approval,
   submit a request to UH management to move from the UH to off-base community housing in
   their 20th week of pregnancy. The installation commander will direct the move of pregnant
   members between the 30th week of pregnancy to the date of birth. Advance notification to
   the UH Manager regarding the individual’s room termination date is required.

Section 10—UH COUNCIL

10.1. General Information. The UH council is an elected representative body of residents that
acts on behalf of the representative Commanders, First Sergeants, and UH Manager. Elected
individuals act as the in-house liaison or representatives for the residents. The UH Council
reports directly to the UH Manager on all UH issues.
   10.2. Offices. There are four offices that comprise the UH council: The President, a Vice-
   President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer.
   10.3. Nominations and Voting. Annually or as needed all offices of the council are voted
   on by the residents during a Dorm Resident’s Meeting, using a signed ballot to ensure that
   each resident only votes once. Nominations are posted and listed on the ballots. The UH
   Manager will count and report the election ballots.
   10.4. New Council Members. When an office is vacated, the UH council will determine if
   a member of the council in a lower office can automatically “move up” or if a new election
   must be held.
   10.5. After-Hours Assistance. The UH council will handle minor complaints between
   residents. UH Council members’ room numbers and phone numbers are located on the
   residents’ information boards. If a council member is not available or cannot resolve the
   problem, contact the First Sergeant.
   10.6. UH Residents Suggestion Program. UH residents may submit suggestions to the UH
   Manager using the MAXWELLAFB Form 42, UH Residents Suggestion Program. Submit
   completed forms to the UH council or the UH Manager. Every idea will be considered and
   forwarded to the appropriate level for action.




                                            BRIAN M. KILLOUGH, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                            17


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Section 1147, Use of Military Housing
Title 10, Unites States Code, Section 2775, Liability of Members Assigned to Military Housing
Title 10, United States Code, Sections 2871-2885, Alternative Authority for Acquisition and
Improvement of Military Housing
Joint Federal Travel Regulations, Volume 1, Uniformed Service Members
DoD Instruction 4165.63, DoD Housing, 21 July 2008
DoD 4165.63-M, DoD Housing Management, 28 October 2010
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 4 March 2010
AFPD 32-60, Housing, 16 September 2005
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, 1 September 2005
AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management, 21 August 2006 (incorporating: IC-3, 24 October
2008; AFGM2, 28 March 2011)
AFI 32-6002, Family Housing Planning, Programming, Design and Construction, 15 January
2008
AFI 32-6003, General Officer Quarters, 26 April 2006 (incorporating IC-3, 27 September 2010)
AFI 32-6004, Furnishings Management, 3 March 2006
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 Oct 2008 (incorporating IC-1, 2
February 2011), and the AETC Supplement, 16 March 2010
AFI 32-6007, Privatized Family Housing, 1 June 2005 (incorporating AFGM2, 28 March 2011)
Prescribed Forms
MAXWELLAFB Form 40, Maxwell-Gunter Dorm Bay Orderly Checklist
MAXWELLAFB Form 41, Inspection Criteria for Military Unaccompanied Housing
MAXWELLAFB Form 42, UH Residents Suggestion Program
MAXWELLAFB Form 43, Resident’s Information Sheet
MAXWELLAFB Form 44, Condition of Occupancy for Military Unaccompanied Housing
MAXWELLAFB Form 45, Termination Checklist
Adopted Forms
AF Form 228, Furnishings Custody Receipt and Condition Report, 1 November 2000
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, 1 January 1991
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
 18                                           MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


AF Form 4422, Sex offender Disclosure and Acknowledgement, 29 June 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CDM—Centralized UH Management Office
HVAC—Heater/Air Conditioner Unit
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UH—Unaccompanied Housing
Figure A1.1. Key Telephone Numbers.

Ambulance                          911
Fire Dept. (Fire Reporting)        911
Security Forces                    953-7222 (Maxwell) or 416-4250 (Gunter)
Housing Manager                    953-7182
Housing Referral Office            953-5718
Lockouts (after hours) 0700-1600   Contact your First Sergeant
UH Managers Offices
       Maxwell                     953-5492
       Gunter                      416-1389
CE Maintenance                     953-3333

42 ABW Legal Office                Bldg 804, Rm NE 140; 50 LeMay Plaza South
     Notary Public                 953-2786 for appointment; walk-in M-F, 1330-1600
     Claims                        953-5133 for appointment
                                   Claims Briefing Wed, 1400, Fri 0745

You must notify your carrier, in writing, about all damaged or missing household goods
items within 70 days of your property’s delivery. This may be accomplished by bringing
the DD Form 1840, Joint Statement of Loss or Damage at Delivery (pink form), to the
Claims Office within that period.
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                           19


                                         Attachment 2
                                CRIME PREVENTION TIPS

A2.1. Burglary.
   A2.1.1. Upon moving into government quarters, check all locks, window latches, and other
   easy entry points for defects. A member of the Crime Prevention Section will conduct a
   complete residential security survey if so desired. To schedule a survey, contact the Crime
   Prevention Section at 953-7222 (Maxwell) or 416-4250 (Gunter).
   A2.1.2. All personnel are encouraged to participate in “Operation Identification.” Residents
   can do this by contacting the UH Manager. If a resident’s unit cannot provide an engraver,
   he/she can sign one out from the Law Enforcement Desk.
   A2.1.3. Get involved with neighbors in watching out for each other’s property.
   A2.1.4. Secure all doors and windows before retiring at night or departing the area.
   A2.1.5. When leaving for a short time, don't announce your absence by leaving a note on the
   door for an expected visitor; burglars read too.
   A2.1.6. Never carry identification tags on keys. If leaving keys at a garage or commercial
   parking lot, remove residence key from the ring.
   A2.1.7. Don't leave a "hidden key" around the UH—a burglar will find it.
   A2.1.8. Do not give a room key to a “friend.” Guests must be escorted.
   A2.1.9. Turn down telephone ringer volume when gone so the unanswered phone can't be
   heard from the outside.
   A2.1.10. When leaving a residence while on leave or TDY, contact the UH Manager and
   have quarters placed on the quarters checklist. Also have a friend watch your residence for
   you. Inform the post office to hold all mail and newspapers.
A2.2. Car Theft.
   A2.2.1. Over half of all stolen cars have the keys in the ignition—always remove keys from
   the ignition.
   A2.2.2. Most stolen cars are unlocked—always lock vehicle. Don't hide spare keys in the
   car.
A2.2.3. Never leave the engine running, even for a few minutes while in a friend's driveway, or
for a quick trip into a store.
   A2.2.4. Motorcycles should be chained to an object to be considered secure as well as lock
   the steering column.
A2.3. Larceny.
   A2.3.1. Don't leave tempting articles, such as CB radios and radar detectors, in plain sight in
   an unattended vehicle. These are major targets for thieves. Mark these items and secure
   them in the trunk or take them inside quarters at night. Remember, a CB or cell phone
   antenna will mark a car for possible theft; if possible secure these items out of plain view.
 20                                            MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011


   Always secure vehicles when parking them and remove all valuables from view by placing
   them in a locked compartment or the trunk
   A2.3.2. Secure bicycles to a bike rack with a lock and chain when not in use. Residents
   living in a single room may store a bicycle in their room. Do not secure bicycles to 1st, 2d or
   3d floor railings; this is a safety hazard. Bicycles should be registered through the Security
   Forces Crime Prevention Section at 953-7222 (Maxwell) or 416-4250 (Gunter).
   A2.3.3. Residents should mark all property of high value or is easy to remove from their
   room.
A2.4. Reporting a Crime.
   A2.4.1. Report all crime or suspicious activities immediately to the Security Forces by
   calling the "Crime Stop" number listed below. Calls may be made anonymously.
   A2.4.2. Be sure to obtain as much information about an incident and the suspect as possible
   and report it to the Desk Sergeant.
   A2.4.3. Reporting Numbers:
      A2.4.3.1. EMERGENCIES: 911 or 953-9911 from a personal phone.
      A2.4.3.2. ROUTINE: 953-7222 (Maxwell) or 416-4250 (Gunter).
MAXWELLAFBI32-6001 26 September 2011                                                            21


                                        Attachment 3
                                 BAY ORDERLY DUTIES

A3.1. General. Bay Orderly duties are a military formation and duty is normally from 0700-
1600, Monday through Friday and weekends and holidays as required by the UH Manager.
Because of military commitments, residents may be in a squadron that has different duty
hours/days.
   A3.1.1. The UH Manager is the resident’s supervisor for bay orderly duties until released.
   A3.1.2. Bay Orderly Duties will be performed in a utility uniform except on weekends and
   holidays, or as prescribed by the UH Manager.
   A3.1.3. Refer to the MAXWELLAFB Form 40, Maxwell-Gunter Dorm Bay Orderly
   Checklist, for standard responsibilities. The UH Manager may establish and brief additional
   tasking.
A3.2. Bay Orderly Duty:
   A3.2.1. The UH Manager and all involved parties MUST approve any changes to the Bay
   Orderly schedule. All changes must be made NLT close of business on Thursday prior to the
   week assigned.
   A3.2.2. Report directly to the UH Manager at 0700, dressed in an appropriate uniform.
   A3.2.3. Bay Orderlies must inform the UH Manager of any scheduled appointments.
   A3.2.4. The UH Manager will determine the lunch schedule.
   A3.2.5. Bay Orderlies will perform all items on the checklist by the times prescribed. Bay
   Orderlies will enter their initials in the appropriate blocks when the task in completed. The
   UH Manager will inspect the work on a daily basis and may require more extensive cleaning
   of an area if needed.
   A3.2.6. Bay Orderlies will return completed checklists to the UH Manager’s office at the
   end of each day. The completed checklists must be turned in to Bay Orderly First Sergeant
   upon completion of Bay Orderly Duty
