                       Maxwell Installation Commander’s
                WORKPLACE VIOLENCE MESSAGE

                                             Violent acts or threats of violence in any form will
                                             not be tolerated at Maxwell AFB and Gunter
                                             Annex. Such acts include direct or indirect threats,
                                             intimidation, harassment or other disruptive
                                             behavior. Conduct that violates this policy is
                                             subject to criminal penalty and/or severe discipline,
                                             including removal from federal employment.

                                             Disruptive behavior in the workplace interferes
                                             with mission accomplishment and is incompatible
                                             with federal service.       As wingmen, we are
                                             responsible for looking after and supporting each
                                             other. The cost of work place violence, in human
                                             terms, extends far beyond the direct results of
                                             physical injury. It takes an additional emotional
                                             toll on victims, witnesses and others.

                                            Commanders, supervisors and co-workers all play a
                                            role in preventing and identifying workplace
                                            misconduct. Management must take firm and
timely action when incidents occur or statements are made that are perceived to be threatening.

Maxwell AFB and Gunter Annex personnel should report any threatening or potentially
threatening situation to their immediate supervisor, or call the 42d Security Forces Squadron
Law Enforcement Desk at 953-7222. When a civilian employee is the offending party, the
employee’s supervisor must seek assistance from personnel specialists at the Civilian Personnel
Flight. Please call 953-6159 for assistance with matters related to workplace violence.




                                                    TRENT H. EDWARDS, Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander




MAXWELLAFBVA 36-701 (per AFPD 36-7), 14 September 2012
OPR: 42 FSS/FSMC; Supersedes MAXWELLAFBVA 36-701, 29 October 2010
RELEASABILITY: There are no access restrictions on this publication.
