BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             MAXWELL AFB INSTRUCTION 33-301
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)
                                                                                    16 MAY 2011

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                      MAXWELL-GUNTER BASE BULLETIN



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 CS/SCQ                                                             Certified by: 42 CS/CC
                                                                             (Maj Gerald T. Yap)
                                                                                           Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 33-3, Information Management. It establishes policies and
procedures for producing and distributing the Maxwell-Gunter Base Bulletin.           Refer
recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This instruction applies to all
personnel assigned to Maxwell-Gunter Air Force Base; it does not apply to the AF Reserve or
ANG.
1. General Information. The Base Publications Management Office publishes the Maxwell-
Gunter Base Bulletin (the Bulletin) every Tuesday and Thursday. When a Tuesday or Thursday
falls on an official holiday, the Bulletin is published on the preceding Monday or Wednesday,
respectively. The Maxwell Publications Management Office Lead is authorized to authenticate
the Bulletin for the Commander, 42d Air Base Wing. The Air University Public Affairs Office
will make a suitability determination for articles with questionable content. Personnel
submitting articles for the Bulletin are responsible for the accuracy and timeliness of content and
timely submission for publication.
 2                                                       MAXWELLAFBI33-301 16 MAY 2011



2. Personnel and Organizations Authorized to Publish Articles. All personnel and
organizations assigned, attached, supporting the Maxwell-Gunter mission, or are tenants on
Maxwell-Gunter AFB may publish articles in the Bulletin. The Bulletin will only announce
events sponsored by a governmental organization or private organizations established according
to AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program, and authorized on Maxwell-Gunter AFB.
Private organizations must indicate this status in their request.
3. Submitting Articles. Submit requests to publish articles via e-mail to the Base Publications
Management Office (base.bulletin@maxwell.af.mil) no earlier than two weeks prior to the
event and no later than 1200 on the last duty day preceding the desired publishing date. Articles
will appear in only one Bulletin issue unless properly justified; see paragraph 4.5. Coordinate
all requests according to submitting unit policies before submitting for publishing.
     3.1. Tuesday editions contain military vacancies/cross-training opportunities and official
     articles; see paragraph 4 for additional article guidelines.
     3.2. Thursday editions contain official and unofficial articles; see paragraph 4 for
     additional article guidelines.
4. Bulletin Article Guidelines. Articles will: be in single-paragraph format using Arial 10-
point font; have a short descriptive title in bold, capital letters; and contain the requestor’s
organization and office symbol, rank/grade, name, and duty phone in parenthesis at the end of
the article. See Attachment 2 for specific formatting.
     4.1. Official Articles. Official articles provide information of an official nature that impacts
     the mission or day-to-day operations. Promotion and retirement ceremony announcements
     are considered official articles.
     4.2. Vacancies/Cross-Training Opportunities. The Bulletin will announce only vacancies to
     be filled by military personnel; it will not announce civilian or contractor vacancies.
     4.3. Unofficial Articles. Unofficial articles are of general information to the base populace.
     Promotion and retirement luncheons or other recognition functions not included in a
     promotion or retirement ceremony notice are unofficial articles.
     4.4. The Bulletin will not contain personal advertisements such as: private housing sales or
     rentals; wanted items; for sale items; lost and found; “personals”; etc.
     4.5. Articles will appear in only one Bulletin issue unless justified. Include justification for
     publishing articles more than once with the request. Acceptable justification is a copy of the
     publication title and paragraph requiring more than one publishing or concurrence from the
     requestor’s flight commander (as a minimum) or equivalent.




                                               BRIAN M. KILLOUGH, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
MAXWELLAFBI33-301 16 MAY 2011                                3


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-3, Information Management
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program
AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program
AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
 4                                                        MAXWELLAFBI33-301 16 MAY 2011


                                            Attachment 2
               MAXWELL-GUNTER BASE BULLETIN ARTICLE FORMAT

A2.1. Keep articles as brief as possible; the Base Publications Management Office may edit for
size if necessary. All articles will:
     A2.1.1. Have a descriptive title in BOLD CAPITAL LETTERS.
     A2.1.2. Use abbreviations listed in AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill, for military rank.
     Use “Ms.” rather than “Mrs.” or “Miss”.
     A2.1.3. Spell out acronyms the first time they are used, state the acronym in parenthesis,
     then use the acronym throughout the rest of the article (e.g., Professional Military Education
     (PME)).
     A2.1.4. Use the “DD MMM YY” date format (31 Dec 10). Do not use day of the week
     unless the article is announcing a recurring event (e.g., “every Thursday” or “first Monday”).
     A2.1.5. Use appropriate 24-hour time (e.g., 0730, 1500, etc.). Do not use “hrs” or “hours”
     after time. If listing a specific time period, separate the starting and ending times with a dash
     (e.g., 0730-1630).
     A2.1.6. Use the following abbreviations: “St” for street (e.g., Selfridge St); “Rd” for road
     (e.g., River Rd); “Ave” for avenue (e.g., Shumacher Ave); “Bldg” for building (e.g., Bldg
     500); “Rm” for room (e.g., Rm 23).
     A2.1.7. List the submitter’s information in parenthesis after the article. Separate the
     information with a virgule (/). Provide organization/office symbol/rank and last name/duty
     phone (e.g., (42 SFS/S1J/MSgt Doe/953-1234)).
     A2.1.8. Not normally use first names unless the article is introducing a person or for
     clarification. When using a first name, use it only once, and then use title and last name
     throughout the rest of the article.
     A2.1.9. Not list home phone numbers, personal cell phone numbers, home addresses,
     personal e-mail addresses, or other personally identifiable information as this can be a
     violation of AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
     A2.1.10. Not use official personal e-mail addresses (e.g., john.doe@maxwell.af.mil).
     Articles will contain only official organizational addresses (e.g., 42fss.ccf@maxwell.af.mil).

Figure A2.1. Example Bulletin Article.
42D AIR BASE WING (42 ABW) SAFETY OFFICE WINTER DRIVING SAFETY TRAINING:
Trooper Robert Harris of the Alabama State Troopers will conduct a series of 30-minute training
sessions on Winter Driving Safety starting 2 Oct 09, 0800-0830, in the 42 ABW Commander’s
Conference Room, Bldg 804, Rm 14, Maxwell AFB. Trooper Harris will conduct a training session
every Monday through the month of October. Training will consist of videos and discussion. For
more information or to reserve a special session for large groups (25 or more), contact SSgt Smith
in the 42 ABW Safety Office at 953-1234/4321 or by e-mail: 42abw.safety@maxwell.af.mil.
(42 ABW/SE/SSgt Smith/953-1234)
