                       Maxwell Installation Commander’s
                         CIVILIAN DRUG
                  AND ALCOHOL ABUSE MESSAGE
                                             Drug abuse places the mission and our personnel at
                                             risk and offenders who participate in illegal use of
                                             narcotics or unlawful substances are not suitable for
                                             Federal employment.

                                             Air Force civilian employees, whether on duty or
                                             off duty on Air Force installations, are prohibited
                                             from possessing or selling drugs, using drug
                                             paraphernalia, or introducing into the body any
                                             illegal substance. The civilian disciplinary program
                                             and substance abuse (drug and alcohol) program
                                             complement each other. The common objective of
                                             these two programs is the focus on rehabilitating
                                             the employee. Rehabilitation improves the health,
                                             productivity, and overall quality of the civilian
                                             workforce while enhancing total force readiness.

                                             The Air Force encourages rehabilitation of its
                                             employees where appropriate. However, continued
                                             illicit drug use after a first offense may result in
termination from employment.

Supervisors will ensure each civilian employee is aware of this policy. A copy of this letter with
the employee’s initials will be placed in the Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder.




                                                    ANDREA D. TULLOS
                                                    Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander




MAXWELLAFBVA 36-801 (per AFI 36-810), 10 September 2014
OPR: 42 FSS/FSMC; Supersedes MAXWELLAFBVA 36-801, 20 September 2012
RELEASABILITY: There are no access restrictions on this publication.
