BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          MAXWELL AFB INSTRUCTION 33-114
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)
                                                                        9 DECEMBER 2010
                                                       Certified Current on 28 February 2013
                                                         Communications and Information

                                                             SOFTWARE MANAGEMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:          42 CS/SCQ                                              Certified by: 42 CS/CC
                                                                       (Maj Gerald T. Yap)
                                                                                     Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFI 33-114, Software Management. It establishes the Software
Management Program at Maxwell AFB. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims. This
publication applies to all personnel who use computer systems and networks supported by the
42d Communications Squadron to include AF Reserve personnel on Maxwell-Gunter AFB. This
publication does not apply to ANG personnel. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

1. Purpose: This instruction implements local guidance, procedures and requirements for all
personnel who connect information systems to the Maxwell network domains in regards to the
computer software program and identifies roles and responsibilities for all computer system
users.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. Commanders:
       2.1.1. Appoint a primary and alternate unit software license manager (USLM) to
       administer the software license program for the unit. NOTE: Consider appointing
2                                              MAXWELLAFBI33-114 9 DECEMBER 2010


       separate license managers for multiple-use, site-licensed, or other software maintained on
       network servers.
       2.1.2. Forward USLM appointment memorandum to the Base Software License Manager
       (BSLM).
       2.1.3. Ensure outgoing and incoming software license managers conduct a joint physical
       inventory of all software and endorse all inventories.
       2.1.4. Annually certify in writing to the BSLM that an annual inventory was
       accomplished for all unit computer software. Accomplish certification by signing the
       annual inventory list or memorandum and indicate the unit’s annual software license
       inventory has been accomplished.
       2.1.5. Ensure software acquisitions are coordinated through the respective software
       license manager and BSLM prior to purchase.
       2.1.6. Ensure delivered software is routed through the respective software license
       manager. Ensure the BSLM is informed so the software can be added to the inventory.
       2.1.7. Ensure necessary training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique
       software purchased or developed by the unit.
       2.1.8. Ensure enterprise license agreement contracts are used to procure common-user
       desktop software on new PC orders.
       2.1.9. Ensure all purchase requests for multimedia software are approved by the base
       multimedia manager. Multimedia software is defined as any computer program designed
       to create, edit, or enhance artwork, photographs, or video.
    2.2. 42 CS/CC:
       2.2.1. Designates primary and alternate base software license managers (BSLM) to
       manage the wing and base software license programs. NOTE: Consider appointing
       separate license managers for multiple-use, site-licensed, or other software maintained on
       network servers.
       2.2.2. Forwards BSLM appointment memorandums to the command software license
       manager (HQ AETC/A6OI).
       2.2.3. Ensures approved software is added to the base network risk assessment. Contact
       the wing information assurance office for assistance.
    2.3. Base Software License Manager (BSLM): The BSLM performs duties in accordance
    with AFI 33-114. Additionally, the following responsibilities apply:
       2.3.1. Ensures a host-tenant support agreement directs all base units to participate in the
       host-base software license program if they use Air Force command, control,
       communications, and computer (C4) systems or are connected to Air Force local area
       networks.
       2.3.2. Places semiannual reminders of the need for proper software license management
       in base bulletins and other media to increase and reinforce the legal requirement of
       maintaining software licenses according to their stated conditions.
MAXWELLAFBI33-114 9 DECEMBER 2010                                                          3


     2.3.3. Coordinates on technical solutions for Communications-Computer Systems
     Requirements Document (CSRD) requests for software requirements. BSLM will note
     inclusion/exclusion of the requirement on the Air Force Network Integration Center
     (AFNIC) approved product list (APL). The CSRD will be coordinated through the 42
     CS/CC as the Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO). Software that is
     not on the AFNIC APL should go through the software certification process for
     evaluation by the AFNIC/EVSN office. BSLM will assist customer as needed.
     2.3.4. Ensures Unit Software License Managers (USLM) have current appointment
     letters and training.     Training can be found online at the ADLS website,
     https://golearn.csd.disa.mil. User training will also be conducted through the ADLS
     website. Specific courses include DoD Information Assurance (Course # ZZ133098) and
     Information Protection (Course # ZZ133078).
     2.3.5. Ensures USLMs complete annual software inventories.
     2.3.6. Performs periodic compliance or Staff Assisted Visits (SAV) to base units and
     AETC tenant organizations. Inspect at least 50 percent of unit accounts annually and
     inspect each unit at least once every 2 years.
     2.3.7. Maintains a current list of all USLMs.
     2.3.8. Ensures automated tools are used to the maximum extent possible for tracking
     software installed on the base network.
     2.3.9. Ensures excess or superseded software is disposed of IAW procedures outlined in
     AFI 33-114.
     2.3.10. Hosts semi-annual meetings with all USLMs.
     2.3.11. Ensures approval is obtained from the AF DAA for any software placed on
     computers or computer systems on the base network. Major changes to the base network
     must be approved by the AF DAA.
     2.3.12. Ensures USLMs are notified at least 60 days prior to expiration date of software
     accounts. If the account expires, the BSLM is authorized to remove the software from
     the network until the account has been updated.
  2.4. Unit Software License Managers:
     2.4.1. Become familiar with license agreements of software used in his or her
     organization.
     2.4.2. Coordinate with the BSLM, functional system administrators, client support
     technicians, users, and/or purchasers on all software acquisitions. NOTE: The 42 CS/CC
     will resolve any appeals regarding denial of software request by the BSLM.
     2.4.3. Receive all new software, inform the BSLM of new software, and become familiar
     with license agreements prior to releasing software to Computer Support Technicians for
     installation.
     2.4.4. Store evidence of license agreements or software licenses (purchase
     documentation, CD-ROMs, etc.) and physical software media in a secure location (locked
     drawer or locked file cabinet).
4                                               MAXWELLAFBI33-114 9 DECEMBER 2010


       2.4.5. Ensure the legal acquisition and use of all software.
       2.4.6. Identify software that does not have associated licenses, assemble proofs of
       purchase, and request replacement licenses from publishers, as needed.
       2.4.7. Act as liaison between PC users and the BSLM.
       2.4.8. Coordinate training with the BSLM, as needed.
       2.4.9. Promote user awareness of unauthorized or illegal use of computer software.
       2.4.10. Ensure users are aware of the importance of identifying unauthorized or illegal
       software on their systems.
       2.4.11. Circulate software licensing information throughout the organization.
       2.4.12. Support and implement the base software license program.
       2.4.13. Perform an annual inventory of all software, licenses, and corresponding
       documentation of unit software, and ensure the unit commander endorses the hard-copy
       report.
          2.4.13.1. Each computer utilizing commercial software products must be included in
          the inventory. This includes laptops, desktops, workstations, and servers and reflects
          a full accountability of the commercial software loaded on each system.
          2.4.13.2. The final inventory should reflect the total number of each product
          authorized compared to the total number of each product loaded on the organization’s
          computers.
          2.4.13.3. There is no requirement to inventory magnetic media containing original
          copies of software.
          2.4.13.4. Inventory listings used for annual inventory may be retained electronically.
          The only hard-copy requirement is the commander’s endorsement on the cover
          memorandum.
       2.4.14. Perform a joint inventory of software before transferring responsibilities to
       another software license manager. Ensure the unit commander endorses the hard-copy
       report.
    2.5. Assigned Computer Support Technicians (CST):
       2.5.1. Notify USLMs when installing software from shared folders or using installation
       CD-ROMs. Also notify USLMs when uninstalling, upgrading, or performing any actions
       that change the amount or number of licensed software products installed on the base
       network. Ensure software covered by an enterprise license agreement is not transferred
       with hardware when performing automated data processing equipment (ADPE)
       transactions.
       2.5.2. Assist in user education and awareness to prevent the misuse of authorized
       software.
       2.5.3. Ensure all illegal software and games are removed from computers within their
       area of responsibility.
MAXWELLAFBI33-114 9 DECEMBER 2010                                                              5


       2.5.4. Install all software products. CSTs will only install software products provided by
       the Unit Software License Manager. CSTs will not honor any user requests.
       2.5.5. Will not purchase or obtain software without prior coordination of the USLM.
   2.6. Maxwell AFB Domain Users:
       2.6.1. Work with Unit Software License Manager (USLM) to account for all software
       issued to work center.
       2.6.2. Are required to become familiar with the software license agreement for all
       software installed on their systems.
       2.6.3. Report all unauthorized or illegal software on their systems to their USLM for
       resolution.
       2.6.4. Notify their USLM of any software delivered directly to their functional office or
       special programs; such as, Finance (FM), Intelligence Office (IN), Medical (MDS), and
       Personnel (DPM). Users will turn over all physical media and licenses to their USLM.
       2.6.5. Are not authorized to use any software (COTS, GOTS, shareware or public
       domain software) without an approved CSRD. Requested software must be on the
       AFNIC APL. If not on the APL, then the user and their USLM are responsible for
       requesting AFNIC evaluation.
       2.6.6. Are not authorized to install or remove any software application without first
       coordinating with the 42 CS and/or their servicing CST.
       2.6.7. Are not authorized to download and install freeware, shareware or any other
       unapproved third party software (i.e. screensavers, anti-spyware, and file share
       applications) without coordination with 42 CS/SCX.
       2.6.8. Are not authorized to make any illegal copies of copyrighted software. The user is
       responsible for ensuring copyright infringement will not occur from installation on
       government systems.
       2.6.9. Are not authorized to install personally owned software on government systems.
       2.6.10. Complete initial software license training within 30 days of arrival and annually
       thereafter.
3. Viruses. A computer virus is a program which can destroy or erase data or lock up the
system. To minimize the risks associated with passing or receiving infections, the following
guidelines should be observed.
   3.1. Do not introduce, download, and/or play unauthorized computer games or software.
   3.2. Do not introduce shareware or freeware unless approved in writing IAW AFI 33-114.
   3.3. Do not copy software beyond the limits of the license.
   3.4. Do not design, develop, and implement software outside of authorized program
   management channels.
   3.5. CSTs will scan any software products for viruses prior to installation.
4. Fraud, Waste, and Abuse of Software Resources.
 6                                              MAXWELLAFBI33-114 9 DECEMBER 2010


     4.1. The policy concerning the use of computer and software resources assigned to an Air
     Force activity states: all government acquired computer resources and their support materials
     are solely for the authorized use of the Air Force and are subject to monitoring. Any abuse
     of these resources is prohibited and failure to comply with this policy may result in
     disciplinary action.
     4.2. No person will use government software resources for activities such as playing games,
     producing unofficial products, or using storage media for items of personal gain or
     amusement. All excess or unusable software is still government property and must be turned
     in or donated via appropriate channels. Excess assets will not be given to individuals or
     organizations for personal use.
     4.3. No person will alter, damage, destroy, or attempt to damage or destroy government
     software resources.
     4.4. Any software developed or modified using government resources are the property of the
     government and may be used for official business.

5. Adopted Form:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                             BRIAN M. KILLOUGH, Col, USAF
                                             Commander
MAXWELLAFBI33-114 9 DECEMBER 2010                                                       7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
E.O. 13103, Computer Software Piracy, 30 September 1998
DoDI 5200.40, DoD Information and Technology Security Certification Process (DITSCAP)
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 Jun 2006
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AIM—Asset Inventory Management
AFNIC—Air Force Network Integration Center
APL—Approved Product List
BSLM—Base Software License Manager
COTS—Commercial off the Shelf
CS—Communications Squadron
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
CSRD—Communications-Computer Systems Requirement Document
CST—Client Support Technician
DAA—Designated Approval Authority
DOR—Designated Organizational Representative
DPM—Personnel
E.O.—Executive Order
FM—Financial Management
FSA—Functional Systems Administrator
GOTS—Government off the Shelf
HQ—Headquarters
 8                                                MAXWELLAFBI33-114 9 DECEMBER 2010


IAW—In Accordance With
IN—Intelligence Office
IT—Information Technology
MDS—Medical Squadron
USLM—Unit Software License Manager

Terms
Accreditation—Formal declaration by the DAA that an information system is approved to
operate in a particular security mode using a prescribed set of safeguards and controls.
Designated Approval Authority—An official with the authority to formally assume
responsibility for operating an information system or network within a specified environment.
DoD Information Technology Security Certification and Accreditation Process
(DITSCAP)— The DoD standard for certifying and accrediting IT systems that collect, store,
transmit, or process unclassified or classified information. The standard applies to any IT life
cycle, including the development of new IT systems, incorporation of IT systems outside the
infrastructure, development of prototype IT systems, and reconfiguration or upgrade of existing
systems and legacy systems.
License Agreement—A contract between the software publisher and the user which instructs
and limits how the software is to be used. When software is purchased, the purchaser acquires a
license to use it, but the publisher retains full rights to the software and can further distribute and
reproduce it. License agreements generally fall into the following categories:
Concurrent License (requires metering)—A license that allows a limited number of users to
connect simultaneously to a software application. Because this license is only used in the
network environment, it is becoming quite popular due to proliferation of networks.
Individual License—A license for use on a single machine only.
Network License—A license that allows every member of the network to access the software.
Site License—A license defined by a geographic restriction, such as a building, unit, wing, or
base.
