                       Maxwell Installation Commander’s
                     SUBSTANCE ABUSE MESSAGE


                                             Our Air Force mission demands a high-quality
                                             force of dedicated professionals. To meet the
                                             needs of the Air Force mission and our people, we
                                             must take proactive steps to prevent, identify and
                                             neutralize the harmful effects of substance abuse.

                                             AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention
                                             and Treatment (ADAPT) Program, defines
                                             substance abuse as the use of any illicit drug, the
                                             misuse of any prescription medication or the abuse
                                             of alcohol.      Abuse refers to any pattern of
                                             unconventional misuse of any substance for non-
                                             medical purposes that produces a known health risk
                                             or constitutes a danger to self or others. Substance
                                             abuse is absolutely incompatible with military
                                             service. In a profession where a single error can
                                             cost millions of dollars and maybe even lives, we
                                             must be able to count on each other. Substance
                                             abuse seriously detracts from that trust.

Substance abuse has detrimental effects on the individual, unit and overall mission. Each
individual is responsible for his or her own actions. If you choose to abuse alcohol or drugs, you
will be held accountable. Commanders and supervisors must use all resources necessary to
prevent substance abuse from affecting their unit.

While it is legal to drink alcohol if you are over 21, we all must use good judgment when doing
so. Individuals who drive while intoxicated or who drink alcohol while under 21 will be
punished under the UCMJ or civil law. Before you have a single drink, give your keys to
someone who isn't drinking!

Working together, we can reduce the harmful effects of substance abuse on our members, their
families and the mission. I highly encourage those with substance abuse problems to seek
professional help. If you or anyone you know has questions about the Substance Abuse program
or needs help, call my Substance Abuse Staff at 953-7736.



                                                    TRENT H. EDWARDS, Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander



MAXWELLAFBVA 44-101 (per AFI 44-121), 28 November 2012
OPR: 42 MDOS/SGOMH; Supersedes MAXWELLAFBVA 36-5, 1 October 2008
RELEASABILITY: There are no access restrictions on this publication.
