BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     MAXWELL AFB INSTRUCTION 34-242
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)
                                                                                                                16 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                                                                                       Services

                                                                                       BASE HONOR GUARD PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 FSS/FSOMX                                                                                            Certified by: 42 FSS/CC
                                                                                                             (Major Natalie K. Jolly)
                                                                                                                            Pages: 21


This instruction implements AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program. It establishes policies and
procedures, providing guidance for planning, training and using the Maxwell AFB Honor Guard.
It describes the functions of the honor guard (42 FSS/FSOMX), responsibilities of honor guard
members, procedures for performing honor guard functions and participation standards. It adds
internal communication titles and chain of command procedures. Refer recommended changes
and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
This instruction applies to all personnel assigned to the honor guard and all agencies supported
by or supporting the honor guard. It applies to the 908th Air Wing (AFRC) and the 187th
Fighter Wing (ANG) only to the extent of being eligible to receive Honor Guard support.


       1.      Functions. ...............................................................................................................    2
       2.      Manning and Obligations. ......................................................................................               3
       3.      Organization and Responsibilities. ........................................................................                   6
       4.      On-Duty Month and Training. ...............................................................................                   8
Table 4.1.     Flight Schedule. .....................................................................................................        9
       5.      Scheduling and Participation. ................................................................................                9
 2                                                                MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011


        6.      Uniforms. ...............................................................................................................   11
        7.      Equipment. .............................................................................................................    12
        8.      Weapons Storage. ..................................................................................................         12
        9.      Weapons Maintenance. ..........................................................................................             12
        10.     Transportation. .......................................................................................................     13
        11.     Benefits and Awards. .............................................................................................          13
        12.     Performance Feedback. ..........................................................................................            14
        13.     Honor Guard Details. .............................................................................................          14
        14.     Honors, Awards and Ceremonies. .........................................................................                    14
        15.     The 42d Air Base Wing Commander (42 ABW/CC). ...........................................                                    14
        16.     The Wing Chaplain. ...............................................................................................          15
        17.     The 42d Mission Support Group Commander (42 MSG/CC). ..............................                                         15
        18.     The 42d Force Support Squadron Commander (42 FSS/CC). ...............................                                       15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              16

Attachment 2—EXAMPLE HONOR GUARD DUTY STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING                                                                            18
1. Functions. The Maxwell AFB Honor Guard is an elite team comprised of members from the
42d Air Base Wing (42 ABW), HQ Air University (AU) and tenant units. The team supports 54
counties in the state of Alabama and 4 counties in Georgia, including Alabama National
Cemetery and Ft. Mitchell National Cemetery, ranging approximately 58,000 square miles.
     1.1. Historically, the honor guard supports over 500 requests annually to include:
        1.1.1. Military funerals and memorial services. For procedural guidelines, see the USAF
        Honor Guard Basic Protocol, Honors and Ceremonies Training guide, available at
        http://www.honorguard.af.mil/.
        1.1.2. Change of command, retirement and awards ceremonies (See AFMAN 36-2203,
        Drill and Ceremonies).
     1.2. Appropriate military honors at funerals or memorial services and ceremonies when
     requested by the installation commander, base mortuary officer, person authorized direct
     disposition (PADD) or the next of kin (NOK) of a deceased military member:
        1.2.1. US Air Force active duty or U.S. Air Force Medal of Honor recipients, within the
        jurisdiction of Maxwell AFB, as specified by the Military Honors Assignment by County
        Documents, issued by HQ Air Force Mortuary Operations Center.
        (AFMAO.MAD@dover.af.mil).
        1.2.2. Deceased U.S. Air Force retired and veteran personnel within the county area will
        receive the authorized military honors.
        1.2.3. Provide honors as authorized by AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, and
        AFPAM 34-505, Mortuary Services Benefits for Retired Air Force Members.
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               3


       1.2.4. NOK of deceased personnel of sister services, where practical, will be referred to
       the nearest military activity of the same service as the deceased.
       1.2.5. Funeral and memorial services and other ceremonies requiring honor guard
       participation may be scheduled for any day of the week or year.
   1.3. Priority of Details.
       1.3.1. Funerals and memorial services are top priority for the honor guard under
       guidance provided in paragraph 1.2. In the case of dual funerals where the on-duty flight
       needs more personnel, the primary stand-by flight will be tasked first then the alternate
       stand-by flight. In the case of multiple services or an active duty funeral conflicting with
       another memorial service, members from all flights may be tasked.
       1.3.2. The mortuary affairs office (42 FSS/FSOM) will attempt to reschedule any
       overlapping funerals in coordination with the funeral home, the PADD/NOK and the
       honor guard Superintendent or designee.
       1.3.3. The Maxwell AFB Honor Guard will only accommodate requests for military and
       civilian ceremonies listed below with the understanding that funeral honors take
       precedence. Details will be based on the following priority and flight tasking:
          1.3.3.1. Colors for change of command for AU/CC and 42 ABW/CC through the
          tasking of all flights.
          1.3.3.2. Cordons for dignitaries, colors for wing-level events, assistance for retreats
          during military holidays (when requested by the 42 ABW/CC), colors for other
          special events for the base, colors for flag officers/colonel/CMSgt retirements on base
          through the tasking of on-duty, primary and alternate stand-by flights.
          1.3.3.3. Colors for all other retirements on base, colors for special community events
          within a 20-mile radius of Maxwell AFB, colors for local military events through the
          tasking of on-duty and primary stand-by flights.
          1.3.3.4. Colors for non-military events outside the 20-mile radius of Maxwell AFB
          through the tasking of on-duty flight or honor guard volunteers.
       1.3.4. All other requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis by 42 FSS/FSOMX.
       The decision will be based on input from the on-duty flight chief with reference to the
       current schedule, honor guard manning, location of event, type of event and requester.
2. Manning and Obligations. The Maxwell AFB Honor Guard will be manned with personnel
(E-1 through E-6) selected from units on base. Selection will be based on unit strength versus
base population provided by the 42d Force Support Squadron Commander (42 FSS/CC) and
approved by 42 ABW/CC.
   2.1. The honor guard will be composed of 4 flights of 10 members each: 1 flight on-duty, 1
   off-duty, 1 on primary stand-by and 1 on alternate stand-by. Additionally, if there is a need,
   personnel from all flights may be tasked to perform duties to support mission requirements.
   The number of personnel per flight may change based on mission needs. Full time
   equivalent levels will be staffed through manpower.
4                                              MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011


    2.2. Prior to selection as an honor guard member, the applicant must complete an Honor
    Guard Statement of Understanding and forward it to 42 FSS/FSOMX. The applicant must
    have approval of both his/her unit commander and first sergeant.
    2.3. Personnel selected for honor guard incur a minimum 12-month commitment.
    2.4. Unit commanders and first sergeants will seek volunteers or appoint members who meet
    the following criteria:
       2.4.1. Minimum of 12 months retainability (may be waived by 42 MSG/CC).
       2.4.2. Are of the highest caliber in metal health, bearing, appearance, behavior and
       attitude.
       2.4.3. No non-judicial punishment under Article 15, Uniform Code of Military Justice,
       pending or completed in the past year, no control roster or Unfavorable Information File.
       2.4.4. Meet or exceed the Air Force Fitness Assessment and maintains a Fit to Fight
       image.
       2.4.5. Not on a shaving waiver.
       2.4.6. Not pregnant.
       2.4.7. Not on a profile.
    2.5. Prior to selection to the honor guard, volunteers or selects will report to the honor guard
    Officer in Charge (OIC)/Superintendent in full service dress for an interview. The honor
    guard OIC/Superintendent will review dress and appearance, and customs and courtesies to
    gain an overall image of the prospective recruit. If the honor guard OIC/Superintendent feels
    that the prospective recruit doesn’t project the proper military image, he/she will forward
    their findings to the unit’s first sergeant to discuss other possibilities.
    2.6. Once the nominee has passed the interview process, he/she will then enter the training
    phase. If the nominee has difficulty mastering any of the movements, it is at the discretion of
    the honor guard OIC/Superintendent to approve/disapprove the member for selection. The
    honor guard OIC/Superintendent will then forward the findings to the unit’s first sergeant to
    discuss other possibilities.
    2.7. Two months prior to expiration of the member’s 12-month service commitment, the
    honor guard OIC/Superintendent will notify the member’s first sergeant of the need to
    identify a replacement or continue the member’s service for no less than 6 months.
       2.7.1. In the event of a temporary duty assignment (TDY) that prevents the member from
       serving their full term, the term of service will be extended equal to the time the member
       was TDY (i.e., if the member is TDY for 3 months, the term of service will be extended 3
       months). Based on manning requirements, the honor guard OIC/Superintendent may
       request the unit to provide a replacement for the TDY member.
       2.7.2. In the event of a permanent change of station (PCS) or hardship that precludes the
       member from serving their full term, the respective unit will replace the member 30 days
       in advance to allow for proper training, orientation, uniform procurement and fitting.
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                           5


     2.7.3. If a member appointed by the unit does not meet the requirements of paragraph
     2.4., is for any reason unable to perform assigned duties or does not complete their term
     of service, the unit appointing the member will be required to reimburse 42 FSS/CC for
     the expenses to outfit another member from the unit with honor guard uniforms. This
     requirement may be waived by the 42 MSG/CC for just cause.
  2.8. The Maxwell AFB Honor Guard Team is mandated by Congress to cover 100 percent of
  funeral honors with teams sufficiently trained, including simultaneous honors in several
  distant locations. Any or all of the below listed elements will be furnished within the
  guidelines of paragraph 1.2. upon request of the PADD/NOK or requester.
     2.8.1. For an active duty funeral, there will be a minimum 20-member team assigned.
     Positions consist of an OIC or Non-commissioned officer in charge (NCOIC), six
     pallbearers, an NCOIC of firing party (NFP), seven firing party members, four members
     on color guard and a bugler. A ceremonial bugle insert or a recorded version of “Taps”
     may be played with concurrence of the PADD/NOK.
     2.8.2. For a retiree funeral, there will be a minimum seven member team assigned.
     Positions consist of six pallbearers and NFP. The NCOIC of the pallbearers (NPB) will
     double as the detail NCOIC. Carry, Mark and Hand-off will perform as firing party
     members. Cross-Mark will double as stand-by. Fold will double as bugler. The NFP
     will position him/herself at their predetermined position and will remain there during the
     ceremony. A ceremonial bugle insert or a recorded version of “Taps” may be played
     with concurrence of the PADD/NOK.
     2.8.3. For a veteran funeral, there will be a minimum of two members assigned. They
     will fold and present the flag and play “Taps”. A ceremonial bugle insert or a recorded
     version of “Taps” may be played with concurrence of the PADD/NOK.
     2.8.4. The minimum personnel requirements for each funeral element are as follows:
         2.8.4.1. Color Guard. The Color Guard will consist of two flag bearers and two
         guards as required by AFI 34-242. The Color Guard will carry both the ceremonial
         U.S. Flag and the ceremonial Air Force flag (provisional). When the situation
         dictates, a three-member Color Guard may be used and will carry only the U.S. Flag.
         2.8.4.2. Firing Party. The firing party will consist of four members. One member
         will perform as NCOIC (NFP) and three members perform as the firing party. The
         firing party is armed with M-14 rifles (or other authorized weapon) and blank
         ammunition.
         2.8.4.3. Flag Folders and Pallbearers. The pallbearers will consist of six members
         and will also perform the flag fold for active duty and retiree funerals.
         2.8.4.4. OIC or NCOIC. An OIC or NCOIC will be provided for each ceremony.
         2.8.4.5. Bugler. If a contract bugler is not available, a ceremonial bugle insert or a
         recorded version of “Taps” may be played with concurrence of the PADD/NOK. If a
         tape/CD will be used, the tape/CD player will be out of sight of the funeral party.
 6                                             MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011


           2.8.4.6. The member presenting the flag to the NOK during an active duty funeral
           will be of equal or higher grade to that of the deceased. If the deceased is retired or a
           veteran, the flight chief will select the best qualified honor guard member to present
           the flag.
3. Organization and Responsibilities. The honor guard will consist of the following structure:
The mortuary affairs officer (42 FSS/FSOM), honor guard OIC (42 FSS/FSOMX), honor guard
Superintendent (42 FSS/FSOMX), and four flights (A, B, C and D). Each flight will have a
flight chief (must be an NCO), an assistant flight chief (NCO recommended), a flight trainer and
honor guard members. The honor guard Superintendent is a full-time position. The honor guard
Superintendent shall not be tasked with other additional duties not directly related to base honor
guard duties and responsibilities.
     3.1. The 42 FSS/FSOMX will:
        3.1.1. Be the primary point of contact for all honor guard requests.
        3.1.2. Maintain honor guard member rosters.
        3.1.3. Document all administrative and disciplinary actions.
        3.1.4. Make written recommendations when further administrative, disciplinary action or
        removal action is warranted.
        3.1.5. Prepare annual budget requirements for the base honor guard and authorized
        provider expenses.
        3.1.6. Evaluate unit requirements for honor guard manning at least quarterly or more
        often where necessary.
        3.1.7. Be the point of contact for each squadron affected by this instruction. The honor
        guard OIC/Superintendent will maintain an up-to-date list of personnel, qualifications
        and training attendance.
        3.1.8. Initiate AF Form 1946, Honor Guard Checklist, upon an individual’s request for
        honors and ensure it is properly completed after each detail.
        3.1.9. Ensure data is recorded in the Funeral Honors Database (FHDB) and the funeral
        honors request telephone number is kept current.
        3.1.10. Provide the means to take funeral honors requests 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
        and respond to all requests not more than 8 hours after the call comes in.
        3.1.11. Monitor each honor guard member’s continued acceptability on the team. In the
        event a member is considered unsuitable for continued duty, 42 FSS/FSOMX will, based
        on the recommendation of the flight chief, advise the member’s first sergeant in writing
        of the circumstances leading to the termination and request an immediate replacement.
        3.1.12. E-mail flight duty requirement schedules to all squadrons to keep them informed
        when their personnel are on-duty or standby.
        3.1.13. Maintain current list of honor guard members for awards program. Keep dates
        current to reflect end of Honor Guard tour, PCS or separation and initiate paperwork for
        awards and decorations in a timely manner.
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                            7


     3.1.14. Ensure honor guard members and other authorized providers are trained and
     properly equipped to perform military funeral honors.
     3.1.15. Approve and maintain a list of performance-ready, trained, uniformed and
     equipped honor guard members.
     3.1.16. Schedule with Security Forces and ensure that honor guard weapons are
     inspected annually and certified for weapon safety and usability.
     3.1.17. Forecast all ammunition requirements for the base honor guard and ensure that
     results are submitted to 42 LGS/LGRMS as requested.
     3.1.18. Ensure all honor guard members are outfitted with ceremonial uniforms no later
     than 30 days after assignment.
  3.2. Flight Chief. These individuals have the responsibility for the efficient operation and
  conduct during military ceremonies. This includes all activities conducted by the duty flight.
  The flight chief is responsible for coordinating the detail and all actions before the detail
  begins, during the actual detail and ending when the honor guard members return to Maxwell
  AFB and turn in all equipment. The flight chief is in charge of the overall performance,
  discipline, appearance and competence of their flight members. The flight chief will:
     3.2.1. Support and assist the honor guard OIC/Superintendent.
     3.2.2. Ensure honor guard members properly perform all assigned duties.
     3.2.3. Conduct flight, vehicle and facility inspections during the on-duty month to ensure
     compliance with current requirements and regulations.
     3.2.4. Notify the honor guard OIC/Superintendent of noncompliance with this instruction
     by flight personnel.
     3.2.5. Ensure availability of personnel and equipment by maintaining close coordination
     with the honor guard Superintendent prior to the assigned detail.
     3.2.6. Inspect participating honor guard members prior to leaving for the detail to ensure
     compliance with AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
     Ensure special uniform accessories are correctly worn and in serviceable condition.
     Enforce proper military image and honor guard discipline at all times. Correct and report
     any deviations to the honor guard OIC/Superintendent upon return.
     3.2.7. Instruct and brief participating honor guard personnel on their assigned task for
     each ceremony. Arrive at least 1 hour prior to every detail to coordinate any special
     instructions with the requester and hold a practice ceremony prior to the arrival of those
     attending the ceremony.
     3.2.8. Upon arrival to a detail, the flight chief or detail NCOIC will meet with the point
     of contact and discuss the requirements of the detail. The honor guard members will
     remain with the vehicle until equipment is unloaded, dress (if necessary) and wait for
     further information from the flight chief or detail NCOIC. Dressing rooms may be used
     if available.
 8                                              MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011


        3.2.9. Assign honor guard members to details based on abilities, skills, appearance,
        experience and frequency of details performed. Keep track of personnel performing
        details per type of detail and hours worked to include on- and off-duty hours. Flight
        chiefs will keep track of flight members missing drill practices and details. Members not
        meeting attendance requirements will be considered for corrective action. Flight chiefs
        will ensure that an NCO is assigned to each detail when possible.
        3.2.10. Ensure adequate travel time is allotted for the team to arrive at detail location,
        proper coordination is made with the requester and practices are conducted before the
        actual detail is performed.
        3.2.11. Ensure attendance is filed with AF IMT 1946 upon completion of each detail.
        Ensure the AF IMT 1946 is properly filled out and turned in to 42 FSS/FSOMX.
     3.3. Honor guard members will:
        3.3.1. Comply with the provisions of this instruction.
        3.3.2. Coordinate with their flight chief and the honor guard OIC/Superintendent for
        scheduled leaves occurring during on-duty and stand-by periods.
        3.3.3. Perform details as tasked by their flight chief unless properly excused.
        3.3.4. Attend information and training meetings unless properly excused.
        3.3.5. Become knowledgeable of all honor guard functions, formations, honors and
        ceremonies. Become proficient in performing all honor guard duties and drill and
        ceremonies. Perform movements with precision.
        3.3.6. Ensure all equipment and vehicles entrusted are properly cared for and maintained.
        Honor guard members will assist the flight chief in maintaining equipment and supplies.
        3.3.7. Ensure the honor guard training center is kept clean and well maintained with all
        equipment and materials returned to their proper place.
        3.3.8. Maintain impeccable appearance and bearing and be in compliance with AFI 36-
        2903 and AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, at all times. Ensure their uniforms are
        maintained in serviceable condition, attend training, master drill and know traditional
        formation ceremonies and protocol.
        3.3.9. Notify their OIC/Superintendent and flight chief if they are scheduled for TDY,
        PCS or have made a decision to separate.
     3.4. “No-Shows:” After a first “no-show,” a letter will be sent to the individual’s first
     sergeant. After second “no-show,” the flight chief will issue a letter of counseling. After the
     third “no-show,” the honor guard OIC/Superintendent will issue a letter of reprimand and
     provide a copy to the member’s first sergeant.
4. On-Duty Month and Training. Each flight will fill 3 on-duty, 3 primary stand-by, 3
alternate stand-by and 3 off months in a 12 month period. Each flight will report 3 duty days at
the end of each month for refresher training. On-duty and stand-by months begin at 0001 on the
first calendar day and ends at 2400 on the last calendar day of the month. See Table 4.1.
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               9


Table 4.1. Flight Schedule.

                   Jan   Feb    Mar Apr May Jun            Jul   Aug Sep       Oct   Nov Dec
On-Duty            A     C      B      D     A      C      B     D      A      C     B      D
Primary Stand-
by                 B     D      A      C     B      D      A     C      B      D     A      C
Alternate
Standby            C     B      D      A     C      B      D     A      C      B     D      A
Off                D     A      C      B     D      A      C     B      D      A     C      B
   4.1. Each flight will arrange member’s schedules to support weekend and/or night details.
   Compensatory time is authorized, at the discretion of the flight chief and with coordination
   with the honor guard OIC/Superintendent.
   4.2. Training will be standardized between all flights. At least once per quarter the flight
   chief and flight trainers will meet with the honor guard OIC/Superintendent and discuss
   training issues. Training will include the following areas:
       4.2.1. Color Guard. To include proper positioning of flags, close interval marching,
       turning with and posting Colors and retreat procedures.
       4.2.2. Firing Party. To include training in the use and care of the M-14 rifle or other
       authorized weapon rifle commands, fire arms safety, loading and firing positions in
       which the rifles are to be held.
       4.2.3. Flag Folding. To include proper respect to the flag, positions of flag folders,
       proper procedures for folding the flag and procedures for presentation to the NOK.
       4.2.4. Pallbearers. To include casket movement to and from the carrier (hearse),
       marching with the casket, casket placement at the site of service and honorary pallbearer
       duties.
       4.2.5. Cordon and other applicable details will be trained periodically as needed.
   4.3. Each flight will maintain the training area in pristine condition, including trash removal
   as necessary during their on-duty month. The flight chief will ensure the facility is cleaned
   prior to ending the on-duty month. Periodic inspections by honor guard OIC/Superintendent
   will occur.
   4.4. In cases where two flights are combined for details, the flight chief of the on-duty flight
   will be the person in charge.
5. Scheduling and Participation. The honor guard duty month begins at 0001 on the first
calendar day of the month and ends at 2400 on the last calendar day of the month, as stated in
paragraph 4.
10                                           MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011


  5.1. Scheduling and Reporting requirements:
     5.1.1. When honor guard members are notified of a detail, they will report to the
     designated formation area and secure the necessary equipment. When reporting for a
     detail, all participants must be in strict compliance with AFI 36-2903 and may either be
     wearing the issued travel gear or the ceremonial uniform.
         5.1.1.1. If the team is traveling more than 1 hour one way, they will wear travel gear.
         The travel gear will consist of the issued shirt worn with khaki/brown dress pants.
         The shirt will be tucked in and members will wear a conservative belt and shoes. The
         shoes must be black and must be in good repair. Members will not wear open toe
         shoes, sandals or shower shoes. Members will not wear hats or caps with their travel
         gear. Sunglasses will also be conservative in nature and meet specifications outlined
         in AFI 36-2903. The object is to present a clean, professional, military image to the
         public.
         5.1.1.2. Air Force PT gear is authorized as a travel uniform with the T-shirts tucked
         in. Female hair will be secured above the collar IAW AFI 36-2903.
         5.1.1.3. If the team is traveling 1 hour or less one way, they may wear their
         ceremonial uniform. Do not wear the service coat while traveling. The light weight
         blue jacket will be worn. Cover the ceremonial hat with a hat cover.
     5.1.2. Honor guard members will keep the honor guard OIC/Superintendent and flight
     chief advised of their availability (TDY, changes in health profile, etc.). Leave during
     off-duty or stand-by months is encouraged but MUST be coordinated with the respective
     flight chief and the honor guard OIC/Superintendent to ensure proper manning levels are
     met. Leave during on-duty months is not recommended and will be addressed on an
     individual bases.
     5.1.3. Honor guard members are exempt from security forces augmentation, Search &
     Recovery and other long term details during their commitment to Honor Guard. During
     the on-duty month, a member’s status should be viewed as if they are TDY. During their
     on-duty month, honor guard members will have total exemption from base exercises and
     be released from their duty section to perform military honors at funeral, memorial
     services, and other honor guard ceremonies and to take part in mandatory honor guard
     training. In the event of real world exercise recalls, alerts or responses, the on-duty honor
     guard members will report to the honor guard administration facility. All off-duty and
     stand-by members will report to their primary work places. All funeral details will be
     covered with on-duty members during this time: however, stand-by and off-duty
     members may be used in extreme cases with simultaneous details.
     5.1.4. Honor guard members residing in base dormitories are exempt from bay orderly
     duties during their on-duty and stand-by months (but not during off-duty months). It is
     the member’s responsibility to resolve any schedule conflicts.
     5.1.5. During a normal duty week, members of the on-duty flight will either be on a
     detail, at honor guard for training, performing vehicle and weapon maintenance or
     physical conditioning, unless the flight chief with concurrence of the OIC/Superintendent
     approves time off for compensation.
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                           11


   5.2. Excused Absences. Acceptable reasons for an excused absence from a detail or honor
   guard meeting include leave, mission-essential duty, TDY and quarters. These should all be
   coordinated through the member’s flight chief and honor guard OIC/Superintendent.
       5.2.1. Leave. Any period of leave must be coordinated with the member’s flight chief
       and honor guard OIC/Superintendent. Members will coordinate ordinary scheduled leave
       with their flight chief no less than 3 days prior to taking leave. Honor guard members
       will not take leave during their on-duty month without the permission of their respective
       flight chief and honor guard OIC/Superintendent. Leave while on-duty is discouraged
       but can be approved if the situation warrants.
       5.2.2. Mission-Essential Duty. For the purpose of this instruction, mission essential
       means a member is required to perform a specific task during a specific period of time
       and the task cannot be performed by another individual from the member’s duty section
       nor can the member perform the task at a different time. The unit should ensure the
       honor guard member is not tasked as mission essential on a routine basis. The member
       should be available to perform honor guard duties during the member’s on-duty or stand-
       by months. If not, the first sergeant will be contacted for a replacement member.
       5.2.3. Quarters. When a member has been restricted to quarters by competent medical
       authority, the flight chief must be notified and a copy of the paperwork will be provided
       to the OIC/Superintendent to be placed in the member’s record.
       5.2.4. TDY. Member is performing temporary duty and is outside the local area. Units
       should work any scheduled TDY around the members schedule to allow full commitment
       to honor guard.
   5.3. Participation in details will be evenly distributed between all members within a flight.
   Assignment to details will be made regardless of race, creed, color, sex, national origin or
   religious preference.
   5.4. Tardiness will not be tolerated. Members are expected to arrive no later than 10 minutes
   early and in the appropriate uniform with all required equipment. Failure to participate in
   details, scheduled meetings, and failure to coordinate scheduled leave will result in
   disciplinary action, which may result in the member’s release from the honor guard.
   5.5. Use of tobacco products will not take place at any honor guard detail location. Team
   members may stop for a tobacco break while in route to the detail location and when in route
   back to Maxwell AFB. While at honor guard, smoking is permitted in designated areas only.
   5.6. Consumption of alcoholic beverages will not be allowed in any government-owned or
   controlled vehicle or be consumed at any time during the detail from initial formation to
   returning to the assembly point.
6. Uniforms. According to AFI 34-242, the USAF Honor Guard establishes uniform standards
for all base honor guards. Deviations are not authorized without written exception to policy
waiver from the USAF Honor Guard/CC. The appropriate wear of honor guard ceremonial
uniform items is identified in the USAF Honor Guard Training Guide.
   6.1. The 42 FSS/FSOMX will submit a list of names to the UNICOR linen services,
   identifying members who are entitled to receive uniform cleaning on a quarterly basis.
   Members will turn in their uniforms regularly to ensure the uniform is clean and serviceable.
 12                                           MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011


   6.2. Necessary honor guard uniform accessories for issue will be maintained in an orderly
   manner by the honor guard Superintendent in an appropriate storage location.
   6.3. Questions related to honor guard uniforms will be directed to the flight chief or honor
   guard OIC/Superintendent.
7. Equipment. Sufficient honor guard equipment will be obtained, maintained and controlled
by the honor guard OIC/Superintendent to meet the requirements set forth in AFI 34-242 and
AFI 36-2903. The honor guard OIC/Superintendent will ensure that all honor guard equipment
is kept in good condition at all times and that necessary replacement items are ordered and
received in a timely manner.
   7.1. This equipment will include, but not be limited to:
       7.1.1. M-14 rifles--serviceable weapons (with back-up weapons to allow for repairs) to
       equip five 3-member firing parties. Sufficient quantity of blank ammunition available to
       provide for honors training and ceremonial requirements. Rifles and blank ammunition
       will be stored in the honor guard armory. While in transit, weapons will not be left
       unattended. Weapons will be cleared at honor guard before being loaded in the weapon
       case, cleared upon issue at the detail, cleared after the detail before being loaded back
       into the weapon case and cleared once the team has returned to the honor guard facility.
       The flight chief or detail NCOIC will ensure that all spent casings are recovered before
       departing the detail location. Upon request from the PADD/NOK, casings may be
       presented to the family after the flag presentation.
       7.1.2. Sabers. There will be 10 serviceable ceremonial sabers and scabbards.
       7.1.3. Harnesses.   There will be a minimum of four flag harnesses in serviceable
       condition.
       7.1.4. Colors and Standards. There will be a minimum of two sets of US and Air Force
       ceremonial flags and four flag stands.
       7.1.5. Uniform items. There will be enough gloves, service caps, aiguillettes, ceremonial
       belts, insignias, cap covers, and taps for at least 30 members.
   7.2. The honor guard OIC/Superintendent is responsible for equipping honor guard
   members. Members are responsible for notifying the flight chief of all equipment needs.
8. Weapons Storage. Weapons will be stored in the weapons storage room in the honor guard
facility.
   8.1. An approved clearing barrel must be present.          Refer to AFMAN 31-229, USAF
   Weapons Handling Manual.
   8.2. The honor guard Superintendent will ensure that a valid access roster is posted,
   identifying the members who have access to the storage facility.
   8.3. M-14 rifles, operational and inert, will be stored, handled, issued and maintained with
   equal sensitivity.
9. Weapons Maintenance. Combat arms personnel must inspect the M-14s for serviceability
once a year. The Superintendent will schedule this inspection, ensure that any discrepancies are
corrected in a timely manner and reported to the OIC.
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                            13


10. Transportation. The honor guard van will be used for all funerals (retiree & veteran) and
all details within the Maxwell AFB AOR.
   10.1. The honor guard vans must present a professional appearance and be in good
   mechanical condition at all times. The flight chief is responsible for ensuring the flight
   cleans and maintains the vans while on duty. The vans will be cleaned inside and out, at least
   once a week and at the end of an on-duty month. The AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection
   Guide and Trouble Report, must be properly filled out each time the van is used.
   10.2. All other transportation needed, outside of the use of the honor guard vans, will be
   requested from and provided by 42 LRS/LGRVO (493-5038) when assets are available.
   When a bus is requested, transportation will provide a driver if available. Privately owned
   vehicles will not be used for any detail outside the boundaries of Maxwell AFB without the
   approval of the honor guard OIC/Superintendent. NOTE: Weapons will be transported in
   Government vehicles only. Use of tobacco products will not be allowed in any
   government-owned or controlled vehicle. Alcoholic beverages will not be allowed in any
   government-owned or controlled vehicle or be consumed at any time during the detail from
   initial formation to returning to the assembly point. Government vehicles are authorized for
   transport to and from scheduled details and are not authorized in residential areas.
   10.3. Return vehicles in the same condition as received. Honor guard members will clean
   the vehicle of visible dirt, bugs, salt and mud. All trash will be removed. Upon returning the
   vehicles, circumstances may prevent members from cleaning the vehicles prior to turn in
   (e.g., returning to the area late at night from details, immediate requirements to report to
   work, wear of service dress, etc.). Members will discuss their situation with the 42
   LRS/LGRVO vehicle dispatcher and request to be released from immediately cleaning the
   vehicle. The honor guard members will clean the vehicle on the following duty day provided
   the vehicle is not reserved. Honor guard members may make other special arrangements
   with 42 LRS/LGRVO concerning cleaning vehicle.
11. Benefits and Awards. Honor guard members are recognized for their outstanding support
by a recognition program. The recognition program includes:
   11.1. The Air Force Achievement Medal (AFAM) is awarded to deserving members after
   completing 1 year of distinguished service for the Maxwell AFB Honor Guard team. The
   honor guard Superintendent or 42 FSS/FSOMX staff is responsible for ordering the DECOR
   6. The Superintendent/FSOMX staff is responsible for preparing the award and submitting it
   for staffing and approval. Consideration for the achievement medal will be based upon the
   individual’s overall performance and adherence to standards while completing a minimum of
   45 military funerals and 5 ceremonial details as a member on the honor guard.
   11.2. The Air Force Commendation Medal is awarded to exceptional members after
   completing no less than 2 years of service for the Maxwell AFB Honor Guard team where or
   where the member served as a flight chief and the AFAM was not awarded during their
   service time. The 42 FSS/FSOMX staff is responsible for ordering the DECOR 6. The
   Superintendent/FSOMX staff is responsible for preparing the award and submitting it for
   staffing and approval. Consideration for the commendation medal will be based upon the
   individual’s overall performance and adherence to standards while serving on the honor
   guard.
 14                                           MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011


   11.3. The honor guard awards program consists of quarterly and annual awards. The
   quarterly award is presented to the member who excels for a specific quarter. The annual
   awards recognize the member of the year. Annual winners may be selected from the member
   of the quarter, but are not limited to those individuals (e.g., one member may be consistently
   superior, but not receive a quarterly award). The awards are 42 ABW level awards and do
   not compete at lower levels. Flight chiefs are responsible for submitting nominees from their
   respective flights.
   11.4. The Superintendent/FSOMX staff is responsible for preparing the award and
   submitting it for staffing and approval.
   11.5. The honor guard “Sharp Airman” award is a monthly award given by the honor guard
   OIC or 42 FSS/CC to the honor guard member who consistently displayed excellence during
   details, training and uniform inspections.
   11.6. Full honor guard modified service dress uniform and honor guard team unique items
   are presented at no cost to the member. Unique items such as T-shirts and polos will be
   presented to members once fully qualified and performing as a flight member.
   11.7. Dry cleaning and alterations for honor guard ceremonial and utility uniforms will be
   provided at no cost to the member. Alterations include change of rank when promoted.
   11.8. Members receive a parking pass for use at the Base Exchange, Commissaries and other
   participating base organizations.
12. Performance Feedback. Flight chiefs will conduct personal feedback sessions on a
quarterly basis with honor guard members. Flight chiefs will tell members what is expected
from them, how well they are doing and what improvements they can make. Additionally, if
members observe each other making mistakes during details, they will make corrective actions in
a tactful manner. Remember, the honor guard is a team that takes care of its members.
13. Honor Guard Details. All honor guard members are subject to perform details at any time,
regardless of flight status. On certain occasions, individuals from other flights (a flight not on-
duty or stand-by) may be selected to perform a detail. This will be kept to a minimum. Honor
guard members may be required to perform details on weekends, may receive short-notice
notification of an upcoming detail and should be prepared to perform details and take actions to
handle personal obligations and commitments.
14. Honors, Awards and Ceremonies. The guidelines for performing these functions are
covered in the USAF Honor Guard Basic Protocol, Honors and Ceremonies Training Guide,
updated as needed by AF Honor Guard. Additional information concerning the procedures for
conducting honors is available in AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program.
15. The 42d Air Base Wing Commander (42 ABW/CC). The 42 ABW/CC:
   15.1. Is responsible for the base honor guard program.
   15.2. Provides funding and resources to meet operational requirements.
   15.3. Provides storage, training and administrative space.
   15.4. Determines the size of the honor guard unit.
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              15


   15.5. Appoints the honor guard OIC/Superintendent. The wing commander will notify the
   selected individual by letter of his/her appointment.
   15.6. Provides special recognition programs for honor guard members.
16. The Wing Chaplain. The Wing Chaplain or designee will, if requested by the
PADD/NOK, ensure chapel support military funerals when possible. At a family’s request,
civilian clergy may be substituted for an Air Force Chaplain; families are encouraged to use their
own clergy. Chaplain support includes active duty chaplains assigned to the installation, Air
Force Reserve, Air National Guard, Civil Air Patrol and retired chaplains in the immediate area.
All requests for chaplain support and for the use of military chapels for funeral services are made
through the installation’s Mortuary Affairs office.
17. The 42d Mission Support Group Commander (42 MSG/CC). The 42 MSG/CC will
provide oversight of the honor guard for the 42 ABW/CC.
18. The 42d Force Support Squadron Commander (42 FSS/CC). The 42 FSS/CC will:
   18.1. Manage the honor guard program for the installation commander.
   18.2. Ensure data is entered into the FHDB IAW policy set forth in this instruction.
   18.3. Identify and submit annual base level full-time honor guard manpower requirements
   (8G000) and advocate funding in the MAJCOM POM.
   18.4. Work with the honor guard OIC/Superintendent to ensure operability of the base honor
   guard program.




                                             BRIAN M. KILLOUGH, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 16                                       MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program
AFPAM 34-505, Mortuary Services Benefits for Retired Air Force Members
AFMAN 36-2203, Drill and Ceremonies
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report
AF IMT 1946, Honor Guard Checklist

Abbreviations and Acronyms
42 ABW—42d Air Base Wing
42 MSG—42d Mission Support Group
42 FSS—42d Force Support Squadron
AFAM—Air Force Achievement Medal
AU—Air University
ABU—Airman Battle Uniform
CC—Commander
FHDB—Funeral Honors Database
NCOIC—Non-commissioned Officer in Charge
NFP—NCOIC of Firing Party
NPB—NCOIC of Pall bearers
NOK—Next of Kin
OIC—Officer in Charge
PADD—Person Authorized Direct Disposition
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
FSOM—Mortuary Affairs Office
FSOMX—Honor Guard OIC
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011   17


TDY—Temporary Duty
UIF—Unfavorable Information File
18                           MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011


                          Attachment 2
     EXAMPLE HONOR GUARD DUTY STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011   19
20   MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011
MAXWELLAFBI34-242 16 NOVEMBER 2011   21
