                     Maxwell Air Force Base Commander’s
                      EMPLOYING DISABLED
                     VETERANS AND PERSONS
                    WITH DISABILITIES MESSAGE
                                              The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, along
                                              with the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment
                                              Assistance Act of 1974, and the Americans with
                                              Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, requires federal
                                              agencies take proactive steps to provide equal
                                              opportunity to qualified individuals with
                                              disabilities in all aspects of federal employment.
                                              Congress has directed the federal government to
                                              serve as a model employer of people with
                                              disabilities.    Accordingly, each management
                                              official has an obligation to ensure all personnel
                                              decisions      regarding      hiring,    promotion,
                                              reassignment, training, and development are merit-
                                              based and free of discrimination because of
                                              handicapping conditions.

                                              Where employees require special needs due to
                                              limited     physical     capabilities,   appropriate
                                              accommodations will be put in place.
                                              Accommodations may require modifying office
space, installing electronic/information technology equipment or altering facilities to eliminate
architectural barriers that do not comply with federal accessibility standards. Barriers of any
type that preclude equal opportunity for persons with disabilities should be eliminated.

During the past few years, our workforce has undergone significant personnel transformations to
include a major reduction in force and other mandated personnel cuts. The effects of these
reductions have impacted our employment trends for disabled persons. I challenge each manager
to make sure all qualified persons with disabilities are given equal opportunity in all aspects of
employment. Our goal is simple...to provide each employee the opportunity to reach their
individual potential while contributing to the overall Air Force mission.




                                                    TRENT H. EDWARDS, Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander




MAXWELLAFBVA36-201 (per AFMAN 36-203), 14 September 2012
OPR: 42 FSS/FSMC; Supersedes MAXWELLAFBVA 36-201,1 November 2010
RELEASABILITY: There are no access restrictions on this publication.
