                      Maxwell Installation Commander’s
                     SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION
                     AND RESPONSE (SAPR) MESSAGE
                                              Maxwell AFB is committed to eliminating sexual
                                              assault in our Air Force and fostering an
                                              environment that is conducive to accomplishing
                                              that goal. Our overall message is: any type of
                                              sexual assault is inconsistent with a team approach
                                              of promoting mutual respect. Sexual assault is a
                                              violation of the Air Force values and wingman
                                              culture. I support a zero tolerance policy.

                                              Sexual Assault is defined as intentional sexual
                                              contact, characterized by use of force, physical
                                              threat or abuse of authority or when the victim does
                                              not or cannot give consent. Every member of the
                                              Maxwell and Gunter team must understand what
                                              sexual assault is and that it will not be tolerated.

                                              In addition, AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault
                                              Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program,
                                              designates squadron commanders as the minimum
                                              authority to dispose of cases resulting from an
allegation of sexual assault. Additionally, group commanders are the minimum authority to sign
the final report of disposition. Commanders should also ensure everyone remains current on
their annual training requirements and that a teal Sexual Assault checklist or SAPR data is in
every office.

Victims and survivors of sexual assault will be treated with compassion, dignity, respect and
fairness. Our goal is to protect individual privacy and rights to avoid instances of secondary
victimization during initial reports, medical treatment, investigation and legal adjudication

All members of our Air Force family should understand how to contact the Sexual Assault
Response Coordinator (SARC) if needed and should have a basic understanding about the
unrestricted (investigated) and restricted (not investigated) reporting options. I want every
member of this command and their family members to know of my personal resolve to eliminate
sexual assault. I am asking for your support to accomplish this mission. My philosophy is that
“True Wingmen, Respect and Protect” each other.




                                                     TRENT H. EDWARDS, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander


MAXWELLAFBVA 36-6001 (per AFI 36-6001), 28 November 2012
OPR: 42 ABW/CVK; Supersedes MAXWELLAFBVA 36-6001, 22 June 2011
RELEASABILITY: There are no access restrictions on this publication.
