BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            MAXWELL AFB INSTRUCTION 36-502
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)
                                                                                 11 JULY 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                      RELEASE OF PERSONNEL DUE TO
                                                     WEATHER OR SEVERE EMERGENCY
                                                                       CONDITIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 42 FSS/FSMC                                                       Certified by: 42 FSS/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Jennifer A. Suarez)
                                                                                        Pages: 4
Supersedes:   MAXWELLAFBI 36-502, 28
              September 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, ability to continue operations in the event of
hostile action, natural disaster or other emergency condition; AFPD 15-1, Air Force Weather
Operations, by providing timely, accurate, and meaningful weather support to United States Air
Force, and U.S. Army, including their respective Reserve components, and as directed, joint
forces, coalition forces, and other agencies as required; DoD 1400.25M, Civilian Personnel
Manual; AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, administering work absences and leaves for situations
that require administrative release of personnel due to severe weather or other emergency
conditions such as fire, flood, building or equipment failures; and AFPD 36-29, Military
Standards, all Air Force members will be present for duty unless their absence is authorized.
Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. This publication may not be supplemented or further
implemented/extended. Waivers to guidance in this publication are not authorized. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). This instruction applies to all organizations or tenants, as well as
all branches of the Armed Forces located on Maxwell Air Force Base and Gunter Annex.
 2                                                       MAXWELLAFBI36-502 11 JULY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This rewrite updates communication processes, timekeeping system, and office designations as
appropriate.
1. Policy. Release of personnel is predicated upon ensuring the health and safety of all
personnel. The 42d Air Base Wing Commander (42 ABW/CC) makes the final decision for
base-wide administrative release of military and civilian personnel. The 42 ABW/CC may also
coordinate the decision to release personnel with other federal agencies in the Montgomery area.
All personnel are released except those performing functions that must be staffed under all
emergency conditions for reasons of health, safety and national security, or other crucial
operations. Personnel involved in critical functions or programs determined by proper authority
to be mission essential may be required to remain on duty or report to duty if assigned to
subsequent shifts. All organizations must evaluate their mission and, by internal directive,
designate specific individuals and functions that must be continued with regard due to the health
and safety of their personnel.
2. Responsibilities and Procedures.
     2.1. General Emergency Situations:
        2.1.1. When severe weather conditions or other emergency conditions exist or appear
        imminent, the Base Weather Flight collects and analyzes the data relative to the particular
        situation that might affect the health or safety of personnel and advise the Command Post
        (CP).
        2.1.2. The CP, when notified of deteriorating road conditions, advises the 42 ABW/CC.
        If a decision is made to dismiss personnel early, the CP may also be tasked to notify
        designated activities through the Simultaneous Alerting System (SAS).
        2.1.3. The 42 ABW/CC decides whether to dismiss personnel because of severe weather
        conditions or other emergency conditions. When weather conditions dictate, the
        42 ABW/CC directs the 42d Force Support Commander (42 FSS/CC) to immediately
        notify all activities of the decision and the time for the dismissal. Personnel may be
        dismissed on a staggered basis to avoid traffic congestion.
        2.1.4. All activities so advised are responsible for further dissemination of the
        information down through the lowest level of the organization.
        2.1.5. The release of first-shift personnel due to emergency situations such as severe
        weather conditions may or may not affect second- and third-shift employees.
        Determination and notification from the 42 ABW/CC regarding delayed reporting, early
        release, or base closure on the first shift also includes the status of second- and third-shift
        employees. The request for early dismissal of employees working on second or third
        shifts when severe weather conditions or other emergency conditions arise is made by the
        person in charge of the CP, who in turn requests approval from the 42 ABW/CC.
        2.1.6. Mission-Essential Personnel. Personnel who are expected to report for, and
        remain at work, even when others are excused are called mission-essential personnel.
        These individuals are officially notified by the appropriate organizational commanders or
        supervisors of their requirement for continued performance.
MAXWELLAFBI36-502 11 JULY 2014                                                                    3


   2.2. Weather Conditions During Non-duty Hours:
       2.2.1. When severe weather conditions occur during non-duty hours which could be
       expected to seriously affect the safe and timely arrival of the normal day shift work force,
       the 42 ABW/CC determines the appropriate modification or cancellation of work shifts,
       and makes notification to:
          2.2.1.1. The Public Affairs duty officer advises the news media (radio, TV,
          newspapers, as appropriate) as to the modification or cancellation of work schedules.
          2.2.1.2. Additionally, the CP may make a SAS announcement.
       2.2.2. Assigned personnel are periodically advised when storms or other severe weather
       conditions develop during non-duty hours. They should listen to radio or TV news and
       follow specific instructions pertaining to the base as related to the situation described.
   2.3. Isolated Building and Equipment Failures
       2.3.1. When a specific isolated emergency occurs (for example, heating or air
       conditioning failures, flooding, fire, etc.), the supervisor of the affected area immediately
       notifies the unit commander through the chain of command.
       2.3.2. The unit commander contacts the Civilian Personnel Officer, who coordinates with
       the 42 ABW/CC. If an early dismissal of affected civilian personnel is warranted, the 42
       ABW/CC notifies the unit commander.
3. Accounting for Time Absent from Duty. Absence of civilian employees due to early
dismissal administratively ordered by the 42 ABW/CC is governed by the conditions specified in
AFI 36-815. When ordered by the 42 ABW/CC, the absence is considered administrative leave
on the timecard. Individual absences of civilian employees due to severe weather conditions may
be excused under the conditions specified in AFI 36-815. The timecards must be annotated
reflecting excused absence because of severe weather conditions. Documentation of absence is
accomplished according to the Automated Time And Attendance Production System (ATAAPS).




                                             TRENT H. EDWARDS, Col, USAF
                                             Commander, 42d Air Base Wing
 4                                                MAXWELLAFBI36-502 11 JULY 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 1400.25-V1800, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Manual, 1 December 1996
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012
AFPD 15-1, Air Force Weather Operations, 19 February 2010
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
42 ABW/CC—Commander, 42d Air Base Wing
42 FSS/CC—Commander, 42d Force Support Squadron
ATAAPS—Automated Time Attendance and Production System
CP—Command Post
SAS—Simultaneous Alerting System
