                         Maxwell Installation Commander’s
                                 POLICY ON
                             EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
                                                Our most important resource is our people. The
                                                diversity of our talented work force is what makes
                                                our Air Force the most powerful air and space force
                                                the world has ever known. We all have a
                                                responsibility to ensure every member of our team
                                                has an opportunity to reach their full potential in an
                                                environment free from unlawful discrimination and
                                                sexual harassment. Treating one another with
                                                respect and human dignity is fundamental to our
                                                core values and is an essential element of teamwork
                                                and mission success. Every employee on Maxwell
                                                AFB and Gunter Annex is a member of our Air
                                                Force family and should be treated accordingly.

                                             Air Force policy on discrimination and sexual
                                             harassment as outlined in AFI 32-6001, Family
                                             Housing Management, and AFI 36-2706, Equal
                                             Opportunity Program Military and Civilian, is
                                             simply articulated. Discrimination based on race,
                                             color, religion, national origin, sex, and in the case
of civilian employees, also age (40 or older), disability, genetic information, pregnancy and
reprisal for participating in the Civilian Equal Employment Opportunity Process, will not be
tolerated. Additionally, unlawful discrimination and sexual harassment of any form destroy unit
morale and are contrary to good order and discipline.

All Commanders, first sergeants, and supervisors will adhere to the policies set forth in
AFI 32-6001 and AFI 36-2706, will set the example for their personnel to follow, and will hold
subordinates accountable for violations of discrimination and sexual harassment policies.
Supervisors will also ensure personnel who have discrimination complaints are informed of their
right to seek assistance from the 42d Air Base Wing Equal Opportunity Division.

All of our personnel are entitled to live and work in an environment free from unlawful
discrimination and harassment. I challenge each and every one of you to make this a reality
across the Maxwell-Gunter community.




                                                        ANDREA D. TULLOS
                                                        Colonel, USAF
                                                        Commander


MAXWELLAFBVA 36-2701 (per AFI 36-2706), 6 August 2014
OPR: 42 ABW/EO; Supersedes MAXWELLAFBVA 36-2701, 14 September 2012
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
