BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             MAXWELL AFB INSTRUCTION 35-101
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)
                                                                                6 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                   Public Affairs

                                                           SUPPORT FOR SPECIAL EVENTS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 ABW/CCP                                                        Certified by: 42 ABW/XP
                                                                          (Mr. Dale H. Watkins)
Supersedes:    MAXWELLAFBI 16-501, 22                                                    Pages: 5
               May 1998


This instruction implements AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management. It assigns responsibilities
and provides procedures for requesting 42 ABW support for conferences, symposia, boards, and
other recurring and non-recurring special events. Refer recommended changes and/or
corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. This
publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this
publication are Title 37, United States Code, Section 301a and Executive Order 9397,
Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons, November 22, 1943.
Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement. System of Records Notice F034
AF AFSVA A, Lodging Reservations System (February 1, 2000, 65 FR 4809), applies. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
It applies to AU organizations and tenant units at Maxwell AFB and Maxwell AFB, Gunter
Annex, to include the 908th Airlift Wing (AFRC) and 187th Fighter Wing (ANG).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and should be completely reviewed. This revision
adds a requirement for organizations to utilize the club system for social functions in support of
special events whenever possible in order to reduce transportation to off-base facilities. This
 2                                                  MAXWELLAFBI35-101 6 AUGUST 2012


revision also adds the requirement for Maxwell AFB schools/units to utilize the Air University
Registrar Program Management (AUREPM) system to request lodging for special events. The
POC should contact Air University Registrar Support Branch (AU/CFRS) to establish a new
event in the system. Any change to an existing special event (title, length, description, student
instructions, etc) must be submitted to AU/CFRS via e-mail. AU/CFRS will make appropriate
updates to AUREPM. The Special Events Coordinator no longer coordinates lodging support for
special events but continues to assist organizations in securing other wing support for special
events; for example, transportation, services support, etc. AUI 36-108 has been superseded by
AUI 34-1201, Protocol Requirements in Support of the Air University. Additions have been
made to address impact of natural disaster, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
evacuation of mission critical elements of installations during hurricanes and under Wing
Commander will, prioritization of assets and cancellation of events during severe weather.
1. Policy. Organizations make every effort to schedule special events that require lodging
support during periods when on-base quarters are available to minimize cost to the Air Force and
inconvenience to transient personnel. Refer to the AUREPM database for current class dates of
the Senior Non-Commissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) and Squadron Officer School (SOS).
Coordinate with the University Inn Lodging Reservation Supervisor to confirm availability.
2. General Information. The 42d Air Base Wing support for professional military education
schools, professional continuing educational courses, and other recurring events on Maxwell
AFB and Gunter Annex is normally based on data published in the AUPPS. Recurring and non-
recurring special events may also require support from 42 ABW organizations. To ensure
efficient use of scarce resources and avoid a conflict with the primary educational mission, it is
essential that all requests for support be closely controlled and coordinated in advance.
3. Event Types and Special Considerations.
     3.1. Special Event. Special Events are non-educational events such as conferences,
     symposiums, band performances, Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC) visits, the
     Air Show, Inspector General inspection team visits, etc. that are hosted by an AU School, 42
     ABW or other Maxwell or Gunter tenant unit or visiting unit. These events are tracked by
     AU/CFRS for production and lodging purposes that require 42 ABW support (lodging,
     transportation, meeting facilities, etc.) at Maxwell AFB or Gunter Annex.
     3.2. Known Special Event. A special event requesting 42 ABW support at least 60 days
     before the date it is to take place. When possible, units should submit data to AU/CFRS via
     the AUREPM system during the annual schedule build, normally requested in the Spring
     preceding each Fiscal Year.
     3.3. Unplanned Special Event. A special event needing 42 ABW support but requested with
     less than a 60-day lead time.
     3.4. Weather Impacts. Maxwell AFB is located a short distance from the Gulf of Mexico,
     which frequently is impacted by moderate (Category 2/3) to major (Category 4/5) hurricanes.
     Maxwell is an evacuation site for multiple military mission critical teams and installations.
     Maxwell is also the primary staging area for Federal Emergency Management Agency
     (FEMA), Region IV. During these natural disasters, lodging may be prioritized and reserved
     for emergency response and recovery. Transportation or other normal support to special
MAXWELLAFBI35-101 6 AUGUST 2012                                                                 3


   events may be diverted in these situations. During the hurricane season, special events may
   be cancelled if Maxwell and Gunter Annex are in the storm’s forecasted path.
4. Responsibilities and Procedures.
   4.1. Requesting Organizations. Approximately 60 days before each planned event,
   organizations should contact AU/CFRS, who coordinates with the Maxwell AFB Lodging
   offices to determine if on-base lodging support can be provided or if contract quarters will be
   necessary. If Wing support other than lodging is required for the event, organizations should
   submit a letter of request to 42 ABW/CC setting out specific support requirements.
   Unplanned special event requests must be coordinated as above as soon as the requirement is
   known. Include the following information in all requests for Wing support:
      4.1.1. Title of special event.
      4.1.2. Proposed dates with alternates.
      4.1.3. Purpose and authority.
      4.1.4. Proposed location (Maxwell, Gunter Annex, off-base).
      4.1.5. Distinguished visitors (DV) including names, position titles, organization, etc. If
      none or unknown at present, state so.
      4.1.6. Number of personnel expected to attend, broken down by officer, enlisted,
      civilian, male or female. Forward a list of attendees requiring lodging to 42 FSS/FSVL at
      least two weeks before the beginning date. Include names, grades, social security
      numbers, gender, organization, office symbol, base and zip code. Include whether the
      individual must have special lodging requirements due to a health issue. Special lodging
      requirements must be reflected in the official TDY orders.
      4.1.7. Sponsoring agency, project officer’s name with telephone extension.
      4.1.8. State support required, for example, messing, special equipment, transportation,
      assistance in securing meeting facilities.
      4.1.9. If the event is to be hosted/officiated by the AU/CC, see AUI 34-1201, Protocol
      Requirements in Support of Air University, for guidance.
   4.2. Program Requirements (HQ AU/CFRS): AU Registrar Support Branch (AU/CFRS):
      4.2.1. Serves as HQ AU staff monitor for group lodging at both Maxwell and Gunter
      Annex.
      4.2.2. Monitors annual lodging requirements.
      4.2.3. Responsible for coordinating with the Maxwell AFB Lodging offices to determine
      if on-base lodging support can be provided or if contract quarters will be necessary.
   4.3. Lodging (42 FSS/FSVL and FSVL-G) refers uncoordinated requests for lodging for
   special events to 42 ABW/CC, advising whether or not the event can be supported in on-base
   or contract quarters.
   4.4. Transportation (42 LRS/LGT) refers uncoordinated requests for transportation support
   of special events to 42 ABW/CC.
4                                                    MAXWELLAFBI35-101 6 AUGUST 2012


    4.5. Wing Protocol coordinates on all special events that involve the 42 ABW/CC and 42d
    Air Base Wing sponsored visits of DVs. Wing Protocol also serves as liaison between the
    42 ABW/CC and HQ AU/CCP.
    4.6. Wing Protocol is the focal point for coordinating base support for special events to
    include transportation, messing, club support, recreational activities, meeting space, and
    assistance in planning conferences, meetings, receptions, etc. In order to furnish this support,
    the Wing Protocol Office:
       4.6.1. Reviews requests received from organizations to conduct special events at
       Maxwell AFB or Gunter Annex.
       4.6.2. Determines the availability of base support from the Wing support agencies and
       various other on-base organizations for meeting facility support.
       4.6.3. Recommends possible alternate dates or facilities to the requesting agency if
       unable to provide the requested support.
       4.6.4. Recommends approval or disapproval of special events after proper coordination
       with appropriate staff agencies.
       4.6.5. Notifies organizations of approval of special events upon concurrence of the Wing
       Commander.
       4.6.6. Submits AETC Form 88, Distinguished Visitor Notification, to AU Protocol on
       visiting general officers or equivalent involved with or attending the event.
    4.7. The Wing Commander (42 ABW/CC):
       4.7.1. Approves or disapproves 42 ABW support for special events requested at Maxwell
       AFB or Gunter Annex.
       4.7.2. Notifies requester of decision by endorsement or letter when conflicts are involved
       and disapproval is necessary.
       4.7.3. Determines prioritization of wing support, including lodging, transportation, etc.,
       if hurricane response requires wing assets.
       4.7.4. Cancels events if hurricane or other severe weather impacts Maxwell and Gunter
       Annex.
    4.8. AU Protocol (HQ AU/CCP):
       4.8.1. Provides protocol guidance for special events at Maxwell and Gunter.              See
       AUI 34-1201 for specifics.
       4.8.2. Keeps appropriate agencies, to include 42 ABW/CC, advised of AU/CC hosted or
       sponsored special events.




                                              TRENT H. EDWARDS, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
MAXWELLAFBI35-101 6 AUGUST 2012                                                            5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management, 17 September 1999
AUI 34-1201, Protocol Requirements in Support of the Air University, 9 July 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AETC Form 88, Distinguished Visitor Notification

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AU/CFRS—Air University Registrar Support Branch
AUREPM—Air University Registrar Program Management
DV—Distinguished Visitor
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency

Terms
Known Special Event—A special event requesting 42 ABW support at least 60 days before the
event is to take place.
Special Event—Events that are non-educational such as conferences, symposiums, band
performances, Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps visits, Air Shows, Inspector General
inspection team visits, etc. hosted by an AU school, 42 ABW or other Maxwell or Gunter tenant
or visiting unit.
Unplanned Special Event—A special event needing 42 ABW support but requested with less
than a 60-day lead time.
