                       Maxwell Installation Commander’s
                           SAFETY MESSAGE
                              “SAFETY is a way of life”

                                              Integrating safety and occupational health into all
                                              operations is paramount to the success of the
                                              missions across Maxwell AFB. Therefore, safety
                                              and occupational health programs must receive the
                                              highest priority of effort in order to preserve our
                                              most precious resource, our personnel, and to build
                                              safe operating procedures into every level of
                                              activity across the base. All of our personnel have
                                              the right to expect a safe and healthy working
                                              environment with robust Air Force occupational
                                              safety and health programs in place.

                                                Commanders and supervisors at all levels must lead
                                                the charge to develop, implement and manage
                                                effective mishap prevention programs, maintain
                                                safe and healthy working environments within their
                                                respective organizations, as well as identify and
                                                recognize individuals for exceptional contributions
                                                toward those goals. All personnel are expected to
                                                support and comply with the mishap prevention
program and safe work practices, while incorporating risk management principles into all of the
actions they take to protect themselves, their Wingmen and their families, both on and off duty.
Accomplishing the mission is our primary objective, but it must be done at a pace which allows
us to take the time to perform each step safely. Every Airman’s attention is needed to ensure the
Air Force delivers a safe, efficient and effective work environment.

Every member of Team Maxwell has the right and responsibility to stop any unsafe act before it
happens and to help institute reasonable risk management measures to prevent future acts. I
challenge our personnel at every level to bring forward ideas, suggestions and solutions as to
how Maxwell can deliver the safest operating environment in the Air Force.




                                                     ANDREA D. TULLOS
                                                     Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander



MAXWELLAFBVA 91-201 (per AFI 91-202), 6 August 2014
OPR: 42 ABW/SE; Supersedes MAXWELLAFBVA 91-201, 14 September 2012
RELEASABILITY: There are no access restrictions on this publication.
