BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           MAXWELL AFB INSTRUCTION 52-101
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)

                                                                        11 DECEMBER 2008
                                                              Certified Current 9 January 2013

                                                                                    Chaplain

                                          PREPARATION AND USE OF CHAPEL FORMS
             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 ABW/HC                             Certified by: 42 ABW/HC (Ch, Maj Kleet Barclay)
                                                                                 Pages: 5

This instruction implements AFI 52-101, Planning and Organizing, and AFI 52-105V2,
Chaplain Tithes and Offerings Fund. It provides guidance and instruction for completing
Maxwell Chapel Forms. Maintain all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims.     This instruction requires collecting and
maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013.
System of records notice F052 AF HC A, Chapel Participant Information Set, applies. This
publication applies to all personnel who are assigned to Maxwell-Gunter units and are required
to use these forms. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through your chain of command.

1. Resource Management………………………………………………………………....                                          2

1.1. Maxwell AFB Form 25, Chapel Appropriated Funds Request………………….…….                      2

2. Facilities…………………………………………………………………………..……..                                             2

2.1. Maxwell AFB Form 35, Chapel Facility Request……………………………….…….                           2

2.2. Maxwell AFB Form 37, Chapel Wedding Information……………………….……….                          3

2.3. Maxwell AFB Form 39, Funeral Request Worksheet………………….………………                           3

3. Forms……………………………………………………………………….…………...                                                 4

3.1. Adopted……………………………………………………………………….……….                                                4

3.2. Prescribed………………………………………………………………….…………...                                            4
2                                              MAXWELLAFBI52-101              11 DECEMBER 2008


Attachment 1 – Glossary of References and Supporting Information…………..……..                            5

1. Resource Management

    1.1. Maxwell AFB Form 25, Chapel Appropriated Funds Request. Used by individuals
    requesting Appropriated Funds and 42 ABW/HC staff to approve, track and monitor
    expenditure of funds. Appropriated requests is maintained with the receipt in the purchasers
    Government Purchase Card (GPC) binder.

       1.1.1. Instructions for completing Maxwell AFB Form 25. Block one states the
       requestor’s name. Block two states the requestor’s duty phone number. Block three
       states the date that the request is being submitted. Block four states the date the monies
       are needed by. Block five states a general description of items requested to purchase.
       Block six states the vendor contact information. Block seven gives a brief description of
       the event and justification of the purchase. Block eight must have all necessary
       signatures prior to being funded. Blocks nine through thirteen are for internal use only
       (section will be filled out by Accounts manager and government credit card holders).

       1.1.2. Maxwell AFB Form 25 will be submitted to the Program Leader or Senior Faith
       group leader for signature and processing through the Accounts Manager.

2. Facility Utilization

    2.1. Maxwell AFB Form 35, Chapel Facility Request. Used by individuals requesting use of
    chapel facilities and used by 42 ABW/HC staff to schedule and track usage of chapel
    facilities. Form can be filled out up to 6 months in advance. Reoccurring events not
    sponsored by the chapel can only be booked for the duration of six months.

       2.1.1. Instructions for completing Maxwell AFB Form 35. This form will be completed
       by the requestor. Block one is the date the request is submitted. Block two contains the
       name of the individual requesting the use of the facility. Block three is the requestor’s
       address and/or office symbol. Block four is the phone number of the requester. Block
       five will indicate a chapel event or a non-chapel event. (Chapel events are any event that
       is sponsored by the chapel). Block six is the event name. Block seven is the date of the
       event. Block eight will have the event start and end time. Block nine will indicate which
       facility is being requested. Block ten will indicate if a Chaplain Assistant is required.
       Block eleven is the name of the sponsoring Chaplain. Block twelve states who is securing
       the facility if it is not the requestor. Block thirteen states the requested facility set up (use
       diagram if necessary). Block fourteen states what equipment is requested (equipment
       may or may not be available at the time of event. Chapel events take precedence). Block
       fourteen is completed by the individuals listed in block one. This form must have
       signatures by the requestor, sponsoring chaplain (chapel events only), and the NCOIC
       prior to an event being booked.

       2.1.2. Maxwell AFB Form 35 is to be maintained by the chapel facility scheduler in the
       chapel facility request binder. The request is maintained until after the event.
MAXWELLAFBI52-101          11 DECEMBER 2008                                                    3

  2.2. Maxwell AFB Form 37, Chapel Wedding Information. Used by individuals requesting
  use of chapel facilities and used by 42 ABW/HC staff to schedule and track usage of chapel
  facilities.

     2.2.1. Instructions for completing Maxwell AFB Form 37. This form is to be completed
     by the requestor. Block one contains the date that the request is submitted. Block two
     states what type of wedding it will be (i.e., Catholic, Protestant or other). Block three is
     the requested rehearsal date. Block four is the requested start time of the event. Block
     five is the requested end time of the event. Block six is the requested date of wedding.
     Block seven is the requested rehearsal start time. Block eight is the requested rehearsal
     end time. Block nine is the facility requested. (Only one facility may be selected). Block
     ten is the name of the chapel approved Wedding Coordinator. (This block must be
     completed prior to the event being scheduled). Block eleven states who holds a valid
     military ID. (Either the bride or groom or parents must hold a valid military ID card at
     the time of the wedding). Blocks twelve through sixteen contain the bride’s contact
     information. Blocks seventeen states the bride’s previous marital status. Blocks eighteen
     through twenty-one contain the groom’s contact information. Block twenty-two states
     groom’s previous marital status. Block twenty-three states who will be performing the
     ceremony. (Only one of these may be selected). Blocks twenty-four through twenty-nine
     are only completed if a civilian clergy is to be used. These blocks should contain the
     clergy’s contact information, denominational endorsement, clergy’s signature if possible
     and date the document is signed. Block thirty is for any remarks. Requestor will sign
     and date blocks thirty-one and thirty-two. Blocks thirty-three through thirty-nine are
     completed by 42 ABW/HC.

     2.2.2. Maxwell AFB Form 37 is maintained by the facility scheduler in the facility
     request binder. Request may be submitted no earlier than six months prior to the request
     date. Request is to be destroyed after the event.

  2.3. Maxwell AFB Form 39, Funeral Request Worksheet. Used by individuals requesting
  use of a Chaplain to perform a funeral or a memorial and used by 42 ABW/HC staff to
  provide preliminaries to Officiating Chaplain.

     2.3.1. Instructions for completing Maxwell AFB Form 39. This form is completed by
     the requestor or Chaplain Assistant. Block one will indicate if Mortuary Affairs was
     contacted. Block two will indicate if Honor Guard was contacted. Blocks three through
     seven stated the deceased information: name, rank, religious preference, branch of service
     and status. Block eight states if the Honor Guard is authorized. Blocks nine though
     fourteen contain the Next of Kin information: name, phone numbers, address, city, state,
     and zip code. Block fifteen states what type of service will be conducted. Blocks sixteen
     through twenty-two state the Funeral Home information: name of funeral home, point of
     contact, phone number, address, city, state and zip code. Block twenty three states the
     actual day and date of funeral. Block twenty-four will indicate if an official government
     vehicle is requested. Block twenty-five states the name of the Officiating Chaplain.

     2.3.2. Maxwell AFB Form 39 is maintained by the facility scheduler in the facility
     request binder and a copy given to the Officiating Chaplain. Request is destroyed after
     the event.
4                                       MAXWELLAFBI52-101         11 DECEMBER 2008


3. Forms

    3.1. Adopted: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; AF IMT 1270 A,
    Chaplain Service Statistical Report.

    3.2. Prescribed: Maxwell AFB Form 25, Chapel Appropriated Funds Request; Maxwell
    AFB Form 35, Chapel Facility Request; Maxwell AFB Form 37, Chapel Wedding
    Information; Maxwell AFB Form 39, Funeral Request Worksheet.


                                               KRIS D. BEASLEY, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
MAXWELLAFBI52-101          11 DECEMBER 2008                  5


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 52-101, Planning and Organization

AFI 52-105V2, Chaplain Tithes and Offerings Fund

Abbreviations and Acronyms

GPC—Government Purchase Card

NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
