BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
22D AIR REFUELING WING                                              INSTRUCTION 48-133

                                                                                   5 APRIL 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                          ANIMAL CONTROL AND DISEASE
                                                                         PREVENTION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 22 AMDS/SGPM                                                      Certified by: 22 MDG/CC
                                                                               (Col H. Alan Reid)
                                                                                        Pages: 11


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program. It establishes local
policy and prescribes procedures concerning the possession and control of animals at McConnell
Air Force Base (MAFB), as well as measures necessary to protect the health and safety of
personnel and animals on this base. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Pet owners occupying government quarters or leasing quarters from the properties of
   MAFB are required to become familiar and comply with this instruction.
   1.2. The Chief of Veterinary Services, Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF), building 951,
   directs all animal health programs on base through the wing commander.
   1.3. Base Civil Engineering takes action to control insect and arthropod vectors capable of
   transmitting diseases. Any wild animals causing a disturbance on base will be humanely
   captured and released into a suitable habitat. Additionally, Base Civil Engineering is
   responsible for retrieving and disposing of dead animals with the exception of family pets.
   No cat, dog, bat, fox, raccoon, skunk or any other rabies disease reservoirs found dead on
 2                                                 MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011


     base will be disposed of without prior consent of the Chief of Veterinary Services, with the
     exception of animal deaths caused by traffic accidents.
     1.4. The MAFB Public Health Office coordinates all animal bite reporting procedures with
     the Chief of Veterinary Services, including monitoring quarantine actions.
     1.5. The Family Housing Management Office is responsible for providing a reference to this
     instruction to anyone occupying government quarters.
2. Procedures:
     2.1. Base and County Registration, Immunization and Micro chipping:
        2.1.1. Base housing residents with pets are required to register all canine and feline
        animals with the MAFB VTF within five working days after moving into base housing or
        when the pet becomes six weeks of age. Residents are limited to the possession of no
        more than two animals and must provide proof of an approved waiver from the Housing
        Office for the registration of additional animals. Failure to comply could result in
        disciplinary actions, including removal of the animal from base housing.
        2.1.2. Pet animals belonging to the guests of military or civilian personnel on base are
        not required to be registered, although the owner must be able to provide proof of
        vaccinations. Animals of guests are still the responsibility of the guest's sponsor. The
        sponsor will ensure the animal complies with this instruction and does not present a threat
        to the health and safety of other persons or animals on base.
        2.1.3. Written documentation of rabies vaccination (DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination
        Certificate/NASPHV Form 51, Rabies Vaccination Certificate, Attachment 2, or its
        equivalent) is required and must be presented at the time of registration. If the
        vaccination status is not current (3 years for the City of Wichita or MAFB residents) or
        the animal is too young, an appointment will be made with the VTF or an off-base
        civilian veterinarian to have the required vaccinations administered. Pet registration (and
        subsequently the ability to buy products from the VTF) expires when the rabies
        vaccination expires. It is the responsibility of the owner to know when vaccinations
        expire.
        2.1.4. The distemper, hepatitis, parvovirus, parainfluenza (DAPP) vaccine is strongly
        recommended for dogs. Feline rhinotracheitis, calicivirus and parvovirus (FVRCP) is
        strongly recommended for cats to provide maximum protection against viral and bacterial
        diseases. The need for additional vaccines can be determined on a case-by-case basis.
        2.1.5. Micro chipping is MANDATORY for all dogs and cats residing on base. At the
        time of registration, the pet owner must present proof of micro chipping. The owner of
        any animal that has not yet been micro chipped needs to make an appointment to have
        this service performed either by the MAFB VTF or an off-base civilian veterinarian.
        Micro chipping is essential to allow lost animals to be returned to their owners and to
        prevent the unlawful abandonment of animals on base. Owners are responsible for
        ensuring the contact information associated with the microchip is kept accurate.
        2.1.6. Registration with the City of Wichita Animal Control or the Sedgwick County
        Animal Control is not mandatory for dogs residing on base. MAFB personnel living
MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011                                                            3


     within the City of Wichita jurisdiction may contact the MAFB VTF for paperwork for
     registration.
  2.2. Care and Control of the Animal. The privilege of pet ownership on base is contingent on
  the pet owner’s ability to adhere to the following conditions:
     2.2.1. Owners must ensure their animals are adequately housed, fed, watered and cared
     for humanely. Cruel or injurious mistreatment, abandonment and/or neglect are
     prohibited. Animals in base housing cannot be permanently housed outdoors. Animals
     temporarily housed outdoors must have access to a shelter. Animals will have access to
     water at all times, be fed on a daily basis and be given adequate medical care when
     required. Cost of doing so will be borne by the owner. The animal’s environment will be
     cleaned daily and maintained in as parasite-free condition as possible. Parasite control
     will be at the owner's expense. Complaints of animal abuse will be investigated by the
     Security Forces Squadron and reported to the Chief of Veterinary Services and/or to the
     wing commander if deemed necessary.
     2.2.2. Owners must prevent their animal from becoming a nuisance or menace to other
     persons, animals or property on base. A "nuisance" is defined as that which causes
     trouble, annoyance (for example, prolonged barking or howling) or causes damage to
     private or public property. All animals will be controlled to prevent them from biting or
     causing injury to people or other animals.
     2.2.3. Owners must ensure when exercising or walking their animal off the owner's
     assigned premises that the animal is leashed at all times. There is no exception to this
     policy. When on the owner's assigned premises, they will be kept on a leash or in a
     fenced yard from which they cannot escape.
     2.2.4. Owners must clean up animal waste immediately to prevent a breeding ground for
     flies and disease organisms. This will also protect children from coming into contact
     with fecal material that may contain dangerous parasites. Owners must also prevent their
     animals from causing damage by urinating on shrubs, flowers or other materials in the
     occupant's area of responsibility or any other government property.
     2.2.5. Owners must ensure female pets in heat are kept confined except when exercised
     on a leash and under direct supervision of an adult.
     2.2.6. Owners must ensure their animals wear a collar or harness bearing the current
     rabies tag number. Replacements for lost or stolen tags can be obtained at the VTF, 759-
     5190.
     2.2.7. Owners must assist in obtaining immediate medical attention for persons bitten,
     scratched or injured by their pet.
     2.2.8. Owners must abide by published quarantine procedures (see paragraph 5.4).
     2.2.9. Owners must properly dispose of their animal when it is no longer wanted by
     finding a new home for it or turning the animal over to a humane organization. Willful
     abandonment of pets is strictly prohibited and may result in loss of future privileges of
     pet ownership on base. Disposal of deceased pets is the responsibility of the owner.
     2.2.10. Owners may not breed animals for sale on or off base. The MAFB VTF will not
     provide services for animals bred for profit (commercial animals), including accidental
4                                                 MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011


       litters. Any litters that are advertised as being for sale will automatically be considered
       commercial animals. Female dogs or cats that have more than one litter per lifetime
       (unadvertised) will be considered to be used for commercial breeding purposes. Any
       litter of purebred animals, even if it is the first litter, will be considered commercial
       animals. However, kittens and puppies that will be kept by the military sponsor can
       receive full veterinary services. False claims of ownership will result in permanent denial
       of military veterinary services and possibly disciplinary action.
       2.2.11. Owners must clear through the VTF and obtain the health records of their
       animals upon relocation/reassignment/PCS from MAFB or transfer or termination of pet
       ownership.
       2.2.12. Owners may not permit animals in the following buildings or activities:*
          2.2.12.1. Medical Treatment Facility buildings (except the VTF or as part of an
          official pet therapy program).
          2.2.12.2. Food service facilities.
          2.2.12.3. Base Exchange or Commissary facilities.
          2.2.12.4. Recreation Center, clubs and swimming pools.
          2.2.12.5. Theater.
          2.2.12.6. Barber and beauty shops.
          2.2.12.7. Dormitories.
          2.2.12.8. Any other place where pet animals may create a nuisance and/or health
          hazard. *Guide dogs/assistance dogs accompanying patrons or military working dogs
          in performance of their duties are permitted anywhere their patrons are authorized as
          long as they are under control.
       2.2.13. Failure to obey the above regulations may result in denial of the privilege of
       animal ownership on base; (see paragraph 3, Prohibited Acts, below).
    2.3. Housing of Animals:
       2.3.1. Animals can be housed inside family quarters only. They cannot be housed in
       dormitories or work areas. However, small caged animals, caged birds and fish are
       excluded from this limit inside family quarters, unless numbers are unreasonable and lead
       to disturbance of neighbors or destruction of property. Up to two cats or dogs are
       allowed in transient quarters for an extra fee if they have current vaccination records.
          2.3.1.1. Temporary out-of-doors housing of pet animals is permitted in base housing
          areas provided they remain within the fenced in area of the occupant’s yard. The
          animals cannot obstruct mail carriers or other workers from performing their duties in
          the housing areas. Owners must ensure their pets do not accidentally injure other
          people or animals or become a nuisance to the community. Dogs and cats must be
          leashed and under the direct supervision of an adult when out-of-doors. Dogs and
          cats will not be left out-of-doors attached by any means to anything unattended, nor
          will they be housed in garages or storage areas.
          2.3.1.2. Stray animals are not to be dropped off and housed at CE/Pest Management.
MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011                                                                 5


3. Prohibited Acts. The following incidents are cause for denial of the privilege of maintaining
pet animals on this base.
   3.1. Leaving any animal unattended in any vehicle parked on base in a manner which
   threatens the life or well-being of the animal.
   3.2. Ill-treating, tormenting, overworking or otherwise abusing an animal.
   3.3. Willfully using any known toxic substances in areas accessible to animals.
   3.4. Repeatedly provoking or antagonizing an animal.
   3.5. Failure to discharge the responsibilities of a pet owner as specified in paragraphs 2.1,
   2.2 and 2.3.
   3.6. Disposal of the remains of a deceased pet that has been involved in a human bite or
   scratch incident in the last 10 days. Remains should be promptly delivered to the VTF for
   initiation of rabies testing.
   3.7. Maintenance of wild animals as defined in Attachment 1.
   3.8. Allowing any animal to bite or in any way cause injury which results in the need for
   medical treatment of a human is grounds for immediate removal of the animal from base and
   prohibits the owner from having future animals reside on base. However, an animal may
   only be ordered to be removed from base by the wing commander or designee and/or under
   direction of the Chief of Veterinary Services. This is meant to protect the safety of persons
   residing on base.
4. Removal of Animals from Base. Any violation of this instruction is considered grounds for
removal of an animal or animals from the base, even for a first offense. This will depend on the
severity of the violation and the owner's willingness to comply with this instruction. Animals
which are determined to be vicious, dangerous or a nuisance and are reported to the wing
commander may be required to be removed from the base. Sponsors who have been directed to
remove an animal or animals for any violation of this instruction forfeit their privilege of having
any other pet during their residence in military quarters or properties of MAFB.
5. Injuries Caused by Animals. Individuals bitten or scratched by an animal during duty hours
will immediately flush the wound with soap and water and report to the 22 MDG treatment
facility, building 250, for medical treatment. Individuals bitten or scratched after hours should
report to an urgent care facility for treatment and report to the 22 MDG the next duty day.
   5.1. The attending medical officer is responsible for the treatment of the patient and
   initiation of DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite - Potential Rabies Exposure.
   5.2. Following treatment by a provider, the patient will be escorted to Public Health to
   complete DD Form 2341 and request quarantine of the animal by Veterinary Services.
   5.3. If the incident occurs on base, the pet owner will be located by Veterinary Services, and
   the required quarantine measures will be described to them as stated below in paragraph 5.4.
   If the animal involved is a stray, the MDG clinic’s veterinarian must immediately notify
   Security Forces who will contact the off-base contractor for stray animal pickup. If the
   incident occurs off-base, Veterinary Services will notify the animal control department
   having jurisdiction over where the bite occurred so animal control may ensure a proper
   quarantine is initiated.
6                                                 MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011


    5.4. Quarantine Actions:
       5.4.1. Any animal kept on base identified as inflicting a bite and/or scratch wound on a
       human must be taken to the VTF or civilian veterinary clinic for examination as soon as
       possible, but no later than 48 hours following the incident. This is to determine whether
       an animal is showing signs consistent with rabies. When the bite/scratch occurs on a
       weekend or holiday, the animal will be taken for examination on the next duty day.
       5.4.2. If at the time of exam the animal shows no signs of rabies and has current
       vaccinations, the animal inflicting the bite will be placed on a 10-day home quarantine at
       the pet owner’s residence and will be a rabies suspect for the duration of the quarantine
       period. Both the City of Wichita and the Sedgwick County Animal Control departments
       may authorize a home quarantine if they are notified and the specifics of the case are
       deemed to be within their standard operating procedures.
       5.4.3. At the initial examination, the veterinarian or veterinary technician will schedule
       the animal for examination at the end of the 10-day quarantine. Failure to comply with
       home quarantine rules or scheduled examination by the VTF will result in mandatory 10-
       day quarantine at an approved civilian quarantine facility at the expense of the owner.
       Animals with expired rabies vaccinations will be given a rabies vaccination at the end of
       the 10-day quarantine period at the expense of the owner.
       5.4.4. Any pet animal that is bitten or scratched by a bat or by a wild carnivorous
       mammal which is not available for rabies testing should be regarded as having been
       exposed to a rabid animal. Unvaccinated dogs, cats and ferrets exposed to a rabid animal
       should be euthanized immediately. If the owner is unwilling to have this done, the animal
       should be placed in strict isolation for 6 months. Isolation in this context refers to
       confinement in an enclosure that precludes direct contact with people and other animals.
       Rabies vaccine should be administered upon entry into isolation or 1 month before
       release to comply with pre-exposure vaccination recommendations.
           5.4.4.1. Animals overdue for a booster vaccination need to be evaluated on a case-
           by-case basis (e.g., severity of exposure, time elapsed since last vaccination, number
           of previous vaccinations, current health status and local rabies epidemiology).
           5.4.4.2. Dogs, cats and ferrets that are currently vaccinated should be revaccinated
           immediately, kept under the owner's control and observed for 45 days.
       5.4.5. Military Working Dogs: Military working dogs (MWDs) are a special case
       because their medical history of vaccination is firmly established and documented. In
       addition, the chance of exposure to a rabid animal is extremely unlikely because MWDs
       rarely spend time outside their kennels without being under direct supervision by their
       handler. MWDs are also more likely to bite a person because they are specifically trained
       to do so. Therefore, when an MWD bites a suspect in the line of duty or their handler
       during the course of training, they are exempt from the 10-day rabies quarantine. If a
       MWD bites anyone, including a Security Forces handler, while not under command to do
       so (i.e., ―unprovoked‖), they are subject to a 10-day ―working‖ quarantine. A working
       quarantine is defined as quarantine from the general public which still allows for training
       and performance of basic duties. The dog can still perform all duties, as long as they are
       not exposed to the public. For example, the dog could still train one-on-one with its
MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011                                                                  7


       handler but could not perform gate duty which would expose the dog to the general
       public.
6. Stray Animals. IAW AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, Security Forces will not be called
upon to capture any uncontrolled animal found or reported running loose on this installation.
Any stray or uncontrolled animal found on base should be reported to Security Forces who will
contact the off-base contractor for removal of the animal and transportation to the Sedgwick
County Animal Control, City of Wichita Animal Control, or the Humane Society IAW state
guidelines. Other individuals authorized to call a contractor for animal removal services include
members from CE/Pest Management and the base veterinarian.
7. Domestic Animals Showing Unusual or Threatening Behavior. Personnel observing a
domestic animal showing unusual or threatening behavior will notify Security Forces. Security
Forces will contact the off-base contract service so that immediate steps can be taken to
apprehend and impound the animal. Such animals will not be killed unless they cannot be safely
captured alive. If it is necessary to kill such animals, care will be taken not to destroy or injure
the head, and the carcass will be delivered immediately to the VTF for necropsy and/or testing
for rabies.
8. Disposition of Deceased Animals.
   8.1. Owners are responsible for the disposal of dead pets. If the pets are registered at the
   VTF, the owner must advise the VTF staff so that the animal’s health records can be
   removed from the active file.
   8.2. Animals (domestic or wild) found dead on the base (including roads) will be reported to
   CE/Pest Management who will dispose of them.
   8.3. Animals dying on this installation are subject to necropsy by Veterinary Services at their
   discretion.
   8.4. Pets that have bitten or scratched a person and subsequently die before the 10-day home
   quarantine has elapsed will be promptly delivered to the VTF in order to initiate laboratory
   proceedings for rabies examination.
9. Prescribed Forms/IMT’s: No Forms or IMT’s prescribed by this publication.
10. Adopted Forms/IMT’s:
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
NASPHV Form 51, Rabies Vaccination Certificate
DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate




                                              JAMES W. CROWHURST, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 22d Air Refueling Wing
 8                                              MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004.
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 8 October 2009
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005
American Animal Hospital Association (AAHA), 2006 Canine Vaccine Guidelines, Revised
Army Regulation 40-905, SECNAVINST 6401.1A, AF 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29
August 2006
McConnell AFBI 32-6001, Dormitory Management, 31 May 1994
MMWR, Vol 57/No. RR-3, Human Rabies Prevention --- United States, 2008 Recommendations
of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, 7 May 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—- Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CE—Civil Engineering
DAPP—Distemper, Hepatitis, Parvovirus, Parainfluenza
FVRCP—- Feline Rhinotracheitis, Calicivirus And Parvovirus
IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—- Information Management Tool
MAFB—McConnell Air Force Base
MDG—- Medical Group
MWDs—–Military Working Dogs
NASPHV—- National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule
VTF—Veterinary Treatment Facility

Terms
Dangerous— Any animal with a recorded history of inflicting severe injury to a human being or
any animal that has previously been found to be potentially dangerous and subsequently
aggressively attacks or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011                                                                      9


Nuisance—An act that causes trouble, annoyance (i.e., prolonged barking or howling) or causes
damage to private or public property.
Pet Animal— A pet (companion) animal is defined as any canine, feline, ferret, bird, fish,
domesticated rabbit or caged pet (hamster, gerbil, rat, mouse, guinea pig, etc.) of commonly
acceptable size which can be properly and adequately maintained, housed and cared for on base.
Animals not included in this definition and thus not permitted to be housed on base include
horses, general farm animals (including potbellied pigs) and ALL wild animals (skunks,
raccoons, nonhuman primates, foxes, squirrels, coyotes, wolves, wolf hybrids, etc.). Any animal
not specifically mentioned above will be kept only at the discretion of the Chief of Veterinary
Services.
Pets authorized to reside on the installation include domestic dogs, domestic cats, amphibians,
lizards, tropical fish, rabbits (outdoor rabbit hutches are prohibited), ferrets, pocket pets (gerbils,
guinea pigs, hamsters, hedgehogs, rats and mice) and domesticated psittacine birds. Poisonous
snakes, other reptiles, spiders and amphibians are NOT authorized.
Sylvatic and sylvatic hybrid animals will not be maintained on this installation; this includes all
wolves, wolf hybrids and coyote hybrids.
Livestock (domestic farm animals including, but not limited to, potbellied pigs, pygmy goats and
poultry) will not be maintained on the installation as privately owned animals.
Potentially Dangerous— Any animal that, with or without provocation, approaches a person in
a public area in a menacing fashion, any animal with a known propensity to attack without
provocation, any animal believed capable of posing a threat to the safety of humans or domestic
animals or any wild animal that approaches a person in a threatening or unusual manner.
Service Animal— Any guide dog, signal dog or other animal individually trained to do
work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including, but not limited
to, guiding individuals with impaired vision, alerting individuals with impaired hearing to
intruders, providing minimal rescue or protection work, pulling a wheel chair or fetching
dropped items.
Therapy Animals— Provide people with contact to animals but are not limited to
working with those who have disabilities. They are usually the personal pets of their handlers
and work with their handlers to provide services to others. Federal laws have no provisions for
people to be accompanied by therapy animals in places of public accommodation that have "no
pets" policies. Therapy animals usually are not service animals.
Vicious— Any animal that has inflicted severe injury to a human being, any animal that has
killed a domestic animal while off the owner’s property or any animal whose owner has
previously been notified that the animal is dangerous and the animal again attacks or endangers
the safety of humans or domestic animals
Zoonotic Disease— A disease that is generally found in animals but can be spread to humans.
Rabies is a preventable zoonotic, viral disease of mammals most often transmitted to humans
through the bite of a rabid animal.
10                                    MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011


                               Attachment 2
                    RABIES VACCINATION CERTIFICATE

Figure A2.1. NASPHV Form 51.
   MCCONNELLAFBI48-133 5 APRIL 2011                                                             11


                                          Attachment 3
                                VACCINATION PROTOCOL:

CORE VACCINES – Recommended vaccines for all Healthy Dogs
Vaccine                Primary Vaccination                                       Booster Frequency
DAPP (distemper,       Safe at 6 weeks of age or older. To be given every        First booster at 1 year
hepatitis, parvovirus, 3-4 weeks with last dose being given at or after 16       and then every 3
parainfluenza)         weeks of age.                                             years
Rabies                 Vaccine can be given at 12 weeks of age or older.         First booster at 1 year
                       Ideal vaccination time is at 16 weeks.                    and then every 3
                                                                                 years
Leptospirosis               Initial vaccination should be 2 doses administered   Yearly Booster
                            3-4 weeks apart. First vaccine recommended at
                            12 weeks or older.




NONCORE VACCINES – Optional vaccine based on exposure or at-risk environment
Vaccine        Type       Primary Vaccination                       Booster Frequency
Bordetella     Intranasal Initial vaccination for puppies and non- Nasal booster every 6
(kennel cough)            exposed adults should be a single         months or 2-4 weeks
                          itranasal dose (0.5 mL into each nostril) before expected exposure
                          and be boostered with the injectable      (whichever is longer)
               Injectable dose in 2-4 weeks. Intranasal safe for    Injectable form
                          puppies 3 weeks of age, injectable at 8   recommended for regular
                          weeks of age.                             yearly booster

Lyme** (if PCS to Injectable    Initial vaccination should be 2 doses      Yearly Booster
area listed below)              administered 2-4 weeks apart. Safe for
                                puppies as young as 9 weeks of age.

**Lyme vaccine recommended in high incidence areas - Maine, Vermont, Connecticut, New Hampshire,
Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia,
Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota
