BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
22D AIR REFUELING WING                                          INSTRUCTION 36-2502

                                                                         9 NOVEMBER 2010

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                    22D AIR REFUELING WING SENIOR
                                                 AIRMAN BELOW-THE-ZONE PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasabilty restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 22 FSS/FSMPD                                                     Certified by: 22 FSS/CC
Supersedes: MCCONNELLAFBI36-                                          (Maj. Colin R. Huckins)
            2502, 1 December 1998                                                      Pages: 5


This instruction implements AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, and establishes
procedures, policies and responsibilities applicable to all units, to include tenant units, on
McConnell Air Force Base. This instruction is provided to explain and standardize the
processing procedures for the Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-Zone (BTZ) Promotion program.
Both the Central Base Board (CBB) and large units will utilize the procedures outlined in this
instruction and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs and
Military Personnel Flight Memorandum 06-57. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect guidance and procedures dealing with the McConnell AFB
BTZ Promotion Program. The major changes include clarification to the formatting of the AF
IMT 1206, Nomination for Award and the addition of the BTZ selectees release procedures.
 2                                          MCCONNELLAFBI36-2502 9 NOVEMBER 2010


1. Objective.
     1.1. The SrA BTZ program provides a one-time consideration for early promotion to
     exceptionally well-qualified Airmen First Class. Selection opportunity is 15 percent of
     eligible Airmen. Promotions are effective 6 months prior to the fixed (fully qualified) phase
     point.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Per AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs, para 2.3.1.4, approval
     authority for quota distribution is delegated to the Military Personnel Section (MPS) Chief by
     the Host Wing Commander. The Military Personnel Section will distribute SrA BTZ quotas
     each quarter. Commanders of large units (seven or more eligibles) will receive their own
     quotas. Commanders of small units (six or less eligibles) will aggregate their nominee to the
     CBB. SrA BTZ eligibles falling within the wing will compete at the CBB. All tenant units
     will be considered a large unit unless they only have one eligible, in which, they will meet
     the CBB, if nominated.
     2.2. MPS will determine quotas and distribution based on 15 percent of eligibles (“eligibles”
     pertains to Airmen who meet time-in-grade and time-in-service requirements).
3. Board Composition.
     3.1. When the 22 ARW CBB convenes, it will consist of the board president, 22d Air
     Refueling Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant (22 ARW/CCC), four Group
     Superintendents and the Wing Staff Superintendent (or a qualified representative), a non-
     voting recorder. If the 22 ARW/CCC is unavailable, he/she will appoint a Group
     Superintendent to act as the board president.
4. Method/Number of Nominations.
     4.1. Large units will receive their own quotas and make selections at the unit level.
     Commanders of large units will convene a board and follow the same procedures as the CBB.
     The roster must be annotated with “Select” or “Non-Select” beside each member’s name.
     4.2. Small unit commanders will use the BTZ eligibility list and an appropriate evaluation
     process (e.g., a unit board, record review, recommendation from supervisors/first sergeants,
     etc.). All small units with eligibles will only submit their most qualified candidates.
     4.3. The CBB will conduct a “records only” board.
     4.4. Commanders will screen candidates with negative “Quality Force” indicators. If the
     pool of eligibles does not include Airmen of this caliber, the convening authority will not use
     the full BTZ quota. Commanders will inform all eligible of whether or not they are being
     nominated.
5. Areas Considered/Selection Folders.
     5.1. The CBB will judge each nominee on areas covered on the most current version of the
     AF Form 1206, prescribed by AFI 36-2805, Special Awards and Trophies, to include:
     Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty, Significant Self Improvement, and Base
     and Community Involvement. These scores will be recorded on each board member’s Ballot.
MCCONNELLAFBI36-2502 9 NOVEMBER 2010                                                           3


       5.1.1. The AF Form 1206 will consist of a maximum 15 lines (not including headings).
       Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty will consist of 10 lines, Significant Self
       Improvement will consist of 2 lines, and Base and Community Involvement will consist
       of 3 lines.
       5.1.2. The bottom of the AF Form 1206 will contain the following statement signed by
       the Commander. “I have reviewed any Enlisted Performance Report(s), his/her Personal
       Information File (PIF) and discussed this nomination with the member’s supervisor/rating
       chain. There are no negative Quality Force indicators.”
   5.2. Selection folders will include the BTZ Record on Individual Person (RIP), AF Form
   1206, Nomination for Award and citations for decorations (if applicable). Although not a part
   of the selection folder, Commanders will provide a copy of the nominee’s most recent
   physical fitness assessment score from Air Force Fitness Management System (AFFMS) to
   the MPS.
6. Scoring Scale/Selection Phase.
   6.1. The board members will score individuals based on the AF Form 1206 and decoration,
   if applicable. Board members will determine the rank order of all nominees. The board
   recorder computes the composite score of each nominee by adding up the ranks of the board
   members on the president’s tally sheet. The order of merit will be determined by lowest to
   highest combined ranks. The president’s scores will not be used in the total scoring, but will
   act as a tiebreaker, when needed.
   6.2. The CBB will start with the convening authority, the 22 ARW Commander (CC),
   swearing in the board members. If the 22 ARW/CC is unavailable, this responsibility will be
   delegated to the 22 ARW/CCC
   6.3. Large unit nominees are arranged in order of merit by total score, and the quota is
   applied. Commanders will report selections to the MPS by annotating selectee and
   underlining the name(s) on the BTZ eligibility list, providing board minutes with attachments
   and hand-carry them to the MPS by the suspense date. Commanders are not required to
   select a nominee to fill the unit’s quota.
   6.4. For the CBB, the board recorder sends the convening authority a written report with an
   order of merit list of all Airmen considered and select letters. The 22 ARW/CC may approve
   the board’s merit list (in whole or in part) or disapprove the promotion of an Airman whose
   record does not justify BTZ promotion. The 22 ARW/CC may elect not to use the full quota.
   6.5. Once the selects are received from the large units and the 22 ARW/CC has approved the
   selects from the CBB, the MPS will forward a listing of all selects to the 22 ARW/CCC. The
   22 ARW/CCC will publicly release the names of all selects via e-mail.
   6.6. The MPS will project promotions immediately upon receipt of confirmation of the
   public release. This must be accomplished prior to the end of the board month.
7. Alternate Selection.
   7.1. Alternates may be selected in the event a selectee is removed or not recommended for
   promotion before the promotion effective date. The MPS will review board minutes to
   determine who the first alternate is and notify the commander of that individual. If the
 4                                          MCCONNELLAFBI36-2502 9 NOVEMBER 2010


     commander recommends the alternate for promotion, he/she forwards a letter to the MPS for
     the concurrence of 22 ARW/CC.
8. Supplemental Consideration.
     8.1. If an eligible Airman was not considered, and the error is discovered before the
     promotions are announced, large unit commanders may consider the Airman and adjust
     selections accordingly. The CBB will reconvene to consider small unit eligibles and adjust
     selections accordingly. If the error is found after the promotions are announced, the MPS
     will forward a request for supplemental consideration to the MPS Commander for approval.
     It is the individual supervisor’s and commander’s responsibilities to ensure an individual has
     been properly identified as eligible, and the data on the BTZ RIP is accurate and complete.
9. Prescribed Forms: No Forms or IMT’s prescribed by this publication
10. Adopted Forms
        AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award.
        AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                              JAMES W. CROWHURST, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
MCCONNELLAFBI36-2502 9 NOVEMBER 2010                                         5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, 21 June 1993
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs, 31 December 2009
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 June 2001
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
MPFM 06-57, Senior Airman Below-the-Zone Promotion Program, 18 August 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—- Air Force
AFI—- Air Force Instruction
AFFMS—- Air Force Fitness Management System
ARW—- Air Refueling Wing
BTZ—- Below-the-Zone
CBB—- Central Base Board
CC—- Commander
CCC—- Command Chief Master Sergeant
FSMPD—- Career Development
FSS—- Force Support Squadron
MPS—- Military Personnel Section
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule
RIP—- Record on Individual Person
SrA—- Senior Airman
