BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
22D AIR REFUELING WING                                              INSTRUCTION 35-109

                                                                                    5 JULY 2012

                                                                                   Public Affairs

                                                                      VISUAL INFORMATION




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There is no releasablity restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 22 ARW/PA                                                         Certified by: 22 ARW/DS
                                                                                      (Maj Allen)
Supersedes:    MCCONNELLAFBI33-117,                                                      Pages: 9
               16 Dec 2011


This instruction replaces McConnell Air Force Base Instruction 33-117. This instruction
implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 35-109, Visual Information. It identifies and describes
McConnell Air Force Base Visual Information (VI) resources and functions, and tells how to
manage and operate Air Force VI activities at the base level. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air
Force      Records     Information      Management       System      (AFRIMS)       located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Elimination of Graphic Arts support and video teleconferencing service, changes in
photographic support and addition of broadcasting services.
1. General Information. The McConnell Air Force Base Public Affairs (PA) Visual
Information Service Center (VISC) consists of two separate sections – Photography Lab and
 2                                                    MCCONNELLAFBI35-109 5 JULY 2012


Broadcasting– providing multimedia support to the 22d Air Refueling Wing and its tenant units.
The VISC is the only Department of Defense recognized source for official multimedia support.
     1.1. Contact the VISC as soon as multimedia requirements are known. This ensures the best
     possible quality and fastest turnaround.
        1.1.1. The Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) or Project Officer for distinguished
        visitors and other high profile events will contact the VISC to coordinate multimedia
        support. Involve the VISC representative in the event planning process to ensure all
        multimedia requirements are met.
     1.2. Multimedia products created by military or civilian personnel employed by the United
     States government (civil service or contractor) with government owned/leased equipment are
     property of the United States Air Force. Do not release multimedia products to the public
     without the written consent of the McConnell AFB PA Office.
     1.3. Personnel will comply with Department of Defense Directive 5040.5 ―Alteration of
     Official DoD Imagery.‖ Altering or manipulating official DoD images weakens and casts
     doubt on the credibility of that imagery and the program or operation that is being shown.
     Alteration or manipulation of official imagery in or out of the Department of Defense is not
     tolerated. Unless specifically exempted by DoD Directive 5040.5, an act of alteration or
     manipulation by military personnel violates Article 92 of the UCMJ and may result in
     punitive action.
     1.4. Copyrighted material will not be reproduced in any way. Copyrighted materials include,
     but are not limited to, cartoons, illustration, or music. Personnel desiring to use copyrighted
     material must receive prior written consent from the copyright owner. Provide a copy of the
     consent letter to the VISC. Refer copyright questions to the Base Legal Office.
2. Official Requests – Mission Essential and Non-Mission Essential Products.
     2.1. In order to accomplish mission essential services and tasks, the VISC controls the
     creation and distribution of non-mission essential products. The following are definitions and
     examples of mission essential and non-mission essential products and services:
        2.1.1. Mission essential products are those that are vital to wartime effectiveness and
        readiness. Examples of mission essential products include but are not limited to:
            2.1.1.1. Briefing or training products for: aircraft maintenance, ground and flight
            safety, medical and dental, wartime readiness/awareness, Security Forces/Office of
            Special Investigations (OSI), Staff Judge Advocate (SJA), or Area Defense Counsel
            (ADC).
            2.1.1.2. Products requested by the SJA or ADC for use at trial, court-martial or other
            administrative board proceeding.
            2.1.1.3. Multimedia documentation for Security Forces/OSI and JAG/ADC, ground
            and flight safety, education and training, medical and dental, disaster response,
            research and development, equipment tests and evaluations, official portraits (key
            personnel, recognition boards, special duty packages), passport/visa portraits,
            DV/VIP visits, nomination packages, squadron mission briefings, and base website
            photography.
MCCONNELLAFBI35-109 5 JULY 2012                                                                3


          2.1.1.4. Historical record (IAW AFI 84-101, Historical Products, Services and
          Requirements). Historical documentation to include: unit missions; unit organization
          and relationships with other organizations; environment; facilities; community
          relations; firsts, lasts, and records; unit activation, inactivation, or redesignation
          ceremonies; base opening or closure; significant policy or mission changes; changes
          in doctrine, tactics, or strategy; significant exercises, operations, and deployments;
          significant training; weapons procurement, modification, or retirement; important
          higher headquarters’ assessments; major environmental issues.
      2.1.2. Non-mission essential products are those that are ―nice to have‖ but do not have a
      direct mission impact. Examples of non-mission essential products include:
          2.1.2.1. Photography of award presentations officiated by squadron commanders or
          above.
          2.1.2.2. Photography of promotion/retirement ceremonies for squadron commanders
          or above.
          2.1.2.3. Photography or videography for memorial services.
   2.2. Mission essential products take priority over non-mission essential products. Templates
   and samples of non-mission essential products for self-help are available at the VISC.
   2.3. The Base Multimedia Manager (BMM) and the Chief of Public Afairs resolve questions
   concerning mission essential and non-mission essential products and services.
3. Unofficial Work Requests.
   3.1. Use of government resources or personnel for unofficial work requests is prohibited.
   Unofficial requests include Category ―C‖ Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) –
   Revenue Generating Activities, and any type of personalized multimedia product. Prohibited
   products and services include, but are not limited to: squadron fund raisers, booster club
   events, memorabilia, souvenirs, ―going away‖ gifts, auctions, section holiday parties, unit
   scrap books, and similar forms of personalized products. Customers may procure these type
   of products from commercial sources with appropriate unit MWR or booster club funds.
   3.2. MAFB personnel may use self-help still and video cameras to record unit picnics,
   holiday parties, or hail/farewell functions. The VISC will transfer digital still and video to
   customer-supplied media. The VISC will print or create graphic layouts of aforementioned
   events. See paragraph 9. for further guidance.
   3.3. The VISC is not authorized to mass produce or duplicate flyers, pamphlets, booklets,
   brochures, illustrations, charts, diagrams, posters, or other artwork.
   3.4. The VISC is not authorized to type or edit large amounts of text or create
   administrative-type products (dividers, labels, binder covers, etc.).
4. Work Priorities.
   4.1. The VISC prioritizes new work requests with corresponding completion deadlines:
      4.1.1. Priority 1 – Urgent. Work requests designated as Priority 1 are in direct support
      of emergency war orders, class ―A‖ mishaps, natural disaster, rescue and recovery,
      emergency conditions, alert photography, contingency operations, operational readiness
 4                                                 MCCONNELLAFBI35-109 5 JULY 2012


        inspections, and investigation boards. Multimedia products are completed and delivered
        as soon as technically possible.
        4.1.2. Priority 2 – Warfighting Capabilities. Work requests designated as Priority 2
        are in direct support of flying operations, intelligence, mission readiness, immediate
        media release to news media, and serious incidents involving injury, fatality or
        impairment to operational capability. Completion time – 24 to 48 hours.
        4.1.3. Priority 3 – Mission Essential Products. Refer to paragraph 2.1.1 Completion
        time – 2 to 4 duty days.
        4.1.4. Priority 4 – Non-Mission Essential Products. Work requests are accepted per
        the approval of the section NCOIC or BMM. Completion time – 1 to 2 weeks.
     4.2. Priority 1 or alert photographers are not authorized for last minute work requests.
     Security Forces Squadron Law Enforcement Desk, AFOSI, Civil Engineering Squadron Fire
     Department, Wing Safety, and Command Post are authorized to call the alert photographer
     for emergency support.
     4.3. MAFB personnel desiring faster turnaround time for non-mission essential products
     should use self-help equipment and services.
5. Photographic Support.
     5.1. The VISC provides trained photographers using professional equipment.
        5.1.1. The VISC captures and prints official photographs. Prints are limited to studio
        portraits for special duty packages, sister service promotion photos and up to
        passport/visa photos. The VISC can provide a digital copy of photographs.
        5.1.2. The VISC will maintain a server-based portrait file of commanders and other key
        personnel.
        5.1.3. The VISC will photograph events at which a group commander, or higher, or the
        command chief master sergeant is the host or officiating officer.
     5.2. The VISC will photograph squadron mission activities and personnel for publication on
     the McConnell AFB website and Facebook page.
     5.3. The VISC will not reshoot events originally photographed for the 22 ARW. Customers
     may use self-help equipment to record these events. (Example: The base-wide promotion
     ceremony is photographed by the VISC, and a squadron holds an additional promotion
     ceremony later that day. The squadron ceremony is done with self-help equipment.)
6. Graphic Services.
     6.1. Graphic services are no longer performed by the VISC. Customers with graphics
     requirements will request support through the Defense Automated Printing Service (DAPS)
     or by local graphic arts service providers.
7. Video Services.
     7.1. The VISC will provide DoD produced videos from the Defense Automated Visual
     Information System/Defense Instructional Technology Information System (DAVIS/DITIS)
     to requesting MAFB personnel. Average delivery time is 4-6 weeks.
MCCONNELLAFBI35-109 5 JULY 2012                                                                5


   7.2. The VISC will record events that are official and have historical value.
       7.2.1. The VISC will record historically significant events at which a group commander,
       or higher, or the Command Chief Master Sergeant is the host or officiating officer. The
       22 ARW determines which events are historically significant.
       7.2.2. The VISC will not record retirements that do not meet the criteria established in
       AFI 35-109.
   7.3. The VISC will create short, 10-minute or less, video programs tailored to local
   requirements.
       7.3.1. Video programs are for only mission essential activities.
       7.3.2. The VISC will provide a master copy and up to four copies of the edited video
       program.
       7.3.3. The VISC maintains a master copy of each edited program for two years. All raw
       footage videotapes/digital recording media are erased and reused.
   7.4. The Base Multimedia Manager (BMM) will process all video production requests
   through DAVIS/DITIS.
       7.4.1. The VISC will not create video productions unless authorized through
       DAVIS/DITIS.
       7.4.2. Prior to shooting, customers will provide a script signed by the final approving
       authority.
       7.4.3. Continuous requestor involvement is required for subject matter expertise and
       continuity.
       7.4.4. Requestors will provide on/off-screen talent. They may provide narrator(s) or
       request a narrator from the VISC. Follow talent release criteria set in AFI 35-109.
       7.4.5. Upon requestor’s receipt of the final product, shooting and editing are considered
       complete and the project finished.
       7.4.6. The VISC will send completed productions to the Joint Visual Information
       Services Distribution Activity and the Defense Visual Information Center for DoD
       distribution when appropriate.
8. Presentation Equipment Issue.
   8.1. The VISC will provide presentation equipment (video projectors, laptop computers, and
   DVD players) for temporary issue. Issue is limited to a maximum of 72 hours. Presentation
   equipment will not be taken TDY.
   8.2. Requestors will contact the VISC as early as possible in order to reserve the required
   equipment.
9. Self-help Services.
   9.1. The VISC will provide self-help equipment and services to MAFB personnel.
   9.2. Self-help multimedia products are for official use only. Limits are set for the following
   products and services:
 6                                                    MCCONNELLAFBI35-109 5 JULY 2012


        9.2.1. Video
            9.2.1.1. Requestor will provide material for up to four DVD or other digital media
            duplicates.
            9.2.1.2. The VISC will retain camera original videotape/digital imagery.
            9.2.1.3. Video editing and titling is not authorized.
        9.2.2. Still Photography.
            9.2.2.1. Requestors will provide CD-R for electronic copies.
10. Requesting Multimedia Equipment for Non-Multimedia Units.
     10.1. Units requiring multimedia equipment permitted under Allowance Standard 629 will
     coordinate with the VISC using Project, Workflow, Requirement, and Resources (PWRR)
     Manager, prior to purchase. (See AFI 35-109, Visual Information and AFMAN 23-110, CD
     Basic USAF Supply Manual, for guidance)
        10.1.1. Self-help equipment and services are to support those functions that the VISC
        cannot per DoD policy and AFI 35-109.
        10.1.2. Self help equipment will never be used for personal purposes (i.e. vacation
        photos, unofficial events, etc.).
        10.1.3. Self-help equipment issue is limited to a maximum of 24 hours.
        10.1.4. Self-help equipment will not be taken TDY unless approved by the section
        NCOIC, BMM, or Chief of Public Affairs.
     10.2. Multimedia equipment purchased by base and tenant units will meet technical and
     interoperability standards set by the VISC.
     10.3. Units maintaining digital still and video cameras will provide the manufacturer and
     model number to the VISC.
     10.4. Refer to AFI 35-109 for public release guidance.
11. Submitting Work Orders, AF Form 833.
     11.1. Requestors will submit a signed AF Form 833, Visual Information Work Request, to
     the VISC prior to performance of multimedia services.
        11.1.1. Requestors will certify, by signature, that the multimedia products or services are
        for official use only.
        11.1.2. Work requests will be submitted in person or by electronic means with an
        approvred digital signature.
     11.2. Requestors will submit work requests no more than 30 and no less than 5 duty days in
     advance of the event.
     11.3. Work requests submitted one day or less prior to the event and which are not
     emergency response support requested by Security Forces Squadron Law Enforcement Desk,
     Civil Engineering Squadron Fire Department, Wing Safety, and Command Post are accepted
     on a case-by-case basis per the approval of the section NCOIC or BMM.
MCCONNELLAFBI35-109 5 JULY 2012                                                            7


12. Official Multimedia Products and Services.
   12.1. United States Air Force multimedia equipment and resources are United States
   Government property used exclusively for official purposes.
   12.2. Unofficial use of multimedia equipment, resources, or services by military personnel
   violates Article 92 of the UCMJ and may result in punitive or administrative action.




                                          RICKY N. RUPP, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 22d Air Refueling Wing
 8                                               MCCONNELLAFBI35-109 5 JULY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFMAN 23-110, CD Basic USAF Supply Manual
DoD Directive 5040.5, Alteration of Official DOD Imagery
AFI 35-109, Visual Information
AFI 84-101, Art Program
Allowance Standard 629, Multimedia Support
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Reccomendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 833, Visual Information Work Request

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADC—Area Defense Counsel
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
BMM—Base Multimedia Manager
CD—R - Compact Disk - Recordable
CD—ROM - Compact Disk - Read Only Memory
DAPS—Defense Automated Printing Service
DAVIS/DITIS—the Defense Automated Visual Information System/Defense Instructional
Technology Information System
DoD—Department of Defens
DVD—Digital Video Disk
DV/VIP—Distinguished Visitor/Very Important Person
MCCONNELLAFBI35-109 5 JULY 2012                              9


IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—Information Management Tool
JAG—Judge Advocate General
MAFB—McConnell Air Force Base
MWR—Moral, Welfare, and Recreation
NCOIC—Non-Commissioned Officer In Charge
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSI—Office of Special Investigations
PA—Public Affairs
PWRR—Project, Workflow, Requirement, and Resources Manager
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty Assignment
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
VISC—Visual Information Service Center
