BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
22D AIR REFUELING WING                                            INSTRUCTION 24-301

                                                                          9 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                               Transportation

                                              OFFICIAL USE OF GOVERNMENT MOTOR
                                                                      VEHICLES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDITORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There is no releasability restriction on this publication

OPR: 22 LRS/LGLOQ                                                    Certified by: 22 MSG/CC
                                                                    (Col Michael A. Mendoza)
                                                                                      Pages: 17


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations. This
document addresses the authorized use of government motor vehicles (GMVs) and establishes
the installation’s vehicle misuse program. It applies to all USAF personnel assigned to
McConnell Air Force Base (MAFB) to include tenant and temporary duty (TDY) units that
utilize USAF GMVs. DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles
implements federal law (40 U.S.C. § 601-611, Motor Vehicle Pools and Transportation System
s) provides penalties for the willful use or authorization of any government-owned, government-
leased or government-rented motor vehicle for other than official purposes. Penalties for
military personnel are prescribed in the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In
Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

1. Permissible Operating Distance (POD). In accordance with DoD 4500.36R, para
C2.2.3.3.4 the POD is the distance from the installation that U-Drive-It (UDI) and owning unit
GMVs travel before competing with commercial carriers conducting scheduled transportation.
   1.1. The POD for MAFB is approved to encompass a 100 mile radius around the base.
 2                                            MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013


     1.2. Vehicles used to support the USAF Courier Transfer Station, Armed Forces Courier
     Service, AF Band, the AF Academy, and the AF Office of Special Investigation are exempt.
     1.3. The Following McConnell AFB units are exempt from the POD: 22 CES/CED,
22 LRS/LGRDF and 22 ARW/Honor Guard. Any remaining units requesting exemption to this
policy must submit a request in writing to the 22 LRS/CC.
     1.4. The following locations are preapproved to exceed the POD due to the high frequency
     of the Temporary Duty (TDY) travel: Scott AFB, IL; Vance AFB, OK; Tinker AFB, OK and
     Altus AFB, OK.
     1.5. Vehicle Dispatch will forward all requests that exceed the POD to the Vehicle
     Operations Supervisor. Approval authority to exceed the POD has been delegated by the 22
     LRS/CC to the Vehicle Operations Supervisor. Approval must be obtained 48 hours prior to
     departure.
2. Maximum Driving Time. In accordance with Title 49 Code of Federal Regulation,
Transportation, part 395, operators will be provided with at least 8 consecutive hours of rest
during any 24-hour period. An operator will not drive more than 10 hours in a duty day period
(including rest and meal breaks). If more than 10 hours are needed to complete operations,
supervisors will assign to each vehicle an assistant operator who is qualified to operate the
vehicle.
3. Official Use of GMVs. The same statute that restricts the use of Military Air (MilAir)
resources for official use (Title 31 U.S.C. Section 1344, Passenger Carrier Use) also restricts the
use of GMVs. Just as MilAir assets are carefully controlled because of their high value,
government vehicles are closely controlled because of their easy accessibility, high visibility, and
potential for misuse. Statutory law (Title 40 U.S.C. Subchapter VI - Motor Vehicle Pools and
Transportation Systems) prescribes that DOD establish an effective means of limiting the use of
GMVs to official governmental purposes (DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use
of Motor Vehicles). Unauthorized use of GMVs often results in unnecessary expenditure of
funds and public criticism. Transportation by a DOD motor vehicle shall not be provided when
the justification is based solely on reasons of rank, position, prestige, or personal convenience.
Although the major goal of Vehicle Operations is to provide quality support, commanders,
vehicle operators, and the base populace must know vehicle use restrictions and what constitutes
official use. Restrict use of all DOD motor vehicles, including those rented or leased, for official
purposes only; that is, uses that would further the mission of the Air Force. Providing a
government vehicle solely or principally to enhance the comfort or convenience of member(s) is
not permitted. Refer requests which appear to conflict with governing directives to the Vehicle
Operations Supervisor for evaluation. This element is staffed with trained experts capable of
making an official use determination.
     3.1. In addition to guidelines outlined in AFI 24-301, Section 3A, Para 3.1 & 3.2, restrict use
     of all DOD motor vehicles, including those rented or leased, for official purposes only; that
     is, uses that would further the mission of the Air Force. Providing a government vehicle
     solely or principally to enhance the comfort or convenience of member(s) is not permitted.
     All military and civilian employees need to take appropriate measures to prevent misuse,
     abuse, or willful acts/omissions that could cause damage to GMVs. Directing personnel to
MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013                                                              3


   violate official use restrictions is an unlawful order and should be reported to command or
   other appropriate agencies.
   3.2. Making Official Use Determinations: When questions arise about official use of motor
   vehicles, they shall be resolved in favor of strict compliance with statutory provisions and the
   policies of this instruction. Attachment 2, General Official Use Rules, and Attachment 3,
   GMV Official Rules for Transportation Terminals are provided to assist in making
   official use determinations. When guidance does not specifically fit a request for
   transportation support, commanders must document answers to the following questions prior
   to approving the use of a government motor vehicle:
       3.2.1. Is the purpose of the trip official (in support of an authorized DOD function,
       activity, or operation)?
       3.2.2. Does the request have the potential to create a perception that will reflect
       unfavorably on the Air Force or cause public criticism (can it be justified to a taxpayer)?
       3.2.3. Will the request impact mission requirements?
       3.2.4. Is commercial or DOD scheduled transportation available? It is important to note
       the Air Force does not provide transportation support that competes with commercial
       services.
       3.2.5. If provided, is GMV transportation the most cost effective method of satisfying the
       requirement?
4. Terminal Transportation.
   4.1. TDY Transportation Entitlements: The provisions of the Joint Federal Travel
   Regulations entitle military/DOD employees to be reimbursed for transportation services
   when in TDY status. GMVs should only be used to support TDY personnel when
   commercial means are not feasible. Pick up and drop off will be at an official duty location
   on the installation. Visiting (TDY) members may be picked up from assigned lodging in
   GMVs.
   4.2. Group Travel: Individuals or groups of less than 10 passengers will use privately-owned
   conveyance or commercial taxi for official transportation to commercial terminals on a
   reimbursable basis. Transportation by GMV may be considered when service is necessary
   due to emergency situations or to meet security requirements.
   4.3. Weapons Transport: Personnel required to transport weapons are authorized to use unit
   assigned GMVs. If units do not have an assigned GMV the Unit Deployment Manager
   (UDM) may request a UDI. The unit must provide a licensed driver to transport unit
   member and weapon to/from the commercial air terminal.
5. Vehicle Misuse Investigation. All personnel have a responsibility to report fraud, waste, and
abuse which encompasses GMV misuse. The report can be taken anonymously or you can leave
your name and number in case additional questions arise. Forward information listed in
Para 5.1 to the Operators Records and Licensing (OR&L) office at 759-1512. OR&L will
initiate their investigation within one duty-day of notification.
   5.1. Information required to initiate misuse case:
       5.1.1. Date/time.
 4                                           MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013


        5.1.2. Specific location (BX parking lot, Dormitory, Post Office, etc…).
        5.1.3. Vehicle’s make, model, color, and registration (plate number)
        5.1.4. Name and rank of all vehicle occupants if possible.
        5.1.5. Action of vehicle occupants if known (buying lunch, dropping off personnel,
        etc…).
     5.2. Common MAFB misuses:
        5.2.1. Private Organization use (i.e.; Booster Clubs, Top 3, Network 5/6, sq fundraisers).
        5.2.2. Unit events (i.e.; Holiday Parties, Physical Fitness, Hail/Farewell, Luncheons,
        etc…).
        5.2.3. Procuring DeCA/AAFES items for unit snack bar sales.
     5.3. Unit commanders shall: Provide evidence to refute the LRS commander's finding or
     acknowledge the validity of the case with actions that will be taken to prevent further
     infractions within 7 calendar-days of receipt.
     5.4. Vehicle Control Officer/NCO (VCO/VCNCO) shall: Take appropriate measures to
     educate assigned personnel on official use of GMVs to include misuse policies and
     prevention. Refer to AFI 24-301 for further clarification on misuse of GMVs.
6. Temporary Duty. The following local policies concerning TDY personnel have been
implemented to minimize GMV misuse, better ensure efficient support and help expedite misuse
investigations.
     6.1. The TDY status of an individual does not necessarily justify the use of a UDI vehicle.
     Justification will always be predicated on need, distance involved and other mission-related
     conditions.
     6.2. When adequate DOD or commercial bus system is available, the use of any individual
     motor vehicle or commercial rental car is prohibited. When authorized a GMV may be
     operated:
        6.2.1. Between places where the member’s presence is required for official business, or
        between such places and temporary lodging.
        6.2.2. Between places of business or lodging and eating establishments, drugstores,
        barber shops, places of worship, laundry cleaning establishments, and similar places
        required for sustenance of the member.
        6.2.3. If used off base, restrict the use of these vehicles to reputable eating
        establishments within 5 miles of the installation. Reputable is defined as an
        establishment whose primary purpose is food service and not providing alcohol
        (establishments with “Bar” in the name will be avoided). GMVs will not be taken to
        adult oriented establishments.
        6.2.4. Between places of business or lodging and installation bowling centers, officer and
        enlisted clubs, gymnasiums or any on-base Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) activity (e.g.,
        golf courses, rod & gun clubs) facilities required for the comfort or health of the member.
MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013                                                               5


       Use of motor vehicles for transportation to or from off-base entertainment or recreational
       facilities is prohibited.
   6.3. TDY personnel are allowed to use a GMV to and from on-base NAF locations for the
   comfort and health of the member. However, this does not include using a GMV for
   transport to non-NAF recreation activities such as sightseeing, fishing, hunting, skiing,
   hiking, driving, snorkeling or similar activities of a personal nature regardless of the
   proximity to the installation.
7. Permanent Party. Use of GMVs for personnel assigned to MAFB will be for official use
only and limited to mission accomplishment.
   7.1. Examples of unauthorized use of GMVs for permanently assigned personnel are:
       7.1.1. Personal business or pleasure to include on-base eating establishments.
       7.1.2. Transportation between domicile and duty to include dormitories, military
       housing, temporary lodging facilities and off-base private residences.
       7.1.3. GMVs will not be used to transport member's pets, Furnishings Management
       Office procured furniture or used in conjunction with permissive TDY house hunting.
       7.1.4. Parking GMVs or picking up passengers in a GMV at a non-duty location to
       enable partial home to work transportation.
       7.1.5. Open alcohol containers will not be allowed inside a GMV. Vehicle Operators
       will notify the on-duty dispatcher when any individual is creating a safety concern in
       connection with the operation of the vehicle. Dispatch will contact security forces or
       local law enforcement personnel to request assistance in removing personnel causing a
       disturbance.
       7.1.6. GMV support will not be provided to activities or agencies such as Airmen
       Against Drunk Drivers and other “Drunk Bus” proposals. These types of activities are
       self-supporting and/or a personal responsibility of individuals which does not warrant
       appropriated funded GMV support.
       7.1.7. No policy can cover every possible situation that could arise. When official use of
       a GMV is in doubt, contact 22 LRS/LGRDDO, 759-4050 for clarification.
8. Event Participation. Units may provide transportation to military and civilian personnel
officially taking part in public ceremonies, parades, and military field demonstrations (specific
examples of “officially taking part” in a ceremony include, but are not limited to, Master of
Ceremonies, Guest Speaker, Proffer, etc.). This is not to be interpreted as authority to transport a
member’s relatives or personal friends invited to attend activities such as retirements,
promotions, awards ceremonies, dedications, funerals, or any other similar functions.
Determinations regarding any question of authorized support for such activities will be resolved
in favor of strict compliance with rules outlined in this instruction to preclude any negative
public perception.
   8.1. After-Hours Functions: All transportation to official after-hours functions will begin
   and end at the individual’s normal place of duty, not at a residence.
       8.1.1. Appointed Commanders (not including Wing Commanders) will use their assigned
       or U-Drive-it GMV for official travel off-installation. Use of dedicated Vehicle
 6                                          MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013


        Operations personnel for permanent party members based on personal convenience and
        prestige is not authorized. Intentional actions to increase the size of the GMV to
        accommodate space-A travelers, i.e. spouses, dependants, etc. is strictly prohibited.
9. Emergency Response Vehicles.
     9.1. The use of GMVs by emergency response forces [e.g., Law Enforcement (22 SFS) and
     Fire Department (22 CES/CEF)] for travel to on-base military dining facilities and
     NAF/AAFES/DECA operated facilities when on-duty is authorized. The intent is to afford
     personnel to remain on duty and maintain the ability for immediate response while securing
     meals for health and sustenance. Do not grant any of the above authorities for the personal
     convenience of members. Personnel are prohibited from using GMVs for travel to and from
     their private quarters under this provision.




                                             JOEL D. JACKSON, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 22d Air Refueling Wing
MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013                                                         7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD Directive 4500.36R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 3 August 2004
Title 49 Code of Federal Regulation, Transportation
Title 31 U.S.C. Section 1344, Passenger Carrier Use
Title 40 U.S.C. Subchapter VI - Motor Vehicle Pools and Transportation Systems
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army Air Force Exchange Service
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Management System
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
DeCA— Defense Commissary Agency
DoD— Department of Defense
DV— Distinguished Visitor
GMV— Government Motor Vehicle
IAW— In Accordance With
IG— Inspector General
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MilAir—Military Air
NAF— Non Appropriated Funds
OPR—Office of Promary Responsibility
OR&L—Operators Records and Licensing
POD— Permissible Operating Distance
UDI— U-Drive-It
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
TDY—Temporary Duty
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
 8                                   MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013


VOCC—Vehicle Operations Control Center
MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013                                                            9


                                      Attachment 2
                          GENERAL OFFICIAL USE RULES

 (Excerpt from AFI 24-301_AMCSUP_I_A8_17Feb11)
Rule   A. Official/Relative          B. And transportation        C. Then transportation is:
       Requesting Transportation     is required for:
1      Permanent party personnel,    Personal errands,            NOT AUTHORIZED.
       including DOD civilian        sightseeing trips, fishing   Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
       employees, and approved       trips, shopping at local     Para C2.5.3. Transportation
       contractors using             malls, shoppettes,           is limited to official use only
       government provided           commissaries, recreation     and shall not be provided
       vehicles.                     centers, banks, ski trips,
                                                                  when the justification is
                                     night clubs/bars, etc.       based solely on reasons of
                                                                  rank, position, prestige, or
                                                                  personal convenience.
2.     Permanent party personnel,    Traveling to and from on     NOT AUTHORIZED.
       including DOD civilian        or off-base quarters.        References: DOD 4500.36-
       employees, and approved                                    R, Para C4.2.7.5. and Para
       contractors using                                          C4.2.8. EXCEPTION: Only
       government provided                                        when the military member
       vehicles.                                                  or DOD civilian employee
                                                                  is specifically authorized
                                                                  domicile-to-duty
                                                                  Transportation.
3.     Spouses of military members   Traveling with military      AUTHORIZED.
       or DOD civilian employees.    member to or from an         Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
                                     official function where      Para C2.5.7.2.1 –
                                     the spouse will              C2.5.7.2.4. When there is
                                     participate in the           space available and the size
                                     ceremony.                    of the vehicle is no larger
                                                                  than required for the
                                                                  performance of the official
                                                                  business.
4.     Spouses of military members   Traveling independently      AUTHORIZED.
       or DOD civilian employees.    to or from an official       Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
                                     function when it is          Para C2.5.7.3. Only when
                                     impractical for the          the spouse's sponsor is
                                     official to accompany the    authorized domicile-to-duty
                                     spouse enroute.              transportation and when the
                                                                  spouse’s presence at the
                                                                  function is in the best
 10                                     MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013


                                                                interest of the Government.
5.    Spouses/dependents of         Traveling to or from        NOT AUTHORIZED.
      military members or DOD       medical outpatient or       Reference: AFI 24-301,
      civilian employees.           dental appointments.        Para 3.26 and Para 3.27.
                                                                Only when traveling on a
                                                                regularly scheduled base
                                                                mass transportation service
                                                                on a space-available basis.

6.    Military members or DOD       Any purpose.                NOT AUTHORIZED.
      civilian employees on                                     Reference: AFI 24-301,
      Permissive TDY status.                                    Para 3.41. Personnel on
                                                                Permissive TDY are not
                                                                authorized dedicated
                                                                transportation support.
                                                                Space-A transportation
                                                                services may be used.
7.    Military members or DOD      Travel between billeting     AUTHORIZED.
      civilian employees on funded and duty location(s)         Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
      TDY status.                  required to conduct          Para C2.5.4.
                                   official business.
8.    Military members or DOD      Reputable off-base eating    AUTHORIZED.
      civilian employees on funded establishments in            References: DOD 4500.36-
      TDY status.                  reasonable proximity to      R, Para C2.5.4.2. and AFI
                                   the base or off-base         24-301, Para 3.6.3.
                                   lodging.
9.    Military members or DOD      To or from any off-base      NOT AUTHORIZED.
      civilian employees on funded entertainment or             Reference: AFI 24-301,
      TDY status.                  recreational facilities.
                                                                Para 3.6.4.
10.   Military members or DOD      On-base eating               AUTHORIZED.
      civilian employees on funded establishments, base         Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
      TDY status.                  exchange, barber shops,      Para C2.5.4.2.
                                   places of worship,
                                   cleaning establishments,
                                   fitness centers, and
                                   similar places required
                                   for the comfort or health
                                   of the member.
11.   Military members, DOD         Invited to attend an off-   AUTHORIZED.
      civilian employees and        base function in the        References: DOD 4500.36-
      Spouses.                      community and member        R, Para C2.5.1.1. and AFI
                                    is representing the AF.     24-301, Para 3.33. When
MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013                                                        11


                                                                approved by the installation
                                                                commander or other
                                                                competent authority
                                                                (delegated in-writing by the
                                                                installation commander;
                                                                typically the Public Affairs
                                                                officer).
12.   Permanent party military    On-base eating                NOT AUTHORIZED.
      members or DOD civilian     establishments, base          References: DOD 4500.36-
      employees.                  exchange, barber shops,       R, Paras C2.5. and C2.5.10.,
                                  places of worship,            and AFI 24-301, Paras 3.9.
                                  cleaning establishments,      and 3.15. Except when an
                                  fitness centers, and          individual has been
                                  similar places required       authorized a CACV. The
                                  for the comfort or health     installation commander may
                                  of the member.                authorize SFS, Fire
                                                                Department, ICBM, and
                                                                alert aircrews GMV
                                                                transport to on-base military
                                                                dining facilities.
13.   Personnel assigned to the   Administrative support,       AUTHORIZED.
      base Chapel.                picnics, special groups,      References: DOD 4500.36-
                                  social, activities, renewal   R, Para C2.5.5. and AFI 24-
                                  activities, chapel youth      301, Para 3.22. Based on
                                  trips or summer camps.
                                                                appropriated funding,
                                                                vehicles, and vehicle
                                                                operators. Support must not
                                                                pose a detriment to higher
                                                                priority missions. Chapel
                                                                representatives will identify
                                                                agency programs. Directly
                                                                supported squadron
                                                                organizations such as
                                                                orphanages will not be
                                                                support through APF.
14.   Dependent children of       Between on or off-base        NOT AUTHORIZED.
      military members or DOD     housing areas and the         Reference: AFI 24-301,
      civilian employees.         Child Development             Para 3.21.
                                  Center.
15.   Civilian organizations.     To military installations     AUTHORIZED.
                                  to take part in base          Reference: AFI 24-301,
                                  activities when invited       Para 3.32.
                                  and approved by the
                                  installation commander.
 12                                        MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013


16.   Military recruiter.              To transport prospective     AUTHORIZED.
                                       recruits in connection       References: DOD 4500.36-
                                       with interviews,             R, Para C2.5.9. and AFI 24-
                                       processing, and              301, Para 3.25.
                                       orientation.
17.   MWR Support Services.            In support of DOD-           AUTHORIZED.
                                       authorized MWR               Reference: AFI 24-301,
                                       programs, Family             Para 3.58. When it can be
                                       Service Center programs      provided without detriment
                                       or private organizations.    to the DOD mission and has
                                                                    been approved by the
                                                                    installation commander.
                                                                    Refer to DOD 4500.36-R
                                                                    for specific categories. Use
                                                                    NAF and commercial
                                                                    sources first.
18.   Retirees.                        When serving in an           AUTHORIZED.
                                       official capacity (usually   References: DOD 4500.36-
                                       under orders) for            R, Para C2.5.6. and AFI 24-
                                       ceremonies, speeches or      301, Paras 3.33. and
                                       base visits. Most            3.58.3.1.3. They are not
                                       common requests will be      insured by the government
                                       from retired General         and not allowed to drive a
                                       Officers and CMSgts of       GMV, but can be provided
                                       the AF.                      direct transport.
19.   Retirees.                        Under any other              NOT AUTHORIZED.
                                       circumstance not covered     References: DOD 4500.36-
                                       in Rule 18.                  R, Para C2.5.6. and AFI 24-
                                                                    301, Para 3.57.2.4. They
                                                                    may use scheduled shuttle
                                                                    buses on a space-available
                                                                    basis as category 4.
20.   Phase II students in training.   Dormitories to work          AUTHORIZED.
                                       center.                      Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
                                                                    Para C2.5.4.2. These
                                                                    students are in TDY status.
                                                                    Even though they reside in a
                                                                    dormitory, taxi support is
                                                                    authorized but should be
                                                                    based upon distance
                                                                    involved, and weather
                                                                    conditions.
MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013                                                     13


21.   Civilians.                When invited by the           AUTHORIZED.
                                installation commander        Reference: AFI 24-301,
                                or other competent            Para 3.32. These types of
                                authority (delegated in-      requests usually come from
                                writing by the installation   wing commander or above.
                                commander) to discuss
                                DOD issues.



22.   Permanent party or TDY    To or from a squadron         NOT AUTHORIZED.
      military members or DOD   holiday party, picnic, AF     Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
      civilian employees.       Ball, etc.
                                                              Para C2.5.1.1. This is not an
                                                              official function and
                                                              attendance is optional.
                                                              Official functions are
                                                              retirements, commander’s
                                                              calls, change of command
                                                              ceremonies and retreats (not
                                                              an all inclusive list).
 14                                     MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013


                                     Attachment 3
       GMV OFFICIAL USE RULES FOR TRANSPORTATION TERMINALS

 (Excerpt from AFI 24-301_AMCSUP_I_A9_17Feb11)
Rule   A. Official/Relative         B. And transportation       C. Then transportation is:
       Requesting Transportation    is required for:
1.     Official non-DOD visitors.   Invited to participate in   AUTHORIZED.
                                    DOD activities.             Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
                                                                Para C2.5.3.1. Individuals
                                                                are usually invited by a
                                    See Note 2.
                                                                wing commander or higher
                                                                and may or may not be on
                                                                funded orders.
2.     Personnel authorized          Official travel.           AUTHORIZED.
       domicile-to-duty                                         References: DOD 4500.36-
       transportation (to include                               R, Para C2.5.3.1. and
       those authorized domicile-to- See Notes 2 and 4.         Appendix 1.
       duty for field work).
3.     Personnel authorized CACV.   Official travel to          NOT AUTHORIZED.
                                    commercial terminals        Reference: AFI 24-301,
                                    (utilizing assigned         Para 3.15. Commanders use
                                    CACV).                      their CACV to discharge
                                                                official duties until their
                                                                arrival or departure. CACV
                                    See Note 4.
                                                                authority is then transferred
                                                                to the individual assuming
                                                                responsibility.
                                                                See Rule 9.
4.     Personnel authorized CACV.   Official travel to military AUTHORIZED.
                                    terminals or military        Reference: AFI 24-301,
                                    aircraft on the installation Para 3.15. Incidental use of
                                    (utilizing assigned          CACVs should be exercised
                                    CACV).                       reasonably and at no
                                                                 significant cost to the
                                                                 government. Commanders
                                    See Note 4.                  use their CACV to
                                                                 discharge official duties
                                                                 until their arrival or
                                                                 departure. CACV authority
                                                                 is then transferred to the
                                                                 individual assuming
MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013                                                       15


                                                                responsibility.
5.   Military members, spouses     Official travel and riding   AUTHORIZED.
     of military members, DOD      space available with a       Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
     civilian employees, spouses   person authorized            Para C4.2.4. Passenger
     of DOD civilian employees     domicile-to-duty             carrier must not travel an
     or approved contractors.      transportation (to include   additional distance as a
                                   those authorized             result of space-available
                                   domicile-to-duty for field   person.
                                   work).


                                   See Note 2.
6.   Military members, spouses     Military members,            NOT AUTHORIZED.
     of military members, DOD      spouses of military          References: DOD 4500.36-
     civilian employees, spouses   members, DOD civilian        R, Paras C2.5.3.2. -
     of DOD civilian employees     employees, spouses of        C2.5.3.2.5.
     or approved contractors.      DOD civilian employees
                                                                See Rule 9.
                                   or approved contractors.
7.   Military members, spouses     Official travel but under    AUTHORIZED.
     of military members, DOD      an emergency situation.      Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
     civilian employees, spouses                                Para C2.5.3.2.2. Emergency
     of DOD civilian employees                                  situations could include:
     or approved contractors.      See Notes 1, 2, and 4.
                                                                Commercial ground
                                                                transportation strikes,
                                                                natural disasters, enemy
                                                                attacks, large scale
                                                                deployments, military
                                                                aircraft being diverted to a
                                                                nearby airfield due to
                                                                weather, in-flight
                                                                emergency or an
                                                                unscheduled runway
                                                                closure. This is not an all
                                                                inclusive list. Personal
                                                                actions or decisions, (i.e.,
                                                                oversleeping, placing POV
                                                                in storage) do not constitute
                                                                an emergency situation.
                                                                When authorized, retain
                                                                justification in OLVIMS
                                                                Dispatch Module remarks
                                                                field for audit and
                                                                inspection purposes.
8.   Military members, spouses     Official travel but under    AUTHORIZED.
 16                                     MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013


      of military members, DOD      security requirements.      Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
      civilian employees, spouses                               Para C2.5.3.2.2. Security
      of DOD civilian employees                                 requirements could include
      or approved contractors.      See Notes 1 and 2.          transporting military
                                                                prisoners, government
                                                                issued weapons, movement
                                                                of personnel in high threat
                                                                environments or increased
                                                                FPCONs. Your installation
                                                                Commander may levy
                                                                increased force protection
                                                                measures. This is not an all
                                                                inclusive list. Retain
                                                                justification in OLVIMS
                                                                remarks field for audit
                                                                and inspection purposes.
9.    Military members, spouses     Official travel and motor   AUTHORIZED.
      of military members, DOD      vehicle transportation is   Reference: DOD 4500.36-R,
      civilian employees, spouses   determined to be            Para C2.5.3.2.3.
      of DOD civilian employees     essential to the
      or approved contractors.      performance of official     When modes (listed 1-5 in
                                    business, but terminal is   Rule 9) are not available in
                                    located in an area where    a responsive manner, the
                                    the following methods of    following methods shall be
                                    transportation cannot       considered in the order
                                    meet mission                shown and to the extent they
                                    requirements in a           are available and capable of
                                    responsive manner:          meeting transportation
                                                                requirements:

                                    1. DOD-scheduled bus
                                    service.                    1. DOD specially scheduled
                                                                leased or owned bus service.
                                    2. Scheduled public
                                    transportation.             2. Van pools.
                                    3. DOD motor vehicles –     3. DOD motor vehicle
                                    (unit assigned).            centrally dispatched
                                                                "taxicab" operation.
                                    4. Voluntary use of POV
                                    on a reimbursable basis.    4. DOD motor vehicles
                                                                individually dispatched to
                                    5. Taxicab, on a            licensed uniformed
                                    reimbursable basis.

                                                                Service member or Federal
                                    See Notes 1, 2, 3, and 4.   employee.
MCCONNELLAFBI24-301 9 DECEMBER 2013                                                              17



                                                                    The decision to use the
                                                                    GMV in this situation must
                                                                    be clearly justified and
                                                                    identify factors other than
                                                                    the rank, position, or
                                                                    personal convenience of the
                                                                    traveler.
                                                                    When authorized, retain
                                                                    justification in OLVIMS
                                                                    Dispatch Module remarks
                                                                    field for audit and
                                                                    inspection purposes.
Notes:
   1. Reference DOD 4500.36-R, Para C2.5.10. Transportation by a DOD motor vehicle shall
      not be provided when the justification is based solely on reasons of rank, position,
      prestige or personal convenience (i.e., generic policies allowing support to wing or group
      commanders and command chiefs, or individuals of a certain rank/pay grade such as O-6
      and above). The Head of the DOD Component concerned exercises authority over
      civilian personnel. Violations should be reported to the authorizing individual’s superior
      or the IG.
   2. For all rules except 3 and 4, official travel is directed at the transportation to/from
      commercial or military terminals, domicile or place of employment/primary duty. The
      Deployment and Distribution Flight Chief/Superintendent is the government vehicle
      official use approval authority for any request which appears to conflict with or is not
      sufficiently addressed in any cited governing directives or guidance.
   3. Methods of transportation listed which do not meet mission requirements in a responsive
      manner (see definition in this AFI) must be documented objectively on a case-by-case
      basis. Requests to provide other GMV support as a result of unresponsive transportation
      services listed above will be annotated in the OLVIMS Dispatch Module request remarks
      field and a copy of the justification will be retained for audit and inspection purposes.
   4. National Capital Region units refer to DODI 4515.7 and AFDW policy.
