BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
22D AIR REFUELING WING                                             INSTRUCTION 24-302

                                                                          16 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                  Transportation

                                                                   VEHICLE MANAGEMENT




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 22 LRS/LGRV                                                        Certified by: 22 LRS/CC
                                                                           (Lt Col Kyle Korver)
                                                                                         Pages: 8



This instruction establishes policies and procedures for an effective Vehicle Management
program at McConnell AFB and implements AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, and AFPD 24-3,
Management, Operation and Use of Transportation Vehicles. This instruction is applicable to all
persons operating government-owned/leased vehicles/equipment (GOV) assigned or attached to
McConnell AFB, supported by the 22d Logistics Readiness Squadron (22 LRS).

This instruction outlines definitions, responsibilities and procedures for an effective
accident/abuse program with the visibility and emphasis placed at the unit level and the direct
responsibility of the unit commander. It also establishes the vehicle idling guidance for the
wing. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

1. Policy and Objective
   1.1. The 22 LRS Vehicle Management Flight is not funded for accident and abuse repairs or
   GSA agency incurred expenses (AIE). Using organizations fund repairs resulting from these
   incurred costs, regardless of the determination of pecuniary liability. Visibility and emphasis
 2                                           MCCONNELLAFBI24-302 16 DECEMBER 2013


     is placed at the unit level and the direct responsibility of the unit commander to foster better
     operator care and condition of McConnell’s vehicle fleet. Unit Commanders and Flight
     Chiefs will ensure compliance with this instruction for vehicles managed and/or maintained
     by the 22 LRS/LGRV.
     1.2. The objective of this policy is to ensure maximum life expectancy and efficient use of
     limited government vehicle resources. Vehicle accident and abuse repair expenditures and
     GSA AIEs are preventable nearly all the time. The key to a successful program is an
     effective Vehicle Control Officer/Non-Commissioned Officer (VCO/VCNCO) program, with
     the organizational commander’s involvement. Operator training and care is essential in
     preventing needless repairs or expenses.
2. General.
     2.1. Owning/using organizations will accomplish reimbursement through Journal Voucher
     (JV) funds transfer from their operation and maintenance (O&M) account to the 22
     LRS/LGRV-designated O&M account. Where responsibility cannot be determined, the
     owning organization will be responsible for reimbursement. Using organizations include
     temporary duty (TDY) units utilizing the Vehicle Operation’s U-Drive-It (UDI) fleet or
     recalled vehicles from McConnell’s vehicle fleet. TDY units will be pursued by owning
     organizations for reimbursement on accidents/abuses.
     2.2. The vehicle involved in an incident will remain in the 22 LRS/LGRV compound unless
     a vendor estimate or repair is required, unless otherwise released by the Vehicle Fleet
     Manager (VFM) or Vehicle Management Superintendent (VMS). The using organization is
     not authorized a replacement vehicle from the 22 LRS Vehicle Operations Dispatch (22
     LRS/LGRDDO) UDI vehicle fleet, unless approved by the VFM or the VMS for vehicles
     involved in accidents/abuses. Accident/abuse cases will not count towards the unit’s mission
     essential levels (MELs) and priority repairs will be looked at on a case-by-case basis by the
     VFM or VMS and considered based on current workload.
     2.3. Upon occurrence of an accident or notification of suspected vehicle abuse, the unit
     commander or designated representative will initiate an investigation in accordance with
     AFM 23-220, Report of Survey for Air Force Property, Chapters 3 and 18, to determine the
     need for a report of survey.
     2.4. When individual payment for damage, of a GOV, is anticipated, the actual amount of
     the repair will be computed using the AF Form 20. This is accomplished after the repairs are
     made.
     2.5. If a government owned vehicle (GOV) or leased vehicle/equipment is involved in an
     accident with a privately owned vehicle (POV) the appropriate civil law enforcement
     authority or the 22d Security Forces Squadron (22 SFS) will be notified to conduct an
     investigation of the incident. If investigation determines the responsible party to be the GOV
     owned/leased operator, the GOV owning organization is responsible for reimbursement of
     repair costs for the GOV or leased vehicle/equipment. The 22 ARW/JA will oversee the
     processing of any claims against the United States filed by the POV operator. If a GOV or
     leased vehicle/equipment is involved in an accident with a POV, and evidence indicates that
     the POV operator is the responsible party, the 22 LRS/LGRV will coordinate with the 22
     ARW/JA in all actions, if any, to obtain payment for damages from the POV operator or the
MCCONNELLAFBI24-302 16 DECEMBER 2013                                                          3


   POV operator’s insurance company. If the operator of the POV is uninsured, the 22
   LRS/LGRV will coordinate repairs on the GOV vehicle/equipment at no cost to the
   owning/using organization and 22 ARW/JA will oversee any actions, if any, to pursue
   reimbursement for non-GSA assets. If a GSA-leased vehicle/equipment is involved in an
   accident with a POV, GSA Accident Control Center will coordinate or pursue all actions, if
   any, against the POV operator or POV operator’s insurance to obtain payment for damages.
   If the operator of the POV is uninsured and GSA Accident Control Center cannot recover the
   accident cost, then the 22 ARW will be charged the repair cost through an agency incurred
   expense. The 22 LRS/LGRV will coordinate with the 22 ARW/JA to pursue reimbursement
   for GSA accident charges.
   2.6. Report UDI or loaned vehicle damage to 22 LRS/LGRSD and 22 LRS/LGRV within 24
   hours.
   2.7. The 22d Mission Support Group Commander (22 MSG/CC) is the final decision
   authority to resolve any conflicts concerning this program.
3. Procedures.
   3.1. The using organization reports all vehicle damage to the 22 SFS immediately. NLT the
   next duty day damage is reported to the 22 LRS/LGRV and the vehicle is turned in. All
   GOVs will be reported to Vehicle Management Flight Customer Service, building 710. GSA
   vehicles will be reported to Vehicle Management & Analysis (VM&A) office. The vehicle
   must be accompanied by the AF From 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble
   Report and a completed SF 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report. A Security Forces accident
   form or statement of accident should be turned in with the vehicle, if available. GSA vehicle
   damage is also reported to the GSA Accident Control Center, the 22 ARW/JA and the 22d
   Air Refueling Wing Safety Office (22 ARW/SE) within the same time frame.
   3.2. The VFM/VMS will decide whether or not to initiate accident, abuse or incident action
   on the vehicle. All accident and abuse cases will be forwarded to the 22 LRS/CC, who will
   make the final determination.
   3.3. The using organization will be responsible for obtaining repair estimates from a local
   vendor for GSA vehicles. A copy of this estimate will be provided to VM&A and GSA.
   3.4. The Vehicle Management Flight will provide the squadron commander of the using
   organization a letter of accident/abuse notification. If responsibility cannot be determined,
   the letter will be sent to the owning organization.
   3.5. Using/owning organizations will submit a vehicle release letter within 5 calendar days
   from the date of the accident/abuse, unless the owning organization, in coordination with
   VFM/VMS, determines more time is needed. GOV maintenance repairs will commence after
   the 5th calendar day of the vehicle being reported to the 22 LRS/LGRV. Accidents/abuses to
   GSA-leased assets require repair approval through the GSA Accident Control Center with
   notification to the 22 LRS/LGRV. Units will provide Vehicle Management and Analysis (22
   LRS/LGRV) copies of all estimates, accident forms, pictures and repair bills for GSA-leased
   vehicles. GSA will determine repairs required to vehicles and where the unit will take the
   vehicle for repairs.
 4                                           MCCONNELLAFBI24-302 16 DECEMBER 2013


     3.6. The using organization will deliver and pick up all leased vehicles from local vendors
     for damage estimate or repair.
4. GSA AIE
     4.1. A GSA AIE is defined as an agency incurred expense billed from GSA. This is a cost
     outside those paid for in the GSA lease agreement. Normally this is a repair or expense not
     attributed to fair wear and tear or affecting the run ability of the vehicle.
     4.2. Owning/using organizations are subject to bear all costs of GSA AIEs.
     4.3. Attachment 2 provides, but not limited to, a list of examples of when an AIE may be
     billed to an agency. For further information, contact your GSA Fleet Service Representative.
5. Vehicle Idling Policy
     5.1. All personnel operating vehicles owned/leased by the 22 ARW will adhere to the “5
     minute” idle policy IAW AFI24-302, Vehicle Management with the following exemptions.
     5.2. Emergency and law enforcement vehicles, military tactical vehicles and snow removal
     vehicles and equipment are exempt for emergencies, military training requirements, disaster
     relief/humanitarian operations, or winter storm response activities/snow removal. In addition
     any vehicle will be exempt if the engine must idle for proper operation of life/property saving
     accessories or if activity is required for public safety.
     5.3. All vehicles will be attended while idling during inclement weather and may exceed the
     “5 minute” idling policy under the following conditions.
        5.3.1. Air conditioner use when the heat category flag colors are “red” or “black”.
        5.3.2. Heater use when temperatures reaching 40 degrees or less with or without wind
        chill factors.




                                              JOEL D. JACKSON, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
MCCONNELLAFBI24-302 16 DECEMBER 2013                                          5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 29 June 2012
AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation Vehicles, 7 July 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms: None
Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRIMS—Air Force records Information Management System
AIE—Agency Incurred Expense
CC—- Commander
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
GSA—General Services Administration
IAW—- In Accordance With
JV—Journal Voucher
LRS—Logistic Readiness Squadron
MEL—Mission Essential Level
MSG—Mission Support Group
NLT—No Later Than
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFS—Security Force Squadron
TDY—Temporary Duty
UDI—U-Drive-It
VCO/VCNCO—Vehicle Control Officer/Non-Commissioned Officer
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
 6                                         MCCONNELLAFBI24-302 16 DECEMBER 2013


VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis
VMS—Vehicle Management Superintendent

Terms
Fair Wear and Tear—The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment based on its
age, usage and life expectancy.
Vehicle Accident—Any situation where a GOV strikes or is struck by another GOV,
commercial vehicle, POV and/or object, structure or animal.
Vehicle Abuse—Damage caused by willful or negligent acts of improper operation or care. An
act or omission that has caused, or may cause, damage that cannot be attributed to fair wear and
tear, accident or incident. Some examples of vehicle abuse are listed in Attachment 2.
Vehicle Incident—Any situation where a GOV sustains damage where the actions of the vehicle
operator could not have prevented the outcome (i.e., act of nature). Note: Wind damage is not
an act of nature; users have control over opening and closing of doors.
GSA Agency Incurred Expense—A cost billed by GSA outside those paid for in the GSA lease
agreement. Normally this is a repair or expense not attributed to fair wear and tear or affecting
the run ability of the vehicle.
MCCONNELLAFBI24-302 16 DECEMBER 2013                                                           7


                                         Attachment 2
                      EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE AND AIES

NOTE: The examples below are not an all-inclusive list of vehicle abuses.
A2.1. Vehicle reimbursement action will be initiated for vehicle/equipment damage or failure
resulting from:
   A2.1.1. Tampering with governors or distributors.
   A2.1.2. Operating vehicles with insufficient oils or coolants because of failure to check
   levels according to established requirements or failure to monitor dash instrumentation.
   A2.1.3. Operating a vehicle with applied/dragging parking brakes.
   A2.1.4. Improper distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo areas of vehicle or
   not following established loading/unloading procedures.
   A2.1.5. Using a vehicle for other than its intended or designed purpose (i.e., 6K F/L used to
   transport a 10,000 pound pallet, bobtail tow-tractor used to transport passengers).
   A2.1.6. Failure to clean/maintain a vehicle’s interior/exterior to meet corrosion control and
   appearance requirements.
   A2.1.7. Unauthorized wiring, marking, modification or adding special equipment
   unauthorized in or on vehicles.
   A2.1.8. Operating a vehicle with improperly inflated tires (not in accordance with the
   manufacturer’s recommended inflation pressure as marked on the vehicle) or tire wear that is
   beyond recoupable limits (i.e., cord exposed).
   A2.1.9. A vehicle being operated by an unqualified/untrained operator.
   A2.1.10. Intentional destruction/disfigurement of vehicle interior/exterior.
   A2.1.11. Operation of a vehicle/equipment in conflict with published Department of
   Defense, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Air Force Occupational Safety and
   Health, Air Force regulations/instructions/manuals/technical orders or Kansas law
   concerning vehicle safety.
A2.2. Other situations where vehicle abuse action may be initiated:
   A2.2.1. Failure to report malfunctions, defects in or damage to a vehicle to 22 LRS/LGRV
   within 24 hours of discovery. A preapproved delay of this action to satisfy immediate
   mission needs can be authorized, but must be coordinated through the Vehicle Management
   and Analysis section.
   A2.2.2. Failure to bring a vehicle/equipment to 22 LRS/LGRV for scheduled maintenance
   before an overdue condition exists. Preapproved rescheduling for early accomplishment of
   scheduled maintenance in order to meet urgent mission requirements can be accomplished to
   prevent this condition from occurring.
   A2.2.3. Wind damage.
 8                                          MCCONNELLAFBI24-302 16 DECEMBER 2013


     A2.2.4. Unreported accident damage or other damage not attributed to an incident or
     accident.
     A2.2.5. Vehicle damage or system failures not attributed to fair wear and tear.
A2.3. Situations where a GSA AIE may be initiated:
     A2.3.1. Body or glass damage or missing vehicle parts.
     A2.3.2. Premature tire wear.
     A2.3.3. Premature or overdue schedule maintenance.
     A2.3.4. Vehicle add-on or modification not directed by GSA.
     A2.3.5. Purchases with the vehicle’s fleet card, which does not affect the run ability of the
     vehicle. Unauthorized or unidentifiable purchase of items or services. Improper fuel grade
     or excessive purchases of oil and other authorized fluids. Purchases not authorized by the
     maintenance control center or receipts not provided to the GSA Fleet Service Representative.
     A2.3.6. Failure to perform operator’s care or safeguard the vehicle.
     A2.3.7. Vehicle deterioration above fair wear and tear upon termination. This includes
     damage or add-on equipment required to be removed, by GSA, prior to resale.
