BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
22D AIR REFUELING WING                                            INSTRUCTION 23-502

                                                                        28 SEPTEMBER 2010

                                                                         Materiel Management

                                                                   MANAGEMENT OF
                                                       RECOVERABLE/REUSABLE LIQUID
                                                              PETROLEUM PRODUCTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 22 LRS/LGRF                                                      Certified by: 22 MSG/CC
Supersedes: McConnellAFBI23-502,                                      (Colonel Pat A. Rose, Jr.)
            17 July 2003                                                                Pages: 5


This instruction establishes local policy and procedures for the segregation and recovery of on-
specification petroleum products drained from aircraft or fuel storage and dispensing equipment.
This instruction implements AFPD 23-5, Reusing and Disposing of Material, and procedures for
segregation and disposition of off-specification fuels is addressed in McConnell AFBI 32-7002
and TO 42B-1-23. This publication applies to all base organizations creating recoverable and
reusable liquid petroleum products. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Office name change and bldg number change, office name change, contact CES/CEAN
before cleaning a bowser. Deleted reference AFOSH Standard 48-8.


1. Responsibilities. All organizations are responsible for the proper segregation and safe
keeping of recoverable or waste petroleum products generated or collected within the
 2                                          MCCONNELLAFBI23-502 28 SEPTEMBER 2010


organization. The Fuels Management Flight is responsible for verifying the quality of on-
specification products returned to active storage and periodic inspection of bowsers used for
collection and segregation of recoverable aviation fuels. Collection and disposition of petroleum
products determined to be unsuitable for use, waste oils, waste hydraulic fluids, and other waste
petroleum products is the responsibility of the generating/collecting organization and must
comply with the provisions of MAFBI 32-7002.
     1.1. Aircraft Maintenance Organization. Aircraft maintenance organizations must maintain
     a sufficient number of portable bowsers to allow for the segregation and collection of each
     grade of aviation fuel. Aviation fuel bowsers must meet the criteria specified in TO 42B-1-
     23. The owning organization will:
        1.1.1. Mark fuel bowsers with serial numbers and organization symbol to aid in tracking
        quality control and inspection data.
            1.1.1.1. Ensure bowsers are clean internally and externally to prevent contamination
            of the product.
            1.1.1.2. Ensure aviation fuel is segregated from other fuels, oils, hydraulic fluids, and
            other substances to avoid having to dispose of the fuel as hazardous waste.
            1.1.1.3. After coordination through the Fuels Service Center, deliver full fuel
            bowsers, which require emptying to the Fuels Storage Area (bldg 968). Bowsers
            meeting criteria of TO 42B1-23 will be emptied immediately and returned to active
            storage. Owning organizations will remain with the bowser until completed.
            1.1.1.4. Coordinate with the Hazardous Waste and Materiel Manager at Civil
            Engineer Assement Management Flight, Evirionment Element (CEAN) to properly
            dispose of a product that is determined to be unsuitable for returning to active storage
            or downgraded for ground use.
2. Fuels Management Flight. The Fuels Management Flight will maintain test equipment and
defueling equipment necessary to recover on-specification aviation fuel. Using guidelines
specified in TO 42B-1-1, a qualified fuels technician will inspect the bowser and analyze a
sample of the product from the bowser sump. If water is present, the organization will be
required to remove water. After removal, a resample will be taken and analyzed. The Fuels
Laboratory will be notified to perform further analysis any time a visual analysis fails color or
solids. Product disposition will be determined based on the criteria contained in TO 42B-1-23,
Table 3-1. Product that cannot be recovered will be turned back over to the generating/collecting
organization for disposal.
3. Returning Recoverable Aviation Fuel to Active Storage. Bowser will need to be equipped
with a three-inch male cam-lock coupling. Quantity in the receiving tank will be checked prior
to the transfer to ensure the ten-to-one blending ratio is met. This ensures the minimum number
of filtrations required in TO 42B-1-23 are met prior to the fuel being issued to an aircraft.
4. Inspection and Cleaning of Aviation Fuel Bowsers.
     4.1. Fuels Laboratory personnel will inspect the internal compartment of aviation fuel
     bowsers following a laboratory analysis in which the product in a bowser was not suitable for
     returning to active storage.
MCCONNELLAFBI23-502 28 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                        3


   4.2. Bowsers that fail an internal inspection will be cleaned by the owning organization and
   re-inspected by Fuels Laboratory personnel prior to being used to collect and store
   recoverable fuel. Contact 22 CES/CEAN prior to beginning cleaning operations for
   assistance with waste disposal arrangements. Bowsers may be steam cleaned or flushed with
   water and/or dry cleaning solvents. All residue from cleaning must be collected and disposed
   of IAW TO 42B-1-23. The bowser must be free of all water and/or residual dry cleaning
   solvent before it can be used for collecting/storing fuel.
5. Credit for Recovered Aviation Fuel. Petroleum products drained from aircraft, vehicles,
and storage tanks represent a significant economic resource. A conscientious effort must be
made to collect and segregate these products so they can be used for their intended purposes.
Downgrading of off-specification product to a product of less stringent quality standards or
resale through DRMO channels are optional, but should only be considered when it is not
possible to use the product for its intended purpose.
   5.1. Fuel returned to active storage will be credited back to the AVPOL program at the
   standard stock fund price.
6. Prescribed Forms/IMT’s: No Forms or IMT’s prescribed by this publication.
7. Adopted Forms/IMT’s: AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           JAMES W. CROWHURST, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 22 Air Refueling Wing
 4                                      MCCONNELLAFBI23-502 28 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR 1910.134, Respiratory Protection, 12 December 2008
AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, 10 February 2005
TO 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air, 13 March 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB— Air Force Base
AFOSH— Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFR— Air Force Regulation
BEE— Bioenvironmental Engineer
BE— Bioenvironmental Engineering
CFR— Code of Federal Regulations
HEPA— High Efficiency Particulate Air
IDLH— Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health
IEX— Issue Exception
LEL— Lower Explosive Limit
MAJCOM— Major Air Command
MSHA— Mine Safety and Health Administration
NIOSH— National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health
NSN— National Stock Number
OEL— Occupational Exposure Limit
OI— Operating Instruction
OIC— Officer-In-Charge
OSHA— Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PPM— Parts Per Million
RPP— Respiratory Protection Program
SCBA— Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus
TO— Technical Order
MCCONNELLAFBI23-502 28 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                            5


Terms
shall— Indicates a mandatory requirement.
will— Indicates a mandatory requirement that expresses a declaration of intent, probability or
determination.
should— Indicates a preferred method of accomplishment.
may— Indicates an acceptable or satisfactory method of accomplishment.
aerodynamic diameter— Diameter of a unit density sphere having the same terminal settling
velocity as the particle in question.
air-purifying respirator— A respirator that removes contaminants from the ambient air.
approved respirator— An approved device designed to provide the wearer with respiratory
protection against inhalation of harmful atmospheres. Also, the following conditions shall be
met: The respirator shall be tested and listed by the National Institute for Occupational Safety
and Health (NIOSH) or the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). Refer to the latest
NIOSH Certified Equipment List for approved respirators. If a tight-fitting respirator is used, the
respirator shall have a design that allows the following tests to be performed: positive and
negative pressure tests and a Fit-Test.
emergency-response respirator— Respiratory protection which is reserved and maintained
solely for emergency or disaster response (e.g., spill response and containment).
