BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                INSTRUCTION 34-1
                                                                                             1 JUNE 2004

                                                                                                   Services

                                                                                         PRIME KNIGHT



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 305 AMW/CP (Major J. Michael Benson)               Certified by: 305 AMW/DS (Col Thomas Toole)
Supersedes MAFBI 34-1, 15 Apr 2002                                                           Pages: 6
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction establishes procedures, sets forth policy, and outlines responsibilities for supporting
AMC or AMC-gained transient aircrews at McGuire AFB. This base instruction supplements the rules
and procedures set forth in AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, AMCI 10-202V2, Command and
Control Responsibilities and Procedures, and AMCI 34-1, Prime Knight.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Revisions were made to bring this instruction into compliance with AMCI 34-1. This instruction makes
changes to the responsibilities of the Command Post Chief. References to 21st Air Force Instructions and
office symbols (21 AF/DOI) in paragraph 5.2. have been removed. All phone numbers have been
removed in paragraphs 4.2.2., 4.2.4., and 4.2.8. 514th Reserve Operations Center (ROC) has replaced
514th Wing Operations Center (WOC) in paragraph 4.2.13. Paragraph 5.4.3. has been removed. A
bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.


1. Purpose. This instruction establishes the McGuire AFB Prime Knight Program as required by AMCI
34-1. This instruction highlights specific actions accomplished at McGuire AFB to implement the Prime
Knight Program and will not restate requirements established by AMCI 34-1 or its supplements. These
procedures do not take precedence over AFI 34-246 or AMCI 10-202V2 and if a discrepancy occurs refer
to the appropriate Air Force Instruction.

2. Overview. Prime Knight (PK) is a mandatory service provided to all AMC, AMC Gained or AMC
Controlled aircrews. Time and conditions permitting this service will be extended to all transient aircrews.
This service should allow the aircrew to proceed directly from the plane to their crew rest location, sup-
port them throughout their stay, and return to the aircraft from the crew rest location without unnecessary
stops or disruptions. The coordinated efforts of aircrews, Command Post, Base Operations, Vehicle Man-
agement, Lodging, Food Services and Security Forces are required to support this program.
2                                                                   MCGUIREAFBI34-1 1 JUNE 2004


3. Appointments.
    3.1. The Chief of Command Post will function as the Prime Knight Manager.
    3.2. The Command Post Duty Officer and Operations Controllers will handle the Aircrew Coordina-
    tor functions.

4. Responsibilities.
    4.1. The Prime Knight Manager will:
       4.1.1. Ensure qualified personnel are available to meet each aircraft. All Command Post Duty
       Officers and Operations Controllers will be qualified to drive on the flight line and to collect clas-
       sified material. Command Post will maintain a vehicle to provide this service. When periods of
       over-saturation occur the crew will be directed to the Command Post window to receive their PK
       packet and drop off classified material.
       4.1.2. Ensure PK information packet is complete and up to date. The packet should be reviewed
       semi-annually to verify base map, on and off-base dining, operating hours, in-flight menu, and
       other information is correct, current and coordinated between Services and Transportation.
       4.1.3. Review 24-hour dining plan and published transportation priorities semi-annually.
       4.1.4. Ensure a viable self-inspection program exists for Prime Knight. The 305 AMW Prime
       Knight Self-Inspection Checklist (Attachment 2) will be conducted on a semi-annual basis.
    4.2. The Aircrew Coordinator will:
       4.2.1. Confirm receipt of orders for aircrews requiring PK service for the next 24 hours at the start
       of shift. If orders cannot be obtained then request crew count (number of officers/enlisted, male/
       female) during the three hour out call (or 30 minute out call as last resort).
       4.2.2. Pass orders or crew count and ETA/ETB to the Lodging Office no later than three hours
       prior to arrival (30 minutes if three hour-out call is not received).
       4.2.3. Notify Vehicle Dispatch (Hotline) of ETA/ETB when 30 minute out call is received and
       ensure Dispatch is informed mission is Prime Knight.
       4.2.4. Notify Law Enforcement Desk of ETA/ETB when 30 minute out call is received if crew
       notifies Command Post of need to turn in weapons.
       4.2.5. Assemble PK packet. Add GDSS Form 59, Aircrew Brochure, and PK critique to informa-
       tion provided by Lodging Office.
       4.2.6. Contact Vehicle Dispatch (Hotline) when aircraft is on the ground.
       4.2.7. Ensure the aircrew is met within 10 minutes of aircraft block in. The representative will
       have the PK packet, lodging information (to include non-availability statements or contacts if
       available) and the aircraft commander cell phone (when available during contingency operations).
       The representative will ensure transportation is standing by at the aircraft and be able to sign for
       classified material. If the aircrew cannot be met due to over-saturation inform the crew to proceed
       to the Command Post window for one-stop processing.
       4.2.8. Pass aircrew requested outbound bus time to Vehicle Dispatch and Dining Facility access
       time to facility manager (if applicable) upon return to the Command Post.
MCGUIREAFBI34-1 1 JUNE 2004                                                                           3


     4.2.9. Sign aircrew classified material over to the Base Operations representative via AF IMT
     1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, (305 CP Overprint) (Attachment 2) upon return to Command
     Post.
     4.2.10. Ensure aircrew orders are faxed to next crew rest location no later than 30 minutes after
     departure.
     4.2.11. The Aircrew Coordinator will compile information on prior notice given, PK service pro-
     vided and number of aircrews met at aircraft.
     4.2.12. Critiques will be collected from outbound Aircraft Commanders when showing at Com-
     mand Post prior to delivery of flight plans. The Aircrew coordinator will review critiques with the
     Aircraft Commander to clarify uncertain areas. A box is posted outside the Command Post win-
     dow for critique drop off IAW AMCI 34-1.
     4.2.13. Orders will be collected from all outbound 305th aircrews to facilitate PK service for crew
     while on missions. Requests for orders for 514th aircrews will be referred to the 514th Reserve
     Operations Center (ROC). Orders will be maintained until the published FSRT.
  4.3. The Lodging Manager will:
     4.3.1. Assemble PK information to include as a minimum: McGuire AFB map, McGuire AFB
     Services map, McGuire/Ft. Dix Location map, Dining Facility hours, Hungry? Need a Service?
     Dining guide, In-Flight Kitchen Order Form, Air Force Inns USAF Services Critique (if on base
     lodging is provided), McGuire AFB quick telephone reference list, and McGuire AFB: A Guide
     Pamphlet. The Lodging Representative will contact Vehicle Dispatch to transport the packet to
     Command Post no later than 30 minutes prior to ETA/ETB. Additional items to be included
     should be forwarded to the Prime Knight Manager for approval. The PK information will be
     reviewed at least semi-annually with the PK Manager.
     4.3.2. Contact Vehicle Dispatch to transfer the PK information to the Aircrew Coordinator.
     4.3.3. Pass aircrew orders received directly from aircrew to Command Post to ensure PK service.
  4.4. The Food Services Representative will:
     4.4.1. Review 24-hour dining plan with the Prime Knight Manager semi-annually.
     4.4.2. Provide normal meal service within designated hours. Outside of normal service hours
     breakfast meals will be provided from 2100-0830L and lunch or dinner meals will be provided
     from 0830-2100L.
  4.5. The Vehicle Management Representative will:
     4.5.1. Review published transportation priority listing with the Prime Knight Manager semi-annu-
     ally.
     4.5.2. Arrange transportation for the PK information package when contacted by lodging.
  4.6. The Airfield Manager will:
     4.6.1. Notify the Aircrew Coordinator of aircraft land time within five minutes of landing.
     4.6.2. Provide capability to receive aircrew classified material for storage from PK representative
     via AF Form 1297 (305 CP Overprint).
4                                                                 MCGUIREAFBI34-1 1 JUNE 2004


       4.6.3. Maintain computer systems providing access to flight and mission planning tools.
    4.7. The Security Forces Armory will maintain 24-hour capability to receive and store aircrew weap-
    ons.

5. Prime Knight Critiques and Reporting.
    5.1. Critique Processing.
       5.1.1. Critiques will be provided.
       5.1.2. Critiques will be collected from outbound Aircraft Commanders when showing at Com-
       mand Post prior to delivery of flight plans. The Aircrew Coordinator will review critiques with the
       Aircraft Commander to clarify uncertain areas. A box is posted outside the Command Post win-
       dow for critique drop off IAW AMCI 34-1.
    5.2. Critiques Requiring Immediate Response. Critiques requiring immediate response will be for-
    warded by the Aircrew Coordinator to the Prime Knight Manager and the appropriate Squadron Com-
    mander(s) will be contacted via email for action. The Squadron Commander will have five (5) days to
    reply to the Prime Knight Manager. The Prime Knight Manager collects inputs and forwards a reply to
    the Aircraft Commander, 305 AMW/CC, and appropriate Group and Squadron Commanders.
    5.3. All Other Critiques. All other critiques will be collected by the Aircrew Coordinator and for-
    warded to the Prime Knight Manager for the monthly report. Critique comments will be forwarded
    periodically throughout the month to facilitate process improvement in a timely fashion.
    5.4. End of Month Reporting.
       5.4.1. The Aircrew Coordinator will compile information on total number of transients each
       month to include prior notice given, PK service provided and number of aircrews met at aircraft.
       5.4.2. All critique comments will be collected and forwarded to the appropriate Squadron Com-
       manders no later than the 3rd day of each month. Comments should be reviewed to improve PK
       service and any applicable remarks should be returned to the Prime Knight Manager prior to the
       5th of each month. Negative replies are required.



                                              JIMMIE C. JACKSON, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 305th Air Mobility Wing
MCGUIREAFBI34-1 1 JUNE 2004                                          5


                                        Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program
AMCI 10-202V2, Command and Control Responsibilities and Procedures
AMCI 34-1, Prime Knight

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—Aircraft Commander
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AMW/CC—Air Mobility Wing Commander
ETA/ETB—Estimated Time of Arrival/Blocks
IAW—In Accordance With
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PK—Prime Knight
6                                                                  MCGUIREAFBI34-1 1 JUNE 2004


                                             Attachment 2

              AF IMT 1297, TEMPORARY ISSUE RECEIPT (305 CP OVERPRINT)
Directions for Use
Fill in the labeled sections as directed below:
Issued to: Signature (CP Rep) – Self Explanatory
Issued to: Name, Grade, Orgn (CP Rep) – Self-Explanatory
Duty Phone – Not used for local form
Orgn Acct No. – Not used for local form
Issued By – Crewmember’s printed name
Date of Issue – Date items received from crewmember
Return Date – Estimated date of departure
Stock Number – Seal number on received items
Description of Item – Physical description of received items (e.g. one sealed large blue bag)
U/I – Not used for local form
Qnty – not used for local form
Received From (CP Rep) – CP representative’s printed name
Received By (Base Ops) – Base Ops representative’s printed name
Signature (Base Ops) – Self-explanatory
