BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              MAFB INSTRUCTION 20-101
305TH AIR MOBILITY WING (AMC)                                                              2 MARCH 2000

                                                                                                   Logistics

                                                        PRECIOUS METALS RECOVERY PROGRAM
                                                                                   (PMRP)



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 305 SUPS/LGSDI (Mr. Jones)                               Certified by: 305 SUPS/LGSD (Lt Henley)
Supersedes MAFBI 20-101, 6 Dec 95                                                              Pages: 5
                                                                                        Distribution: F

MAFBI 20-10. This instruction provides instructions and procedures required to carry out the Air Force
policy and implementation of the Precious Metals Recovery Program (PMRP). This regulation applies to
all host and tenant units assigned or attached to McGuire Air Force Base. All units who generate precious
metal bearing scrap or waste, as defined in these instructions, are subject to the provisions of this regula-
tion. This instruction implements AFMAN 23-110, Vol VI, Chapter 4.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Revisions have been made to bring this instruction into compliance with the new publication series and
the new Wing designation.



1. REFERENCES: AFMAN 23-110, Volume VI, Chapter 4 (Precious Metals Recovery Program), AFM
67-1, Volume V, Chapter 23 (Medical Organizations only), DOD 4160.21M, Chapter X (Precious Metals
Recovery Program), T.O. 00-25-113 series (Conservation, Segregation and Disposal of Precious Metals).

2. OBJECTIVES:
   2.1. To urge the economical recovery of high cost (precious) metals from photographic processing
   chemicals; from old or scrap film, scrap metal waste including borings, fillings, dental amalgam; and
   from excess non-recoverable parts, bits and pieces, that are generated from electronic parts, engines,
   airframes and other scrap or waste known to be high cost metal bearing components. Precious metals
   to be recovered include silver, gold, platinum, palladium, iridium, rhodium, osmium, and ruthenium.
   2.2. Ensure that commanders of organizations who gain high cost metal bearing scrap or waste,
   appoint, in writing, a PMRP monitor and build a firm recovery program to reclaim high cost metals.
2                                                                          MAFBI20-101 2 March 2000

    2.3. Ensure that high cost metal bearing waste and scrap that is gained by the organization is turned
    into the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Offices (DRMO).
    2.4. Ensure each generating activity initiates and maintains a self-inspection program that addresses
    security measures for precious metal assets. Obtains, installs and maintains needed equipment
    designed to recover silver from photo processing chemicals. Self-inspections must include procedures
    and frequency for testing hypo fluids discharged from the collection systems to verify that all precious
    metals are being recovered. Self-inspections must also evaluate controls on receipt, turn-in and weigh-
    ing of recovery cartridges.
    2.5. Establish requirements for the installation PMRP monitor to make once a year inspection visits
    to generating activities and evaluate their recovery program. Make written reports of findings and pro-
    vide copies of the report to the Wing Commander and commanders of visited units.

3. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    3.1. The 305 AW/PMRP monitor will be appointed, in writing, by the Wing Commander. HQ AMC/
    LGSMRR will be provided with the name, grade, office symbol and phone extension of the appointed
    monitor.
    3.2. The installation PMRP monitor will:
       3.2.1. Ensure local rules and work guides are formed and put in force to place responsibilities and
       give guidance for safeguarding, accounting and processing precious metal bearing scrap or waste.
       3.2.2. Ensure that each generating using activity appoints one or more individual(s), in writing, to
       sign for and control all precious metals, witness the collection of precious metals and to certify the
       weight on turn-in documents to the DRMO.
       3.2.3. Ensure each generating unit maintains a self-inspection plan that looks at security, test of
       chemical drainage, gain and loss documents and general accountability.
       3.2.4. Visit each generating unit at least once a year to check PMRP operations, files and overall
       compliance with precious metal recovery requirements. Write a report and keep a file of what was
       found.
       3.2.5. Keep in touch with the Precious Metal Area Monitor (PMAR), the servicing DRMO and
       HQ AMC PMRP monitor, as necessary, to check policy matters pertaining to the accomplishment
       of a successful PMRP.
       3.2.6. Keep such files, reports and data necessary to provide visibility of the recovery program.
    3.3. Generating Units Will:
       3.3.1. Appoint, in writing, a PMRP monitor and alternate. Also appoint, in writing, an individ-
       ual(s) to receipt for and control precious metals, witness the harvesting of precious metals and cer-
       tify the weight generated and entered on the turn-in document to DRMO. These responsibilities
       may be combined at the option of the appointing authority.
       3.3.2. Provide the installation PMRP monitor with a copy of all appointing letters, and amend-
       ments to letters. Address correspondence to 305 SUPS/LGSD, Attn: Precious Metals Monitor.
       3.3.3. Ensure that a self-inspection program (Wing Regulation 123-2) includes coverage of the
       PMRP.
MAFBI20-101 2 March 2000                                                                                  3

  3.4. Unit PMRP Monitors will:
     3.4.1. Carry out and perform the needs associated with the base and unit PMRP. Keep up to date
     files of the mandatory publications listed in paragraph 1. Get, or have ready access to, those pub-
     lications dealing with the PMRP. Give necessary security to on hand precious metal bearing scrap
     and waste. Inform unit managers, supervisor and shop chiefs of the purpose and goals of the
     PMRP.
     3.4.2. Make a precious metals jacket file for all documents and records that have to do with pre-
     cious metals transactions. Jacket file must be capable of providing a full audit trail of all receipts,
     issues and turn-ins to DRMO. Silver recovery cartridges will be recorded and tracked by serial
     number. Records will be retained and disposed of in accordance with AFM 4-20, Vol 2.
     3.4.3. Provide the installation PMRP monitor with such reports and data requested to support con-
     solidated collection of statistics on the effectiveness of the base PMRP.
     3.4.4. Implement requirements and procedures of this regulation and those directives provided by
     higher headquarters. Provide meaningful and timely response to the 305 AW/PMRP monitor’s
     reports of findings and recommendations. Cooperate fully with the installation PMRP monitor and
     offer suggestions or recommendations that may improve the installation PMRP.

4. PROCEDURES :
  4.1. Organizations whose mission requirements include various processing requirements of materials
  that contain precious metals must become aware of the PMRP and the methods of identifying materi-
  als that contain precious metals. For the purpose of this regulation, these materials consist of bits,
  pieces, filings, shavings, ashes, fluids, scrap metal, amalgam, scrap film, excess or surplus items not
  normally returned to Federal supply sources, but discarded at unit level.
  4.2. Visual inspection will not always detect the presence of precious metals. One means of identifi-
  cation is the Controlled Item Code (CIC) which will appear on the supply issue document. The letter
  “R”, appearing on line one, print position 54, identifies the item as a potential precious metal bearing
  asset. When this code is detected on a supply document, call the installation PMRP monitor for a
  determination of the type precious metal involved and the assigned Precious Metal Indicator Code
  (PMIC).
  4.3. Precious metal bearing scrap or waste will be segregated by type of precious metals, will be safe-
  guarded and will be turned into DRMO in accordance with the procedures outlined in AFM 23-110,
  Paragraph 4.9.
  4.4. The individual(s) appointed within the organization to witness and certify the turn-in quantity
  will sign the turn-in document certifying that the weight, unit of issue and PMIC is correct. The serial
  number of silver recovery cartridges must be recorded on the turn-in document. A receipted copy of
  the turn-in document must be obtained from DRMO and retained in the jacket file for audit purposes.

5. IMPLEMENTING INSTRUCTIONS. Each unit PMRP monitor will:
  5.1. Implement the procedures in this regulation and those outlined in AFMAN 23-110and any other
  publications or directives pertaining to the PMRP.
  5.2. Accompany and assist the Wing PMRP monitor during unit inspections.
4                                                                        MAFBI20-101 2 March 2000

    5.3. Brief the unit commander on the effectiveness of the unit program after each inspection or
    review.
    5.4. Ensure that all discrepancies are corrected.
    5.5. Ensure unit has pertinent directives on file.
    5.6. Ensure all unit agencies are aware of items containing precious metals and how they are identi-
    fied.
    5.7. Evaluate requirements and requisition of required collecting equipment and replacement car-
    tridges to recover silver from photographic, x-ray and Non Destructive Inspection (NDI) processing
    solutions.
    5.8. Make frequent test analysis of silver recovery equipment drainage to ensure maximum recovery
    of need for cartridge replacement.
    5.9. Ensure all generated precious metals and metal bearing residue is secured, segregated and fre-
    quently turned into DRMO on properly prepared DD Form 1348-1, DOD Single Line Item Release/
    Receipt Document. Exact weights in pounds, troy ounces must be witnessed and certified by individ-
    uals appointed by unit commanders. The turn-in documents will identify the material as precious met-
    als.
    5.10. Implement the following special procedures to account for and control silver particle recovery
    equipment and their replacement cartridges.
       5.10.1. Record all silver recovery equipment on hand or in use by type or model number and man-
       ufacturer.
       5.10.2. Record the serial numbers on each hypo solution silver collecting cartridge and maintain
       a history of date received, date installed, date removed, weight at time of removal and date turned
       in to DRMO.

6. REPORTS REQUIRED. The installation PMRP monitor must be informed of all aspects pertaining
to the base PMRP. The following data will be sent to 305 SUPS/LGSD, Attn: Precious Metals Monitor:
    6.1. Reports of all chemical recovery systems currently on hand and/or in use. Include type, model,
    serial number, manufacturer. Include organization, building number, where equipment is located (one
    time only initial report).
    6.2. List by serial number all recovery cartridges for systems on hand. Include spares and installed
    cartridges. (Recurring as changes occur).
    6.3. List of individual(s) appointed as unit PMRP monitors, include name, grade, organization and
    telephone extension. (Recurring as changes occur).
    6.4. List of individual(s) appointed to witness and certify weight and type of precious metals on
    turn-in documents. Include name, grade, organization and telephone extension.
MAFBI20-101 2 March 2000                                                                     5

  6.5. Duplicate or reproduced copy of each DD Form 1348-1 for precious metals or recovery car-
  tridges turned in to DRMO during current calendar year. (Recurring for each transaction.)



                          ROBERT A. BRULEY, JR., Colonel, USAF
                          Commander, 305th Logistics Group
