BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     MCGUIRE AFB INSTRUCTION 91-202
305TH AIR MOBILITY WING (AMC)                                                           1 AUGUST 2000

                                                                                                   Safety

                                                             MCGUIRE AFB MISHAP PREVENTION
                                                                                  PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 305 AMW/SEG (Mr. Diveley)                               Certified by: 305 AMW/SE (Lt Col Arens)
Supersedes MAFBI 91-202, 1 Aug 98                                                         Pages: 10
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction establishes McGuire AFB mishap prevention program requirements and contains specific
safety program management information. It applies to all 305 AMW units and McGuire AFB tenants cov-
ered in appropriate support agreements. It addresses ground and flying safety disciplines. Due to unique
requirements, the McGuire AFB explosives safety and nuclear surety safety programs are covered in sep-
arate instructions; namely, MAFBR 127-100, McGuire AFB Explosives Safety Program (next edition to
be redesignated MAFBI 91-201) and 305 AMW SPLAN 55-18, Nuclear Surety Support Plan. NOTE:
Additions/deletions/changes to this instruction, should they become necessary, will be briefed at the
monthly Unit Safety Representative (USR) meeting. They will be published in the USR meeting
minutes, and posted in the Wing/Ground Safety Outlook Public Folder. Compliance to additions/
deletions/changes will become mandatory once briefed at the USR meeting. It is the USRs responsi-
bility to periodically check the Safety Outlook Public Folders for such additions/deletions/changes
for cases where the USR is not in attendance for the USR meeting.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Modifies Unit Safety Program Management requirements; eliminates the requirement to post annual and
baseline Bioenvironmental Engineeer (BEE) industrial hygiene surveys and reports on unit bulletin
boards; modifies the requirements for performing a formal semi-annual unit self-inspection; modifies the
requirements for maintaining a current list of unit motorcycle operators; modifies mishap reporting proce-
dures; eliminates Consolidated Mishap (CMR) Report Numbers; requires units to conduct, at a minimum,
annual Job Safety Training; modifies monthly USR councils; modifies the Confined Space Entry Pro-
gram.



1. Commander’s Safety Policy . As the McGuire AFB installation commander, the 305 AMW/CC will
publish and distribute his/her personal “Commander’s Safety Policy” and will ensure wide distribution
throughout the base. This policy is designated MAFBI 91-301. The 305 AMW Chief of Safety will serve
2                                                             MCGUIREAFBI91-202 1 AUGUST 2000


as the Commander’s executive agent for publishing and distributing this policy. Unit commanders are
encouraged to develop unit safety policies that both support and expand upon MAFBI 91-301.

2. Unit Safety Program Management. The unit commander is responsible for ensuring the safe con-
duct of all activities in his/her unit and is responsible for the overall management of his unit’s safety pro-
gram.
    2.1. To assist the commander in meeting this crucial responsibility, commanders will appoint, in writ-
    ing, primary and alternate Unit Safety Representatives (USRs). These individuals should hold the
    grade of E-5 (or civilian equivalent) or higher. USRs should be selected not only for their qualifica-
    tions, but also for retainability of at least twelve months. The appointment of additional duty safety
    personnel below squadron level (e.g., branch, section, AMU) is optional but highly encouraged. The
    USR will serve as the primary point of contact for Wing Safety on all matters related to ground and
    flying safety, fire prevention, and health in the unit. USRs must receive initial training within 30 days
    of appointment. USRs will not be permitted to receive initial training until safety receives an updated
    USR appointment letter signed by the unit commander. Except for unavoidable circumstances (short
    notice PCSs, extended TDYs, etc.), there will be a minimum 15-day overlap when changing USRs to
    avoid the USR position being vacant, and to ensure the outgoing USR can indoctrinate his/her
    replacement. All flying squadrons, as well as the 305 OSS CCTS Flight, will assign a flying safety
    officer (FSO) and flying safety NCO (FSNCO) to manage their units’ flying safety programs required
    by AFI 91-202. The senior officer in each flying unit’s safety office shall be assigned primary USR
    duties as defined above (exception: the FSO and FSNCO in the 305 OSS CCTS Flight need only be
    assigned CCTS flying safety program management responsibilities). Specific USR responsibilities are
    discussed in Section 3.
    2.2. Several McGuire AFB units and activities have explosives safety and nuclear surety safety pro-
    gram responsibilities. Due to unique requirements, the McGuire AFB explosives safety and nuclear
    surety safety programs are covered in separate instructions; namely, MAFBR 127-100 (next edition to
    be redesignated MAFBI 91-201), Explosives Safety Program, and 305 AMW SPLAN 55-18, Nuclear
    Surety Support Plan. USRs will interface as necessary with unit explosives safety and nuclear surety
    safety personnel to assist the commander in maintaining a comprehensive focus on mishap preven-
    tion.

3. Unit Safety Representative (USR) Responsibilities: The USR is responsible for the day-to-day
management of his/her squadron commander's safety program and shall accomplish the following duties:
    3.1. Serve as his/her unit's primary point of contact for matters pertaining to ground and flying safety,
    fire prevention, and occupational health.
    3.2. Conduct monthly safety briefings. A separate safety meeting is not required, however, the USR
    will maintain documentation of topics discussed at commander’s call, work formations, staff meet-
    ings, etc. Flying squadrons will hold monthly combined Ground/Flight Safety meetings. Flying
    squadrons need not convene a flying safety meeting during months when a Wing Quarterly Flying
    Safety meeting is held. All available assigned flying personnel will attend this meeting and the USR
    will track and monitor attendance. Meeting minutes will be available to absent crewmembers. Video-
    taping is encouraged.
    3.3. Administer the unit hazard-reporting program. Identified hazards should be corrected at the low-
    est possible level within the squadron. Supervisors and USRs will forward all hazards identified on
MCGUIREAFBI91-202 1 AUGUST 2000                                                                          3


  AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report, to Wing Safety for investigation. The USR and supervisors will
  ensure that unit personnel are aware of their right to formally report hazards directly to Wing Safety,
  and to do so anonymously. The USR will make blank AF Forms 457 and examples of how to fill them
  out available to all personnel.
  3.4. Maintain safety bulletin boards. The USR will post a safety bulletin board in each unit facility or
  major work center in a conspicuous location. If space limitations do not permit the use of a bulletin
  board dedicated only to safety information, post the materials in a segregated section of other unit bul-
  letin boards. The area will be neat and orderly and contain only safety-related items. The USR will
  post the following items, as a minimum:
     3.4.1. AFVA 91-307, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Program.
     3.4.2. Unit mishap notification procedures, including names and telephone numbers of contacts.
     3.4.3. Form CA-10, What A Federal Employee Should Do When Injured at Work.
     3.4.4. AMC Form 15, Report All Mishaps and Hazards.
     3.4.5. Instructions for completing AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report.
     3.4.6. AMC Form 97, “Unusual Occurrence/Birdstrike Worksheet” (only required in aircrew
     member work centers; e.g., flying squadrons, 305 OSS CCTS, Base Operations, etc).
     3.4.7. AF Form 651, Hazardous Air Traffic Reports (HATR) (only required in flying operation
     work centers; e.g., Flying Squadrons, 305 OSS CCTS, Air Traffic Control (ATC), Base Opera-
     tions, Current Operations, Command Post, Aircrew Training Facilities, etc).
     3.4.8. Current mishap prevention information (posters, flyers, safety grams, seasonal items, etc.)
  3.5. Conduct and document spot inspections of unit workplaces and operations. The USR will con-
  duct at least one spot inspection per month, ensuring that each organizational section is inspected at
  least once per quarter. Document inspections and any required follow-up actions. Documentation will
  include, as a minimum, the area inspected, date of the inspection, discrepancies identified, corrective
  action taken or planned, and date corrective action was completed.
  3.6. Perform a formal semi-annual self-inspection of unit office/administrative areas, and program
  management. The USR will use the Office Safety Checklist (provided by Wing Safety) as a guide for
  safety compliance. The USR will document the report in letter format, or the AMC Form 480 may be
  used. Wing Safety will review the report during the unit annual evaluation/inspection. All open items
  will be tracked by the unit until completion, and safety will be notified as items become closed. Status
  of all open items will be reported to safety, even if no changes have occurred, on a monthly basis. The
  report will be due NLT the last day of the month. Reports are due six months from the scheduled
  month of the annual safety inspection performed by Wing Safety (i.e., if the annual unit inspection is
  performed in January, the unit self-inspection will be due NLT the last day of July). Extensions will be
  approved by the Ground Safety Manager on a case-by-case basis, and only for extreme circumstances,
  with advance notice.
  3.7. Promptly report all mishaps to the Wing Safety as described in Section 4.
  3.8. Maintain the Ground Safety Management Book. It will contain, as a minimum, the following
  items:
     3.8.1. USR appointment letter and record of training.
4                                                             MCGUIREAFBI91-202 1 AUGUST 2000


       3.8.2. A listing of all applicable safety regulations and standards and their location.
       3.8.3. Unit Mishap Data.
           3.8.3.1. Unit Mishap Log. A hard copy form or computer database will be used to track unit
           mishap history and perform trend analysis. As a minimum, the log will show the mishap date,
           rank/grade of personnel involved, duty status, workdays lost (if applicable), property damage
           costs and a brief synopsis of the mishap. The log may be separated into four sections for
           reportable and non-reportable, on and off-duty, as required for ease of tracking and analysis.
           3.8.3.2. File copies of MAFB Form 37’s submitted for the last 12 months.
       3.8.4. Designated Safety High Interest Areas (see paragraph 8.3.).
       3.8.5. Inspections:
           3.8.5.1. Spot Inspection Log. Maintain for a minimum of one year.
           3.8.5.2. Copy of the last semi-annual self-inspection report.
           3.8.5.3. Copy of the last Wing Safety annual evaluation/inspection report.
           3.8.5.4. Copies of Wing spot, special, and high-interest area inspections.
           3.8.5.5. Unit safety meeting minutes. Maintain for one year.
       3.8.6. Meeting Minutes.
           3.8.6.1. Quarterly AFOSH Council minutes.
           3.8.6.2. USR Council minutes.
           3.8.6.3. Internal safety meeting minutes or records of topics discussed at commander's calls,
           staff meetings, etc.
       3.8.7. A current list of all motorcycle operators in the unit. The current list must be available for
       review by Wing Safety upon request. The list will include, as a minimum, name, rank, duty sec-
       tion, date of training, location of training, and which course (MRC or ERC) was taken.
    3.9. Flying squadron USRs will maintain a Flying Safety Management Book (or may combine it with
    the unit Ground Safety Management Book). Maintain similar, appropriate flight-related items as dis-
    cussed in paragraph 3.8. Include a roster of all flying safety trained members in the unit (regardless of
    whether performing additional duty safety duties) including FSO, FSNCO, AMIC, and JEMIC per-
    sonnel. Roster will be kept current, and Wing Safety will be advised of all changes.
    3.10. Maintain, as a minimum, the following safety publications (with supplements):
       3.10.1. AF Index 17, Index of Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standards.
       3.10.2. AFI 91-202, US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program.
       3.10.3. MAFBI 91-202, McGuire AFB Mishap Prevention Program.
       3.10.4. MAFBI 91-301, Commander’s Safety Policy.
       3.10.5. AFI 91-204, Investigating and Reporting US Air Force Mishaps.
       3.10.6. AFI 91-207, US Air Force Traffic Safety Program.
MCGUIREAFBI91-202 1 AUGUST 2000                                                                           5


       3.10.7. AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and
       Health (AFOSH) Program.
       3.10.8. All AFOSH Standards applicable to unit workplaces and operations. This will be deter-
       mined by Wing Safety working with the USR.
       3.10.9. Flying unit USRs will maintain the following additional publications:
           3.10.9.1. AFPAM 91-212, Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Management Techniques.
           3.10.9.2. AFI 36-2833, Safety Awards
           3.10.9.3. MAFB Support Plan 91-212, BASH Program
   3.11. Monitor all safety-related training of personnel in the unit (i.e., USR training; supervisor safety
   training; safety, fire prevention, and health on-the-job (OJT) training; formal flying safety training;
   and explosives safety training) to ensure sufficient training is being accomplished. See Section 5.
   3.12. Attend the monthly USR Council (see paragraph 6.4.).
   3.13. Accompany Wing Safety during the annual safety evaluation/inspection of his/her organization,
   and as otherwise requested by Wing Safety.
   3.14. Periodically check the Safety Outlook Public Folders for pertinent safety information.

4. Mishap Reporting Procedures. Unit commanders and USRs are responsible for developing and
publicizing mishap notification procedures within their unit. They must be in writing and endorsed by the
unit commander.
   4.1. Reporting Ground Mishaps.
       4.1.1. All ground mishaps are reported to Wing Safety in accordance with the matrix at Attach-
       ment 1. All mishaps receive a preliminary "in house" investigation. The first line supervisor of the
       individual involved in the mishap will normally conduct the investigation and document it on
       MAFB Form 37, 305 AMW/SE Preliminary Mishap Report. For Air Force Motor Vehicle mis-
       haps, the unit Vehicle Control Officer/NCO, with the assistance of the USR, will normally conduct
       the investigation. The investigator will forward the completed original MAFB Form 37 through
       the unit USR to Wing Safety within two (2) duty days of occurrence (the report should be
       hand-carried or faxed with a follow-up phone call to reduce transit time and protect information).
       If additional time is required to complete the preliminary investigation and MAFB Form 37,
       advise Wing Safety. The unit commander must sign the MAFB 37, however, safety does not
       require a signed copy. Not requiring a signed copy should expedite the processing time to safety in
       order to meet the two-day suspense. MAFB Form 37s submitted past the two-day requirement
       must include an explanation of why they are late. Late reports submitted will be tracked and
       included as an inspection item during the wing Safety annual unit inspection.
       4.1.2. As a secondary means to ensure mishaps are being reported in a timely and thorough man-
       ner, as well as being sources for additional key safety-related information, the following agencies
       will provide reports and information as directed below:
           4.1.2.1. The 305th Medical Group (MG) will provide Admission and Disposition Reports,
           AMC Form 441, Report of Injury/illness and Treatment, copies of AF Form 1488, Patient
           Injury and Treatment Log, and Quarters Assignment forms to Wing Safety.
6                                                           MCGUIREAFBI91-202 1 AUGUST 2000


           4.1.2.2. The Civilian Personnel Office (CPO) will forward copies of forms CA-1, Federal
           Employee’s Notice of Traumatic Injury and Claim for Continuation of Pay/Compensation and
           CA-16, Authorization For Examination and/or Treatment to Wing Safety by the first day of the
           following month.
           4.1.2.3. The Staff Judge Advocate (JA) will notify Wing Safety of any claims involving injury
           to persons or damage to private property as a result of an Air Force operation.
           4.1.2.4. The Security Forces Squadron (SFS) will provide copies of AF Form 1315, Accident
           Report, and make the daily blotter available for review (when requested) by the Wing Safety
           staff.
           4.1.2.5. The Civil Engineering Squadron (CES) will provide cost assessments for damage to
           government real property, as a result of natural phenomena, to Wing Safety.
           4.1.2.6. The Base Fire Department (CEF) will provide copies of DD Form 2324, DoD Fire
           Incident Report to Wing Safety.
           4.1.2.7. The Transportation Squadron (TRANS) will provide the Wing Safety office a copy of
           the AF Form 1823-1 (Vehicle and Equipment Work Order) on all reported damage to Air
           Force motor vehicles.
           4.1.2.8. The 305th Air Mobility Wing Command Post will immediately notify Wing Safety
           for any of the following:
              4.1.2.8.1. Activation of the Crisis Action Team (CAT).
              4.1.2.8.2. On-duty accident/mishap involving injury to USAF personnel (civilian or mili-
              tary).
              4.1.2.8.3. Non-duty-related accident/mishap involving injury to USAF personnel (civilian
              or military).
              4.1.2.8.4. Property damage or fire involving any facility, aircraft, vehicle or equipment.
              4.1.2.8.5. Accident/mishap involving explosives in any way.
              4.1.2.8.6. Accident/mishap/incident involving nuclear weapons or components.
    4.2. Reporting Flight Mishaps.
       4.2.1. The Wing Command Post (WCP) will develop procedures in local operating instructions to
       immediately notify Wing Safety of all flight and flight-related mishaps (including FOD incidents
       and non-damaging birdstrikes) occurring in the local area, as well as all off-station flight mishaps
       reported to McGuire CP involving wing-assigned aircrews or aircraft.
       4.2.2. Following a flight or flight-related mishap, aircraft commanders will immediately complete
       the AMC Form 97, “AMC Unusual Occurrence/Birdstrike Worksheet,” and provide it along with
       a copy of the aircrew flight orders to their USR and Wing Safety at the earliest practical opportu-
       nity (within the same flight duty period, crew duty day permitting).
       4.2.3. Flying unit commanders are responsible for developing procedures to ensure aircraft com-
       manders flying off-station missions verbally report any mishap (including ground mishaps) that
       the crew is involved in to the McGuire Command Post or the Wing Safety office as soon as possi-
MCGUIREAFBI91-202 1 AUGUST 2000                                                                            7


       ble and then follow up by forwarding the completed AMC Form 97 or other necessary information
       (use fax transmission or other electronic means to expedite).

5. Safety Training.
   5.1. USR Training. USR training is conducted by Wing Safety. New USRs should be trained within
   30 days of assuming duties. Wing Safety will maintain a record of each primary and alternate USRs
   training. USRs will maintain a copy of this record. Flying squadron primary and alternate USRs who
   are FSOs or FSNCOs will receive local FSO/FSNCO training from Wing Safety as part of their USR
   training.
   5.2. Supervisor Safety Training. Supervisor Safety Training (SST), required by AFI 91-301, is con-
   ducted by Wing Safety. All commissioned officers, NCOs, senior airmen, and civilians, when first
   assigned to a supervisory position, will receive this training. SST should be set up by training moni-
   tors and documented on AF Form 55. Wing Safety will schedule, publish and conduct training ses-
   sions to meet requirements.
   5.3. Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health On-the-Job (OJT) Training. Supervisors must provide spe-
   cialized safety, fire prevention, and occupational health on-the-job training, to include, but not limited
   to the Air Force Hazard Communication Program, Lock-out/Tag-out, and Confined Space training to
   all Air Force personnel. Provide initial training within 30 days of assignment. Refresher training will
   be conducted when changes arise, but will be conducted at least annually. Supervisors will document
   training for all workers, including personnel assigned to administrative areas and summer-hire
   employees, on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record. A hard copy will be maintained,
   with appropriate employee and employer signatures. The 55 will be annotated, as appropriate, when-
   ever additional or annual refresher training is conducted. Develop written lesson plans (Job Safety
   Training Outlines {JSTOs}) for training which address the specific hazards of the employee's job task
   and work environment. Lesson plans will address each of the items identified in Attachment 5 of AFI
   91-301 (at the time of this publication the minimum items totaled 24. Units are responsible for keep-
   ing JSTOs current. Changes to minimum items are briefed at the monthly USR meetings). Lesson
   plans will include specific guidance for obtaining medical treatment when Walson Air Force Hospital
   emergency services are not available. JSTOs will be reviewed, whenever tasks are added or modifica-
   tions exist, or, at a minimum, annually. JSTO refresher training will be conducted for all unit person-
   nel whenever tasks are added or modifications exist, or at a minimum, annually. All unit personnel,
   with the exception of the unit commander, the first sergeant, and aircrew members performing flight
   duties will receive this training and will have an AF Form 55. The number of JSTOs required will
   depend on the number of section a unit has. Sections performing similar tasks may utilize the same
   JSTO, however, sections performing different tasks will require a JSTO tailored to their specific
   needs. Personnel performing mostly administrative or low-risk duties will be trained using an admin-
   istrative JSTO. Examples of JSTOs are posted on the Outlook Safety Public Folders, or if these fold-
   ers are unavailable, through Wing Safety.
   5.4. Formal Flying Safety Training. The Wing Safety office will work with the flying and mainte-
   nance units to identify wing and unit training requirements for formal FSO, FSNCO, AMIC, and
   JEMIC-trained personnel. Wing Safety will work with 21 AF/SEF and HQ AMC/SEF to source train-
   ing allocations and will work with the units to assign individuals to training slots. Unit commanders
   and USRs must be proactive in forecasting training requirements and identifying needs to Wing
   Safety.
8                                                           MCGUIREAFBI91-202 1 AUGUST 2000


    5.5. Course II, Local Conditions. All individuals assigned to McGuire AFB and who operate vehicles
    are required to attend Course II, Local Conditions Briefing, given by Wing Safety during the weekly
    base Newcomer’s Orientation. Individuals are scheduled by their unit during in-processing. In addi-
    tion to permanently assigned personnel, commanders will ensure personnel TDY to their unit for more
    than 30 days are scheduled to attend Course II.
    5.6. Unit Commander Orientation: The Chief of Safety will provide an overview of the Wing Safety
    Program to incoming unit and group commanders, including a review of commander responsibilities
    in AFI 91-202.
    5.7. Explosives Safety Training. Explosives safety training requirements for unit additional duty
    explosives safety members is covered in MAFBR 127-100 (next edition to be redesignated MAFBI
    91-201), Explosives Safety Program.

6. Wing-Level Safety Meetings.
    6.1. AFOSH Council. The AFOSH Council serves as a forum for discussion of occupational safety
    and health (OSH) issues, to advise the installation commander on OSH-related matters, and make rec-
    ommendations to the commander on resolution of OSH problems. The council is conducted quarterly
    and chaired by the Wing or Vice Commander. Required attendees include group commanders, unit
    commanders, tenant agency heads/commanders, recognized employee organization representatives,
    briefers from Wing Safety, Traffic Safety, Civilian Personnel, Fire Prevention, Bio-Environmental
    Engineering and Health, and any other invited attendees or briefers. Wing Safety organizes the
    agenda, runs the meeting and distributes the meeting minutes. Briefings will be posted in the Wing
    server, public Folders one week prior to the scheduled meeting date.
    6.2. Traffic Safety Coordinating Group: The base Traffic Safety Coordinating Group (TSCG) is
    established as a subcommittee of the AFOSH Council. The TSCG will consist of one representative
    each from Civil Engineering (Traffic Engineer), Security Forces, Transportation, and Ground Safety.
    The TSCG will report directly to the chairman of the AFOSH Council, and meets at his/her direction
    or at the direction of the Wing Ground Safety Office.
    6.3. Wing Flying Safety Meeting. Mandatory for all aircrew members actively flying with the 305
    AMW who are not on leave, TDY, crew rest, or assigned to higher-priority duty. All other aircrew
    members stationed at McGuire AFB are invited to attend. This meeting is held quarterly and may take
    the place of the unit flying safety meeting for flying squadrons for that month. Wing Safety organizes
    the meeting and agenda, and distributes the meeting minutes to all flying activities. Meeting minutes
    are posted in the 305 OG Flight Crew Information File (FCIF).
    6.4. Monthly USR Council. This meeting is the primary forum for providing all McGuire USRs
    timely safety-related information, including changes in safety policies and standards, mishap preven-
    tion processes, as well as providing additional USR training. Attendance by one primary or alternate
    USR per unit or tenant is mandatory and will be examined by Wing Safety during unit safety program
    evaluations. In the event both USRs are unavailable to attend, a unit representative must be sent to
    take notes and brief the USRs and/or unit personnel. USRs must coordinate with Wing Safety, prior to
    the scheduled meeting date, when planning to send a representative in their place. NOTE: Units not
    attending, at a minimum, 80% of the scheduled meetings cannot receive higher than a “SATISFAC-
    TORY” rating on their annual unit evaluation. The Wing’s Ground Safety Manager (GSM) chairs this
    meeting and distributes minutes to all units/tenants.
MCGUIREAFBI91-202 1 AUGUST 2000                                                                      9


7. Wing Safety Inspections/Evaluations.
   7.1. Annual Inspections.
      7.1.1. Each 305th Air Mobility Wing organization and specific tenant agency designated in an
      appropriate support agreement will receive a formal Annual Safety Program Evaluation and Facil-
      ities/Operations Inspection. Wing Safety will publish an annual schedule of unit inspections by
      month. Approximately 90 days out, Wing Safety will coordinate the actual inspection dates with
      the unit.
      7.1.2. Wing Safety will formally out brief the commander along with anyone else he/she desig-
      nates. Wing Safety will provide the commander or agency head with a formal, written report of all
      findings, observations and recommendations and will provide copies of the report to the owning
      Group Commander and Vice Wing Commander (305 AMW units only). To ensure effective unit
      safety program management, Wing Safety evaluates the following program areas:
      7.1.3. Commander support and involvement in mishap prevention.
      7.1.4. Quality and depth of internal safety inspections.
      7.1.5. Adequacy and timeliness of mishap reporting.
      7.1.6. Hazard reporting program.
      7.1.7. Mishap prevention information provided to unit personnel.
      7.1.8. Safety bulletin boards.
      7.1.9. Attendance at safety meetings.
      7.1.10. Quality and effectiveness of job safety training.
      7.1.11. Publications maintenance.
      7.1.12. Mishap rates, analysis, and prevention measures.
      7.1.13. Participation in safety education and training courses.
      7.1.14. Complaints and grievances involving safety problems.
   7.2. Spot and Special Inspections. Spot and special inspections by Wing Safety will be conducted
   IAW AFI 91-202 and as prescribed elsewhere in this instruction, or as otherwise required.

8. Other Programs and Requirements.
   8.1. Confined Space Entry Program.
      8.1.1. Unit commanders will identify in writing to the Wing Safety office all confined spaces
      (both permit- and non-permit-required spaces as defined by AFOSH STD 91-25) under the control
      of their organization or function, as well as the name of their Unit Confined Space Monitor--even
      if the unit has no known confined spaces. These members, along with the Wing Safety Confined
      Space Program Manager, make up the Confined Space Program Team (CSPT). The team will meet
      as directed by the Confined Space Program Manager. The Confined Space Program Manager and
      Team will establish local policies and procedures to ensure compliance with all AFOSH and
      OSHA requirements. Contractors and units engaged in confined space entry work are responsible
      for providing all required safety equipment and training IAW OSHA 29 CFR 1910.46. The Base
10                                                             MCGUIREAFBI91-202 1 AUGUST 2000


        Fire Department will respond to emergencies but will not provide a trained standby rescue team.
        This is the sole responsibility of the contractor or unit engaged in the work (MAFBI 91-25). Mas-
        ter Entry Plans will be submitted to Wing Safety for review and approval before performing any
        Confined Space tasks. Aircraft Confined Spaces, for KC-10 and C-141 aircraft, have been evalu-
        ated and approved by the CSPT. Proposed changes will be brought to the attention of Wing Safety,
        and will not be made without the written approval of the CSMT. Complete guidance is addressed
        in a separate letter with the subject line “Aircraft Confined Spaces”, dated 1 Feb 00, and is not
        attached to this instruction. The letter has been given to all pertinent units and is available upon
        request from Wing Safety.
        8.1.2. Permit-Required Confined Spaces. All non-routine, permit-required confined space work
        will be pre-coordinated (using either and AF Form 1024 or approved entry permit) by the entry
        supervisor with the Bioenvironmental Engineering Office, Fire Department, and Wing Safety
        office at least 72 hours (when feasible) prior to the beginning of the operation. Upon completion
        of the operation, a copy of the completed entry permit documenting the operation will be provided
        to the Wing Safety Office for inclusion in the Base Master File.
     8.2. Lock-out/Tag-out Program. All squadrons with personnel who perform servicing or maintenance
     on machines or equipment which could cause injury through release of stored energy must conform to
     the requirements in OSHA 1910.147, Lock-out/Tag-out Standard.
     8.3. Wing High Interest Areas (HIAs): High interest areas are those that, by their nature, present
     increased risk to safe operations and demand increased surveillance and attention from a safety per-
     spective. HIAs may be physical, or they may involve procedures or issues. HIAs can be recommended
     by anyone. Unit functional managers and supervisors should forward recommendations to the USR
     and unit commander, who will present recommendations to the Group Commander (O-6 level) for
     review/approval. If approved, Wing Safety will add the area to the current list.
        8.3.1. High interest areas will be identified in a letter from Wing Safety to all organizations. USRs
        will keep this letter on file. Wing Safety will update the letter as necessary. A current list has been
        given to all units and is available upon request from Wing Safety.
        8.3.2. The entire flight line is considered a high interest area for the foreseeable future based on
        numerous construction zones, space restrictions and clearances, limited aircraft parking and
        engine run-up areas, a lack of storage yards and designated parking areas for AGE support equip-
        ment, FOD hazards, and ramp and taxiway lighting deficiencies.



                                                       RICHARD A. MENTEMEYER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                       Commander, 305 Air Mobility Wing
