BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                   MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE                                                   51-202

                                                                          7 JANUARY 2010

                                                                                         Law

                                                COURT-MARTIAL/DISCHARGE BOARD
                                              PANEL MEMBER NOMINATION PROCESS

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 87 ABW/JA                                                      Certified by: 87 ABW/JA
Supersedes: MCGUIREAFBI51-202, 9                                     (Major Sean P. Lardner)
            February 2001                                                             Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFDP) 51-2 Administration of Military
Justice and AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, and outlines the procedures for
submitting quarterly court-martial and/or discharge board panel member nomination lists.
Members are made available for courts-martial and discharge boards convened by the
commanders of the 87th Air Base Wing and 18th Air Force. This publication does not apply to
US Air Force Reserve (USAFR) or Air National Guard (ANG) units or members.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updates office symbols in accordance with the wing redesignation, changes
responsibilities, and removal paragraph from 2.7 to 2.9.

PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT:                This instruction requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013 and E.O. 9397.
2                                                   MCGUIREAFBI51-202 7 JANUARY 2010


Privacy Act Systems Notice ― F011 AFA – Locator, Registration and Postal Directory Files‖
applies.
1. General Responsibilities. The following commanders will submit a nomination list
consisting of officer and enlisted personnel available for court-martial and/or discharge board
panel duty for each quarter of the calendar year.
    1.1. 305th Operations Group (OG)
    1.2. 87th Mission Support Group (MSG)
    1.3. 305th Maintenance Group (MXG)
    1.4. 87th Medical Group (MDG)
    1.5. 621st Contingency Response Wing (CRW)*
    1.6. 21st Expeditionary Mobility Task Force (EMTF)*
    1.7. United States Air Force Expeditionary Center (USAF EC)* With the concurrence of the
    command concerned (special courts-martial only).
2. Responsibilities of the Nominating Commanders:
    2.1. The Air Force relies on commanders to nominate their best officers and enlisted
    members for this duty. The Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) requires the selection
    of court-martial/discharge panel members, based on their qualifications ―by reason of their
    age, education, training, experience, length of service, and judicial temperament.‖
    Commanders will take these factors into consideration when submitting nominations.
    2.2. Commanders will submit the following to 87 ABW/JAM (Military Justice Section) by
    the 15th of March, June, September, and December of each year:
       2.2.1. An electronic nomination list that contains at least eight percent of their assigned
       officers, based on unit strength reporting, and at least three of their assigned enlisted
       personnel.
           2.2.1.1. At a minimum, the nomination list must include the following, strength
           permitting: one officer in the rank of colonel; two officers in the rank of lieutenant
           colonel; two officers in the rank of major; two officers in the rank of captain; two
           officers in the rank of first lieutenant or second lieutenant; one enlisted in the rank of
           chief master sergeant through master sergeant; one enlisted in the rank of technical
           sergeant or staff sergeant; or other ranks who meet the Article 25 criteria.
           2.2.1.2. If a commander is unable to adequately support the required number or grade
           distribution of nominees, the group commander must submit a written memorandum
           to 87 ABW/CC detailing why he/she is unable to comply with the requirement and
           the steps taken to ensure a full roster of nominees will be submitted for future
           quarters.
       2.2.2. An electronic court member data sheet for each individual member nominated.
       The sheet will be completed by the member as outlined in paragraph 3 below.
MCGUIREAFBI51-202 7 JANUARY 2010                                                               3


  2.3. Each member is nominated for the three-month period following the submission of
  nominations. For example, the list submitted by 15 March nominates members for the
  months of April, May, and June.
  2.4. Commanders will ensure the nomination list is e-mailed to both the Chief and the
  NCOIC of the Military Justice Section. A reminder will be e-mailed each quarter by 87
  ABW/CCE and will include the tasking requirement, most current strength report, and court
  member data sheet.
     2.4.1. Commanders are encouraged to appoint points of contact (POC) to comply with
     this requirement. Typically, the POC is the group executive officer or secretary to the
     commander.
     2.4.2. In addition, commanders will not submit personnel who:
         2.4.2.1. Will be on temporary duty (TDY) for more than 30 days during the three-
         month period for which they were nominated.
         2.4.2.2. Will separate, retire, or have a permanent change of station (PCS) during the
         three-month period for which they were nominated.
         2.4.2.3. Have a disciplinary record that demonstrates ―by reason of their age,
         education, training, experience, length of service, and judicial temperament‖ the
         nominated member is not the best nominee for service as a court-martial and/or
         discharge board member.
  2.5. Commanders will make every effort to ensure those selected for duty on a court-martial
  and/or discharge board panel will be available to serve and acknowledge that once a nominee
  is selected, the court-martial and/or discharge board will be their primary duty. If a member
  selected for a court-martial or discharge board is unable to serve, the member’s commander
  will:
     2.5.1. Obtain a written excusal request from the member, citing a detailed reason why
     the member is unable to serve, and forward to the appropriate convening authority
     through the group command section and 87 ABW/JA.
     2.5.2. Along with the written excusal request, submit the names of two replacement
     members for each member to be replaced. The replacement members must not only meet
     all original criteria, but also be of similar grade and be available to serve on the pending
     court-martial and/or discharge board.
  2.6. Commanders must be aware that even if an individual is selected for a specific quarter,
  it is possible, due to court-martial and/or discharge board scheduling, they may be required to
  serve beyond that quarter. Also, an individual may serve on more than one court-martial
  and/or discharge board in a quarter. The Non Commisioned Officer In Charge(NCOIC )of
  the Military Justice Section will promptly inform all selected members of any change in
  court-martial and/or discharge board schedules.
  2.7. (DELETED)
     2.7.1. (DELETED)
     2.7.2. (DELETED)
4                                                  MCGUIREAFBI51-202 7 JANUARY 2010


    2.8. (DELETED)
       2.8.1. (DELETED)
       2.8.2. (DELETED)
    2.9. (DELETED)
3. Responsibilities of the Nominated Members:
    3.1. Nominated members will complete and submit a court member data sheet to the NCOIC
    of the Military Justice Section for each quarter they are nominated. Nominees type their
    information directly onto the electronic version provided in the reminder email from
    87 ABW/CCE. This will simplify updates to the data sheet as members may be nominated
    for more than one quarter each year.
    3.2. The court member data sheet must list all scheduled leave and TDYs during the quarter
    for which the member is being nominated. For example, nominees on the list due by 15
    March must provide their leave and TDY schedule for the months of April, May, and June.
    After submission of the court member data sheet, the member is responsible for notifying the
    Military Justice Section of any changes in his/her leave and TDY schedule as soon as such
    absences are projected and/or approved to avoid being nominated for a court-martial and/or
    discharge board panel that conflicts with the member’s schedule.
       3.2.1. In the event of a conflict between service on a court-martial and/or discharge
       board panel, the member must make every effort to resolve the conflict so he/she may
       perform this important duty.
       3.2.2. If the member is unsuccessful in resolving the conflict, then the member must
       immediately comply with paragraph 2.5 of this instruction.
    3.3. Nominated members must be aware that when they are selected for a specific quarter, it
    is probable that they may serve on more than one court-martial and/or discharge board in the
    quarter. Also, it is possible, due to court-martial and/or discharge board scheduling, they
    may be required to serve beyond that quarter. The NCOIC of the Military Justice Section
    will promptly inform all selected members of any change in court-martial and/or discharge
    board date.
4. Responsibilities of the 87 ABW Legal Office, Military Justice Section:
    4.1. The Military Justice section will coordinate with 87 ABW/CCE to email each
    responsible commander, listed in paragraph 1 of this instruction, a reminder of the quarterly
    submission requirement no later than 15 days prior to the due date.
    4.2. When preparing panels, 87 ABW/JA will not submit names of members who have
    provided advance notice of conflicting TDY or leave schedules to the convening authority
    for consideration if the date of the court-martial and/or discharge board has already been
    scheduled.
MCGUIREAFBI51-202 7 JANUARY 2010                                               5



5. Prescribed Forms and Adopted Forms.
   5.1. Prescribed Forms: No Forms prescribed
   5.2. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                         GINA M. GROSSO, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander, 87th Air Base Wing
6                                                MCGUIREAFBI51-202 7 JANUARY 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 21 Dec 07
AFPD 51-2, Administration of Military Justice, 7 Sep 93

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDP— Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
CRW—Contingency Response Wing
TDY— Temporary Duty
EMTF—Expeditionary Mobility Task Force
IAW—In Accordance With
MDG—Medical Group
MSG—Mission Support Group
NCOIC—Non Commissioned Officer In Charge
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
OG—Operations Group
PCS—Permanent Change Station
POC—Point of Contact
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USAF EC—United States Air Force Expeditionary Center
