BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE
305TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                     INSTRUCTION 36-2801
                                                                                    1 DECEMBER 2005

                                                                                               Personnel

                                                        RESOURCE ADVISOR AWARDS PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 305 CPTS/FMA (1st Lt Liegl)                             Certified by: 305 CPTS/CC (Maj Watkins)
Supersedes MCGUIREAFBI36-2801,                                                               Pages: 5
           1 August 2003                                                              Distribution: F

This publication establishes the Team McGuire Quarterly and Annual Resource Advisor Awards Pro-
gram. It applies to organizations physically located on McGuire AFB, including all tenant units that are
serviced by the 305th Comptroller Squadron. It describes eligibility requirements, nomination proce-
dures, and the selection process for recognizing outstanding group/squadron/unit commander or wing
staff agency resource advisors. Ensure that all records in this supplement are maintained and disposed of
in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and the Air Force Records Disposition
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
The following paragraphs were updated: 3.1.2. changed from 3.5 inch disk to CD-RW, 3.2.2. changed
from 3.5 inch disk to CD-RW, 4.2. (added personal and enduring competencies to the selection criteria);
NOTE to include Attachment 2 (added definition of AF FM Competency Model). A bar (|) indicates
revision from the previous edition.


1. Purpose of Scope. This program recognizes the outstanding performance of resource advisors (RA)
from all functional areas serviced by the 305th Comptroller Squadron.

2. Eligibility Requirements.
   2.1. Individuals must have served at least 45 days as a primary resource advisor to be eligible for the
   quarterly award and 6 months for the annual award. The group/squadron/unit commander or wing
   staff agency chief resource advisor appointment letter will determine the initial appointment date for
   eligibility purposes.
   2.2. Individuals with two or more (quarterly awards) and four or more (for annual awards) unexcused
   absences from financial working group meetings, closeout committee meetings, resource manage-
2                                                       MCGUIREAFBI36-2801 1 DECEMBER 2005


    ment system training sessions, or any other meeting called by the Comptroller or the Financial Anal-
    ysis Flight Commander during the nominating period will be ineligible.

3. Nomination Procedures.
    3.1. Quarterly Nominations:
       3.1.1. Each group/squadron/unit commander or wing staff agency chief may submit one quarterly
       nomination to 305 CPTS/FMA no later than close of business on the second Friday in January,
       April, July and October.
       3.1.2. An AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, in original and five copies will be used for
       award submission. See paragraph 4. for selection criteria. The AF Form 1206 must also be pro-
       vided on a CD-RW.
       3.1.3. Narrative must not exceed 20 lines plus the three headings listed in paragraph 4.
       3.1.4. Narrative must be single space and in bullet format with 12-font size.
       3.1.5. Nominees not meeting eligibility requirements as described in paragraph 2. will not be con-
       sidered for quarterly competition.
       3.1.6. Nominations not received by the deadline or not prepared according to this instruction will
       not be considered for quarterly competition.
    3.2. Annual Nominations:
       3.2.1. Each group/squadron/unit commander or wing staff agency chief may submit one annual
       nominee to 305 CPTS/FMA no later than 5 October.
       3.2.2. An AF Form 1206, in original and five copies, will be used for award submission. See
       paragraph 4. for selection criteria. The AF Form 1206 must also be provided on a CD-RW.
       3.2.3. Narrative is limited to one page.
       3.2.4. Narrative must be single space and in bullet format with 12-font size.
       3.2.5. Nominees not meeting eligibility requirements as described in paragraph 2. will not be con-
       sidered for annual competition.
       3.2.6. Nominations not received by the deadline or not prepared according to this instruction will
       not be considered for annual competition.

4. Selection Criteria. Members will be evaluated on the “whole-person” concept identified in the fol-
lowing mandatory areas:
    4.1. Outstanding Achievements: Describe what the nominee accomplished, how he or she accom-
    plished it, why he or she undertook the project, its impact, and the nominee’s specific role. Consider
    the nominee’s scope of responsibilities and other job related factors. Also consider how the nominee
    demonstrated effective management of resources. Include dollar or time savings, productivity
    increases, long-range implications, and general applicability to other sections or organizations.
    Where possible, use quantitative data to substantiate narrative statements, indicating the basis for all
    estimates and projections.
MCGUIREAFBI36-2801 1 DECEMBER 2005                                                                     3


   4.2. Personal and Enduring Competencies: Provide specific examples of how the nominee’s excep-
   tional demonstration of key personal competencies (insight, integrity, judgment, ethics, selfless ser-
   vice, and professional demeanor) and/or enduring competencies (decision support, developing people,
   strategic orientation, risk management, problem solving, collaborating and influencing, driving pro-
   cesses for results, leading change, leading teams, and communication) established in the Air Force
   Financial Management Competency Model (Attachment 2) had a significant impact upon mission
   and people.
   4.3. Professional Accomplishments: Describe what the nominee has done above the normal expected
   in areas such as self-improvement, college, seminars, additional job-related education, professional
   military education, and community service.
NOTE: Attachment 2 for a summary of explanation of the competency model; see the Air Force FM
Knowledge Management website (https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/fmkm) for a more detailed expla-
nation; use chain-of-command for further assistance.

5. Selection Process.
   5.1. Quarterly Competitions:
       5.1.1. Selection panel will consist of at least three members (one must be a resource advisor not
       nominated during that quarter) and chaired by the Financial Analysis Flight Commander.
   5.2. Annual Competitions:
       5.2.1. Selection panel will consist of at least four members (two must be resource advisors not
       nominated for the annual award) and chaired by the comptroller.
   5.3. The annual award winner will be the McGuire Air Force Base’s nominee for the Air Mobility
   Command’s Resource Advisor of the Year Award.
   5.4. Award Recognition: The chairperson of the Financial Management Board (FMB) will present a
   plaque to each award winner at the first FMB following their selection.



                                              FREDERICK H. MARTIN, Col, USAF
                                              Commander, 305th Air Mobility Wing
4                                                 MCGUIREAFBI36-2801 1 DECEMBER 2005


                                       Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
Air Force Financial Management Competency Model

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FMB—Financial Management Board
RA—Resource Advisor
MCGUIREAFBI36-2801 1 DECEMBER 2005                                                                       5


                                             Attachment 2

      AIR FORCE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT COMPETENCY MODEL (ENDURING
                             COMPETENCIES)
Certain enduring competencies are part of the Air Force Financial Management Competency Model that
defines the knowledge, skills, and abilities required of the workforce. Specifically, the enduring compe-
tencies represent the leadership and thought skills required to effectively manage FM organizations.
 These skills complement a person’s technical competencies and personal attributes and enable senior FM
leaders to fulfill the Air Force Financial Management Vision: strategic partnering, world-class financial
customer support, and decision support. Studies have proven that people who possess highly developed
enduring competencies develop and lead highly efficient organizations.
Decision Support: The ability to analyze relevant knowledge and strategies to provide decision makers
with insightful resource and financial recommendations.
Developing People: The ability to promote the development and performance of others with the right
blend of understanding, coaching, teaching, and support.
Strategic Orientation: The ability to understand a vast array of information, anticipate needs, and make
effective decisions and actions that meet important goals.
Risk Management: The ability to identify and control financial risk for the organization.
Problem Solving: The ability to identify problems, gather the proper information, and use the appropriate
analysis to create sound recommendations.
Collaborating and Influencing: The ability to build cooperative relationships across boundaries that
help different people work together effectively.
Driving Processes for Results: The ability to identify and effectively manage the people and processes
that produce results.
Leading Change: The ability to identify relevant improvements and mobilize people to implement them.
Leading Teams: The ability to help groups work together successfully, driving results through commit-
ment, motivation, and communication.
Communication: The ability to use a variety of different ways of communicating to successfully inform,
influence, and persuade others in the organization.
