BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                MCGUIRE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1
305 AIR MOBILITY WING                                                                    1 AUGUST 2003

                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                         RESOURCE RECOVERY AND RECYCLING
                                                                          PROGRAM (RRRP)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 305 CES/CEV (Mr. Christopher Archer)                                      Certified by: 305 CES/CC
                                                                               (Lt Col Michael Smietana)
Supersedes MAFBI 32-1, 30 October 1999                                                          Pages: 16
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction provides uniform guidance for recycling to organizations, associated units, military fam-
ily housing, and dormitory personnel residing on or attached to McGuire AFB. Command and supervi-
sory support is essential to motivate personnel for a successful RRRP and requires the cooperation,
interest, and participation of each person at McGuire AFB. This instruction outlines responsibilities, pol-
icies, methods, and procedures for collection and sale of recyclable general wastes and selected industrial
scrap materials for the greatest benefit to the Air Force and the personnel of McGuire AFB. It applies to
all assigned and attached personnel. The use of a name of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction incorporates the requirements, information, and procedures contained in HQ USAF/ILE
letter of 6 Feb 2001, Tracking and Reporting Solid Waste Disposal and Diversion from Landfills and
updates organizational changes and terminology.
2                                                              MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003


                                                Chapter 1

               THE AF RESOURCE RECOVERY AND RECYCLING PROGRAM

1.1. Objectives. The objectives of the DOD mandated program are:
    1.1.1. To reduce Municipal Solid Waste Disposal from McGuire AFB in accordance with guidelines
    set forth in AFI 32-7005AMC1, Environmental Protection Committees, Section 3.1.2., goals to be
    established for each calendar year, culminating in a municipal solid waste diversion rate of 40% by the
    end of FY 2005.
    1.1.2. To create positive attitudes and change the behavior of our people toward recycling in order to
    ensure a quality environment for future generations.
    1.1.3. Improve implementation and enforcement of sensible waste handling guidance and continuous
    public education, thereby changing attitudes and habits about recycling.
    1.1.4. To improve the overall quality of life for Air Force personnel and help generate revenue to
    recover RRRP costs, support non-appropriated fund activities, and to avoid excessive disposal costs
    of solid waste materials.
    1.1.5. To comply with Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations.

1.2. Policy.
    1.2.1. Recyclable products which are generated, collected and stored by Air Force Activities on
    McGuire AFB become government property and must be disposed of through the RRRP.
    1.2.2. Only RRRP personnel or designees will transport Air Force collected recyclable products off
    base when properly transacted and documented. Base personnel may transport industrial scrap recy-
    clable materials to Defense Reutilization Marketing Office (DRMO) with proper documentation.
    Products identified as recyclable must be recycled.
    1.2.3. Contact the McGuire AFB RRRP Office or the Recycling Center Manager to arrange removal
    of large quantities of recyclable products or to schedule a weekly pickup. Recyclable material, as
    defined in Chapter 4 of this instruction, may also be dropped off at the appropriate area of the Recy-
    cling Center (2321 Radin Road) between the hours of 0800-1600, Monday through Friday, except on
    holidays.

1.3. Terms.
    1.3.1. Nonrecyclable paper and housing material contaminants: Carbon paper, built-in carbon, milk
    cartons, candy wrappers, cigarette wrappers, waxed paper, metal clips, envelopes, gummed labels,
    adhesives, rubber bands, slick or photographic type paper, onion skin paper, tissue paper, excessive
    dirt, map material, and cardstock. (Staples are considered a minor contamination that is acceptable;
    however, remove plastic and metal bindings.)
    1.3.2. Recyclable Material: Material that has been or would normally be discarded, and may be
    reused after undergoing some type of physical or chemical processing. Recyclable materials do not
    include scrap material containing precious metal and those items which may be used again for their
    original purpose or function without any special processing. Three categories of potentially recyclable
    materials are defined:
MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003                                                                           3


     1.3.2.1. General Waste: Items falling into this category are from office, shipping/receiving and
     residential (housing) and include various paper products, cardboard, aluminum and steel cans,
     glass and plastic containers, scrap wood, certain used vehicle or machine parts, scrap metal, furni-
     ture, electrical components, used oil and solvents, and certain unused containers of lubricants or
     solvents.
     1.3.2.2. Industrial Scrap: Materials which are recyclable but cannot be included in the RRRP are
     military equipment, ships and planes, or any part thereof, or scrap from maintenance, fabrication
     or other industrial processes directly supporting military equipment, and includes precious metals
     and exotic alloys. Such material must undergo demilitarization, dismantling or mutilation prior to
     sale by DRMO.
     1.3.2.3. Classified Material: All material that is classified Confidential, Secret, Top Secret or
     other Security Act classifications shall be handled and destroyed in accordance with Air Force and
     National Security specifications. Shredded material resulting from such procedures may be recy-
     cled if feasible.
  1.3.3. Recycling: The process by which recovered materials are transformed into new, usable prod-
  ucts.
  1.3.4. Refuse: Garbage, ashes, debris, trash, and rubbish considered rejected, useless, or worthless
  matter. Does not include explosives, incendiaries, classified materials, radioactive materials, and liq-
  uid waste.
  1.3.5. Source Separation: The separation of recyclable material at the point of generation by the gen-
  erator.
  1.3.6. Waste Petroleum Products: Includes refined motor oil, diesel fuel, JP-4, JP-8, and PD-680
  (recycled via contract).
  1.3.7. Synthetic Liquid Products: Includes synthetic motor oils such as: Mobil 1, certain transmission
  and hydraulic fluids, or a mixture containing one of these oils or fluids.
  1.3.8. Halogenated Solvents: Includes tetrachloroethylene, methylene chloride (or dichloromethane),
  trichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane (or methyl chloroform), carbon tetrachloride, chlorobenzene,
  or any mixture containing one of these Halogenated solvents.
  1.3.9. Nonhalogenated Solvents: Includes xylene, acetone, toluene, methyl ethyl ketene, or any mix-
  ture containing one of these non-halogenated solvents.
4                                                               MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003


                                                Chapter 2

                                       REASONS TO RECYCLE

2.1. Compliance. To comply with Public Law 97-214 10 United States Code, Section 2577; New Jersey
Administrative Code 7:26-1 et seq; AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program, and Executive Order
#13101; The AMC Solid Waste Program Standard; DoD and Air Force Policy.

2.2. Environmental Benefits. An aluminum beverage container thrown on the side of the road could
take 80-100 years to decompose. A glass container will essentially never decompose.
    2.2.1. Saves Energy. The energy saved by recycling one aluminum beverage container is enough to
    keep a 100-watt bulb burning for 3½ hours.
    2.2.2. Conservation. Newsprint and paper products come from a valuable resource-our forests. For
    every ton of recycled newsprint, 20 trees are saved. Newspapers found in landfills have shown little or
    no decomposition even after 30 or more years.
    2.2.3. Saves Landfill Space. We can increase the life of our landfills by transferring items from the
    waste stream to the recycling stream.
    2.2.4. Reduce solid waste disposal costs. Even for materials that do not generate sale proceeds, signif-
    icant disposal cost savings may be achieved by source separation.
    2.2.5. Community Involvement and Positive Attitude. Recycling gives everyone a chance to take a
    positive, community-minded step, both at work and at home, to contribute to a socially responsible
    program.

2.3. Economics. Recycling creates new jobs. Since 1970, an estimated 100,000+ jobs in buying, process-
ing, and transporting recyclable materials have been created.
    2.3.1. Base Economics. All money generated from the sale of recyclable items from McGuire AFB is
    used to defray the cost of the recycling program. Any excess money can fund environmental projects,
    recreational equipment, services, and events which might not otherwise be funded.
MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003                                                                          5


                                              Chapter 3

                                        RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. Environmental Protection Committee.
   3.1.1. The RRRP will fall under the auspices of the McGuire AFB Environmental Protection Com-
   mittee (EPC), Pollution Prevention (P2) Working Group as a subcommittee chaired in accordance
   with base policy, appointed by the EPC Chairman. The subcommittee will:
   3.1.2. Consist of representatives from all groups and major associate organizations, and serve as a
   public forum for disbursing information concerning policies and procedures.
   3.1.3. Keep the EPC informed of the status of the RRRP.
   3.1.4. Require base-wide compliance with all provisions of the RRRP.
   3.1.5. Ensure the RRRP facility is adequately manned to maintain effective operations.
   3.1.6. Discharge the responsibility for distributing net proceeds of the program under the guidance of
   the EPC. (See Attachment 1, Distribution of Proceeds from DoD Sales of Surplus Personal Property
   reference. See also Paragraph 5.2.). Under applicable contracts, ensure that all contractors separate
   construction debris into the following categories: metal, cardboard and general debris. Scrap metal
   and cardboard will be disposed of through the RRRP. Contact the RRRP Office for disposal instruc-
   tions.
   3.1.7. The 305th Mission Support Group, Civil Engineer Squadron, Environmental Flight is the
   Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the RRRP. The Offices of Collateral Responsibility
   (OCR) are: all groups, squadrons, tenants, government owned contractor operated (GOCO) units, and
   associate organization commanders.

3.2. RRRP Manager.
   3.2.1. The Civil Engineer environmental flight will designate a RRRP manager and forward his/her
   name to the 305 AMW/CC, 305 AMW/FM, all groups, squadrons, tenants, government owned con-
   tractor operated (GOCO) units, and associated organization commanders.
   3.2.2. The RRRP manager ensures the recycling center is maintained in a clean and orderly manner.
   3.2.3. Enforce health and sanitation requirements.
   3.2.4. Prepare an annual budget with Financial Management to include cost of equipment, personnel,
   and other operating expenses.
   3.2.5. Maintain records and turn in documents of the type, amount, and proceeds received from the
   sale of recycled materials.
   3.2.6. Be responsible for depositing RRRP funds to Air Force funds account 57F3875.8900 528200
   when received from sources outside DRMO.
   3.2.7. Screen vehicles and equipment held by the DRMO for possible use by the RRRP.
   3.2.8. Be responsible for training unit RRRP monitors by explaining the types of materials that will
   be accepted, methods of material preparation, and possible areas and strategies to be utilized when
   needed.
6                                                              MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003


    3.2.9. Inspect various unit collection points on a regular basis to ensure compliance with RRRP pro-
    cedures. Attachment 2 will be used to document inspections, and may be used as a self-inspection
    checklist by unit monitors.
    3.2.10. Advise the appropriate unit RRRP monitor of any discrepancies. Discrepancy notifications
    will be forwarded to the EPC subcommittee for monitoring/action.
    3.2.11. Give technical and environmental guidance on discarding of household batteries, fluorescent
    light tubes and ballast.
    3.2.12. Provide technical assistance to unit RRRP monitors to set up and maintain equipment pro-
    cured by the RRRP manager for the RRRP.
    3.2.13. Provide RRRP updates to unit RRRP monitors.

3.3. The 305 AMW Financial Manager (FM). The 305 AMW FM will:
    3.3.1. Ensure that proceeds from the RRRP are collected and disbursed in accordance with Air Force
    Recycling Guidance and the Wing Financial Management Board (FMB). (See Paragraph 5.2.).

3.4. The 305 AMW Medical Group. The 305 AMW Medical Group will:
    3.4.1. Advise of health and sanitation requirements regarding disease vectors, general sanitation, and
    community environment.
    3.4.2. Through Environmental Health Services (EHS) conduct routine sanitary evaluations of RRRP
    facilities and report results to the facility and RRRP manager.

3.5. The 305 AMW Safety Office (SE). The 305 AMW/SE will: Periodically inspect RRRP facilities
for safety of operation and submit report to the facility and RRRP Manager.

3.6. Group and Associated Unit Commanders. Group and Associated Unit Commanders will assume
responsibility for implementing this plan, and require all personnel to participate in the RRRP. The fol-
lowing guidelines will expedite the collection and shipment of recyclable waste products:
    3.6.1. Establish organizational operating instructions as appropriate to implement this regulation.
    3.6.2. Appoint a unit Recycling Monitor for each facility generating recyclable material.
    3.6.3. Maintain and forward to the 305 CES/CEV RRRP manager a list of current monitors with
    office symbols, phone numbers, building and room numbers (update list as needed).
    3.6.4. Provide monitors with the minutes of any EPC RRRP subcommittee meetings, and any changes
    relative to the RRRP.
    3.6.5. Provide a centralized staging area, protected from the elements, within each facility that may
    generate recyclables for the collection of recyclables.
    3.6.6. Ensure DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document, or AF Form 2005, Issue/
    Turn-in Request, are documented accordingly to ensure proceeds are deposited to Air Force account
    57F3875.8900 528200 for all industrial scrap turned in to DRMO. Immediately forward copies of all
    documents to the RRRP manager.
MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003                                                                              7


   3.6.7. Ensure unit monitors segregate scrap materials into the proper classifications. If a single item
   has more than one common material, classify it as mixed. Activities specializing in certain materials
   will segregate further if needed or requested by the RRRP.
   3.6.8. Ensure unit monitors identify scrap material known to contain precious metals (gold, silver, or
   platinum) or noble metals (palladium, iridium, osmium, ruthenium, or rhodium) and process IAW
   AMC policy.
   3.6.9. Ensure unit monitors deliver all metal materials which are recyclable to the RRRP Facility or
   DRMO with proper turn in documentation and accounting classification codes indicated in accor-
   dance with paragraph 3.6.6.
   3.6.10. Ensure unit monitors schedule a regular pickup or deliver all other materials which are recy-
   clable to the Recycling Center. (See paragraph 1.2.3.).

3.7. The 305 LRS. The 305 LRS will:
   3.7.1. Furnish vehicles such as forklifts, 1½ ton stake body trucks, covered vans, etc., to prevent work
   stoppage in the event RRRP vehicles are inoperable.

3.8. Unit Recycling Monitors. They will:
   3.8.1. Ensure an adequate and clearly identified collection point is provided within each building that
   generates recyclable material. Encourage or require as applicable all personnel generating recyclable
   material to deposit their materials at these stations.
   3.8.2. Ensure all employees receive information on the implementation of this regulation and ade-
   quate resources to comply with the directions set forth.
   3.8.3. Ensure recyclable materials (as described in Section 4) are collected, source segregated and
   turned into the Recycling Center.
   3.8.4. Provide containers for each type of waste paper. Collection containers may be obtained from
   the Recycling Center. (See Paragraph 4.3.).
   3.8.5. Ensure all boxes are fully packed and securely closed to avoid spillage during transportation.
   3.8.6. Ensure the recyclable products are free of contaminants.
   3.8.7. Label all boxes with material category indicating the originating office symbol and phone num-
   bers.
   3.8.8. Ensure a neat and orderly recycling station. Good housekeeping is essential.
   3.8.9. Ensure large quantities of recyclable products do not accumulate at the unit collection point by
   scheduling pick-ups as necessary. (See paragraph 1.2.3.).
   3.8.10. Refer any problems to the building custodian and the RRRP manager.
   3.8.11. Conduct periodic walk-through inspections of unit work centers to ensure compliance with
   this regulation.
   3.8.12. Privacy Act (PA) or For Official Use Only (FOUO) recycling materials must remain within
   the security of the building until transported to the recycling center.
   3.8.13. Ensure all recyclable industrial scrap turned in to DRMO is processed IAW para 3.6.6.
8                                                               MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003


                                                Chapter 4

                 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS AND UNSERVICEABLE EXCESS

NOTE: Attachment 3 sets contains a chart of recyclable materials collected at the Recycling Center. The
chart contains guidance on preparation and sorting of materials, which are further described below.

4.1. Corrugated Scrap.
    4.1.1. Recycling Center will accept corrugated cardboard scrap for baling from McGuire AFB per-
    sonnel. Personnel are required to recycle this resource.
       4.1.1.1. Coordinate with the Recycling Center prior to any delivery.
    4.1.2. Residents of McGuire AFB housing areas must recycle cardboard containers for curbside
    pickup by following these procedures:
       4.1.2.1. Break down all boxes. Remove packing paper and plastic inserts. Any cardboard that is
       contaminated with food waste is not acceptable.
       4.1.2.2. Place boxes at your curb by 0600 on the day of your normal pick-up.
NOTE: During rainy weather, protect cardboard from the elements; wet cardboard cannot be recycled.

4.2. Paper products. They will be collected by the Recycling Center, or they can be brought to the Recy-
cling Center.
    4.2.1. Computer paper: Computer paper with built-in carbon (NCR) is not acceptable.
    4.2.2. Materials containing personal data may be recycled; however, special handling is required to
    ensure compliance with Air Force Instructions. The following information applies:
       4.2.2.1. Place Privacy Act (PA) and For Official Use Only (FOUO) products in a separate card-
       board boxes and tape shut. Mark “Controlled” on the box indicating PA or FOUO material. Never
       place classified information in the boxes unless it has been macerated.
    4.2.3. White paper scrap. Includes bond, lined, copier paper, and Flight Publication Bulletins. (Bright
    white pages).
    4.2.4. Mixed paper. Post-it notes, lined yellow paper, other colored paper, and colored or off-white
    Newspaper.
    4.2.5. Newspaper/Newsprint. Newspaper, magazines, inserts, or junk mail will be accepted by the
    Recycling Center. Newspaper may be bundled with twine or bagged, should not exceed 8-10 inches in
    height, and may be brought to the Recycling Center during normal duty hours.

4.3. Plastics. Scrap will be accepted from the plastic shop. Base-wide plastic container collection will be
centralized at the Recycling Center.

4.4. Glass. Glass container collection in military family housing will continue for the benefit of the local
community. Glass collection will also be provided at the Recycling Center.
MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003                                                                          9


4.5. Scrap Metals and miscellaneous scrap. All sections will establish a storage station for their recy-
clable scrap metals. Ferrous and nonferrous metals will be segregated by metal type prior to delivery to
the Recycling Center. The following is a list of the most common type of miscellaneous scrap metals:
   4.5.1. Aluminum and Steel cans will be brought to the Recycling Center in plastic bags. Military fam-
   ily housing collection will continue for the benefit of the local community.
   4.5.2. Aluminum scrap. Aluminum sheeting, tubing, wire, extrusions, etc.
   4.5.3. Aluminum wire and cable. Consists of tinned and untinned aluminum covered with rubber,
   plastic, fabric or other insulation.
   4.5.4. Brass. Include pipe, frames, valves, plates, tubing, etc.
   4.5.5. Copper pipe, etc.
   4.5.6. Copper wire and cable. Consists of tinned and untinned copper covered with rubber plastic,
   fabric, or other insulation.
   4.5.7. Light metal, unprepared.
   4.5.8. Magnesium scrap. Includes aircraft wheels with aluminum and ferrous attachments.
   4.5.9. Mercury. Consists only of liquid mercury from manometers, thermometers, etc. This metal
   must be provided to 305 CES/CEV for accumulation and storage.
   4.5.10. Steel, heavy, unprepared scrap. Includes pipes, fence, vehicle parts, angle and channel iron,
   sprockets, truck beds, door jambs, triple-rinsed 55 gallon drums, fuel tanks and shop scrap.
       4.5.10.1. Contractor debris which is generated from on-base construction, demolition, repair and
       removal activity is considered government procured property unless otherwise specified in the
       contract. Items identified in this instruction as recyclable, (underground storage tanks, above
       ground storage tanks, window frames, steel doors, etc. not all inclusive) must be disposed of
       through the Recycling Center. Contact the RRRP manager for disposal instructions.
   4.5.11. Personnel residing off-base are encouraged to discard their recyclable aluminum cans into the
   on base drop-off containers located at the recycling center.

4.6. Toner cartridges. Toner cartridges from computer printers and copy machines are handled under an
exchange/purchase arrangement with the Recycling Center. Any purchase of new cartridges shall comply
with Affirmative Procurement Program guidelines.

4.7. Scrap Tires. Tires procured from Transportation, except those for emergency vehicles must be
returned to Transportation for recapping.

4.8. Batteries. Includes lead-acid, nickel-cadmium, lithium and button batteries; these will be turned in
to the Recycling Center. Store in a closed container labeled “Used Batteries.” Alkaline dry cell (e.g.,
flashlight) batteries will be disposed of with normal refuse.

4.9. Fluorescent Tubes. Includes straight, circular and U-shaped tubes. Store in the original boxes when-
ever possible and labeled “Used Lamps”; otherwise place in the containers at the Recycling Center.
10                                                            MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003


4.10. Waste Liquid Petroleum Products (Base generated). Oils and other petroleum products are gen-
erated primarily from aircraft operations, vehicle maintenance, cleaning, solvents, paints, and thinners.

4.11. Waste Oil and Anti-freeze. The Auto Hobby Shop is the collection point for personnel assigned to
McGuire AFB who want to dispose of used lubricating oils and anti-freeze from their private vehicles.
The 305 SVS will ensure that the collection tank does not become contaminated with solvents, thinners or
antifreeze. The 305 SVS will notify the 305 CES/CEV when disposal is required.

4.12. Wood Products. Includes pallets, scrap lumber, tree limbs, etc. Intact pallets will be taken to the
Recycling Center; unusable pallets will be taken to the CE storage yard behind Bldg. 3401. If there is any
doubt whether unwanted lumber can be recycled, call the RRRP Manager prior to delivery to the Recy-
cling Center. Tree limbs and Christmas trees will be chipped for mulch.

4.13. White Goods. Items such as refrigerators, washers, dryers, and ranges from the base activities will
have account 59F3875.8900.528200 on the AF Form 2005. This will ensure that in the event DRMO clas-
sifies the material as scrap, the proceeds from the sale will be returned to the McGuire AFB RRRP.

4.14. Unserviceable Excess. When any organization turns in unserviceable excess to the local DRMO,
they will stamp funds code 59F3875.8900 528200 on the DD Form 1348-1A. This will ensure that in the
event DRMO classifies the material as scrap, the proceeds from the sale will be returned to the McGuire
AFB RRRP.
MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003                                                                          11


                                               Chapter 5

                                              GENERAL

5.1. Sale. Recyclable materials may be sold by the RRRP to individuals, processors, and community
organizations, when:
   5.1.1. The materials were not government purchased or generated.
   5.1.2. The materials, while owned or generated by DoD and Air Force, have been shown to be uneco-
   nomical for government supported collection or disposal through DRMO.

5.2. Funding and Proceeds Distribution. The Wing FMB will determine RRRP fund distribution based
on the Air Force Recycling Guidance: “Recycling proceeds generated from the direct sale of nonappropri-
ated fund-owned (Services and AAFES) and DeCA material will be returned to the respective organiza-
tion. Recycling proceeds returned to the installation from the Defense Reutilization Marketing Service
and from direct sales of appropriated fund material will first be used to recover appropriated fund costs
incurred managing and operating the RRRP to include but not limited to: manpower, equipment, utility,
and real property costs. After appropriated fund cost reimbursement, the installation commander may use
up to 50 percent of the remaining sale proceeds for pollution abatement, energy conservation, and occu-
pational safety and health activities. Projects may be funded up to 50 percent of the cost of a minor con-
struction project. Any remaining proceeds may be transferred to the Morale, Welfare and Recreation Fund
to be used for base morale, welfare and recreation activities. Accounting for recycling proceeds and the
distribution thereof shall be in accordance with Air Force Instructions.

5.3. Ownership. Accumulation of solid waste for recycling purposes, which has been generated, col-
lected and stored on McGuire AFB, is government property and must be sold through RRRP.

5.4. Future Recyclables. The materials designated for recycling in this regulation are by no means all
inclusive. The RRRP office will keep all base personnel updated on additions to the recyclable materials
list.

5.5. Curbside Collection: In base residential areas will continue.

5.6. Compliance: Organizations are subject to inspection or audit by the EPC for solid waste disposal
area compliance. Non-compliance may result in action by the EPC, with potential loss of fund eligibility.



                                                    JIMMIE C. JACKSON, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander, 305th Air Mobility Wing
12                                                         MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order 13101, Greening the Government through Waste Prevention, Recycling, and Federal
Acquisition, 14 September 1998
Public LAW 99-580, 42 U.S.C. Sections 6901-6987, Resource Conservation Recovery Act of 1976, as
amended
Public LAW 97-214, 10 U.S.C. Section 2577, Disposal of Recyclable Materials
Public LAW 8-152, 40 U.S.C. Sections 484-485, Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of
1949, as amended
OMB Policy Memorandum 92-4, Procurement of Energy Efficient and Environmentally Sound Products,
November 1992
DoD 4160.21-H, Defense Scrap Yard Handbook
DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Material Disposition Manual
DoD 4160.21-M-1, Defense Demilitarization Manual
DoDI 4715.4, Pollution Prevention
DoDI 7310.1, Disposition of Proceeds from DoD Sales of Surplus Personal Property, July 1989
Policy Letter for DoD Recycling, Undersecretary of Defense, 28 Sep 93
HQ USAF/ILE Letter, Tracking and Reporting Solid Waste Disposal and Diversion from Landfills, 6 Feb
2001
AFI 32-7005AMCSUP1, Environmental Protection Committees
AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program
MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003                                                                          13


                                             Attachment 2

                                     RECYCLING CHECKLIST

RECYCLING CHECKLIST
BUILDING # _____________ ORGANIZATION/OFFICE SYMBOL ___________________
DATE ___________________ SURVEYOR ________________________________________


RESOURCE, RECOVERY, AND RECYCLING PROGRAM CHECKLIST


1. Has a Recycling Monitor been designated for the facility? If so, provide name and phone number. (1)
_______
2. Is the name and phone number of the Base RRRP Manager and unit monitor posted on unit bulletin
board? (1)
_______
3. Does the workplace generate any recyclable materials? (1)
_______
4. What materials are being recycled? (1)
_______
5. What additional materials could be recycled? (1)
_______
6. Is there a centralized staging area for storing recyclable items? Is good housekeeping in evidence? (1)
_______
7. Does the monitor ensure recyclables are segregated properly and labeled by type? Are containers
adequate in number and in good condition? (1)
_______
8. Are there adequate desk-side containers for office and other paper? (1)
_______
9. Does the monitor ensure adequate housekeeping of the storage area? (1)
_______
10. Are recyclable or hazardous materials, e.g., batteries, fluorescent tubes or chemical/ petroleum
products, present in outside dumpsters? (1)
_______
11. Are AFOSH Standards being adhered to? (1) (2)
_______
12. Does the Recycling Center provide adequate support? (1) (2)
_______
14                                                            MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003


13. Is there a current list of all unit Recycling monitors on file? (2)
_______
14. Have all unit monitors been trained in RRRP requirements? (2)
_______
15. Are units being inspected for compliance, cleanliness, etc? (2)
_______
16. Are inspection reports on file - Program Manager, BEE, EHS? (2)
_______
17. Is the Recycling Center operator sending a financial and weight report to program manager within ten
days after end of each month? (2)
_______
18. Is there a current budget proposal on file? (2)
_______
19. Are copies of EPC minutes on file? (2)
_______


     (1) Unit Recycling monitor
     (2) Base Recycling Manager
MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003                                                                                                    15


                                                    Attachment 3

                                                RECYCLING GUIDE

                           McGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE
   RECYCLING GUIDE FOR RESOURCE, RECOVERY AND RECYCLING PROGRAM
              For further information contact the Environmental Flight
RECYCLABLES DESCRIPTION              HOW TO               YES          NO!
                                     PREPARE
   CORRUGATED          - two layers of heavy      - breakdown and flatten      - clean, corrugated         - soiled cardboard
   CARDBOARD             duty cardboard with a    - may be bundled or            cardboard cartons         - plastic or wax coated
                        ribbed section in between unbundled                                                  cardboard
WHITE OFFICE PAPER - copier paper                 - staples may be left in     - typing paper              - carbon paper
                   - letterhead paper               the paper                  - copying paper             - colored paper
                   - notebook paper               - remove paper clips and     - white letterhead paper    - glossy paper, fax paper
                                                    reuse                      - writing paper             - paper containing
                                                  - collect in box, paper      - clean computer paper        “Privacy Act”
                                                    bag, loose or tied with                                  information
                                                    twine
                                                  - shredded paper must be
                                                    bagged
 NEWSPAPER/ MIXED      - any newspaper,           - collect in paper bag,      - newsprint, phone books    - plastic covered binders
      PAPER              magazine, or phone         loose or tied with twine   - magazines                 - carbon paper
                         book can be recycled                                  - colored paper
  PLASTIC BOTTLES      - Polyethylene             - rinse clean                - soda bottles              - any plastic not marked
 (TYPE 1 and TYPE 2)     Terephthalate            - remove tops                - water bottles               “1” or “2” on the
                         (PETE)—number “1”        - bring in flattened or      - juice, sports drink         bottom
                         stamped on bottom of       unflattened                  bottles                   - hazardous material
                         item                                                                                containers (motor oil,
                       - High Density                                          - milk jugs                 etc.)
                         Polyethylene                                          - laundry detergent
                         (HDPE)—number “2”                                       bottles
                         stamped on bottom of
                         item
GLASS BOTTLES AND - glass containers and          - rinse clean                - soda bottles              - drinking glasses
       JARS         bottles that are clear,       - remove caps and lids       - beer bottles              - window glass
                    green or brown may be         - do not remove labels       - food jars                 - ceramics
                    recycled                      - do not break glass         - wine and liquor bottles   - pyrex cookware
   SCRAP METAL         - Any metal item           - Remove non-metal           - Unusable metal items      - Usable items; batteries
                                                    parts                                                  - Concrete, wood, dirt
                                                  - No excessive grease,                                   - Weapons parts
                                                    dripping oil                                             (DEMIL-required
                                                  - Certify in writing that                                  items)
                                                    A/C units, refrigerators
                                                    drained of Ozone
                                                    Depleting Substances
                                                    (ODS).
 ALUMINUM CANS         - molded without seams     - rinse cans                 - rinsed beverage cans      - aluminum foil
                       - rounded base             - may be flattened or                                    - food trays
                       - indented top               unflattened                                            - siding or gutters
                                                  - collect in a plastic bag
                                                    or a box
16                                                                                MCGUIREAFBI32-1 1 AUGUST 2003


     STEEL (TIN) CANS   - seamed sides               - rinse cans and remove       - rinsed food cans         - pie pans
                        - flat top and bottom          labels                      - cookie tins              - paint cans
                        - magnetic                   - may be flattened or                                    - oil cans
                                                       unflattened
                                                     - collect in a plastic bag
                                                       or a box
 TONER CARTRIDGES       - Mechanical cartridges      - Place in box of             - Copier and fax           - Plastic bottles w/toner
                                                       replacement                   cartridges
          TIRES         - Aircraft, vehicle rubber   - Remove from rim             - Rubber tires             - Metal rims, attachments
                          tires
                                       Items Collected at the Recycling Center
                                                 (2321 Radin Road)
                                             Call for Pick-Up Schedule

                                McGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE
        RECYCLING GUIDE FOR RESOURCE, RECOVERY AND RECYCLING PROGRAM
                   For further information contact the Environmental Flight

                                                    UNIVERSAL WASTES*
                        - NiCad batteries            - Place in closed             - Cell phone batteries     - Alkaline dry cell
                        - Lead-Acid batteries          container                   - Automobile batteries       batteries
        BATTERIES       - Lithium batteries          - Mark “Used Batteries”
                        - Silver button batteries      and date storage began
                                                       on container
FLUORESCENT TUBES - Fluorescent Tubes                - Store tubes in their        - Linear, circular and U   - Incandescent light
                                                       original box and mark        -shaped fluorescent         bulbs
                                                       “Used Lamps” and date         tubes
                                                       storage began


*Universal Waste must be handled in accordance with the above instructions and 40 CFR 273, “Standards
  for Universal Waste Management.” Improper handling may result in fines and penalties being issued
                            against the base by State or Federal regulators.




                                       Items Collected at the Recycling Center
                                                 (2321 Radin Road)
                                             Call for Pick-Up Schedule
