BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE
305TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 33-102
                                                                                      17 JANUARY 2006

                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                                         PUBLIC ADDRESS SUPPORT



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 305 CS/SCMR (MSgt Jeremy Soltroff)                  Certified by: 305 MSG/CC (Col Robert Dubek)
                                                                                             Pages: 7
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) Sys-
tems. It sets out policies and procedures relating to Public Address (PA) Support from the 305th Commu-
nications Squadron Base Radio Maintenance Element (305 CS/SCMR) on McGuire Air Force Base. This
instruction applies to all units assigned to the 305th Air Mobility Wing (305 AMW) and tenant units.
Clarifies the responsibilities of the 305th Communications Squadron (305 CS) and its customers, simpli-
fies the process of requesting support, clearly distinguishes between events that receive full service and
self help support, summarizes the mission of Base Radio Maintenance, provides a means of responding to
priority equipment outages during an event with little or no interruption in service, states that Compact
Disk (CD) is now the only audio format provided, and implements a new program of appointing PA coor-
dinators in each organization to receive training and operate equipment for events that are determined to
be self-help. Ensure that all records in this instruction are maintained and disposed of in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and the Air Force Records Distribution (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil.


1. General.
   1.1. Government communications resources are for official use only and are for authorized purposes
   as stated in DoD Directive 5500.7, Standards of Conduct. For the 305 AMW, the 305 CS/SCMR work
   center is the focal point for all PA support. The work center is located in Building 1506 and requests
   will be submitted following instructions in paragraph 3.3.1. Alternatively, requests can be faxed to the
   base radio maintenance office. Please be sure to provide all of the requested information to ensure
   timely and accurate fulfillment of a request.
   1.2. There are two types of PA support:
       1.2.1. Full service: 305 CS/SCMR sets up and runs the PA equipment for the event.
       1.2.2. Self help: 305 CS/SCMR signs out and provides training on PA equipment, as required to
       the user, but the user operates the PA equipment for the event.
2                                                           MCGUIREAFBI33-102 17 JANUARY 2006


    1.3. The primary mission of 305 CS/SCMR, is to provide communications-electronics maintenance
    to wing air traffic control and command and control communications systems. These systems carry a
    high priority and have a critical impact on flight safety. All outages affecting, or potentially affecting,
    the flying and command and control missions have priority over PA support. However, 305 CS/
    SCMR will work with the customer as much as possible, i.e., loan equipment out for an event.

2. 305 CS Responsibilities.
    2.1. The 305 AMW/CC or 305 CS/CC, will be the final approving authority for determining the level
    of support for all PA support requests.
    2.2. 305 CS/SCMR will:
       2.2.1. Approve PA support of authorized functions and determine the supportability of the event
       based on the current mission, manning requirements, equipment availability and specialized
       requirements of the customer. We strive to provide the highest quality support possible; please
       help us insure the success of your event by planning in advance and adhering to this instruction.
       2.2.2. Determine if the PA support will be full service or self help in accordance with paragraphs
       4. and 5.
       2.2.3. Notify the requester as soon as possible if the event is scheduled for full service support,
       self help support, or if support is unauthorized. If it is a short notice request, 305 CS/SCMR will
       notify the requestor whether or not the event is supportable due to workload, manning, scheduling
       conflicts, etc.
       2.2.4. Set up and operate PA equipment for full-service support.
       2.2.5. Establish equipment checkout time with PA coordinator for self-help support.
       2.2.6. Provide military ceremonial music for official events. All music is provided on CD.
       2.2.7. Schedule and conduct training for PA coordinators. Training will include setting up equip-
       ment, adjusting sound levels, playing music, and requesting support.
       2.2.8. Maintain a copy of all PA coordinator appointment letters.
       2.2.9. Maintain data on PA workload history and expenditures.
       2.2.10. Maintain PA equipment.
    2.3. The 305 CS does not necessarily own, operate, or maintain all the PA equipment on the base.
    Some organizations, such as the base clubs, 2d ARS, fire department, Child Development Centers,
    etc. have auditoriums or rooms with PA equipment installed. We do not operate or maintain PA sys-
    tems that we do not own, or did not install. Functions held at those locations using their equipment do
    not involve SCMR unless they meet the criteria for full service support in paragraph 4. In all other
    cases, the POC for that facility will provide basic support in conjunction with the unit PA coordinator
    designated as per paragraph 3.1.

3. Responsibilities of Organizations requiring PA support.
    3.1. Organizations requesting PA support from the 305 CS will:
MCGUIREAFBI33-102 17 JANUARY 2006                                                                     3


  3.2. Designate a primary and alternate PA coordinator by appointment letter, signed by the organiza-
  tion commander. The format is not important but at a minimum the letter must include the name, rank,
  office symbol, telephone number and status (primary or alternate) of the individuals.
  3.3. PA coordinators must contact 305 CS/SCMR to schedule training.
     3.3.1. Only trained PA coordinators designated by appointment letter are authorized to pickup and
     operate equipment for self help PA support. These are the only people who will be recognized and
     permitted to act on behalf of the organization in this capacity. Organizations are highly encour-
     aged to utilize the designated PA coordinators for all aspects of their PA system needs, be it
     self-help, full service, or third party as specified in paragraph 2.3.
  3.4. Submit PA requests as soon as they become aware of the requirement for support. Requests sub-
  mitted less than 10 duty days prior to the event start date are considered short notice and may not be
  supported due to mission requirements or equipment availability. Blanket requests for recurring
  events are not accepted.
     3.4.1. Submit requests by filling out the Public Address Request Form on https://pri-
     vate.mcguire.amc.af.mil/305AMW/305MSG/305CS/pa/request.html. Instructions for filling
     out the form properly are linked to the page.
     3.4.2. Please note: 305 CS/SCMR can not always support specialized PA requirements due to
     limited equipment, interface and signal incompatibility which can lead to unpredictable audio
     quality, and the risk of equipment damage. Audio output from a VCR, mixing board, and several
     other components can not be sent into our equipment. Some signal feeds are possible via wired
     and wireless technology (i.e. feeding audio from speakers to wireless microphones without direct
     connections). 305 CS/SCMR may be able to allow an audio feed from a computer, but we do not
     own the equipment for that. If you need to play audio from a customer provided computer please
     contact 305CS/SCBSV; they have the necessary equipment and will assist with the tie in. SCMR
     also has a CD player available for official music and audio. Tape deck support is not provided.
         3.4.2.1. Specialized audio sources and configurations as explained above must be leveled and
         tested in advance, or can not be used.
     3.4.3. In order for SCMR technicians to provide optimum full-service support (as defined in para-
     graph 4.), they need:
         3.4.3.1. A written sequence of events with music or audio cues, i.e. a script.
         3.4.3.2. Access to the venue a minimum 3 hours prior to arrival of participants.
         3.4.3.3. Electrical power within 100 feet of the venue. If this is not possible, 305 CS/SCMR
         has a generator to provide power, but be aware of the noise this will cause.
         3.4.3.4. Music if other than military ceremonial music is required. Music must be in good
         taste, non-offensive in nature, and befitting the nature of the event (such as low volume music
         while an auditorium is filling). Also, the music must be free for use, not copyrighted.
         3.4.3.5. An operator to cue music and appropriate security for the equipment if 305 CS/SCMR
         personnel must leave for a priority mission outage as determined by the 305 CS/CC or desig-
         nated representative.
4                                                           MCGUIREAFBI33-102 17 JANUARY 2006


NOTE: The primary mission of 305 CS/SCMR is Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems and Com-
mand and Control Communications for Homeland Defense.
       3.4.4. Additionally, requests for self-help support (as defined by paragraph 5.) will require:
           3.4.4.1. A PA coordinator to setup and operate the equipment.
           3.4.4.2. A PA coordinator to sign out and return equipment to 305 CS/SCMR during normal
           duty hours and in a timely manner (i.e. the next duty day).
           3.4.4.3. PA coordinators act as property custodians and have a responsibility to ensure the
           security and accountability of borrowed items.
           3.4.4.4. Replacement of equipment if any is damaged due to negligence, abuse, or misuse as
           defined in AFM 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.

4. Full-Service Support.
    4.1. Official base functions will be supported based on mission, manning, and equipment availability.
    Self-help equipment may be issued if full-service support cannot be provided. Examples of official
    functions that will normally receive full-service support include but are not limited to:
    4.2. Official briefings and seminars at wing-level or above.
    4.3. Wing/group commander’s calls.
    4.4. Change-of-command ceremonies.
    4.5. Retirement ceremonies.
    4.6. Wing NCO/SNCO induction ceremonies.
    4.7. Professional Military Education graduation ceremonies.
    4.8. Dining-In and Dining-Out events held on McGuire AFB.
    4.9. Wing or group military awards and recognition ceremonies.
    4.10. 305 AMW sponsored, base-level ceremonies and events of official military nature.
    4.11. Functions as directed by the 305 AMW/CC or 305 CS/CC.

5. Self-Help Support.
    5.1. For those events that do not fall into the full-service category but are still official in nature, 305
    CS/SCMR will loan self-help PA equipment to the appropriate PA coordinator. Examples of self-help
    events include but are not limited to:
    5.2. Squadron and below commander’s calls.
    5.3. Group or squadron briefings and seminars.
    5.4. Squadron awards and recognition ceremonies.
    5.5. Morale parties and functions including holiday functions, hail-and-farewells, and retirement din-
    ners.
    5.6. Group and squadron sporting events.
MCGUIREAFBI33-102 17 JANUARY 2006                                                                       5


   5.7. Nonprofit, civic, and charitable events.
   5.8. Group or squadron ceremonies and events of official military nature off base.

6. Unauthorized Events for Support and Usage.
   6.1. Unauthorized events are those events that are social in nature or not directly related to military
   missions or activities. Unauthorized events will not receive PA support. Examples of unauthorized
   events include but are not limited to:
   6.2. Private Organizations events, in accordance with AFI 34-223, Private Organization Program.
   6.3. Concerts by parties other than those officially sanctioned by the Air Force as being military in
   nature or serving a military need such as recruitment.
   6.4. Fund raisers or other money-generating functions, such as car washes, dunk booths, etc.
   6.5. Disc jockeys (DJs).
   6.6. Social events such as squadron picnics, military spouses meetings, etc.
   6.7. Induction ceremonies.



                                               FREDERICK H. MARTIN, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 305th Air Mobility Wing
6                                                      MCGUIREAFBI33-102 17 JANUARY 2006


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 5500.7, Standards of Conduct
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) Systems
AFI 34-223, Private Organization Program
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFM—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CD—Compact Disk
CS—Communication Squadron
DJ—Disk Jockey
DoD—Department of Defense
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
PA—Public Address

Terms
Abuse—Deliberate unauthorized use of government property or willful misconduct.
Accountability—The obligation imposed by law or lawful order or regulation, or an officer or person for
the keeping accurate record of property, documents, or funds. The person having this obligation may or
may not have actual possession of the property, documents, or funds. Accountability is concerned
primarily with records, while responsibility is concerned primarily with custody care, and safekeeping.
Approving Authority—The approving authority makes determinations to either relieve involved
individuals from responsibility and, or accountability or approve assessment of financial liability.
Full Service—305 CS/SCMR sets up, manages and runs the PA equipment for an event.
Liability—The state of being responsible or answerable for the loss, damage, or destruction of
government property.
Negligence—The failure to act as a reasonably prudent person would have acted under similar
circumstances, including failure to operate equipment as instructed, or failure to properly safeguard
equipment from damage or theft.
Property Custodian—An individual appointed by proper authority who is responsible for the custody,
MCGUIREAFBI33-102 17 JANUARY 2006                                                                         7


care, and safekeeping of Air Force property. Failure to exercise this obligation may result in the
assessment of financial liability.
Responsibility—1. The obligation to carry forward an assigned task to a successful conclusion. 2. The
obligation for the proper custody, care, and safekeeping of property or funds entrusted to the possession or
supervision of an individual.
Self Help—305 CS/SCMR signs out and provides training on PA equipment as required, but the user
accepts responsibility for, and actually operates the PA equipment for a given event.
Unauthorized Use—Use without right, permit, or authority.
