BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE
305TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                      INSTRUCTION 90-821
                                                                                    15 OCTOBER 2005

                                                                                       Command Policy

                                                            WRITTEN HAZARD COMMUNICATION
                                                                                PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 305 AMDS/SGPB (Maj P. Goff)                            Certified by: 305 AMDS/CC (Col Gamble)
Supersedes MCGUIREAFBI48-102,                                                               Pages: 5
           25 June 2003                                                              Distribution: F

This written program provides information specific to the implementation of Air Force Instruction (AFI)
90-821, Hazard Communication, at McGuire AFB. The purpose of the Hazard Communication
(HAZCOM) program is to minimize the incidence of chemically induced occupational illnesses and inju-
ries in the workplace by establishing guidance for training employees on the health and physical hazards
associated with, and proper preventive measures to be taken when, using or handling hazardous chemicals
in work area/shop(s). Ensure that all records in this supplement are maintained and disposed of in accor-
dance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and the Air Force Records Disposition (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This publication revises
local implementation of Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 161-21, Hazard
Communication, dated 23 January 1989, which has been superseded by AFI 90-821. Paragraphs 1.-6.4.
have been renumbered and rewritten to reflect new AFI 90-821. Changes include placing primary respon-
sibility for HAZCOM training and worker awareness on the work area/shop supervisor, and clarification
of supporting training and technical consultation roles. A bar (|) indicates changes from the previous
edition.


1. The workplace written hazardous communication program will be maintained at each work area
and include the following.
   1.1. A copy of this written workplace plan to include a copy of AFI 90-821 as Attachment 1.
   1.2. The work area hazardous chemical inventory as Attachment 2.
   1.3. A list of the non-routine tasks involving hazardous materials as Attachment 3.
2                                                        MCGUIREAFBI90-821 15 OCTOBER 2005


2. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs).
    2.1. The Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BEF) maintains the MSDS master file containing all
    hazardous chemicals used at McGuire AFB.
       2.1.1. This master file consists of the Hazardous Material Information Resource System (HMIRS)
       and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Form 174, Material Safety Data
       Sheet, or equivalent forms.
       2.1.2. This MSDS information will be readily available to all workers through the HMIRS Online
       Web Application - a web-based system used by workers at industrial facilities to access electronic
       hazardous material documents that are assigned to specific work locations in each facility.
    2.2. Workers desiring MSDS information will contact BEF to establish a mutually acceptable time
    during normal duty hours to review the MSDS at building 3457. BEF will review the MSDS with the
    employee and provide an explanation of the MSDS information. Requests after normal duty hours
    will be directed to the BEF through Ambulance Services.

3. Employee Information and Training.
    3.1. Unit commanders will ensure supervisors of work areas using hazardous materials receive train-
    ing using guidance found in AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7, “Employee Information and Training.”
    These supervisors will be trained by Public Health and/or other formal training organization (e.g.,
    maintenance trainers). Assistance with supervisor training is available through Public Health.
    3.2. Supervisors will ensure subordinate workers are trained IAW AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7. This
    training may be provided by the supervisor, the organization occupational health coordinator, or other
    formal organization training structure (i.e., maintenance trainers). Supervisors should supplement this
    training to provide information on work area specific chemical hazards. Before presenting supple-
    mental training, the supervisor will ensure the following appropriate agencies review the information
    for technical accuracy:
       3.2.1. BEF (305 AMDS/SGPB).
       3.2.2. Public Health (305 AMDS/SGPM).
       3.2.3. Safety (305 AMW/SEG).
       3.2.4. Fire Department Fire Prevention Section (305 CES/CEF).
       3.2.5. Environmental Coordinator (305 CES/CEV).
    3.3. HAZCOM training will be documented on the individual’s AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
    Health Record, in CAMS, or the ESOH-MIS, IAW AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Envi-
    ronmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program.

4. Hazardous Chemical Inventory.
    4.1. The hazardous chemical inventory for this area will be developed by the work area supervisor.
    BEF will review this inventory IAW the assessment priority established in AFI 48-145, Occupational
    Health Program.
    4.2. The supervisors will maintain the hazardous chemicals inventory in the work area as Attachment
    2 to the written workplace plan and update it as necessary. When new chemicals are introduced into
MCGUIREAFBI90-821 15 OCTOBER 2005                                                                        3


   the work area, the supervisor will consult with the HazMat Pharmacy to determine if the chemical
   should be added to the inventory.
   4.3. The written work area/shop hazard communication program must include a list of hazardous
   chemicals known to be present in a work area/shop (the list may be compiled for the work area/shop
   as a whole or for specified and readily distinguishable portions of a work area/shop). The identity that
   is used on the MSDS must be cross-referenced to the inventory. Where accessible, the inventory may
   be maintained in the ESOH-MIS, but if the primary means of access is electronic the work area/shop
   must have a non-electronic back-up method for viewing MSDSs.

5. Contractor Operations.
   5.1. The Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO), with assistance from BEF and the work area
   supervisor, if requested, will advise contractors of hazardous chemicals they may encounter and pro-
   tective measures needed in the normal course of their work in this work area. The ACO will also
   inform the contractor that MSDS information is available through BEF and provide information on
   the labeling system.
   5.2. At the pre-performance conference, and subsequently during the contract performance period,
   the requiring activity quality assurance evaluator will advise work area supervisors and AF employees
   monitoring the performance of contractors of hazardous chemicals introduced by the contractor. The
   contractor is required to submit information on the use of hazardous materials according to FAR
   clause 5352.223.9002, Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data, or subsequently
   adopted equivalent provision.

6. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials.
   6.1. Non-routine tasks are:
      6.1.1. Those tasks included within a work area’s normal activities but performed infrequently; for
      example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent, or cleaning up spills.
      6.1.2. Temporary duties outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty Code or job series.
   6.2. The work area supervisor will list all non-routine tasks performed in this work area which
   involve hazardous material as Attachment 3 to the written workplace plan. The supervisor will ensure
   work area operating instructions (OIs) thoroughly describe non-routine tasks, associated hazards, and
   controls, for the infrequent tasks performed in this work area. OIs do not need to be prepared if tech-
   nical orders or other official documents adequately describe these tasks. Supervisors will ensure
   workers review these procedures before performing any non-routine tasks.
   6.3. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, the supervisor of the activity
   will ensure these workers receive the following training prior to beginning the activity:
      6.3.1. The initial Employee Information and Training Program described in AFI 90-821, para-
      graph 2.7, for workers not previously trained.
      6.3.2. Supplemental training, as necessary, on work area specific chemical hazards and associated
      controls.
4                                                        MCGUIREAFBI90-821 15 OCTOBER 2005


    6.4. The supervisor of the activity will forward a letter to the worker’s formal supervisor describing
    the training conducted so the individual’s AF Form 55 can be updated.



                                               FREDERICK H. MARTIN, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 305th Air Mobility Wing
MCGUIREAFBI90-821 15 OCTOBER 2005                                                              5


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication
Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS) clause 5352.233.9002, Hazardous
Material Identification and Material Safety Data
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer
AFB—Air Force Base
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
BEF—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ESOH-MIS—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management Information System
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulations
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
HMIRS—Hazardous Material Information Resource System
IAW—In Accordance With
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
OI—Operating Instruction
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
TO—Technical Order
