BY THE ORDER OF                                                            MAFB INSTRUCTION 65-101
THE COMMANDER 305TH AIR MOBILITY                                                    12 SEPTEMBER 1996
WING (AMC)
                                                                                   Financial Management

                                                                                      VICINITY TRAVEL




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 305 CPTS/FMF (2Lt Newell)                                               Certified by: 305 CPTS/FMF
Supersedes MAFBR 77-3, 28 April 1987                                                              Pages: 3
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction establishes procedures for the authorization of and reimbursement to individuals for their
use of privately owned vehicles (POV) in performance of official business. It incorporates and clarifies
instructions contained in the Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JFTR) and AFR 177-103. This regulation
applies to all units (active, reserve and guard) assigned or attached to McGuire AFB for travel pay sup-
port.



1. REFERENCES:
   1.1. AFR 177-103, Travel Transactions at Base Level
   1.2. JFTR Vol I, Joint Federal Travel Regulation (military)
   1.3. JTR Vol II, Joint Travel Regulation (civilian)

2. POV USED FOR OFFICIAL BUSINESS. Reimbursement for the use of a POV in the performance
of official business is restricted to the local area. The local area or vicinity travel area from McGuire AFB
includes the following:
   2.1. The entire state of New Jersey
       2.1.1. In Pennsylvania, from the Walt Whitman Bridge, west on I-76 to the intersection of Route
       1 north, then north on Route 611, north on Route 263, northeast on Route 202 to border
       2.1.2. In New Your, New York City (NYC), all five boroughs of NYC, Long Island, and West
       Chester County
   2.2. Reimbursement may be authorized for transportation expenses which are necessarily incurred by
   members in the conduct of official business in and around their duty station. Authorization requires a
2                                                                      MAFBI65-101 12 September 1996

    determination by the squadron commander/staff agency chief that the vicinity travel is more advanta-
    geous to the government. Vicinity travel payments include claims for mileage, actual commercial or
    carrier costs, toll fees and parking fees. All travel outside the designated vicinity travel area and all
    overnight tours must be performed per Temporary Duty (TDY) orders. Reimbursement will not be
    approved for vicinity travel performed:
       2.2.1. For personal convenience or preference.
       2.2.2. Between place of duty and domicile.
       2.2.3. Between place of duty and place where meals are taken.

3. VICINITY TRAVEL APPROVAL:
    3.1. Geographically Separated Units (GSUs). Commanders or their designees may authorize or
    approve use and payment of transportation incurred at personal expense for personnel who perform
    official business within their duty station or within the local area of the duty station. The local area is
    the limits of the duty station and metropolitan area surrounding the duty station which is ordinarily
    serviced by local common carrier or within a local commuting area of the duty station. A local area
    may also include separate cities, towns, or installations located adjacent to or in close proximity of
    each other within which the commuting public travels during normal business. An arbitrary mileage
    radius cannot be used to establish the local area per Comptroller General Decision B-196049, 21 April
    1980.
    3.2. The hospital commander, clinic administrators or approved administrators are authorized to
    approve vicinity travel for patients referred to authorized civilian or other military medical facilities
    falling within the vicinity travel area described in paragraph 2. Approval for patient travel must be
    obtained prior to commencing travel.
    3.3. The commander or appointed representative of the 514th Air Mobility Wing will approve all
    claims for vicinity travel. all claims will be submitted through the 514 AMW/FMA prior to being sub-
    mitted to the 305 AMW/FMFS for payment.
    3.4. All other claims for vicinity travel must be approved by the traveler’s squadron commander (or
    theri designees) or wing staff agency division chief (or their designees).

4. CLAIMS FOR REIMBURSEMENT. Claims for reimbursement will be submitted to the financial
services office on Standard Form 1164, claim for Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business.
Although all items to be completed are self-explanatory, the following information is provided by specific
items indicated:
    4.1. Item 1, show the complete address of the traveler’s unit of assignment to include office symbol.
       4.1.1. Item 6(c) and (d), if claim is for reimbursement of mileage or transportation expenses indi-
       cate complete address for points of travel.
       4.1.2. Item 8, approving official will type or print his/her name and duty title.
MAFBI65-101 12 September 1996                                                                         3

     4.1.3. Accounting classification. The approving official will indicate in the lower left corner the
     Responsibility Center Cost Center to be charged when the claim is paid.



                           CRAIG P. RASMUSSEN, Col, USAF
                           Commander, 305th Air Mobility Wing
