BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                MILDENHALL INSTRUCTION 10-201
100TH AIR REFUELING WING
                                                                            24 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                         Operations

                                                  RECALL PROCEDURES AND PERSONNEL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and form are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publications.


OPR: 100 ARW/XP                                                         Certified by: 100 ARW/XP
                                                                                (Maj David Brown)
Supersedes:    MILDENHALLI10-201,                                                         Pages: 18
               22 April 2009


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-201, 13
April 2006, with Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 10-201 (AFI 10-201_AFGM3), 25
October 2011. It applies to Active Duty personnel that are permanently assigned to RAF
Mildenhall. ANG and Reserves will coordinate with host unit for recall procedures. Civilian
personnel will refer to their individual personnel office policies for recall procedures, or to their
supervisor. This instruction establishes responsibilities and procedures to follow during local
base recalls and provides guidance and instructions for personnel strength reporting. Procedures
outlined in this instruction apply to real world crises and exercise scenarios. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and question about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This edition revises procedures for recalling personnel and provides a major update of the entire
text. Geographically separated unit (GSU) personnel should report via internally established
procedures to the unit with ADCON located at Mildenhall. Attachment 6 is revised to reflect
 2                                               MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012


current recall options format. Online Strength Reporting Tool guidance has been deleted and
replaced with guidance for Theater Battle Management Core System (TBMCS) strength
reporting (Attachment 8).
1. Responsibilities for Recall/Notification Procedures.
     1.1. The 100th Air Refueling Wing Commander (WG/CC) will direct the recall/notification
     of 100th Air Refueling Wing (100 ARW) and partner unit personnel through the 100 ARW
     Command Post (CP). Partner units will participate in recall and strength reporting if directed
     by WG/CC or partner unit commander. The WG/CC or designated authority may also direct
     information notifications of wing or partner unit personnel for certain pre-coordinated
     situations (e.g., weather alerts, school delays, etc), or other special circumstances, as
     required.
     1.2. CP will establish procedures for initiating the recall of personnel.
     1.3. Unit commanders will be responsible for notifying personnel in their units.
     1.4. The Force Support Squadron (FSS) Director of Operations will establish procedures for
     pyramid alert recall personnel accounting during periods of increased readiness.
     1.5. The 100 ARW recall goals are:
        1.5.1. 70% of available active duty work force contacted or present for duty at Recall
        Time (RT) +2 hours.
        1.5.2. 90% of available active duty work force contacted or present for duty at RT +3
        hours.
2. General.
     2.1. Pyramid Alert Recall/Notification procedures will be accomplished without public
     announcement (news media) unless the 100 ARW/CC or designee advises otherwise. Press
     releases will only be as directed by the appropriate MAJCOM or higher headquarters through
     Public Affairs.
     2.2. The actual reason for the personnel recall need not be announced. The words “exercise”
     or “actual” may be used at the commanders’ discretion. All personnel will respond to the
     recall as directed by their unit commander. Flying and maintenance units will assume
     scheduled flying activity will take place unless otherwise directed by the WG/CC.
     2.3. Although units must be able to recall personnel from leave and temporary duty (TDY),
     no action will be taken locally to require physical return of these members unless specifically
     directed by the appropriate MAJCOM, higher headquarters, or WG/CC. Unit strength
     monitors will forward a copy of their unit recall rosters to the command post. Units will
     achieve accountability by using all available management products such as leave logs, TDY
     suspense files, AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change, 30 June 2003, pass trackers, etc.
     2.4. Recall of personnel from leave, either overseas or in the CONUS, can be accomplished
     telephonically by using the emergency phone number listed on the Leave Web roster or AF
     Form 988, Leave Request and Authorization, 1 August 2002, or on a TDY order. A
     telephonic contact leave letter should be completed and forwarded to Installation Personnel
     Readiness (IPR), also known as 100 FSS/FSOX), see example in Attachment 4.
MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                           3


  2.5. If time constraints or Operations Security (OPSEC) requirements will not permit
  telephonic communication, prepare a leave recall message, see example in Attachment 2.
     2.5.1. Leave recall messages will be sent via the signed, encrypted email to the Force
     Support Squadron at the Air Force installation nearest the member's leave address as
     reflected on Leave Web roster or AF Form 988 or DD Form 1610, Request and
     Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel. For example, send message to 6 FSS
     MACDILL AFB FL//CP// if member is on leave in the Tampa, FL area. Include 100
     FSS/FSOX on all leave recall messages.
     2.5.2. Personnel TDY for reasons such as school, training, permissive TDY, etc., will be
     contacted via TDY recall message, see example in Attachment 3.
     2.5.3. Send TDY recall messages to the Force Support Squadron Commander where the
     member is temporarily attached. Include IPR on all TDY recall messages.
     2.5.4. Personnel TDY in support of operational requirements will be contacted via hard
     copy message through the supporting Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
     (PERSCO) personnel or attached IPR. For example, if member is TDY to Aviano AB,
     IT, in support of Operation JOINT FORGE, send message to 31 OG AVIANO AB
     IT//PERSCO// or 401 FSS AVIANO AB IT//FSOX// (100 FSS/FSOX will provide the
     PERSCO address). Include 100th Force Support Squadron (100 FSS/FSOX) on all TDY
     recall messages (Attachment 3).
  2.6. Units will prepare recall messages by using data from the Leave Web roster, AF Form
  988, or TDY orders.
  2.7. Account for Present for Duty (PFD) personnel in the following categories (for strength
  reporting):
     2.7.1. Physically present at duty section .
     2.7.2. On telephone standby.
     2.7.3. Normal shift workers off-duty.
  2.8. Only unit commanders may excuse personnel from responding to a recall. Commanders
  who excuse personnel assigned to augmentee programs must coordinate the member's
  excused absence with the using agency (i.e., Security Forces, Civil Engineer Readiness, etc).
  2.9. Commanders will consider the impact of recalling people in the following categories:
     2.9.1. Aircrew preparing for or accomplishing priority flight activity
     2.9.2. Maintainers in maintenance rest.
     2.9.3. Air traffic controllers on crew rest.
     2.9.4. Members participating in military court duty.
     2.9.5. First Term Airman Center.
     2.9.6. Airman Leadership School.
     2.9.7. Continuing education classes.
     2.9.8. WAPS testing.
 4                                              MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012


        2.9.9. Personnel manning peacetime 24-hour work centers that are not currently on duty
        during a recall may be placed on telephone standby instead of being recalled. The
        intention of having personnel available as soon as possible will be met. The decision to
        place shift workers on telephone standby will be left to the unit commander or agency
        chief.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. The WG/CC will determine the extent of any personnel recall/notification. Any units or
     staff agencies requiring exemption during a recall must have approval of the WG/CC.
     Partner units will participate if directed by the WG/CC, and may participate otherwise at
     their own discretion.
     3.2. The incident commander will normally direct the recall of appropriate disaster response
     force agencies.
     3.3. Command Post Responsibilities.
        3.3.1. Run applicable Quick Reaction Checklists.
     3.3.2. Record and disseminate RT. RT is the time directed in the Emergency Action
     Message (EAM) or as directed by the WG/CC. This time is used as a point of reference for
     recall accounting purposes.
        3.3.3. Keep the wing, group, and partner unit commanders (if applicable) informed of all
        messages/situations that require a base recall IAW MAJCOM or Unit Alert Plan.
        3.3.4. Inform the incident commander of significant events.
        3.3.5. Notify Installation Control Center (ICC) personnel as required per current
        procedures.
        3.3.5.1. Command Post will have a current letter of trained ICC directors provided by the
        100 ARW/XP.
        3.3.6. Notify Higher HQ when applicable.
        3.3.7. Discourage and document unauthorized requests for information on personnel
        recalls.
     3.4. 100 FSS/FSOX Responsibilities.
        3.4.1. Ensure IPR personnel are trained on and knowledgeable about strength reporting
        procedures.
        3.4.2. Ensure IPR personnel go through the strength-reporting checklist to include proper
        access to Theater Battle Management Core System (TBMCS), verification of RT hour
        and wing/partner unit participation.
        3.4.3. Ensure IPR personnel monitors TBMCS and tracks unit responsiveness. IPR will
        make contact with unit strength monitors who fail to provide data IAW timelines set by
        this instruction. IPR will be the primary point of contact for all strength reporting issues
        to the ICC and the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) if activated.
        3.4.4. Ensure ICC and EOC personnel representatives are provided with proper access to
        TBMCS for real-time visibility of unit reporting.
MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                              5


     3.4.5. Ensure IPR maintain a list of unit strength monitors and telephone numbers for
     each Unit Control Center (UCC), and has this readily available.
     3.4.6. Ensure the IPR conducts strength reporting monitor training twice a year.
  3.5. Squadron Commander Responsibilities.
     3.5.1. Develop recall rosters and appropriate procedures for effective contact of
     personnel for recalls, information notifications, and accountability, to include procedures
     in place for a communications-out recall. Units will utilize the 100 ARW standard
     reverse side recall roster (see Attachment 6). Other portions of the unit recall roster are
     left to the commander’s discretion. Phone numbers listed on recall roster may be either
     land line or cell phone numbers. Both numbers should be listed if available.
         3.5.1.1. Design recall rosters to prevent stoppage or interruption of a recall due to
         noncontact of an individual.
         3.5.1.2. Develop procedures to record and report any individuals not contacted.
         3.5.1.3. Provide each member of the unit with a current recall roster.
         3.5.1.4. Ensure individual provides the unit commander’s appointed representative a
         means of contact in a communications-out environment. Options include, but are not
         limited to, global positioning satellite coordinates or a map giving directions to their
         quarters.
         3.5.1.5. Review and update recall roster upon personnel accession or loss. Personnel
         must inform their unit commander’s appointed representative if they move or change
         phone numbers.
         3.5.1.6. Forward a copy of most current recall roster to the command post by the 5th
         calendar day of each month.
     3.5.2. Develop squadron specific recall procedures to meet the strength reporting
     requirements of this instruction. Train and exercise squadron recall procedures
     periodically to ensure that all squadron members are proficient and that recall procedures
     are effective.
         3.5.2.1. Ensure strength reporting monitors are notified early enough in the recall
         process to facilitate strength reporting within the timeline outlined in this instruction.
         3.5.2.2. Identify in writing to the IPR the primary and alternate personnel who will
         report the unit's strength figures to the IPR.
         3.5.2.3. Ensure newly-appointed strength monitors are scheduled for training through
         the     100 FSS/FSOX within 30 days of appointment.
  3.6. Unit Strength Reporting Monitors’ Responsibilities.
     3.6.1. Contact the IPR upon recall notification or arrival at work center to obtain the RT.
     3.6.2. Ensure all available management products, such as MilPDS, leave, TDY suspense
     files, etc., are used to account for assigned personnel.
     3.6.3. Report personnel strength figures to the IPR using criteria listed in paragraphs 2.7,
     2.8 and 2.9. Also reference Attachment 8 for report format and timeline.
 6                                               MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012


        3.6.4. Report attached TDY or rotational personnel in strength reports. Reflect TDY
        personnel as "assigned" and indicate whether they are present for duty when providing
        their reports to the IPR via TBMCS.
        3.6.5. Populate TBMCS not later than RT+1:00, RT +1:30, RT +2:00, RT + 2:30, and
        RT + 3:00…unless otherwise directed by the WG/CC.
        3.6.6. Continue reporting every hour after RT +4:00 until the unit has accounted for 100
        percent of its assigned personnel unless otherwise directed by the WG/CC, even if no
        strength change has occurred since the last report.
        3.6.7. Provide leave and TDY messages to the IPR by RT + 4:00 unless otherwise
        directed by the WG/CC.
     3.7. Individual Responsibilities.
        3.7.1. Have a current recall roster readily available at all times.
        3.7.2. Comply with unit commander requirements for communications-out procedures.
        3.7.3. Ensure recall roster point of contact (POC) is informed of any change to your
        contact information (phone, address, etc.).
        3.7.4. If directed, report immediately in uniform to duty section without taking time to
        eat, shower, shave or apply facial cosmetics. Response to a recall is not sufficient reason
        to exceed normal speed limits or to drive without due care and caution.
        3.7.5. If tasked to contact others by unit recall, make every reasonable effort to do so to
        ensure the recall chain is not broken.
        3.7.6. Report any individuals not contacted in accordance with squadron procedures.
4. Execution of a Recall/Notification.
     4.1. The command post duty controller will initiate recall/notification actions IAW
     established procedures or per WG/CC direction. Typically, CP controllers will initiate a
     personnel recall or information notification by contacting 100 ARW group commanders and,
     if necessary, partner unit commanders.
     4.2. Key personnel and agencies will continue the recall/notification process in accordance
     with this instruction and their organization’s procedures.
     4.3. Procedures for each type of recall/notification are described in the following paragraphs.
     When utilizing telephone recall procedures, the type of recall will be stated along with any
     items that are exempted for that particular recall. The following statement should be used
     when executing a recall:
        4.3.1. Type 1 Recall: General Recall.
Table 1. Type 1 Recall: General Recall
Purpose: This type of recall may be used to account for a unit’s members or practice recall
Execution: Report for duty as normally scheduled
MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                            7


       4.3.1.1. Report for duty immediately in duty uniform. Do not take time to eat, shower
       and/or shave. Comply with items below unless directed otherwise.
       4.3.1.2. Bring issued training ground chemical ensemble and field gear (web belt,
       canteen, helmet, and gas mask).
           4.3.1.3. Personnel on mobility status will report with personal mobility items. Unless
           notified as ineligible for deployment by unit commander, all military personnel are
           considered on “mobility status”.
           4.3.1.4. UCC will be activated. Last person in recall chain will contact UCC,
           otherwise notify CC or designated unit representative.
       4.3.2. Type 2 Recall: Telephone Standby.
Table 2. Type 2 Recall: Telephone Standby
Purpose: This type of recall is used when personnel are not required to report for duty, but
commanders desire the capability to bring personnel in immediately when needed
Execution: Do not report for duty


           4.3.2.1. Members remain on telephone standby at the number listed on the recall
           roster (land line or cell) and await further instructions.
           4.3.2.2. If standby status has not been terminated prior to your next scheduled shift,
           report for duty in duty uniform.
           4.3.2.3. UCC will be activated at unit CC’s discretion or as directed by Wg/CC. Last
           person in recall chain will contact UCC, otherwise notify CC or designated unit
           representative.
       4.3.3. Type 3 Recall: Accountability Recall.
Table 3. Type 3 Recall: Accountability Recall
Purpose: This type of recall may be used to account for a unit’s members or practice recall
Execution: Report for duty as normally scheduled


           4.3.3.1. Personnel do not report for duty immediately. Personnel will follow normal
           duty schedule. Note any problems with the recall and pass to your unit OPR.
           4.3.3.2. UCC will be activated at unit CC’s discretion or as directed by WG/CC.
           Last person in recall chain will contact unit UCC, otherwise notify CC or designated
           unit representative.
   4.3.4. Type 4 Recall: Communications-Out
Table 4. Type 4 Recall: Communications-Out Recall
Purpose: This type of recall is used whenever normal telephone communications are not
available/desired
Execution: Personnel will report for duty immediately when contacted
 8                                             MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012



           4.3.4.1. Initiate recall notifications without the use of a telephone; notification must
           be made via physical contact.
           4.3.4.2. Report for duty ASAP, unless otherwise instructed.
           4.3.4.3. UCC will be activated. Last person in recall chain will contact UCC,
           otherwise notify CC or designated unit representative.
       4.3.5. Type 5 Recall: Information.
Table 5. Type 5 Recall: Information
Purpose: This type of recall is used to relay significant information to base personnel. Examples
of information that may be relayed might include adverse weather, school closures, etc.
Execution: Report for duty as directed


           4.3.5.1. Personnel do not report for duty immediately. Personnel will follow normal
           duty schedule unless otherwise instructed.
           4.3.5.2. UCC will be activated at unit CC’s discretion or as directed by WG/CC.
           Last person in recall chain will contact unit UCC, otherwise notify CC or designated
           unit representative.
MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                       9


5. Personnel Recall Strength Reporting Format.
   5.1. Submit reports to the IPR using TBMCS, VOC, or other identified system (see
   Attachment 8 for more reporting details). In the event of communication failure, email or
   phone in strength numbers to the IPR using the manual wing recall notification format.
      5.1.1. Name and telephone extension of person providing report.
      5.1.2. Designation of unit.
      5.1.3. Number of personnel assigned to unit.
      5.1.4. Number of personnel present for duty (include personnel already on duty at RST,
      shift workers, and those on crew rest).
      5.1.5. Number of personnel TDY.
      5.1.6. Number of personnel on quarters or hospitalized.
      5.1.7. Number of personnel in other status (AWOL, confinement, Airman Leadership
      School students).
      5.1.8. Number of personnel on leave.
      5.1.9. Number of personnel unaccounted for (not contacted).
      5.1.10. Percent of personnel accounted for.




                                           CHRISTOPHER J KULAS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 10                                         MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Policy Directive 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006
Air Force Instruction 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms:
None
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change, 30 June 2003
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 988, Leave Request and Authorization, 1 August 2002
AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change, 30 June 2003
DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DOD Personnel, 1 May 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
100 ARW—100 th Air Refueling Wing
CP—Command Post
FSOX—Readiness and Plans Office
EAM—Emergency Action Message
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
FSS—Force Support Squadron
GSU—Geographically separated unit
ICC—Installation Control Center (former Battlestaff)
IPR—Installation Personnel Readiness
MAJCOM—Major Command
MPS—Military Personnel Section
OPSEC—Operations Security
PC—III - Personnel Concept Three
RT—Recall Time
TDY—Temporary Duty
TBMCS—Theater Battle Management Core System
VOC—Virtual Operations Center
WG/CC—Wing Commander
MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                               11


Terms
Accounted For—Personnel in this category are individuals who report in to their designated
location and sign in upon recall. Also, includes personnel who are not physically at their location
for reasons of crew rest, shift work, and Protected Time Off (PTO). These personnel will be
considered accounted for, but not currently available for duty. During recalls, these personnel
will be simulated recalled back to duty, unless otherwise specified by each respective group or
squadron commander.
Communications—Out (Comm-Out)—Communications-out is the worst case scenario where
total loss of electronic communication capability has occurred.
Crew Rest—(This definition applies to those authorized personnel as determined by the unit
commander.) Personnel are on crew rest if they are the next crew to come on shift or have just
completed a shift. If coming off shift, only the first 8 to 12 hours after a shift is considered crew
rest, dependent on normal shift length. If scheduled for the next shift, only the 8 to 12 hours
before a shift is considered crew rest, again dependent on normal shift length. At all other times,
personnel are "off" and subject to recall.
Installation Personnel Readiness (IPR)—Focal point for personnel strength accounting and
assists in the implementation of the base manpower pool during personnel recalls. Organizational
designation is 100 FSS/FSOX. IPR was formerly known as PRU or PRC.
Other Status—Personnel in this category are not physically at their duty location for reasons of:
Professional Military Education and confinement. Individuals who are en-route to new duty
stations, but are still assigned to RAF Mildenhall will be included in this category. These
individuals are considered accounted for but not currently available for duty. During recalls,
these personnel will be simulated recalled back to duty (unless otherwise directed by WG/CC or
MAJCOM).
Partner Units—Tenant units assigned or attached to RAF Mildenhall but not directly assigned
to the parent organization, 100 ARW.
Present for Duty (PFD)—Personnel physically present at their duty location.
Protected Time Off (PTO)—(This definition applies to those authorized personnel as
determined by the unit commander.) All personnel scheduled for dispatch or shift work in the
next 12 hours will not report to work but remain on 6-ring standby and report for their normal
duty shift. Being contacted in person or by telephone does not constitute re-initiating protected
time off.
Pyramid Alert System (PAS)—Procedures and notification rosters used to pass on information
to all RAF Mildenhall personnel or to recall personnel to duty. The PAS rosters are often
referred to as “recall rosters.”
Recall Time—The actual recall start time as directed by 100 ARW/CC via 100 ARW/CP.
 12                                        MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                   Attachment 2
                       SAMPLE RECALL LEAVE MESSAGE

Figure A2.1. Sample Recall Leave Message
MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012                 13


                                  Attachment 3
                        SAMPLE TDY RECALL MESSAGE

Figure A3.1. Sample TDY Recall Message
 14                                     MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                   Attachment 4
                SAMPLE TELEPHONE CONTACT LEAVE LETTER

Figure A4.1. Sample Telephone Contacted Leave Letter
MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012                      15


                                   Attachment 5
                 100 ARW STANDARD RECALL ROSTER (BACK)

Figure A5.1. 100 ARW Standard Recall Roster (Back)
16                          MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012


                        Attachment 6
     SAMPLE UNIT COMMUNICATIONS-OUT RECALL PROCDURES
MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                   17


                                            Attachment 7
               SAMPLE UNIT COMMUNICATIONS-OUT ROSTER (BACK)

Recall Types:
Type 1 Recall: General Recall.
WORDING: “This is a unit recall. Report to your normal duty section in ABUs/flight suits or duty
uniform (as appropriate) immediately. Report with training ground chemical ensemble and field gear
(web belt, canteen, helmet, and gas mask). Those individuals filling deployment positions must
report with mobility bags. The UCC will/will not be stood up.”
Additional instructions: If UCCs are stood up, the last person in recall chain is directed to report to
his/her UCC or unit commander/designated representative.
Type 5 Recall: Information.
WORDING: “This is an information notification. Please prepare to copy the message. The message
is:
_____________________________________________________________________________”
Additional instructions:
1) This option is to relay information to the base population. Relay pertinent information, and call
the next person in the chain. Inform next person of those people not contacted.
2) The last person in the chain is directed to contact person at the top of the unit recall and tell
him/her who was not contacted; do not call the Personnel Readiness Center or your UCC.
Additional Recall Roster Notes: As determined by squadron.
Child Care Note: Members with children will coordinate child care in accordance with established
family care plans.
Individual Responsibilities:
1) Ensure recall roster Point of Contact (POC) is informed of any change to your contact information
(phone, address, etc).
2) If directed, report immediately to duty section without taking time to eat, shower, shave or apply
facial cosmetics. Response to a recall is not sufficient reason to exceed normal speed limits or to
drive without due care and caution.
3) If tasked to contact others by unit recall, make every reasonable effort to do so to ensure the recall
chain is not broken.
4) Report any individuals not contacted in accordance with squadron procedures.
18       MILDENHALLI10-201 24 SEPTEMBER 2012


     Attachment 8
     REPORTING
