 BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              MILDENHALL INSTRUCTION 31-102
 RAF MILDENHALL
                                                                                 19 APRIL 2012

                                                                                         Security

                                                 CRIME PREVENTION/LOST, ABANDONED
                                                     OR UNCLAIMED PROPERTY (LAUP)




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY.

 ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

 RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


 OPR: 100 SFS/S5XP                                      Certified by: 100 SFS/CC (Lt Col Harris)
                                                                                       Pages: 9
Supersedes: MILDENHALLI31-203, 9 July 2009


 This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense,
 28 October 2011. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned or attached to the 100th Air
 Refueling Wing (ARW), including tenant units. The 100th Security Forces Squadron
 Investigations Section (100 SFS/S2I) is the point of contact for any questions pertaining to this
 instruction and maintains and disposes of records in accordance with applicable tables and rules.
 This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication
 does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). .Ensure that all records created as a result of
 processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
 (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
 Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
 located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.”                 Refer
 recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
 Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
 Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
 command. This publication may not be supplemented at any level. See Attachment 1 for a
 Glossary of References and Supporting Information. Requests for waivers must be submitted
 with justification to publication OPR.
 2                                                 MILDENHALLII31-102 19 APRIL 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes to MILDENHALLI31-102, Lost Abandoned or Unclaimed Property (LAUP) are
administrative changes. This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
Chapter three added to include Crime Prevention information.
MILDENHALLII31-102 19 APRIL 2012                                                              3



                                          Chapter 1

                                           TERMS

1.1. Lost, Abandoned, or Unclaimed Property (LAUP). LAUP is defined as any property in
the possession, custody or control of a government agency, which was lost, abandoned or
unclaimed. The property will be considered abandoned after efforts to locate its owners, their
heirs, next of kin or legal representative are unsuccessful after 45 days.
1.2. Security Forces Investigations (S2I). S2I is the holding agency for LAUP within the
100th Security Forces Squadron (SFS). The SFS will generally not take custody of property
(except weapons, ammunition, narcotics or contraband) left with another installation agency
(luggage left by passengers at the passenger terminal, personal property left in or around
barracks, exchanges and commissaries, etc.). S2I will train custodians and provide guidance on
preparing documents upon request. NOTE: Refer to MILDENHALLI 31-204, Traffic Code, 26
September 2011, for abandoned vehicle disposition procedures.
1.3. Holding Agency. An agency in physical possession, custody or control of LAUP.
1.4. Property Disposition Board (PDB). A board of three or more commissioned or non-
commissioned officers or civilians appointed by the installation commander to complete the
following: prepare an inventory of the LAUP, including its estimated current fair market value;
ensure the property is kept safe; conduct inquires to ascertain or locate the owner or owners or
their heirs, next of kin or legal representative. The Property Disposition Board Officer (PDBO)
and those affiliated with the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO) cannot be
members of the board.
   1.4.1. The PDB appointment letter will be accomplished annually or as changes occur. The
   100 SFS/S2I (DSN 238-3536) is responsible for this process.
1.5. Inventory. A log maintained by an agency holding LAUP. The inventory includes the date
property was received, property description, the release date and disposition.
   1.5.1. If any discrepancies are noted during the inventory, the commander of the holding
   agency will be notified in writing.
 4                                                     MILDENHALLII31-102 19 APRIL 2012


                                             Chapter 2

                                         PROCEDURES

2.1. Procedures.
     2.1.1. PDB.
     2.1.2. PDB members will:
        2.1.2.1. Examine the property and prepare a written and dated inventory of the property,
        including its estimated current fair market value.
        2.1.2.2. Conduct diligent inquiries to ascertain or locate the owner or owners or their
        heirs, next of kin or legal representatives
        2.1.2.3. Ensure the property is kept in safekeeping by the holding agency to prevent
        theft, pilferage or unwarranted deterioration.
2.2. Holding Agency.
     2.2.1. Unit Commanders or designee’s appoint an abandoned property custodian to
     safeguard, control and dispose of found property within their agency and implement
     procedures as required.
     2.2.2. Designate a drawer, closet, locker or room which can be secured with a lock for
     temporary storage of LAUP. Ensure limited access to the storage area is maintained.
     2.2.3. The property custodian will attempt to locate the owner of the property by making a
     reasonable effort to return property to the owner.
        2.2.3.1. When the owner has been identified, return the property to the owner in person
        or by certified mail. A receipt with the owner’s signature must be obtained when
        returning property.
        2.2.3.2. When the owner has not been identified after the required waiting period, notify
        the PDB. A member of the board will conduct a Fair Market Value assessment of the
        property. Complete a typed and dated inventory listing a general description of the
        property held by the holding agency prior to releasing it to anyone other than the owner.
        Do not dispose of unidentifiable property for at least 45 days unless released to the
        owner.
2.3. Disposition Instructions.
     2.3.1. Identifiable Property. Holding agencies receiving identifiable property (identification
     card, driver’s license, checkbook, credit card, etc.) must attempt to contact the owner. If the
     owner can be contacted, the property will be returned. Annotate the inventory with the
     owner’s name and when the property was returned to the owner. If the owner cannot be
     contacted, release the property to the issuing agency (Bank, Passport Office, Pass and
     Registration Office, Military Pay and Finance Office, etc.). Do not dispose of identifiable
     property for at least 120 days unless released to the owner. Note: Consult 100 ARW/JA
     prior to releasing any item with a Fair Market Value assessment over $500.00.
MILDENHALLII31-102 19 APRIL 2012                                                               5


  2.3.2. Unidentified property will be released to an agency listed below or to any Non-
  Appropriated Funds Instrumentalities (NAFI). (Airman’s Attic, Red Cross, Thrift Shop,
  Family Support Center, etc.) Note: Unidentified property will not be disposed of for at least
  45 days.
  2.3.3. Funds. Any currency and negotiable instruments, including stocks, bonds, and
  government checks will be released to 100 CPTS/FMFS.
  2.3.4. In the event a property owner attempts to claim property after it has been disposed of,
  contact 100 ARW/JA for guidance. For funds that have been already released, contact 100
  CPTS/FMFS.
  2.3.5. Contraband (narcotics and weapons) will be released to S2I immediately.
  2.3.6. Items such as toilet articles, cosmetics, used, soiled personal items, and undergarments
  with no value except to the original owner are excluded from the expanded processing for
  LAUP. The PDB will ensure these items are listed on the property inventory, but shall be
  discarded by the holding agency with such action annotated in the remarks portion of the
  inventory listing.
  2.3.7. Hazardous materials will be release by the holding agency to Civil Engineering to be
  properly disposed of.
  2.3.8. Gas mask inserts may be released to 100 Logistic Readiness Squadron (LRS), bldg
  550.
  2.3.9. Cellular Phones (after all memory has been cleared) may be released to 100
  Communications Squadron (CS), bldg 586.
  2.3.10. Government property may be released to 100 LRS, bldg 550.
  2.3.11. Religious Items (other than jewelry) may be released to the Chapel, bldg 474.
  2.3.12. USAF Services and club cards will be released to NAF accounting office, bldg 450.
 6                                                     MILDENHALLII31-102 19 APRIL 2012


                                            Chapter 3

                                         DEFINITIONS

3.1. Definition. Crime prevention is a pattern of attitudes and behaviors directed both at
reducing the threat of crime and enhancing the sense of safety and security to improve the quality
of life in our society and help develop environments where crime cannot flourish.
     3.1.1. The Air Force Vision. The goal of the Air Force crime prevention program is to
     eliminate or minimize the opportunity and desire to engage in criminal activities. Prevention
     and elimination of crime are quality of life issues.
     3.1.2. Crime prevention is more than a single focus, law enforcement effort. Effective crime
     prevention requires interaction among commanders, staff, officers, NCOs, Airmen, civilian
     employees, and dependents.
3.2. Objectives. In order to have a effective program, we must clearly describe and widely
publicize crime prevention objectives, which include:
     3.2.1. Upgrade the protection of personnel and property by educating people to recognize
     and avoid situations in which they are likely to end up the victim of an assault or robbery.
     Encourage the installation to invest in better locks; stress the need for consistent use of
     existing locks and safeguards.
     3.2.2. Increase surveillance by encouraging residents and workers to challenge unidentified
     individuals in dormitory, housing, and work areas; establish neighborhood watch programs;
     encourage permanent marking of property.
     3.2.3. Achieve maximum involvement of the Air Force community and Security Forces in
     crime prevention activities.
     3.2.4. Crime prevention is everyone’s responsibility. All members of the base community
     must be convinced of the need to protect themselves, their neighborhoods, and work areas by
     supporting crime prevention goals.
3.3. Role of Security Forces. The role of Security Forces, though pivotal to crime prevention,
is that of an educational, technical, and supportive resource--an "enabler or catalyst" rather than a
"doer." The primary role of Security Forces law enforcement is that of installation entry control,
preventive patrol, armed response, detection, and investigative services. Security Forces also
provide equally important technical services such as physical security and resources protection.
3.4. Basic Crime Prevention Programs. As a primary source of information on crime patterns,
Security Forces should provide guidance to the community on prevailing kinds of crime and the
specific mode of operation used by criminals. RAF Mildenhall has its own unique community
environment and crime prevention needs. Some successful programs help prevent the most
prevalent types of crime occurring on Air Force bases, includes:
     3.4.1. Operation Crime Stop. An essential element of crime prevention is the prompt and
     accurate reporting of imminent crime situations or criminal acts. Some people will report
     their observations to police only when they know they can remain anonymous. Operation
     Crime Stop helps overcome reluctance to become involved with Security Forces by
     providing a single telephone line for crime reporting while allowing witnesses to remain
MILDENHALLII31-102 19 APRIL 2012                                                               7


   anonymous. Crime Stop provides a safe way to report suspected or actual crimes
   anonymously. Anonymous crime reports can include school crimes, such as persistent
   bullying, domestic violence, suspicious activity, threatening acts or behavior, possession of
   weapons and or the use or sale of illegal drugs. RAF Mildenhall’s Crime Stop number is
   DSN: 238-9911 or Comm. 01638-54-9911.
   3.4.2. Operation Identification. The Operation Identification program, referred to by the
   logo "OPID", is a crime resistance technique which individuals use to deter burglaries and
   larcenies. It also provides investigative leads that increase the chances of solving crimes.
       3.4.2.1. OPID encourages owners of high value or pilferable property to permanently
       mark their property with an identifying number. This gives a way to identify the property
       and to establish ownership. Use the Service prefix ―AF followed by the owner’s last
       name, plus last 4 digits of his/her social security number. Photograph property not easily
       marked like rings, watches, silverware, etc.
       3.4.2.2. Mark the property by engraving, etching, or by using fluorescent marking
       devices. Security Forces should maintain one or more electric engravers or other marking
       devices at the BDOC for checkout by interested personnel.
   3.4.3. Crime Hazard Identification Program. One goal of crime prevention is to identify,
   report, and eliminate as many crime hazards as possible, and thus reduce the opportunity for
   crime.
       3.4.3.1. Crime Hazard Reminder. When possible, Security Forces should leave crime
       hazard reminders when they discover insecure vehicles, office areas, equipment, or
       unattended property.
   3.4.4. Citizen Awareness Program. The thrust of this program is to educate the base
   community on crime prevention. Base newspapers and other media are good ways to get the
   word out on typical crimes, victims, and offenders. Additionally, the installation crime
   prevention program manager may brief all newly assigned personnel on the local crime
   program, with an emphasis on precautions to avoid becoming victims of crime. The
   installation crime prevention program manager conducts this briefing weekly at the RAF
   Mildenhall Newcomers briefing.
   3.4.5. Selective Enforcement. Selective enforcement focuses Security Forces manpower on
   local crime and incident problems. It is based on accurate analysis of the time, place, type,
   and frequency of incidents or violations. The crime prevention program manager tabulates
   information from complaints, and reports of offenses and vehicle accidents.
   3.4.6. Physical Protection Surveys. Security Forces units may establish a program to offer
   physical protection surveys to residents of base housing, dormitories, and to supervisors of
   activities not normally inspected or surveyed under the resource protection program. These
   surveys educate personnel about how to protect themselves and their property. The survey is
   a critical analysis of the physical protection of the facility.
3.5. Neighborhood Watch Program. The goal of this program is to foster a sense of
community policing where the criminals know all the residents are looking out for each other.
This is accomplished by being visible and patrolling the neighborhood. The RAF Mildenhall
housing community’s neighborhood watch program was established to combat community
 8                                                    MILDENHALLII31-102 19 APRIL 2012


apathy by organizing citizens in concert with security forces to reduce or remove the opportunity
for crime by training citizens to watch out for their neighbor’s property and well being. Security
forces as well as neighborhood watch committee members perform actions to reduce crime in
RAFM housing areas. The 100 SFS Police services will act as the hub for neighborhood watch
block captains to act as liaisons between housing residents and the coordinator in order to
disseminate information on suspicious activity. Police Services will be the contact point for
visiting and inviting new residents to join the neighborhood watch program. Housing residents
may obtain information on gang awareness/activity and other crime prevention and crime-related
issues within the community.
3.6. Neighborhood Watch Coordinator. The coordinator will preside over neighborhood
watch meetings and maintain a master listing of all committee members. He/she will also act as
the liaison and disseminate information between security forces and block captains. The
coordinator will direct block captain activities, provide crime trend analysis, and determine new
crime prevention initiatives.
     3.6.1. Neighborhood Watch Block Captains. Block captains will act as the liaison between
     the neighborhood watch coordinator and the residents of their assigned area, address resident
     concerns, and recruit new members for 100-percent block participation. Block captains will
     conduct meetings with residents and maintain telephone/email listings for members within
     their assigned block. They will be responsible for organizing 2-person walking or driving
     patrols, disseminating updated crime trend analysis, and conducting crime prevention
     surveys.
     3.6.2. Neighborhood Watch Members. Members will attend neighborhood watch block
     captain meetings, participate in walking patrols and crime surveys, and contact security
     forces and block captains to report any suspicious activity.
     3.6.3. Security Forces. Security forces will notify the neighborhood watch coordinator of
     crime trend analysis; meet with block captains and members to discuss crime problems,
     strategies, and new initiatives; proactively patrol identified hot spots to reduce crime; and
     respond to incidents in housing or coordinate with local authorities when security forces
     patrols are unavailable.
     3.6.4. Neighborhood Watch Patrol Guidance. Always patrol in teams of at least two and
     never alone. Patrols will never carry a weapon of any kind and must bring a cellular
     telephone, something to write with, and a flashlight if it is dark. Patrols have no policing
     powers, are non-confrontational and will coordinate their activities with security forces. T
     hey will never challenge or attempt to apprehend anyone, and will not respond to incidents.




                                             CHRISTOPHER J. KULAS, Col, USAF
                                             Commander
MILDENHALLII31-102 19 APRIL 2012                                                 9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigations, 16 September 2009
MILDI 31-204, Installation Traffic Code, 26 September 2011
DOD Manual 4160.21, Defense Reutilization and Marketing Manual, 18 August 1997
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
CPTS—Comptroller Squadron
DD—Department of Defense
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
LAUP—Lost, Abandoned or Unclaimed Property
LRS—Logistic Readiness Squadron
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Funds Instrumentalities
PDB—Property Disposition Board
PDBO—Property Disposition Board Officer
SFOI—Security Forces Investigations
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
USAF—United States Air Force
