BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     MILDENHALL INSTRUCTION 36-2502
RAF MILDENHALL                                                                       12 JANUARY 2007

                                                                                               Personnel

                                                    100 ARW SENIOR AIRMAN BELOW THE ZONE
                                                                                PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and Forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.miL for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There is no releasabilty restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 100 MSS/DPMPE                                       Certified by: 100 MSS/CC (Lt Col Couvillion)
                                                                                            Pages: 4

This instruction implements AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, and establishes procedures,
policy and responsibilities that apply to all units, to include tenant units, on Royal Air Force (RAF)
Mildenhall. This instruction is provided to explain and standardize the processing procedures for the
Senior Airman (SrA) Below the Zone (BTZ) Promotion program. Both the Central Base Board (CBB)
and large units will utilize the procedures outlined in this instruction and Air Force Instruction (AFI)
36-2502, Airman Promotion Program. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes described in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Changed of Publication.


1. Objective. The SrA BTZ program provides a one-time consideration for early promotion to exception-
ally well-qualified Airmen First Class. Selection opportunity is 15 percent for promotions that are effec-
tive 6 months prior to the fixed (fully qualified) phase point.

2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. The Military Personnel Flight (MPF) will distribute SrA BTZ quotas each quarter. Commanders
   of large units (seven or more eligibles) will receive their own quotas. Commanders of small units (six
   or less eligibles) will aggregate their nominee to the Central Base Board (CBB). SrA BTZ eligible’s
   falling within the host wing will compete at the CBB. All eligibles from units not within the host wing
   commander’s MAJCOM (tenant units) will meet a separate CBB. The 100th Air Refueling Wing
   (100 ARW) Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCM) will be the board president for the host wing eli-
   gibles and the 352d Special Operations Group (352 SOG) CCM will be the president for the tenant
   unit CBB.
   2.2. The MPF will determine quotas and distribution based on 15 percent of eligibles (“eligibles” per-
   tains to Airmen who meet time-in-grade and time-in-service requirements). Per AFI 36-2502, Airman
2                                                       MILDENHALLI36-2502 12 JANUARY 2007


    Promotion Program, para 2.2.5.3 approval authority for quota distribution is delegated to the MPF
    Commander by the Host Wing Commander.

3. Board Composition.
    3.1. When a large unit board convenes, it must consist of three voting members in the grade of MSgt
    or higher, a nonvoting recorder, and a board president in the grade of CMSgt (if no CMSgt is avail-
    able, this position may be delegated to no lower than the rank of SMSgt).
    3.2. The CBB will consist of three voting members in the grade of MSgt or higher, a nonvoting
    recorder, and the board president, who will be the Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCM) or a
    CMSgt designated by the CCM (if no CMSgt is available, this position may be delegated to no lower
    than the rank of SMSgt). *Board location will be determined by the 100th Mission Support Squadron
    (100 MSS) DPMPE (Promotions) section.
    3.3. Board members will be designated by the appropriate CCM (e.g. the 100 ARW/CCM will select
    members for the host wing CBB and the 352 SOG/CCM will select members for the tenant unit CBB)
    NLT 10 duty days before the board.

4. Method/Number of Nominations.
    4.1. Large units will receive their own quotas and make selections at the unit level. Commanders of
    large units will convene a board and follow the same procedures as the CBB. The roster must be
    annotated with “Select” or “NonSelect” beside each member’s name.
    4.2. Small unit commanders will use the BTZ eligibility list and an appropriate evaluation process
    (e.g., a unit board, record review, recommendation from supervisors/first sergeants, etc.) to determine
    one nominee for the CBB. All small units with eligibles are authorized only one nominee.
    4.3. The CBB will conduct a “records only” board.
    4.4. The Airmen nominated will be the unit’s very best performer. They must be a positive role model
    and clearly deserve the recognition. Commanders will screen out those with negative “Quality Force”
    indicators. If the pool of eligibles does not include Airmen of this caliber, the convening authority
    will not use the full BTZ quota.

5. Areas Considered. The CBB will judge each nominee on areas covered on the AF Form 1206, Nomi-
nation for Award, 1 July 2000, prescribed by AFI36-2805, to include: Leadership and Job Performance in
Primary Duties, Training, Education and Self Improvement Efforts and Other Accomplishments. These
scores will be recorded on Board member’s Ballot.

6. Selection Folders.
    6.1. Selection folders will include the BTZ Record on Individual Person (RIP), AF Form 1206, and
    citations for decorations (if applicable).
    6.2. The AF Form 1206 will consist of a maximum 15 lines (not including headings).

7. Scoring Scale/Selection Phase.
    7.1. Each of the three voting board members independently assigns points (6-10 points in ½ point
    increments ranking the whole package, not by category). The recorder computes the composite score
MILDENHALLI36-2502 12 JANUARY 2007                                                                     3


   of each nominee by adding the scores of all board members together. The board president’s score will
   only be used in case of a tie.
   7.2. Large unit nominees are arranged in order of merit by total score, and the quota is applied. Com-
   manders will report selections to the MPF by annotating Selectee and underlining the name(s) on the
   BTZ eligibility list, providing board minutes with attachments and hand-carry them to 100 MSS/
   DPMPE by the suspense date given. Commanders are not required to select a nominee to fill the
   unit’s quota.
   7.3. For the CBB, the board president sends a written report to the convening authority with an order
   of merit list of all Airmen considered. The 100 ARW/CC may approve the board’s merit list (in whole
   or in part) for the USAFE and tenant unit CBB, or disapprove the promotion of an Airman whose
   record does not justify BTZ promotion. The 100 ARW/CC or 352 SOG/CC may elect not to use the
   full quota.
   7.4. The MPF will notify all affected squadron Commanders via e-mail after the Wing Commander
   (CC) concurs with selections.
   7.5. The MPF will project promotions immediately upon receipt of confirmation of selections from
   the large unit commanders, the 100 ARW/CC, and 352 SOG/CC for the CBB. This must be accom-
   plished prior to the end of the board month.

8. Alternate Selection. Alternates may be selected in the event a selectee is removed or not recom-
mended for promotion before the promotion effective date. The MPF will review board minutes to deter-
mine who the first alternate is and notify the commander of that individual. If the commander
recommends the alternate for promotion, he/she forwards a letter to the MPF for the concurrence of 100
ARW/CC.

9. Supplemental Consideration. If an eligible Airman was not considered, and the error is discovered
before the promotions are announced, large unit commanders may consider the Airman and adjust selec-
tions accordingly. The CBB will be reconvened to consider small unit eligibles and adjust selections
accordingly. If the error is found after the promotions are announced, the MPF will forward a request for
supplemental consideration, by message, to HQ AFPC/DPPPWM.

10. Adopted Forms/IMTs: AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award.



                                              MICHAEL S. STOUGH, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
4                                                 MILDENHALLI36-2502 12 JANUARY 2007


                                        Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, 21 June 1993
MPFM 06-57, 18 Aug 06

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
BTZ—Below the Zone
CBB—Central Base Board
CC—Commander
CCM—Command Chief Master Sergeant
OI—Operating Instruction
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
RAF—Royal Air Force
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIP—Record on Individual Person
SrA—Senior Airman
SOG—Special Operations Group
