BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          RAF MILDENHALL INSTRUCTION 21-092
RAF MILDENHALL (USAFE)
                                                                           23 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                                        WING TOOL CONTROL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 100 MXG/MXQ                                                       Certified by: 100 MXG/CC
                                                                                   (Colonel Scott)
Supersedes:    MILDENHALLI21-092,                                                         Pages: 5
               8 July 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, and the requirements of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aircraft and
Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010, Paragraph 3.2.2. to develop a coordinated
wing instruction to control tools, equipment, and electronic devices from all wing agencies
dispatching to aircraft parking/runway/taxi areas or aircraft maintenance facilities. It applies to
all units assigned to the 100th Air Refueling Wing (100 ARW) and partner units with the
following exceptions: 100th Maintenance Group (100 MXG), Aircrew Flight Equipment sections
of 100th Operations Group, 95th Reconnaissance Squadron and 352d Special Operations Group.
The excluded units will follow guidance in AFI 21-101, including applicable MAJCOM
supplements. This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve
Command units. This publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended.
Requests for waivers must be submitted with justification to the publication OPR. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier
(“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated
with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternatively, to the Publications OPR for non-
tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims//.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
 2                                              MILDENHALLI21-092 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


Responsibility (OPR), using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications, 22
September 2009; route AF forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. “The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.”

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised. It updates recent format changes in AFI 33-360, dated 25 Sep
13, and includes the Tier waiver authorities. Other changes include the deletion of building 774
and the addition of buildings 539 and 803 to Para 2.5., as well as the spelling out of Composite
Tool Kits in Para 3.4.1. In addition, the software link has been updated in Para 4.1., to a working
link. The word “Ideally” has been removed from the beginning of the Note in Para 5.3.
Publication references have also been updated throughout the document.
1. Purpose. Positive control and accountability of tools, equipment, and electronic devices used
on aircraft parking, runway, and taxi areas is essential for the elimination of Foreign Object
Damage (FOD). FOD related accidents cost the Air Force millions of dollars each year. The
purpose of this publication is to provide all 100 ARW agencies the necessary guidance to
implement a solid program to control the tools and equipment taken onto the airfield. Due to the
diverse nature of 100 ARW agencies, one size does not fit all when it comes to tool control
policy. Some units may have only a few items, such as Airfield Management, while others have
literally hundreds of pieces of equipment, like Fire Protection and Security Forces. To be in
compliance with this instruction, units must establish a program, or demonstrate that existing
programs meet the intent of positive tool and equipment accountability and control.
2. Definitions.
     2.1. Tool: A hand-held implement used in accomplishing work, such as a hammer, saw,
     wrench, drill, spirit level, shovel, axe, etc.
     2.2. Equipment: A device required to accomplish a task or carry out work, such as
     surveyors’ transit, portable generator, etc.
     2.3. Electronic Device: Portable items such as land mobile radios (LMR), cell phones, and
     laptop computers.
     2.4. Airfield: Includes all areas of the installation involved in aircraft operation such as
     taxiways, parking ramps, hardstands, and the runway.
     2.5. Aircraft maintenance facilities: Includes buildings 539, 711, 769, 772, 775, 803, 809,
     and 814. (Hangars and industrial areas only)
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Unit commanders are responsible for ensuring an effective program is in place and
     compliance with this instruction for those sections that perform duties on the airfield or in
     aircraft maintenance facilities. Commanders must also ensure that contractors who work on
     the airfield or on aircraft maintenance facilities understand the importance of tool control in
     these areas.
     3.2. Flight chiefs/section NCOICs (or equivalent) determine what tools, equipment, and
     electronic devices fall under the scope of this instruction and will:
MILDENHALLI21-092 23 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                             3


       3.2.1. Develop a system of inventory and control for all items brought out to the airfield
       or maintenance facilities to ensure they are returned to the section upon the completion of
       the job.
       3.2.2. Notify 100 MXG Quality Assurance (QA) of program compliance to coordinate an
       initial evaluation.
   3.3. Everyone who performs duties on the airfield or in maintenance facilities is responsible
   for safeguarding their equipment against loss by ensuring accountability before and after
   each trip. Immediately notify the 100 MXG Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) of items
   suspected to be lost in a maintenance facility or near an aircraft. MOC will run the
   appropriate checklist. If an item is suspected lost on the airfield, also contact the 100 ARW
   Command Post.
   3.4. 100 MXG QA is the OPR for this instruction and will serve as subject matter experts to
   assist sections with setting up an effective program.
       3.4.1. QA will conduct an initial evaluation of each section’s program and provide inputs
       to ensure compliance with this OI. Once established, each section will accomplish an
       annual evaluation of their respective Composite Tool Kits (CTKs). The evaluation will
       be graded as either “compliant” or “non-compliant” with this instruction. Results will be
       provided to the 100 MXG/QA office and forwarded to the 100 ARW/CC, group and
       squadron commanders.
4. Products available. While not mandatory for non-aircraft maintenance units, the following
products are readily available:
   4.1. Units that do not already have a computer program to implement a tool control program
   may use the Tool Accountability System ™ (TAS). This is a computer program developed
   for the Air Force primarily designed for aircraft maintenance units, but the software is very
   adaptable for any unit and is available for free download at: https://ceds.ssg.gunter.af.mil
   (T-3) Contact your unit computer administrator before installing any software.
   4.2. USAFE Base Form 42, CTK Inventory and Control Log. Used to sign tool kits or other
   equipment out and to document return.
   4.3. USAFE Base Form 43, Lost Tool/Object Report. This report is mandatory anytime a
   tool or object is lost on, or in the vicinity of an aircraft. (T-3) If this situation arises,
   immediately contact 100 MXG QA.
   4.4. USAFE Base Form 44, Missing/Removed Tool Log. Used to document tools or
   equipment temporarily removed from service due to damage; or to identify minor
   discrepancies on tools that do not warrant removal from service. This could include broken
   knobs, missing snaps or hooks, etc.
5. Program elements. A solid tool control program in the context of this instruction should
include the following:
   5.1. Master Inventory Listing (MIL): A listing of all items dispatched out. Individual tool
   boxes will include an inventory of all items in that box.
   5.2. Daily Inventory Log: Proof of physical accountability of all items on the MIL before
   and after each duty day or shift.
4                                             MILDENHALLI21-092 23 SEPTEMBER 2014


    5.3. Sign In/Sign Out Log: Method to show custodial responsibility of items checked out for
    use on the airfield or in maintenance facilities. NOTE: A second person (if available) should
    sign in the item upon turn-in.
    5.4. Program continuity book: Specific contents are at the discretion of the flight
    chief/section NCOIC (or equivalent), but should include shop policy and the MIL.




                                            KENNETH T. BIBB, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
MILDENHALLI21-092 23 SEPTEMBER 2014                                       5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
USAFE Base Form 42, CTK Inventory and Control Log
USAFE Base Form 43, Lost Tool/Object Report
USAFE Base Form 44, Missing/Removed Tool Log
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
ARW—-Air Refueling Wing
CC—-Commander
CTK—Composite Tool Kit
IMT—-Information Management Tool
MIL—-Master Inventory Listing
MXG—-Maintenance Group
OG—-Operations Group
OI—-Operating Instruction
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
QA—-Quality Assurance
