BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              MILDENHALL INSTRUCTION 52-100
RAF MILDENHALL
                                                                            4 DECEMBER 2009
                                                               Certified Current on 9 March 2011
                                                                                       Chaplain

                                                    FACILITY USEAGE AND SCHEDULING



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 100 ARW/HC                                                       Certified by: 100 ARW/HC
Supersedes: MILDENHALLI52-1,                                  (Ch, Lt Col H. Frederick Viccellio)
            28 February 2006                                                             Pages: 8


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 52-105V1, Chaplain Service Resourcing
Appropriated Funds, 22 March 2004, and states the 100 Air Refueling Wing Chaplain’s policy
on utilization of the chapel facility. This instruction outlines procedures for reserving the
facility, priority of organizations requesting the facility, and is applicable to all who use the
facility. It applies to all units assigned to RAF Mildenhall. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, prescribed by AFI 11-215, USAF Flight
Manuals Program; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes in policies
and procedures from the previous edition required a complete revision of this publication.
1. POLICY: The wing chapel and annex are designated primarily as a place of worship and
religious education, including administrative and social functions which support these activities.
Other agencies may use the facility when space is available and upon approval of the Wing
Chaplain.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES:
2                                                  MILDENHALLI52-100 4 DECEMBER 2009


    2.1. Facility usage must be requested and approved prior to advertising any program or event
    2.2. The facility scheduler will determine the availability of the chapel facilities. All requests
    by outside organizations must be approved by the Wing Chaplain or designated alternate.
3. PROCEDURES:
    3.1. Religious facilities will be utilized in accordance with AFI52-105V,and local Wing
    Chaplain policy.
    3.2. All requests for use of the chapel facilities will be on USAFE Base Form IMT 52,
    Chapel Facility Request, 7 April 2006, prescribed by MILDENHALLI52-100.
    3.3. The Wing Chaplain may authorize duly ordained civilian clergy personnel or accredited
    lay personnel to assist in implementing the chapel program. Ordination paperwork will be
    maintained in the official chapel files.
4. UTILIZATION:
    4.1. Priority will be given in the following order to those who wish to use the facility:
    4.2. Chapel related functions.
    4.3. Unit functions which directly support the chapel mission, e.g. programs targeting single
    airmen, family support, etc.
    4.4. Retirements and unit functions.
    4.5. Unit social functions.
    4.6. The chapel sanctuary, chancel, nave and Blessed Sacrament room will not be used to
    conduct non-religious activities.
    4.7. All non-chapel activities will be reserved no more than 30 days from the event.
    Exceptions must be approved by the Wing Chaplain.
5. WEDDINGS:
    5.1. Will be scheduled in the chapel only by active duty chaplains assigned to RAF
    Mildenhall (RAFM).
    5.2. Weddings to be conducted by a civilian minister or chaplain not assigned to the RAFM
    chapel must be sponsored by an RAFM active duty chaplain.
    5.3. The active-duty chaplain sponsor is responsible for the following:
       5.3.1. Ascertain that one member of the wedding party is a Department of Defense
       (DOD) card holder.
       5.3.2. Ensures that the requester reads, comprehends and completes the facility request.
       5.3.3. Briefs the bride, groom and guest minister on RAFM policies.
6. GENERAL INFORMATION:
    6.1. Except for authorized sacramental purposes, alcoholic beverages are not permitted in the
    wing chapel.
    6.2. General housekeeping of all areas utilized will be accomplished by all users.
MILDENHALLI52-100 4 DECEMBER 2009                                                               3


   6.3. Coffee and other refreshment items are provided for official chapel activities only.
   6.4. Wedding receptions, baby showers, birthday parties, will not be held in chapel facilities.
   Any other activities must be approved by the Wing Chaplain.
7. Prescribed Forms: USAFEBASE52, Chapel Facility Request.

8. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             EDEN J. MURIE, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
4                                           MILDENHALLI52-100 4 DECEMBER 2009


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 52-105V1, Chaplain Service Resourcing Appropriated Funds, 22 March 2004
AFMAN33-361, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI— Air Force Instruction
RAFM— RAF Mildenhall
MILDENHALLI52-100 4 DECEMBER 2009                                                                 5


                                          Attachment 2
                CHAPEL FACILITY USE POLICY BY CHAPEL GROUPS

Figure A2.1. Chapel Facility Use Policy By Chapel Groups.
MEMORANDUM FOR All Personnel Using the Chapel Facility

FROM: 100 ARW/CC

SUBJECT: Chapel Facility Use Policy by Non-Chapel Groups

1. POLICY: This facility is maintained for the convenience and use of all groups within the
chapel program. Other agencies may use the facility on a non-recurring basis, when their use is
compatible with the normal activities of the chapel program, and upon approval of the Wing
Chaplain.

2. GUIDELINES:
2.2 The Facility must be reserved with the chapel’s scheduler before use to avoid conflicts.
2.2 Keep within your scheduled time and use only the area(s) allotted.
2.4 Smoking and alcoholic beverages (except for authorized sacramental purposes) are not
    permitted in
this facility.
2.5 CHILDREN ARE NOT TO BE LEFT UNATTENDED AT ANY TIME .

3. PHONES: There is a phone in the kitchen to make local on-base phone calls only.

4. CLEANLINESS:
4.1 All trash in the kitchen will be emptied and taken out to the dumpster.
4.2 Floors will be vacuumed/mopped as needed. (The vacuum cleaner is kept in the janitor’s
    closet).
This especially pertains to the kitchen, as the cleaners are not responsible for this area.
4.3 The kitchen will be thoroughly cleaned if used. Leftover food must not be left in the
refrigerator/freezer. Take it with you. If it is left for another program, please date and mark it.
    Anything
over two weeks old will be thrown out.
4.4 Tables and chairs needed for set up will be taken from the storeroom and returned afterwards.
    They
will not be moved from other classrooms without prior approval.
4.5 All classrooms will be returned to their original configuration. The required set up is
    displayed in
each classroom.
4.6 If the rooms are not returned to their original configuration, the event POC may be called to
    return to
the facility to restore the area to its original configuration.
4 7 We strive to provide a neat and orderly place for your functions. If you should find the
    facility in a
state of dis-order, please let a staff member know as soon as possible.
6                                                MILDENHALLI52-100 4 DECEMBER 2009



5. SECURITY:
5.1 Our normal duty hours are 0730-1630, Mon-Fri. After these hours you are responsible for
   securing
the facility. All exterior windows and doors must be closed and locked.
5.2 A key to the facility can be obtained 24 hours before your activity and must be returned the
   next
duty day, unless previous arrangements have been agreed upon by the facility manager.
5.3 At the end of your program, the POC will conduct a walk-a-round of the entire chapel
   complex,
checking each door and window.
5.4 If the building custodian has to be called out by Security Forces to secure the facility, you
may
also be called upon to assist.
5.5 If the building is left unsecured, you may be denied future use.
MILDENHALLI52-100 4 DECEMBER 2009                                                               7


                                          Attachment 3
             CHAPEL FACILITY USE POLICY BY NON-CHAPEL GROUPS

Figure A3.1. Chapel Facility Use Policy By Non-Chapel Groups.
MEMORANDUM FOR All Personnel Using the Chapel Facility

FROM: 100 ARW/CC

SUBJECT: Chapel Facility Use Policy by Non-Chapel Groups

l. POLICY: This facility is maintained for the convenience and use of the groups within the
chapel program. Other agencies may use the facility on a non-recurring basis, when their use is
compatible with the normal activities of the chapel program, and upon approval of the Wing
Chaplain. Priority will be given in the following order:
l.1 Chapel related functions
l.2 Unit functions which directly support the chapel mission, e.g. programs targeting single
airmen, family support, etc.
l.3 Retirements and unit functions
l.4 Unit social functions
1.5 Although we will make every attempt to accommodate your program, please understand that
an
unexpected event could possibly arise. Since our facilities are provided on a “SPACE A” basis,
your
function could possibly be canceled to make room for a chapel event. Confirmation and
approval of your request does not guarantee final availability. If we should have to cancel
your activity, we will contact you as soon as possible and will make every effort to assist you in
finding an alternate location.
1.6 All activities must be terminated in a timely manner so the building is vacated and secured by
2200 unless previous arrangements have been made.

2. GUIDELINES:
2.1 Keep within your scheduled time and use only the classroom(s) allocated.
2.2 Return all used areas to its/their original state.
2.3 Groups outside the official chapel program will provide their own refreshments and supplies.
2.4 Alcoholic beverages are not permitted in this facility.
2.5 The noise level must be kept down, especially in the hallways. CHILDREN ARE NOT TO
BE LEFT UNATTENDED AT ANY TIME.

3. USE OF PHONES:
3.1 There is a phone in the kitchen for public use to make local phone calls only.
3.2 Messages will be relayed at the convenience of the Chapel Staff.

4. CLEANLINESS:
4.1 All trash in your area will be emptied and taken out to the dumpster.
4.2 Floors will be vacuumed/mopped as needed. (The vacuum cleaner is kept in the janitor’s
8                                                 MILDENHALLI52-100 4 DECEMBER 2009


closet.
4.3 The kitchen will be thoroughly cleaned if used. Leftover food must not be left in the
 refrigerator/freezer.
4.4 Tables and chairs needed for set up will be taken only from the storeroom and returned
afterwards.
4.5 Classrooms will be returned to the original set up; a plan of the set up is the displayed in each
room.

5. SECURITY:
5.1 Our normal duty hours are 0730-1630 Mon-Fri. After these hours you are responsible for
securing the facility. All exterior windows and doors must be closed and locked.
5.2 A key to the facility can be obtained 24 hours before your activity and must be returned the
next duty day.
5.3 The POC will conduct a walk-a-round of the entire facility, checking every door and window
from the outside.
5.4 If the building custodian has to be called out by Security Forces to secure the facility, you
may also be called upon to assist.
5.5 If the building is left unsecured, you may be denied future use.
