BY ORDER OF THE                                                              Mildenhall Instruction 32-901
100 ARW COMMANDER                                                                        13 December 1995
                                                                      Certified Current on 25 February 2013
                                                                                          Civil Engineering

                                                                 DAMAGE TO GOVERNMENTAL/REAL
                                                                                   PROPERTY




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the Mildenhall/3AF publishing site on the Intranet.
If you lack access, contact your Publications Manager..


OPR: 100 CES/CERR (Mr Griffiths)                                 Certified by: 100 CES/CE (Mas Edwards)
Supersedes MILDR85-4, 9 March 1987                                                               Pages: 3
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-90 Real Property Management. It
prescribes policies governing damage or loss to government of real property at RAF Mildenhall owned or
operated facilities and establishes responsibilities and procedures for reimbursements to the Air Force
for damage or loss to real property other than fair wear and tear. It applies to all military and civilian per-
sonnel (and their dependents) who are assigned or attached to, or quartered at RAF Mildenhall.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication has been completely revised and should be reviewed in its entirety.



1. Procedures. Adhere to the following procedures prior to the Base Civil Engineer (CE) undertaking
repairs due to damage or loss to real property.
   1.1. The building manager is responsible for reporting all repair requirements to CE. Report damage
   in accordance with paragraph 2.4. if the manager suspects a cause other than fair wear and tear.
   1.2. CE personnel reporting to effect facility repairs which apparently were necessitated by other
   than fair wear and tear will not proceed with work and will report their findings to the CE.
   1.3. CE will determine the cost of repairs based on their inspection of the damage or loss.
   1.4. CE, upon being notified of damage caused by suspected carelessness, negligence or malice will:
       1.4.1. Estimate physical damage or loss and determine whether damage or loss was caused by
       carelessness, negligence, malice, or fair wear and tear.
       1.4.2. Inform the building manager or, in the case of family housing, the military sponsor if dam-
       age or loss is determined to be caused by carelessness, negligence, abuse or malice.
       1.4.3. Take normal rectification action if damage or loss is determined to be fair wear and tear.
2                                                                     MILDI32-901 13 December 1995

    1.5. Upon discovery of damage caused by suspected carelessness, negligence, abuse or malice, the
    commander of the unit occupying that portion of the structure damaged, or military sponsor in the
    case of family housing, will submit AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, (see attach-
    ment 2) to 100 SPTG/CEO. If the member or sponsor concerned voluntarily admits liability, CE will
    proceed with repairs. Upon completion of work, a final cost will be submitted to the Commander of
    the unit or military sponsor, who will use DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher to collect funds
    (see attachment 3), included with the work request if the individual responsible is paying cash or per-
    sonal check directly to Accounting and Finance.
    1.6. AF Form 332 will contain information as outlined in attachment 1, sample format.
    1.7. After being processed through Accounting and Finance, return one copy of the DD Form 1131 to
    100 SPTG/CEO for filing in accordance with AFR 4-20 Vol II.
    1.8. If pecuniary liability cannot be established when government/real property is lost, damaged or
    destroyed, initiate an DD Form 200, Report of Survey, in accordance with AFR 68-1. Squadron and
    similar commanders will initiate reports of survey for real property within their jurisdiction. The CE
    will initiate reports of survey for real property which is not specifically under the jurisdiction of an
    organizational commander and in cases where the member or sponsor does not admit liability.
    Contact the Comptroller Reports of Survey Monitor for assistance in preparing DD Form 200.
    1.9. Upon initiation of DD Form 200 CE will proceed with repairs. When work has been com-
    pleted, a final cost will be provided to the squadron or similar commanders.
    1.10. If the commander suspects an offense that is punishable under the Uniform Code of Military
    Justice, consult the servicing Staff Judge Advocate before you prepare a statement. CE must report
    monthly the status of all major cases to the Facilities Board.



                                          JAMES R. FRASER, Lt Col, USAF
                                          Commander
MILDI32-901 13 December 1995                                     3

                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFR 4-20 Vol II
AFR 68-1
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
DD Form 200, Report of Survey
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CE—Civil Engineer
RAF—Royal Air Force
