                                                     RAF Mildenhall
                                                 Equal Opportunity Office
                                                                    Bldg 442, Room 207
                                                           DSN: 238-2468 or Comm.: 01638 542468
                                                               100arw.eo@mildenhall.af.mil
   Our Mission: To enhance mission effectiveness by addressing concerns of unlawful discrimination, sexual harassment, educating base personnel, and promoting
   diversity.

   EO Program: It is Department of Defense and Air Force policy not to condone or tolerate unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment within the Armed Forces
   or in the civilian workforce. Unlawful discrimination for military members includes race, color, religion, national origin and sex, to include sexual harassment.
   For civilian employees the same categories apply, to include age (40 and older), disability (physical/mental), reprisal, and genetic information.

                                                               Options Available to Resolve Complaints

   Informal Complaint (Military): The informal complaint resolution process is available as an alternative to lodging formal complaints. This process is for military
   personnel, their family members and retirees to provide allegations of unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment to the EO office to attempt resolution at the
   lowest possible level. In this process, individuals have several options available for resolution efforts.

   Formal Complaint (Military): When individuals believe their concerns about unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment may only be addressed through filing
   a formal complaint, the EO formal complaint process is the next option. It is also applicable to individuals who attempted to resolve their complaints informally,
   but their issues remain unresolved. Individuals should submit allegations of unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment no more than 60 calendar days after
   the alleged offense for formal complaints. If the allegations are submitted more than 60 calendar days after the alleged offense, the complainant must provide
   sufficient justification or extenuating circumstances to the EO office for review and subsequent approval by the Installation Commander.

   Informal Complaint (Civilian): A civilian employee or applicant for employment (appropriated or non appropriated fund position) who believes that he/she has
   been unlawfully discriminated against in an employment matter subject to the control of the Air Force, must consult an EO counselor within 45 calendar days
   from the date of the alleged offense or the date the individual becomes aware of the personnel action.

   Formal Complaint (Civilian): For a complaint to be processed at the formal stage, the complainant must file a formal compliant not later than 15 calendar days
   after receipt of a Notice of Right to File.

   Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR): It is Air Force policy to voluntarily use ADR to the maximum extent practicable and appropriate to resolve workplace
   disputes at the earliest stage feasible, by the fastest and least expensive method possible, and at the lowest possible organizational level.

   Other Services: Out & About Visits, Unit Climate Assessments, Team Building, Human Relations Education

                                             Equal Opportunity = Mission Readiness
MILDENHALLVA36-2706, 10 August2011
Supersedes MILDENHALLVA36-2706, 6 Dec 2007                                                                                                              OPR: 100 ARW/EO
Prescribed by AFI36-2706                                                                                                                              No Restrictions Apply
