BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         MILDENHALL INSTRUCTION 48-132
RAF MILDENHALL                                                                          8 FEBRUARY 2006

                                                                                        Aerospace Medicine

                                                                PET REGISTRATION IN THE UNITED
                                                                                      KINGDOM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 100 MSS/CC (Maj Smith)                                                      Certified by: 100 MSS/CC
Supersedes 3AFI48-131, 5 March 2001                                                                 Pages: 5
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction establishes procedures for the identification and control of privately-owned animals, or
pets. It is the responsibility of commanders and supervisors at all levels to ensure compliance with this
instruction in order to prevent injury and death of pets and to control stray or abandoned pets that pose a
threat to public health. This instruction applies to all US military personnel and US civilians assigned to
RAF Mildenhall, including their dependents. Violations of the specific prohibitions and requirements of
this instruction, including those contained in paragraphs 3. and 4. of this instruction, by military personnel
may result in disciplinary action under AFI36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions. Abuse and abandon-
ment of pet are criminal offenses in the UK and may result in prosecution by the host nation authorities.
This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974. The authority to collect and maintain this information is U.S.C 8013.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document has been rewritten, for format and content, and should be reviewed in it entirety. This
revision replace 3AFI48-131. Major changes include individual PCS traveler responsibilities to make
arrangements directly with commercial airlines; The Traffic Management Office no longer makes
arrangements.


1. Scope. This instruction provides procedures for the identification and control of privately-owned ani-
mals or pets, of US personnel, military and civilian, assigned to RAF Mildenhall. In this instruction the
word “pet” refers only to cats and dogs. It requires registration of all pets, residing both on and off mili-
tary installations and in government-controlled and privately-owned or rented housing.

2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. US Army, Northen Europe Veterinary Detachment, United Kingdom/Ireland Division (NEVD)
   Will provide veterinary services for pets of US personnel assigned to RAF M in accordance with AR
2                                                          MILDENHALLI48-132 8 FEBRUARY 2006


    40-905, or AFI48-131, Veterinary Health Services. This office will also provide registration and
    de-registration services as required in paragraph 3. The NEVD will not provide veterinary services
    for unregistered pets of US personnel assigned to RAF M except in case of emergency when an ani-
    mal’s life or limb is in immediate danger. The NEVD will create and maintain a computer registry in
    accordance with paragraph 3.
    2.2. Commander’s Support Staff (CSS) will include pet registration and de-registration as items on
    their in-processing and out-processing checklists. During in-processing, US personnel will acknowl-
    edge their understanding of the specific prohibitions and requirements of this instruction, including
    those contained in paragraphs 3. and 4. The CSS will store this acknowledgement and a computer
    printout of pet registration in the Personnel Information File (PIF). During out-processing, personnel
    will again acknowledge their understanding of the specific prohibitions and requirements of this
    instruction including those contained in paragraph 3. and 4. The NEVD will certify either no pets reg-
    istered or pets properly registered and de-registered. The CSS will maintain this acknowledgement
    and certification and a computer printout of pet de-registration, if any, for six months.
    2.3. RAF Mildenhall Family Support Center (FSC) will coordinate with Voluntary Organizations and
    provide information and resources pertaining to the obtaining, care, travel, shipment and disposal of
    pets. This office will conduct briefings on a regular basis covering various pet issues and highlighting
    pet registration, de-registration and shipments in and out of the UK. These briefings may be con-
    ducted in conjunction with in/out processing briefings for personnel arriving in and departing from the
    UK. The FSC will establish and maintain internet and intranet web sites with pet information.
    2.4. Individual PCS traveler will make pet travel arrangements directly with commercial airlines.
    2.5. Voluntary Organizations are staffed by volunteers and vary in the services they offer. They have
    no official affiliation with the US military and are not subject to US military control, but they con pro-
    vide much needed resources to ensure that US personnel comply with requirements of pet owners.
    These organizations may work with FSCs to provide information and referral resources pertaining to
    the obtaining care, travel, shipment and disposal of pets. In addition these organizations may contact
    the NEVD for assistance with identifying stray or abandoned pets that may belong to US personnel.
    2.6. Commanders will ensure compliance by US personnel with specific prohibitions and require-
    ments of this instruction, including those contained in paragraphs 3. and 4. Commanders will take
    appropriate disciplinary action against those found not complying with this instruction.

3. Registration and De-registration.
    3.1. The provisions for registration and de-registration pertain only to pet cats and dogs.
    3.2. As part of in-processing, US personnel will register their pets with the NEVD at RAF Feltwell or
    a satellite clinic (presently located at RAF Croughton, Alconbury and Menwith Hill). US personnel
    acquiring pets after in-processing will register their pets within two weeks of acquisition.
    3.3. Registration entails and inspection by the NEVD of the following documents: orders of the US
    personnel, identification card of the US personnel and the health records and medical history of the
    pet. All pertinent information of pet and owner will be entered in a computer registry and made avail-
    able to the NEVD at all installations. Registration does not require physical inspection of the pet.
    3.4. US personnel with registered pets will notify the NEVD of any change of address within two
    weeks of the change.
MILDENHALLI48-132 8 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                          3


   3.5. As part of out-processing or within to weeks of transfer of pet ownership by sale, adoption or sur-
   render, US personnel will de-register their pets with the NEVD. A pet must be registered in order to
   be de-registered.
   3.6. De-registration entails an inspection by the NEVD of the following documents: orders of the US
   personnel, identification card of the US personnel and proof that the proper arrangements have been
   made for the pet’s shipment, sale, adoption or surrender to pet care facility. If the pet is being sold or
   adopted then the new owner will have provided written proof in the form of a letter that is signed and
   dated and includes the new owner’s name, address and telephone number. If the pet is being surren-
   dered to a pet care facility, or sanctuary then the sanctuary will be able to confirm surrendered. All
   pertinent information will be entered into the computer registry and kept for a least six months after
   de-registration. De-registration does not require physical inspection of the pet.
   3.7. US personnel with registered pets will notify the NEVD of ay lost pet within two weeks of the
   loss, at which time the pet will be de-registered. The NEVD may ask about the circumstances of the
   loss and search and will notify the appropriate commander of possible abuse. If the pet is found, then
   it must be re-registered.
   3.8. US personnel with registered pets will notify the NEVD of any pet death within two weeks of the
   death, at which time the pet will be de-registered. The NEVD may ask about the circumstance of the
   death and will notify the appropriate commander of possible abuses.
   3.9. The NEVD will determine the days and times and the fees. if any, for registration and de-regis-
   tration. The FSC and CSS will publicize this information to US personnel.

4. Requirement. US personnel will care for their pets properly and in full accordance with regulation
and law.



                                                MICHAEL S. STOUGH, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander
4                                                    MILDENHALLI48-132 8 FEBRUARY 2006


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD48-1, Aerospace Medical Program
AR40-905, or AFI48-131, Veterinary Health Services

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AR—Army Regulation
CSS—Commander’s Support Staff
FSC—Family Support Center
NEVD—US Army, Northern Europe Veterinary Detachment, Untied Kingdom/Ireland Division
RAF—Royal Air Force
TMO—Traffic Management Office
UK—United Kingdom
US—United States
MILDENHALLI48-132 8 FEBRUARY 2006                       5


                              Attachment 2

             SAMPLE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND CERTIFICATION
