BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               MILDENHALL INSTRUCTION 90-201
100TH AIR REFULING WING
                                                                                  4 AUGUST 2014

                                                                             Special Management

                                                  RAF MILDENHALL INSPECTION SYSTEM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on the release of this publication.


OPR: 100 ARW/IGI                                                        Certified by: 100 ARW/IG
                                                                                  (Lt Col Murphy)
Supersedes: MILDENHALLI90-102, 22 July 2011;                                             Pages: 31
            MILDENHALLI90-201, 22 September
            2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 90-2, Inspection General – The
Inspection System and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-201, Air Force
Inspection System, 2 August 2013. It establishes guidance for the new Air Force Inspection
System governing the Commander’s Inspection Program to include the self-inspection program,
Wing Inspection Team program, and the Commander’s Inspection Management Board;
procedures for management of the Gatekeeper program; the responsibilities and duties for
management of the exercise program; and the procedures to evaluate the wing’s ability to
respond to both peacetime and wartime contingencies. This instruction applies to all units
assigned or attached to the 100th Air Refueling Wing, RAF Mildenhall. This publication does
not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or the Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities
 2                                                                       MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


associated with the Tier numbers. The entirety of this publication is classified as T-3. Submit
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval
authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. See
Attachment 1 for Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Change in the Wing
Commander’s Inspection Program to include the self-inspection program, Wing Inspection Team
program, and the Commander’s Inspection Management Board; procedures for management of
the Gatekeeper program; the responsibilities and duties for management of the exercise program;
and the procedures to evaluate the wing’s ability to respond to both peacetime and wartime
contingencies.


Chapter 1—COMMANDER’S INSPECTION PROGRAM                                                                                               4
       1.1.   The Air Force Inspection System: .........................................................................               4
       1.2.   Key Players and Responsibilities. ..........................................................................             4
       1.3.   Deficiency Guidance and Authority. .....................................................................                 9
Table 1.1.    Deficiency Closure Authorities (typical) ...............................................................                 9

Chapter 2—IGI PROGRAMS                                                                                                                11
       2.1.   Self-Assessment Program. .....................................................................................          11
       2.2.   Commander’s Inspection Management Board. ......................................................                         12
       2.3.   Wing Gatekeeper Program. ....................................................................................           13
       2.4.   Wing Inspection Team. ..........................................................................................        14
       2.5.   CCIP Member Awards. ..........................................................................................          14

Chapter 3—UNIT AND PROGRAM INSPECTION                                                                                                 15
       3.1.   Unit and Program Inspections (UPI) methodology. ...............................................                         15
       3.2.   Unit and Program Inspection Lifecycle. ................................................................                 16
Table 3.1.    Unit and Program Inspection Lifecycle (Notional) ................................................                       16
       3.3.   The Inspection Team Chief will: ...........................................................................             17
       3.4.   WIT Members conducting program and unit inspections will: .............................                                 17

Chapter 4—WING OPERATIONAL READINESS INSPECTION                                                                                       18
       4.1.   Program Overview. ................................................................................................      18
       4.2.   Exercise Roles and Concepts. ................................................................................           18
       4.3.   Exercise Lifecycle. .................................................................................................   20
       4.4.   Planning Conference Activities. ............................................................................            21
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                                               3


      4.5.   Execution Phase Meetings and Management .........................................................                25
      4.6.   Inspected exercise milestones. ...............................................................................   26
Table 4.1.   Inspected Exercise Lifecycle (Notional .................................................................         26

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                28

Attachment 2—LIST OF ROOT CAUSE ANALYSIS TOOLS                                                                                31
 4                                                   MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


                                            Chapter 1

                         COMMANDER’S INSPECTION PROGRAM

1.1. The Air Force Inspection System: The new Air Force Inspection System will consist of
three inspections in order to evaluate the effectiveness of different levels of command. These
three inspections include: Management Inspections, which will be conducted above Wing Level
to assess management functions; Unit Effectiveness Inspections (UEI), which will be conducted
by USAFE-AFAFRICA/IG to evaluate the 100 ARW; and the Commander’s Inspection Program
(CCIP), which is managed by the Wing Commander to evaluate groups, squadrons, and staff
agencies under the 100 ARW. Note: For the purposes of this publication, the term deficiency is
the same as observation for MICT purposes.
     1.1.1. Purpose. The CCIP is led by the 100 ARW/CC and its purpose is to assess the
     Groups, Squadrons, and other organizations within the 100 ARW on the four Major Graded
     Areas (MGAs) and sub-MGAs outlined in AFI 90-201. The primary objective of the CCIP is
     to improve effectiveness, compliance, readiness, discipline and surety in the 100 ARW and to
     provide feedback to the Wing/CC regarding the Wing’s ability to execute its unique
     Designed Operational Capabilities (DOC) statement.             Further guidance on CCIP
     Methodology is outlined in AFI 90-201 chapter 5.
1.2. Key Players and Responsibilities. The following are key duties and responsibilities, as
outlined in AFI 90-201.
     1.2.1. 100th Air Refueling Wing Commander will:
        1.2.1.1. Approve the wing inspection plan provided by the Wing IG/CCIP director.
        1.2.1.2. Review and provide final approval of wing readiness and inspection reports.
        1.2.1.3. Provide the vision and regular oversight of the CCIP by chairing the
        Commander’s Inspection Management Board (CIMB) monthly or as waivered by
        Wing/CC.
     1.2.2. Wing Inspector General/CCIP Director will:
        1.2.2.1. Manage and administer the 100 ARW CCIP.
        1.2.2.2. Designate a Director of Inspections and Director of Complaints who will oversee
        the Wing Inspection program and Complaints program respectively.
        1.2.2.3. Provide updates to Wing leadership during weekly staff meetings and as needed.
        1.2.2.4. Facilitate the CIMBs and other 100 ARW IG meetings.
        1.2.2.5. Provide commanders CCIP familiarization training within 60 days of assuming
        command.
     1.2.3. Director of Inspections will:
        1.2.3.1. Manage and oversee the 100 ARW inspections program. Provide oversight over
        all aspects of 100 ARW inspections.
        1.2.3.2. Serve as Chief of Record (CoR) for IGI records management.
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                              5


         1.2.3.2.1. Appoint Record Custodians (RC) for IGI records management.
     1.2.3.3. Serve as liaison between IGI and XP.
     1.2.3.4. Develop and manage a Wing Inspection Schedule (WIS) with a 24-month
     outlook synchronizing and de-conflicting the Wing Unit and Program Inspection (WUPI)
     and Wing Operational Readiness Inspection (WORI) schedules. Obtain Inspector
     General and Wing/CC approval of the Wing Inspection Schedule. Ensure changes to the
     schedule are approved in a timely manner.
         1.2.3.4.1. Ensure the WUPI schedule meets unit and program compliance
         requirements within the Unit Effectiveness Inspection (UEI) cycle.
         1.2.3.4.2. Ensure the WORI schedule meets inspection requirements from AFI 90-
         201 and local hazard inspection items as designated by the RAFM Emergency
         Management community.
     1.2.3.5. Coordinate/develop CIMB slides and determine a location and time for the
     meeting.
     1.2.3.6. Manage the Wing Gatekeeper program.
         1.2.3.6.1. Ensure USAFE-AFAFRICA Gatekeeper is aware of visits, inspections, and
         audits as they are approved by the 100 ARW/CC by utilizing the Air Force Gatekeeper
         Program SharePoint site. https://cs1.eis.af.mil/sites/AFGP/usafe/default.aspx
         1.2.3.6.2. Manage and serve as liaison for all outside wing Inspection or Staff
         Assistance Visit (SAV) requests with other Wings or HHQ.
     1.2.3.7. Appoint Superintendent of Inspections to help manage and oversee the 100
     ARW inspections program.
     1.2.3.8. Appoint a Wing Inspection Team Chief to assemble, manage, and train WIT
     members. The WIT Team Chief will liaise and manage MOU/MOAs with outside
     agencies to assist with inspections when needed.
     1.2.3.9. Appoint a Wing Self-Assessment Program (SAP) Manager to manage and
     execute the 100 ARW Self-Assessment Program.
     1.2.3.10. Appoint a Chief of Inspections who is responsible for development, planning,
     and execution of the WUPI plan.
     1.2.3.11. Appoint a Chief of Exercises who is responsible for development, planning,
     and execution of the WORI plan.
     1.2.3.12. With the assistance of the members of IGI, ensure Commander’s Inspection
     Report requirements are met IAW AFI 90-201.
  1.2.4. Superintendent of Inspections will:
     1.2.4.1. Assist the Director of Inspections with oversight and management of the 100
     ARW inspection program.
     1.2.4.2. Serve as the executive officer for IGI administrative needs.
     1.2.4.3. Serve as the communications focal point for IGI staff with primary responsibility
     for the IGI email org box.
6                                                      MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


       1.2.4.4. Serve as Team Chief for wing unit and programs and/or readiness inspections as
       needed.
       1.2.4.5. Assist in other functions as needed.
    1.2.5. Wing Inspection Team Chief will:
       1.2.5.1. Manage all aspects of WIT administration.
       1.2.5.2. Maintain a roster of WIT members.
       1.2.5.3. Ensure all WIT members are appointed, trained, and sworn in.
           1.2.5.3.1. Ensure all WIT members are appointed by commanders in Appointments
           Central.
           1.2.5.3.2. Approve WIT member appointments on behalf of the Director of
           Inspections.
           1.2.5.3.3. Ensure all WIT members are appropriately trained IAW AFI 90-201 and
           other applicable directives.
               1.2.5.3.3.1. Develop and manage a periodic WIT training schedule as required.
               WIT Training will be offered quarterly at a minimum. On-demand and Just-In-
               Time training will be offered as deemed necessary by WIT Chief or Director of
               Inspections.
           1.2.5.3.4. Schedule swearing-in with IG, WG/CV, or WG/CC, in conjunction with
           WIT training and as needed in addition.
       1.2.5.4. Maintain Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) or Memorandums of
       Agreement (MOA) with partner units regarding WIT interchange.
       1.2.5.5. Assist in other functions as needed.
    1.2.6. 100 ARW Self-Assessment Program Manager will:
       1.2.6.1. Manage the Wing Self-Assessment Program (SAP) by providing guidance,
       accepted practices, and wing business rules to wing subordinate organizations.
       1.2.6.2. Act as the single liaison to the AF level Management Internal Control Toolset
       (MICT) Help Desk and USAFE-AFAFRICA/MICT POC.
       1.2.6.3. Provide and conduct periodic initial and recurring MICT training for group and
       unit administrators as well as additional on demand training as required.
       1.2.6.4. Serve as the wing’s senior member management and permission granting
       authority for MICT.
       1.2.6.5. Perform SAP spot checks to ensure continuous MICT program compliance.
       1.2.6.6. Confirm accuracy of unit provided data for the CIMB.
       1.2.6.7. Assist in other functions as needed.
    1.2.7. Chief of Unit Inspections will:
       1.2.7.1. Maintain direct responsibility for all aspects of unit and program inspections
       within the wing.
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                 7


         1.2.7.1.1. Develop and manage a WUPI schedule with a 24-month outlook.
     1.2.7.2. Provide oversight of program and unit inspection planning based on AFI 90-201
     requirements, commanders’ requirements, and other directives.
     1.2.7.3. Serve as or assign a Team Chief for each unit or program inspection.
     1.2.7.4. Ensure the Team Chief assembles WIT members, and ensure WIT participation
     as needed for unit and program inspections.
     1.2.7.5. Oversee and edit inspection reports.
     1.2.7.6. Assist in other functions as needed.
  1.2.8. Chief of Exercises will:
     1.2.8.1. Maintain direct responsibility for all aspects of inspected exercises within the
     wing.
         1.2.8.1.1. Develop and manage a WORI with a 24-month outlook.
     1.2.8.2. Schedule, assemble, and lead planning conferences and hot washes for Wing
     exercises.
     1.2.8.3. Assemble WIT participation as needed for readiness inspections.
     1.2.8.4. Serve as or assign an Exercise Director for each inspected exercise.
     1.2.8.5. Provide oversight of exercise planning and Master Scenario Event Listing
     (MSEL) construction based on commanders’ requirements and WIT evaluator inputs to
     meet objectives.
     1.2.8.6. Maintain a memorandum of known Simulations Deviations (SIMDEV) and
     Limiting Factors (LIMFAC) updated and approved by the WG/CC annually. Coordinate
     with commanders to approve LIMFACs/SIMDEV requests submitted by the units
     specifically applicable to individual events.
     1.2.8.7. Establish a WHITECELL and delegate individuals to play the role of higher
     headquarters and host nation functions as appropriate during operational readiness
     inspections and will provide 24-hour support, unless otherwise directed by the CCIP
     Director. WHITECELL will monitor communications as required, the MSEL, and will
     keep a daily log to track Requests for Information (RFI) and other pertinent events.
     1.2.8.8. Ensure exercise Special Instructions (SPINS) are published. These should
     include ROE’s, SIMDEV, LIMFACs, and communication procedures (phone rosters,
     LMR call signs, email etc.) for WHITECELL, Exercise Director, WIT leads and other
     necessary entities.
     1.2.8.9. Serve as focal point for external agency exercise involvement and coordination.
     1.2.8.10. Oversee and edit inspection reports.
  1.2.9. Group Commanders, Unit Commanders, and Wing Staff Agency Chiefs will:
     1.2.9.1. Appoint WIT members to work with 100 ARW/IGI on readiness inspections and
     unit    inspections  via appointment     central at   https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/
     100ARW/PrgmAppt
8                                                     MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


          1.2.9.1.1. Appoint one WIT Team Lead to act as liaison with IGI and unit WIT
          members.
       1.2.9.2. Appoint Group/Unit MICT Managers to provide oversight of the group SAP and
       MICT checklists. The Group/Unit MICT Managers will also work closely with the SAP
       Manager to ensure group and squadron checklists are up-to-date and completed within
       SAP guidelines.
       1.2.9.3. Ensure all outside agency visit requests are channeled through the Wing
       Gatekeeper.
       1.2.9.4. Per AFI 90-201, Group commanders and designated WSA representatives shall
       attend and provide inputs for the CIMB. If Group commanders are unavailable, they must
       send a designated representative who can discuss applicable data at the meeting.
       Subordinate commanders may be invited to attend by Group commanders.
       1.2.9.5. Receive CCIP familiarization training within 60 days of assuming command.
       1.2.9.6. Ensure deficiency closure information is tracked and records are maintained for
       a period of not less than two years.
       1.2.9.7. Develop unit SAP guidance to ensure compliance with applicable directives.
    1.2.10. Group and Squadron WIT Team Leads will:
       1.2.10.1. Coordinate with 100 ARW/IGI to provide MSEL inputs and develop objectives
       and concepts for inspected exercises.
       1.2.10.2. Ensure all group and squadron WIT members are trained and qualified IAW
       AFI 90-201.
       1.2.10.3. Compile and prepare inspection reports, as well as submit all findings,
       recommended improvement areas and strengths to 100 ARW/IGI within the required
       timeline. All report inputs should include sufficient detail, including references and
       Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for any corrective action.
       1.2.10.4. Ensure appropriate WIT attendance at all required planning conferences as
       determined by IGI.
       1.2.10.5. Assist 100 ARW/IGI as necessary to conduct readiness and unit or program
       inspections throughout the wing in order to ensure the success of the Wing CCIP.
    1.2.11. WIT Members will:
       1.2.11.1. Perform WIT duties for the duration of the exercise or real world operation,
       including the hot wash and report writing or until released by IGI.
       1.2.11.2. Evaluate all exercise events as tasked by their team lead and 100 ARW/IGI.
       Team members will not inject “free play” events into the exercise without approval from
       the exercise director or the delegated authority.
       1.2.11.3. Provide unbiased feedback, in the form of Findings (critical, significant, or minor),
       Strengths, or Recommended Improvement Areas (RIA), on areas of their expertise during
       exercises and in some cases, real-world contingencies. Readiness inspection feedback will
       normally be provided via the Mildenhall Inspections SharePoint page.
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                9


       https://sp2007.ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/100ARW/100DS/100IGI/default.aspx?PageView
       =Shared
       1.2.11.4. Work for and report directly to the Wing Commander through IGI during
       exercises and inspections.
       1.2.11.5. Attend all meetings as determined by IGI and group team leads.
       1.2.11.6. Serve on the WIT if chosen by the IGI, CCIP Director or appointed WIT Team
       Lead.
       1.2.11.7. Not normally consist of commanders, superintendents or first sergeants.
1.3. Deficiency Guidance and Authority.
   1.3.1. Closeout authorities. IAW AFI 90-201 paragraph 2.20.9.2., the wing commander has
   determined the following closeout authorities for deficiencies as follows:
       1.3.1.1. Minor: Squadron Commander or first commander in chain of command of OPR.
       1.3.1.2. Significant: Group Commander or first O-6 in chain of command of OPR.
          1.3.1.2.1. Significant deficiencies found within programs at the group level must be
          elevated to the Wing Commander for closure.
       1.3.1.3. Critical: Wing Commander or as specifically delegated by Wing Commander.

Table 1.1. Deficiency Closure Authorities (typical)
    Authority                 Deficiencies                  Level
                              Critical; Significant;        Any
    Wing CC
                              Minor
    Group Commanders          Significant; Minor            Group; Squadron
    Squadron
                              Minor                         Squadron
    Commanders
   1.3.2. Deficiency tracking will be through one of two methods depending on the way they
   are determined. All deficiencies found during compliance and readiness inspections will be
   tracked and closed through the Inspector General Evaluation Management System (IGEMS).
   All deficiencies found during the Self-Assessment will be tracked and closed through MICT.
   1.3.3. Root cause analysis is required to be a part of all deficiency closeout procedures. In
   order to facilitate this, at a minimum the following questions must be answered:
       1.3.3.1. Problem statement: A reiteration of the deficiency, identifying the problem that
       the corrective action plan will address.
       1.3.3.2. Problem breakdown: State the gap between what happened and what should
       have happened (actual performance vs. required performance).
       1.3.3.3. Improvement performance: State the result expected after the corrective action is
       put in place.
10                                                  MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


     1.3.3.4. Root cause: State the reason for the problem. For Significant and Critical
     deficiencies, list a summary of the 8-step root cause analysis process and its results.
     1.3.3.5. Root cause deficiency code: List the code which is attributed to the root cause.
     (See AFI 90-201, Attachment 7 for listing of codes)
     1.3.3.6. Root cause analysis tool employed. A list of tools is in Attachment 2.
     1.3.3.7. Corrective action plan: State the plan that will be implemented to fix the
     deficiency along with an OPR and an estimated completion date. Please note that all
     corrective action plans must be approved by the appropriate deficiency closing authority
     and the appropriate HQ USAFE FAM unless there is a Wing level FAM for that
     program/function. Additionally, for Safety deficiencies, the 100 ARW/SE office must
     approve the corrective action plan in addition to the FAM. Deficiencies meeting this
     requirement will have 100 ARW/SE as a designated OCR in the report.
  1.3.4. Deficiency closure procedures are part of the unit commander’s program. Once
  complete, the OPR must send the necessary information to IGI for final closure. Closed
  deficiencies will be updated at the next CIMB.
  1.3.5. Deficiency closure records must be retained by the unit for at least two years.
     1.3.5.1. At a minimum, deficiency closure records will include closure authority, date of
     closure, and contact information for deficiency OPR.
  1.3.6. Closure of a MICT deficiency requires a note in the deficiency page stating who
  authorized closure and when it was authorized.
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                11


                                           Chapter 2

                                       IGI PROGRAMS

2.1. Self-Assessment Program. The SAP is a vital part of the CCIP in which each group,
squadron, and other organizations assesses their own effectiveness prior to being evaluated by
the WIT. It is important for commanders to identify deficiencies at this stage and provide
corrective actions via MICT in order to avoid Critical, Significant, or Minor deficiencies on
subsequent inspections. In order to facilitate this program each group, squadron, and staff
agency must appoint a SAP representative.
   2.1.1. Group, Squadron and Staff Agency SAP Representatives. Each unit’s SAP
   representative will be responsible for managing the unit’s SAP to include ensuring the Air
   Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) and MAJCOM Functional Area Manager (FAM) checklists
   are tracked, when applicable. When AFIA and MAJCOM FAM checklists are not available,
   local checklists must be created and approved by MAJCOM FAMs before being utilized in
   MICT. The SAP representative will act as a liaison between their unit, the Group MICT
   Lead Manager, and the Wing SAP Manager. They will also provide training for their
   commanders and checklist assessors.
   2.1.2. Unit SAP Requirements. Units/Groups CCs own and develop their own SAP within
   confines of AFI 90-201, MILDI90-201, 100 ARW/IG and Wing Commander guidance.
       2.1.2.1. Commanders will determine which Self-Assessment Checklists (SACs) are
       applicable, assigned, and tracked in accordance with applicable guidance and unit
       mission requirements. This may be done by contacting the appropriate Functional Area
       Managers (FAMs) for guidance. IGI will develop a general list of checklists for all units
       to track, however, for the definitive list of checklists, units must consult with the
       respective FAMs.
       2.1.2.2. Commanders will ensure their assigned and tracked SACs (SACs) accurately
       reflect current status at all times. If no changes in status occur, as a minimum, SACs will
       be updated within 12 months.
       2.1.2.3. Changes in compliance status will be updated in MICT within 5 duty days.
       2.1.2.4. When a new checklist is assigned it must be assessed in MICT within 30 days.
       2.1.2.5. Checklists will not be “cloned”. If more than one office within a squadron needs
       to run a checklist then work centers will be created and each will track the checklist.
       2.1.2.6. Locally generated checklists must be approved by MAJCOM. It is the
       responsibility of the checklist POC requesting the action to maintain records of checklist
       approval for as long as the checklist is in use.
       2.1.2.7. Wing SAP Manager will:
          2.1.2.7.1. Conduct GP/SQ SAP inspections during Unit, No-Notice, and Spot
          Inspections
          2.1.2.7.2. Continually monitor Wing wide compliance
          2.1.2.7.3. Will pull validation reports to ensure units are reporting accurately
 12                                                 MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


       2.1.2.8. Group SAP Managers will:
           2.1.2.8.1. Provide assessment details to the Wing SAP Manager one week prior to
           the CIMB. Templates for unit CIMB input may be found on the IGI SharePoint site.
           https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/100ARW/100DS/100IGI/default.aspx
           2.1.2.8.2. Maintain oversight of unit SAP managers.
           2.1.2.8.3. Manage group level SACs.
       2.1.2.9. Squadron SAP Managers will:
           2.1.2.9.1. Provide MICT data to their group managers 10 days prior to the CIMB.
           2.1.2.9.2. Ensure SACs are up-to-date and newly assigned checklists are completed
           within 30 days of distribution from the Functional Area Manager (FAM)
           2.1.2.9.3. Ensure changes in status to SAC items are updated within 5 days
       2.1.2.10. In addition to the requirements listed in AFI 90-201, all comment blocks in
       MICT must be utilized to provide in-depth checklist item answers. The Checklist will be
       completed by the Checklist POCs or alternates and assessed by the checklist supervisor.
       In the Assessor Notes box, the POC who completed the checklist and the assessor will be
       noted.
2.2. Commander’s Inspection Management Board. The Commander’s Inspection
Management Board (CIMB) is run monthly by the CCIP Director or as waived by the Wing
Commander. It is chaired by the 100 ARW/CC, or the 100 ARW/CV in the commander’s
absence, to discuss issues and concerns as well as track progress and status of discrepancies and
corrective actions until closure. Required attendees are Group Commanders and any designated
Wing staff agency chiefs. Squadron Commanders may attend at the Group Commanders’
discretion.
   2.2.1. CIMB preparation. One week prior to the Board, IGI will receive deficiency
   information from Group SAP managers and finalize slides for 100 ARW/CC and CV
   approval. Group and squadron commanders must ensure all closed deficiencies have been
   reported to IGI by this deadline. Any deficiencies closed after this deadline will be briefed
   by exception during the CIMB.
   2.2.2. Commander’s issue awareness. Group commanders must provide their top 5 issues
   affecting their ability to meet their mission and comply with regulations to brief the
   100 ARW/CC.
       2.2.2.1. In addition, at a minimum Group Commanders will brief all critical deficiencies
       within their group and subordinate units, and any group level significant deficiencies,
       since these require Wing Commander closure.
   2.2.3. Deficiency closure prior to CIMBs. Squadron commanders are strongly encouraged
   to meet with their group commanders prior to the slide submission date (one week prior to
   the CIMB) to close out any significant deficiencies and update their information to IGI.
   2.2.4. Deficiency elevation for awareness and closure at the CIMB. Group commanders
   should be prepared to discuss and present corrective actions, and/or recommend closure of
   any critical deficiencies and/or group level significant discrepancies during the CIMB.
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                 13


   2.2.5. CIMB data accuracy verification. IGI will verify accuracy of data submitted for
   CIMB and request clarification if necessary.
2.3. Wing Gatekeeper Program. The purpose of the Wing Gatekeeper program is to de-
conflict inspections and audits from external agencies with unit activities, and to provide USAFE
situational awareness of significant wing events. All events involving personnel from outside the
wing should be coordinated through the Wing Gatekeeper with the USAFE-AFAFRICA
Gatekeeper, with the exception of Distinguished Visitor visits, these should be coordinated
through Wing Protocol who will provide visibility to the Wing Gatekeeper. All inspections and
assessments should be scheduled and approved through the Wing Gatekeeper and will be utilized
to de-conflict events and visits in order to minimize impact. Ultimately this program provides
higher headquarters and wing leadership with a means of evaluating the tempo of the wing.
Gatekeeper calendars will also be utilized in the Health of the Wings briefing given quarterly to
the USAFE-AFAFRICA/CC.
   2.3.1. Gatekeeper event reporting. All units, to include tenant units, are responsible for
   reporting relevant data in a timely manner to 100 ARW/IGI by emailing
   100ARW.Gatekeeper@us.af.mil. 100 ARW/Gatekeeper duties will be managed by the
   Director of Inspections and under his or her direction 100 ARW/IGI will compile and report
   all Gatekeeper events for RAF Mildenhall.
   2.3.2. Reportable visits consist of inspections, assessments, DV visits, or audits from an
   outside agency not requested by unit commanders. These visits must be reported to 100
   ARW/IGI with all pertinent information on the event, to include: dates of visit, purpose of
   the visit, the official name of the visit, number of visitors and their names, unit(s) being
   visited, local POC for the visit (name, office symbol, DSN, and email address) and visiting
   agency OPR.
   2.3.3. DV notification to Gatekeeper. DVs will still schedule visits to RAF Mildenhall by
   contacting 100 ARW/CP and 100 ARW/CCS. Upon notification of a potential visit by a DV,
   each office will forward applicable information to the 100 ARW/Gatekeeper inbox at
   100arw.gatekeeper@us.af.mil .
   2.3.4. Gatekeeper request disposition. Once a Gatekeeper request is received by the 100
   ARW/Gatekeeper, they will route the request via E-SSS to the affected Squadron and
   Group/CCs for approval. After getting concurrence from the Group, the Gatekeeper will then
   forward the visit request to the 100 ARW/CC for final approval. This will normally be
   accomplished at the bi-weekly expanded calendar meeting unless urgency dictates otherwise.
   Once approved, the request will then be added to the USAFE-AFAFRICA Gatekeeper
   SharePoint site https://cs1.eis.af.mil/sites/AFGP/usafe/100arw/default.aspx for situational
   awareness.
   2.3.5. Inspection synchronization. As part of the CCIP, all wing programs and units must
   synchronize and/or integrate wherever possible, their inspection schedule with 100 ARW/IGI
   unit inspections to maximize “white-space” for units.
       2.3.5.1. IAW AFI 90-201, Ensure all inspection-type visits are approved by the
       Gatekeeper. These include all visits to assess, audit, certify, accredit or evaluate a unit.
       Additional visits such as Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs) must be expressly requested by
       the unit commander and coordinated through the Gatekeeper.
 14                                                MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


2.4. Wing Inspection Team. The WIT will consist of a sufficient number of subject matter
experts to conduct CCIP inspections under the authority of the Wing Commander and the
direction of the Director of Inspections. The purpose of the WIT is to provide a pool of
inspectors large enough and with the necessary skills and knowledge to assist in the design and
assessment of inspections within the wing. The WIT will be assigned to an inspection by the
Chief of Inspections (Unit and Program Inspections) or Chief of Exercises (Inspected Exercises)
with assistance from the WIT manager.
   2.4.1. WIT participation frequency. The WIT will participate in unit compliance inspections
   and wing readiness inspections as needed by the 100 ARW/IGI. The requirements levied on
   individual WIT members will vary based on the number WIT available with similar skillsets
   and knowledge.
   2.4.2. WIT Composition. The WIT will include unit operational SMEs referred to as Unit
   Operations WIT and Wing-program SMEs referred to as Common Core WIT. These
   divisions are only made to ease tracking of WIT qualified to inspect key programs. It is
   possible for an individual WIT member to fit into both categories. WIT may be used in any
   capacity for which they are qualified and needed.
       2.4.2.1. Unit Operations WIT. A cadre of WIT qualified to inspect within their primary
       field of operational expertise corollary to their assigned duties.
       2.4.2.2. Common Core WIT. A cadre of WIT with responsibility for and/or knowledge
       of common unit functions. These Common Core functions are defined by the Director of
       Inspections     and     will      be    listed on    the   IGI     sharepoint     site.
       https://sp2007.ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/100ARW/100DS/100IGI/unitinspections/default.aspx
   2.4.3. WIT Certification and appointment. Certification and appointment occurs when the
   member meets the training requirements, is appointed in Appointment Central and is
   administered the IG Oath.
   2.4.4. WIT Training. Training and certification is met when the member completes the
   Local Basic Inspector’s Course (BIC) or the USAFE BIC. Additional local training
   requirements may be enacted by the Director of Inspections via a written memorandum.
   2.4.5. Core function SMEs. Depending on the core functions a unit performs, a call for wing
   core function SMEs will be made if appropriate expertise is not available within the current
   WIT. These SMEs will assist in conducting an inspection of the unit from their respective
   core function area. These personnel will also be required to receive the WIT training and
   certification. Results from the SME findings will be added to the unit inspection report.
2.5. CCIP Member Awards. The 100 ARW/IGI will select yearly award winners to recognize
those WIT members/teams which have contributed outstanding service to the CCIP. The awards
are Inspector of the Year and Inspection Team of the year. 100 ARW/IGI will consider
nominees by reviewing inspections conducted and overall results and contribution to the 100
ARW CCIP. The candidate or team names will be forwarded to the 100 ARW/IG and
subsequently, the 100 ARW/CC for approval and certificate signature.
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                  15


                                            Chapter 3

                            UNIT AND PROGRAM INSPECTION

3.1. Unit and Program Inspections (UPI) methodology. Units will receive a UPI at least once per
UEI cycle, and at least once per Commander’s tenure. Wing programs and Wing Staff Agencies will
receive inspections IAW AFI 90-201 requirements (where applicable) and 100 ARW/CC guidance.
The purpose of these inspections is to validate the CCIP for accuracy and adequacy, provide the unit
commander, WSA directors and Chiefs, and program POCs an outside assessment of performance;
and to provide the 100 ARW/CC an independent assessment of the entity’s resource management,
leadership, process improvement efforts, and ability to execute the mission. Members from IGI and
the WIT will conduct the inspections.
   3.1.1. UEI Major Graded Areas (MGAs). Units will be graded upon the 4 UEI MGAs:
   Managing Resources, Leading People, Improving the Unit, and Executing the Mission. Wing
   programs will be graded on a In Compliance/Complies with comments/Not In Compliance
   grading scheme.
   3.1.2. Unit Self-Assessment Programs will be validated during inspections. The unit will
   receive a sub-MGA grade for SAP guidance and utilization under the MGA of improving the
   Unit. At a minimum the inspection team will review the status of the unit’s SAP and verify the
   answers provided in MICT against the current processes of the unit. The intent is to ensure the
   SAP matches the current unit status.
       3.1.2.1. Self identified items will be reported during unit inspections in IGEMS with the
       notation “SELF IDENTIFIED”. These deficiencies are included for commander awareness.
       Ratings will be positively influenced if the unit accurately identifies and reports the issue
       through the Self-Assessment Program—even more so if it is apparent the unit does this on a
       regular basis as part of their daily battle rhythm.
       3.1.2.2. Items not identified correctly in MICT will include the notations to indicate the
       issue. These notations will be “IDENTIFIED AS COMPLIANT IN MICT” or “IDENTIFIED
       AS N/A IN MICT”.
       3.1.2.3. MICT deficiencies that are corrected in practice but not updated in MICT within the
       allotted time will be written as their own discrepancy stating SAP reporting is non-compliant
       for the item but with a note “COMPLIANT PROCESS”.
   3.1.3. Commander’s inspection design input. Prior to the inspection, the 100 ARW/IG or
   designated representative will schedule meetings with the unit commander or program POC to
   discuss the areas that will be inspected and answer questions. Additional meetings will be
   scheduled with the appropriate group commander and/or vice commander to gather additional
   areas of concern or interest for the inspection.
   3.1.4. WIT assembly. Prior to the start of the inspection, the designated Team Chief for the
   inspection will assemble the assigned WIT and additional subject matter experts to review the
   inspection areas and schedule. At the end of this meeting, the 100 ARW/CV or IG will
   administer the oath to all inspectors.
   3.1.5. Inspection in-brief. On the first day of the inspection, typically, the Team Chief, 100
   ARW/IG and Director of Inspections will meet with the unit commander or program POC and
 16                                                   MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


   provide an in-brief of the inspection. The briefing will cover the expected duration of the
   inspection, areas to inspect, and rules of engagement.
   3.1.6. Daily inspection documentation. Every day of the inspection, the Team Chief will
   communicate with all team inspectors to discuss findings and write observations into IGEMS.
   The Team Chief will draft an email to the Inspector General listing the major events and findings
   of that day and the major events taking place the next day.
   3.1.7. Daily commander’s update. Upon agreement with the unit commander, agency
   director/chief, or program POC; the IG and/or Director of Inspections and/or Inspection Team
   Chief will present a review of major observations for awareness.
   3.1.8. Report generation and findings rebuttal. Upon the end of inspection activities after
   findings have been validated by the inspection team, the Team Chief will ensure a report of
   findings is drafted through IGEMS and made available to the respective squadron commander or
   Wing program POC. The recipient will then have an appropriate amount of time (normally one
   full duty day) to provide rebuttal documentation if they disagree with the findings for the IG to
   consider before finalizing the report. Submitting rebuttal information does not guarantee a change
   in finding in the report. If additional time is needed it may be requested by the unit commander
   or program POC. No submission of the rebuttal signifies approval with the report as written.
   3.1.9. Final report routing. Once finalized, the report will be presented to the appropriate unit
   commander/program POC, group commander and/or Vice Wing Commander. A follow on
   presentation will be provided to the 100 ARW/CC if requested.
3.2. Unit and Program Inspection Lifecycle. A typical unit/wing program inspection will have the
milestones depicted in Table 3.1 below. All dates are approximate and may vary depending on
schedules, availability, and specific inspection requirements.

Table 3.1. Unit and Program Inspection Lifecycle (Notional)
      Date
                               Meeting with squadron commander/program POC to go over Major
      14 days prior            Graded Areas and core functions. WIT and core function SMEs are
                               selected.

      7 days prior             Meeting with group commander to go over inspection areas.

      5 days prior             Meeting with 100 ARW/CV to go over inspection areas.

                               WIT meeting to discuss inspection methodology/schedule. 100
      1 day prior
                               ARW/CV conducts swear-in of WIT/IG members.
      Monday – Friday
                               Commander/program POC in-brief and inspection execution.
      (typical schedule)
      1-5 days after           Draft report in IGEMS. Rebuttal period begins with draft finding
      inspection               summary delivery to CC/program POC
      5 days after             Draft report completed. Rebuttal period ends. Inspection out-brief with
      inspection               squadron commander/wing program POC.
      9 days after
                               Inspection out-brief with group commander.
      inspection
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                              17


    10 days after
                              Final report/Inspection out-brief with 100 ARW/CC and CV.
    inspection

3.3. The Inspection Team Chief will:
   3.3.1. Assemble a team consisting of a sufficient number knowledgeable WIT and/or subject
   matter experts (SME) within the wing to conduct CCIP inspections under the authority of the
   Wing Commander and under the direction of the CCIP Director.
      3.3.1.1. Assign common core function WIT members and SMEs as needed for unit and
      program inspections.
      3.3.1.2. Assign WIT members and SMEs with unit mission and operational knowledge
      as needed for unit and program inspections.
   3.3.2. Coordinate with the unit prior to the inspection to gather recent reports from HHQ
   inspections, Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs), management boards, external audits,
   SORTS/ARTS/DRRS data, and finally MICT Checklists.
   3.3.3. Oversee and lead a pre-brief with WIT inspectors and assign inspection duties.
   3.3.4. Conduct an in-brief with the unit commander prior to commencing scheduled
   inspections for commander’s recommended focus areas and receive any WG/CC focus areas
   from the CCIP Director.
   3.3.5. Gather data from WIT inspection members and draft an inspection report for the CCIP
   Directors review and signature.
   3.3.6. Provide a draft report to the squadron commander, WSA director or Chief, or wing
   program POC normally within 5 duty days of the last day of the inspection. The unit
   commander or wing POC will have an appropriate amount of time (normally one full duty
   day) to provide a rebuttal for any discrepancies found in the draft report.
3.4. WIT Members conducting program and unit inspections will:
   3.4.1. Provide an unbiased assessment of organizations they have been selected to evaluate.
   3.4.2. Conduct unit and program inspections verifying self-inspection checklists in MICT
   and directives compliance under the direction of the Inspection Team Chief.
   3.4.3. Hold Airmen to IG Sessions (ATIS) interviews with Airmen in individual and group
   sessions in order to give the wing commander an assessment of the four MGAs under the
   guidance of the Inspection Team Chief.
   3.4.4. Compile data and ensure inputs are added to the final inspection report.
 18                                                  MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


                                           Chapter 4

                   WING OPERATIONAL READINESS INSPECTION

4.1. Program Overview. The Wing Operational Readiness Inspection (WORI) program is used
by the Wing Commander to assess the installation’s ability to perform its in-garrison and
expeditionary missions. The installation must be able to rapidly respond to identified local
threats, major accidents, natural disasters, and other contingencies. The wing must be able to
employ forces in accordance with the published DOC statement, Mission Essential Task List
(METLs) and other requirements as directed by HHQ.
   4.1.1. Exercise types. In order to ensure unit readiness, various inspected exercises will be
   employed.
       4.1.1.1. Mission Assurance Exercises (MAEx). A MAEx is a multi-unit, compound
       focus exercise intended to evaluate mission readiness using a realistic scenario approach.
       These will typically range in length from 3 to 14 days.
       4.1.1.2. Contingency Readiness Events (CRE). A CRE is a limited scope event, focused
       on evaluating a particular capability, vulnerability, or readiness requirement. These
       events will typically range in length from a few hours to 5 days.
           4.1.1.3. Other Inspected events may include Table Top Exercises (TTX), outside
           agency events (e.g. Defense Logistics Agency [DLA] Fuel Spill Exercise), real world
           contingencies, and other events as appropriate.
4.2. Exercise Roles and Concepts. Exercises success is dependent on exquisite preparation and
control being exercised by certain key personnel. The primary roles and responsibilities of these
personnel are summarized below along with key exercise concepts.
   4.2.1. Exercise Director. The Exercise Director has overall responsibility for all facets of the
   development and execution of the exercise and is focused on the strategic development of the
   exercise MSELs to ensure the exercise objectives are being met. Any necessary unplanned
   injects or significant adjustments to the exercise during execution must be approved by the
   Exercise Director or designated representative. Upon coordination with the Commander or
   competent authority, the Exercise Director has the authority to direct STARTEX, PAUSEX,
   and ENDEX. The Exercise Director will function as the WHITECELL Team Chief (Lead
   Controller) unless he or she delegates this duty. The Exercise Director and WHITECELL
   together make up Exercise Control (EXCON).
       4.2.1.1. The Exercise Director will ensure a line-item walk-through of the MSEL with
       WIT team chiefs is accomplished before the inspection. The MSEL will include all
       inspection inputs, in chronological order. As a minimum, each line item will include the
       event, objective, WIT member(s) responsible for initiating and monitoring the event, and
       any other data to aid IGI in synchronizing inspection inputs.
   4.2.2. WHITECELL Team Chief. A WHITECELL Team Chief may be designated if
   deemed necessary by the Exercise Director. The Team Chief’s primary duties are to act as
   the Lead Controller and to develop WHITECELL manning, develop daily shift changes,
   ensure tracking of observations, and maintain accountability of inspector vests and radios to
   lighten the workload on the Exercise Director. The WHITECELL Team Chief will ensure
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                               19


  key WIT members are coordinating for 24 hour position coverage when necessary.
  WHITECELL member duty hours will not normally exceed a 12 hour period and in no case
  will they exceed 16 hours. The Team Chief operates at the tactical level to ensure the
  exercise meets all designed objectives.
  4.2.3. WHITECELL. WHITECELL functions as the focal point for exercise control.
  WHITECELL will act as the C2 node for the Exercise Director and will be the key
  coordination point for any last minute changes or inputs. WHITECELL may also be known
  as Exercise Control (EXCON) when including the Exercise Director. WHITECELL will
  assume the Response Cell duties for any outside-the-wing function not specifically assigned
  to a separate RC by the Exercise Director.
  4.2.4. Response Cell. A Response Cell (RC) is a work-center that has the responsibility to
  recreate a function or multiple functions outside the Wing. This may include functions of
  HHQ above the Wing, partner or host nation agencies, or subordinate agencies when
  availability precludes their participation. RCs may be called upon to answer RFIs, provide
  guidance, disseminate information, or action MSEL injects. Often within 100 ARW
  inspected exercises the scope of the exercise will neither support nor require RCs, in which
  case the Exercise Director can task WHITECELL with these responsibilities.
  4.2.5. Controllers. Controllers are WIT inspectors acting in a scenario controller capacity
  and are required for all exercise scenarios during the execution and inspection phase. They
  are typically the SMEs with the best working knowledge of the event in question. Their
  primary role is to ensure proper exercise development and to prevent any safety related
  incidents. At the minimum a lead controller will be designated by the Exercise Director for
  each exercise event. This lead controller has responsibility for coordinating controller and
  inspector actions at the event, coordinating ad-hoc injects and providing clarifications if
  necessary, and ensuring objectives are being met and observations are documented. WIT
  controllers have responsibility for on-scene safety during exercise events, and if a safety
  related issue occurs they will immediately resolve and notify WHITECELL. 100 ARW/SE
  will be consulted to ensure proper risk management measures are taken during planning and
  execution of events. During large-scale scenarios multiple designated controllers and
  inspectors may be necessary to ensure proper player response/exercise development. The
  Exercise Director will be the final authority as to the number and scale of events. WIT
  Controller duty hours will not normally exceed a 12 hour period and in no case will they
  exceed 16 hours. It is each controller’s responsibility to coordinate manning to prevent
  exceeding these duty hours and they will notify WHITECELL if unable to manage and de-
  conflict appropriate WIT support at their level.
  4.2.6. Inspectors. The WIT inspectors’ primary duties are to inspect individual events and
  watch for safety related issues. They will focus on identifying observations and timeline
  reconstruction. If a safety related issue occurs they will immediately stop the event and relay
  the issue to WHITECELL for notification. During large-scale scenarios multiple designated
  inspectors may be necessary to ensure proper tracking of observations and timeline
  reconstruction. The Exercise Director will be the final authority as to the number and scale
  of events. WIT Inspector duty hours will not normally exceed a 12 hour period and in no
  case will they exceed 16 hours. It is each inspector’s responsibility to coordinate manning to
  prevent exceeding these duty hours and they will notify WHITECELL if unable to manage
  and de-conflict appropriate WIT support at their level.
 20                                                 MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


   4.2.7. Opposition Forces (OPFOR). Opposing forces will be utilized when necessary for
   scenario development to provide an active, thinking challenge for the assets being assessed.
   They will be designated and controlled by the Exercise Director or designated representative.
   They are considered trusted agents and will be allowed access to the MSEL.
   4.2.8. Exercise Special Instructions (SPINS). SPINS will be designed on an individual basis
   as deemed necessary by the Exercise Director. SPINS will include at a minimum:
      4.2.8.1. Exercise specific Simulations/Deviations/Limitations.
      4.2.8.2. Exercise control and response cell communication procedures.
      4.2.8.3. Safety instructions.
      4.2.8.4. Exercise recall roster.
   4.2.9. Simulations/Deviations and Limitations. Simulations and Deviations (SIMDEVS) are
   actions, capabilities, or responses that will be simulated or assumed due to operational issues
   such as cost, unit operational tempo, or Operational Risk Management (ORM). Limitations
   are constraints put on exercise design due to a lack of wing capability or capacity.
      4.2.9.1. Duty hours will not normally exceed a 12 hour period and in no case will they
      exceed 16 hours for all participants.
      4.2.9.2. A memorandum listing known wing limitations and SIMDEVs is maintained by
      the Chief of Exercises and updated and approved annually by the 100 ARW/CC. A copy
      can     be    found     at     the  100   ARW/IGI      readiness    sharepoint page
      https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/100ARW/100DS/100IGI/EXPS/default.aspx .
      4.2.9.3. Limitations and SIMDEVs specific to a particular exercise and not covered in
      the annual memorandum will be addressed in the exercise SPINS.
   4.2.10. Master Scenario Events List (MSEL). The MSEL is a choreographed list of events
   chosen to drive responses during the exercise to allow evaluation of performance. Each
   event should be fully planned from initial inject to natural conclusion to include branches for
   possible alternate decisions and actions. The MSEL contains sensitive information that if
   advertised might skew players’ responses and as such is a controlled document. Only the
   Exercise Director, Chief of Exercises, or Director of Inspections can authorize release of the
   MSEL.
4.3. Exercise Lifecycle. Each inspected exercise requires planning and coordination
between100 ARW/IGI, WIT, and other agencies prior to, during, and after the exercise. Each
exercise will consist of three phases: Design & Development, Execution and Inspection, and
Documentation phase. Active management and coordination during all phases is the key to a
successful exercise.
   4.3.1. Design & Development Phase. The planning phase of the exercise consists of several
   planning conferences hosted by 100 ARW/IGI. Meetings are attended by WIT members and
   other trusted agents, as required. Meetings may include the Initial Planning Conference,
   Mid-term Planning Conference, Master Scenario Event Listing (MSEL) Conferences, and a
   Final Planning Conference for each major exercise. Members who actively contribute to the
   development and planning of each exercise are called the Exercise Planning Team (EPT).
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                 21


   4.3.2. Execution & Inspection Phase. During this phase, the exercise and the inspection
   occur simultaneously. Assigned unit WIT members should separate inspection duty from
   exercise control duty to enable smoother delivery of injects and a more focused assessment.
   Constant communication is key to the overall success of each inject and of the exercise as a
   whole. In order to facilitate continuous communication between WITs, IGI, and exercise
   players, a WHITECELL will be established at as directed by the Director of Inspections or as
   delegated. In addition, daily shift change meetings will be conducted as necessary to ensure
   communication between exercise controllers, and inspectors in order to manage exercise
   injects.
   4.3.3. Documentation Phase. The Documentation Phase of the exercise occurs after ENDEX
   and requires each WIT member to formally annotate all observations on the 100 ARW/IGI
   SharePoint     page     located       at     https://sp2007.ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/100ARW/100DS/
   100IGI/EXPS/default.aspx?PageView=Shared. All WIT observations will be submitted at the
   end of each inspection day with all final observations provided to IGI within two hours of
   ENDEX. Validation of observations may continue after submission. The final observation
   timeline may be adjusted at the discretion of IGI.
       4.3.3.1. After Action Reporting. Observations can be deficiencies (Minor, Significant,
       or Critical), recommended improvement areas (RIA), or strengths. These observations
       will then be consolidated by the Exercise Director into an After Action Report (AAR) for
       the Wing Commander within 30 days of the end of the exercise.
       4.3.3.2. Corrective Action Program. IGEMS will be the central repository for the
       tracking and improvement planning for all coded deficiencies noted in each published
       AAR. IGI will load each deficiency into IGEMS upon publication of every AAR.
       IGEMS tracks the number of days each deficiency is open, repeat write-ups, corrective
       action plans, get-well dates, and OPRs.
4.4. Planning Conference Activities. This section describes the types of planning activities
most useful in exercise design and development. IGI members decide the type and number of
planning activities needed to successfully plan a given exercise, based on its scope and
complexity. At the conclusion of each conference meeting minutes will be produced and
socialized to all attendees and assigned WIT.
   4.4.1. Concept and Objectives Conference. A Concept and Objectives (C&O) Conference is
   the formal beginning of the planning process. It is held to identify the scope and objectives of
   the exercise. For less complex exercises and for organizations with limited resources, the
   C&O Meeting may be conducted in conjunction with the Initial Planning Conference (IPC).
       4.4.1.1. C&O Attendance. IGI, WIT, and SMEs from participating organizations
       typically attend the C&O Conference. At a minimum this will include WIT members
       from INTEL, MANPOWER, The IDRC, OG, MXG, and MSG at a minimum. The C&O
       Conference aids planners in determining the exercise program priorities to be addressed
       based on commander’s intent, design objective priorities, align exercise objectives to core
       capabilities, and identify needed WIT members.
       4.4.1.2. Discussion Points. Topics or issues generally covered during a C&O Conference
       include the following:
          4.4.1.2.1. Exercise scope
22                                                  MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


         4.4.1.2.2. Proposed exercise objectives and their aligned core capabilities
         4.4.1.2.3. Proposed date, and duration
         4.4.1.2.4. Participants and anticipated extent of play for exercise participants
         4.4.1.2.5. Exercise planning team
         4.4.1.2.6. Exercise assumptions and artificialities
         4.4.1.2.7. Exercise control and inspection concepts
         4.4.1.2.8. Exercise security organization and structure
         4.4.1.2.9. Available exercise resources
         4.4.1.2.10. Exercise logistics
         4.4.1.2.11. Exercise planning timeline and milestones
         4.4.1.2.12. Local issues, concerns, and sensitivities
     4.4.1.3. The following outputs are expected from the C&O Conference:
         4.4.1.3.1. Recommended exercise concept (scope, type, mission area[s], exercise
         program priorities to be addressed), exercise objectives, and aligned core capabilities.
         4.4.1.3.2. Recommended exercise timeframe.
         4.4.1.3.3. Anticipated extent of participation.
         4.4.1.3.4. Identification of exercise planning and WIT team members.
         4.4.1.3.5. Exercise planning timeline with milestones, including the date of the next
         planning meeting.
  4.4.2. C&O Commander’s Briefing. The output gained from the C&O Conference will
  become the basis of the C&O Commander’s briefing. This briefing will propose the concept,
  scope, requirements, major objectives, expected cost, and timeline for Commander’s input
  and approval.
  4.4.3. Initial Planning Conference (IPC). The IPC marks the beginning of the exercise
  development phase. Regardless of whether a seperate C&O Conference is held, an IPC
  should be conducted for all exercises. It’s purpose is to determine exercise scope by
  receiving the unit commander’s intent, and gathering input from the exercise planning team.
  It is also to identify exercise design requirements and conditions (e.g., assumptions and
  artificialities), exercise objectives, participant extent of play, and scenario variables (e.g.,
  time, location, hazard selection). The IPC is the first step in the planning process and should
  lay out the foundation for the exercise. A secondary purpose is to get all the key players
  together to collect inputs on the scope of the exercise, start brainstorming large events and
  injects, determine the level of participation, and begin a draft MSEL. The MSEL SharePoint
  site should be created by the Exercise Director prior to the IPC. WIT members will be
  required to input injects during and immediately after the IPC.
     4.4.3.1. Discussion Points. Topics or issues generally covered during an IPC include the
     following:
         4.4.3.1.1. Clearly defined exercise objectives and aligned core capabilities.
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                 23


         4.4.3.1.2. Inspection requirements, including critical tasks.
         4.4.3.1.3. Relevant plans, policies, and procedures to be tested in the exercise.
         4.4.3.1.4. Exercise scenario.
         4.4.3.1.5. Exercise planners’ roles and responsibilities.
         4.4.3.1.6. Any discussion points typically covered during a C&O Meeting if a C&O
         Meeting was not conducted.
         4.4.3.1.7. Consensus regarding the date, time, and location for the next meeting.
     4.4.3.2. IPC output. The IPC should produce:
         4.4.3.2.1. Any outputs listed in the C&O Meeting section above if a C&O Meeting
         was not conducted.
         4.4.3.2.2. Clearly defined exercise objectives and aligned core capabilities.
         4.4.3.2.3. Identified exercise scenario variables (e.g., threat scenario, scope of
         hazard, venue, and conditions).
         4.4.3.2.4. Identification and availability of all source documents (e.g., policies, plans,
         procedures) needed to draft exercise documents and presentations.
         4.4.3.2.5. A refined exercise planning timeline with milestones.
         4.4.3.2.6. Identification and availability of SMEs, as necessary, for scenario vetting
         and/or expert inspection.
         4.4.3.2.7. Clearly identified and assigned responsibility for exercise logistical issues.
         4.4.3.2.8. A list of tasks to be accomplished by the next planning meeting with
         established dates for completion and responsible planning team members identified.
         4.4.3.2.9. An agreed-upon date, time, and location for the next planning meeting and
         the actual exercise.
  4.4.4. Midterm Planning Conference (MPC). The MPC is held to discuss exercise
  organization and staffing concepts, scenario and timeline development, scheduling, logistics,
  and administrative requirements. It is also held to review draft documentation. If only three
  planning conferences are scheduled (i.e., IPC, MPC, and Final Planning Conference [FPC]),
  a portion of the MPC should be devoted to developing the MSEL. Prior to the MPC, the
  exercise team leader will solicit Commanders a second time to provide awareness of the
  planning process, address any questions, and ensure alignment with intent. During this
  conference, there should be discussion of the organization of the exercise and a MSEL
  timeline should be established. Logistics, scheduling, and administrative requirements
  should be the main focus and a deadline should be set for final MSEL inputs.
     4.4.4.1. Discussion Points. Possible topics or issues for an MPC include the following:
         4.4.4.1.1. Construction of the scenario timeline.
         4.4.4.1.2. Identification of exercise venue artificialities and/or limitations.
         4.4.4.1.3. Agreement on final logistical items.
24                                                 MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


         4.4.4.1.4. Assignment of additional responsibilities.
     4.4.4.2. MPC Outputs. The following outcomes are expected from the MPC:
         4.4.4.2.1. A fully reviewed exercise scenario timeline.
         4.4.4.2.2. Well-developed scenario injects (imperative if an additional MSEL
         Planning Meeting is not scheduled).
         4.4.4.2.3. Agreement on the exercise site.
         4.4.4.2.4. Finalization of date, time, and location of the MSEL Planning Meeting
         and/or FPC.
  4.4.5. MSEL conference. For more complex exercises, one or more additional planning
  meetings may be held to review the scenario timeline. If not held separately, topics typically
  covered in a separate MSEL Meeting can be incorporated into the MPC and FPC. The
  MSEL Meeting is a line-by-line review of the entire MSEL. The focus of these meetings is
  to advance detail MSEL planning, de-conflict events, rehearse key components and
  requirements necessary to facilitate each inject, and reduce the possibility of unexpected
  player actions and MSEL outcomes.
     4.4.5.1. Primary Focus. The MSEL Meeting focuses on developing the MSEL. It is a
     chronological list that supplements the exercise scenario with event synopses, expected
     participant responses and objectives. Core capability targets and responsible personnel
     will be identified. It includes specific scenario events (or injects) that prompt players to
     implement the plans, policies, procedures, and protocols that require inspection during
     the exercise. The MSEL also records the methods that will be used to provide injects
     (e.g., phone call, radio, e-mail, and or inject card).
     4.4.5.2. Discussion Points. In developing a MSEL, the exercise planning team should
     first consider the critical tasks, conditions, and standards set forth by each exercise
     objective. A condition is the environment in which a task is performed; it can be provided
     by the scenario or through the MSEL. If scenario conditions do not trigger performance
     of the appropriate critical task, the exercise planning team should develop a MSEL entry
     to simulate the desired situation. A well-written entry addresses the following questions:
         4.4.5.2.1. Is the event key (i.e., is it directly related to meeting an exercise
         objective)?
         4.4.5.2.2. What is the desired critical task? Who will demonstrate the critical task?
         4.4.5.2.3. What will stimulate the behavior (e.g., course of play, phone call, actor, or
         video)?
         4.4.5.2.4. Who originates the stimulant? Who receives it and how?
         4.4.5.2.5. What action is the player expected to complete?
         4.4.5.2.6. Should a contingency entry be developed for injection into the exercise in
         case the players fail to demonstrate the critical task?
     4.4.5.3. Outcomes. At a minimum, key events and the time of their delivery are
     identified and the responsibilities of event construction are assigned to each WIT
     member.
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                   25


   4.4.6. Final Planning Conference (FPC). The FPC is the final forum for reviewing exercise
   processes and procedures. Before and after the FPC, the Exercise Director will engage the
   commander to provide a general overview of the exercise and address any questions.
      4.4.6.1. Primary focus. A FPC should be conducted for all exercises to ensure all
      elements of the exercise are ready for execution. Prior to the FPC, the exercise planning
      team receives final drafts of all exercise materials. The FPC ensures that all logistic
      requirements have been met and outstanding issues have been resolved. The FPC is the
      last opportunity for the planning team to review the process and procedures for the
      exercise. There should not be any major changes made at this time, unless directed by
      the Wing Commander. WIT members will receive their red inspector vests at this
      meeting and will be expected to turn them back in upon completion of their inspector
      duties. Hand receipts will be used to account for WIT Vests.
      4.4.6.2. Discussion Points. The following items are addressed during the FPC:
          4.4.6.2.1. Resolve any open exercise planning issues and identify last-minute
          concerns
          4.4.6.2.2. Review all exercise logistic activities (e.g., schedule, control elements)
      4.4.6.3. Outcomes. The FPC should not generate any significant changes. The following
      outcomes are expected:
          4.4.6.3.1. Exercise documents and materials for production are approved
          4.4.6.3.2. Attendees understand and approve exercise processes and procedures
          4.4.6.3.3. Last-minute issues are identified and resolved
          4.4.6.3.4. Logistic elements, including equipment, facilities, and schedules are
          confirmed
   4.4.7. Follow-Up. The exercise planning team finalizes all publications, prepares all
   supporting materials and ensures all approved training aids are prepped and ready. Prior to
   the exercise, documentation and any additional instructions should be disseminated to the
   appropriate personnel (e.g., presenters, facilitators, controllers, inspectors, simulators).
4.5. Execution Phase Meetings and Management
   4.5.1. MSEL Synchronization meetings (MSEL SYNCH). MSEL SYNCH meetings will be
   held as deemed necessary by the Exercise Director and/or WHITECELL Team Chief.
   Normally this will happen daily before the major events begin and may incorporate shift
   changes and observation documentation sessions. MSEL Synchs should be attended by
   WHITECELL, OPFOR, and WIT assigned as Controllers and inspectors.
   4.5.2. Shift Change meetings. Shift change meetings will be held as deemed necessary by
   the Exercise Director and/or WHITECELL Team Chief. These meetings should include all
   involved WIT members and a WHITECELL representative to ensure all the final details are
   in place for the next 12 hours as well as discuss observations from the previous 12 hours.
   During these meetings, radios will be distributed via hand receipt to key players for any large
   injects taking place during the next shift and should be turned back in upon completion of
   their inject for redistribution to other key players for future injects.
 26                                                 MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


   4.5.3. Inject Management. Inject management takes constant communication and
   cooperation between all inject controllers, 100 ARW/IGI, and WHITECELL personnel.
   Some injects are internal to a particular squadron and can be controlled by a single controller
   while external injects affect more than one unit. Controllers will follow the MSEL for all
   injects as closely as possible and notify WHITECELL of any changes, delays, or issues.
   External injects entail coordination during the planning phase and they usually act as a driver
   for other injects and require oversight by more than one controller. It is extremely important
   for injects to be initiated at the designated time or upon the designated circumstances in the
   MSEL. Other controllers and inspectors are standing by to initiate succeeding injects in
   direct response to the initial or subsequent injects. All injects will be coordinated through
   WHITECELL prior to initiation.
4.6. Inspected exercise milestones. A typical readiness inspection will have the following
milestones. All dates are approximate and may vary depending on schedules and availability.

Table 4.1. Inspected Exercise Lifecycle (Notional



      Date                    Activity

      540-180 days prior      Concept and Objectives meeting with WIT leads and squadron
                              SMEs.
      120 days prior          Initial planning conference with WIT.

      75 days prior           Concept and Objectives briefing to Commanders.

      60 days prior           Midterm planning conference with WIT.

      30 days prior           Inspection update to Commanders.

      14 days prior           MSEL Finalization conference.

      14 days prior           Inspection update to 100 ARW/CC.
      5 days prior            Final planning conference.
      Exercise Period         Inspection execution.

      1-2 days after          Validation Period

      3 days after            Inspection Hotwash to Commanders.

      20 days after           Draft report finalized and sent to squadron commanders. Rebuttal
                              period begins.
      23 days after           Inspection out-brief to squadron and group commanders. Rebuttal
                              period ends.
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                                        27


   27 days after     Inspection out-brief to 100 ARW/CV.

   30 days after     Inspection out-brief to 100 ARW/CC.




                                  KENNETH T. BIBB, JR, Colonel, USAF
                                  Commander
 28                                              MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI90-20, The Air Force Inspection System, 2 August 2013
Prescribed Forms
N/A
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for change of publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
BIC—Basic Inspector’s Course
CC—Commander
CCIP—Commander’s Inspection Program
CIMB—Commander’s Inspection Management Board
CoR—Chief of Record
CRE—Contingency Readiness Events
CV—Vice Commander
C&O—Concept and Objectives
C2—Command and Control
DOC—Designed Operational Capabilities
DV—Distinguished Visitor
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
E-SSS—Electronic Staff Summery Sheet
EPT—Exercise Planning Team
ENDEX—End exercise
EXCON—Exercise Control
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FPC—Final Planning Conference
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IDRC—Instillation Defense Response Cell
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                        29


IG—Inspector General
IGEMS—Inspector General Evaluation Management System
IGI—Inspector General Inspections
IPC—Initial Planning Conference
LIMFAC—Limiting Factors
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
MAEx—Mission Assurance Exercises
METL—Mission Essential Task List
MGA—Major Graded Area
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MPC—Midterm Planning Conference
MSEL—Master Scenario Event Listing
MSG—Mission Support Group
MXG—Maintenance Group
OG—Operations Group
OPFOR—Opposition Forces
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PAUSEEX—Pause exercise
POC—Point of Contact
RC—Record Custodians or Response Cell
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RFI—Requests for Information
RIA—Recommended Improvement Areas
ROE—Rules of Engagement
SAC—Self Assessment Checklists
SAP—Self-Assessment Program
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SIMDEVs—Simulations and Deviations
SME—Subject Matter Expert
 30                                          MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014


SPINS—Special Instructions
STARTEX—Start Exercise
SYNCH—Synchronization
TTX—Table Top Exercises
UEI—Unit Effectiveness Inspections
WIS—Wing Inspection Schedule
WIT—Wing Inspection Team
WORI—Wing Operational Readiness Inspection
WUPI—Wing Unit and Program Inspection
XP—Plans and Programs
MILDENHALLI90-201 4 AUGUST 2014                            31


                                  Attachment 2
                       LIST OF ROOT CAUSE ANALYSIS TOOLS

Affinity Diagram
Bottleneck Diagram
Brainstorming
Control Charts
Fishbone Diagram
Five Whys
Go and See
Pareto Diagram
Performance Gap Analysis
SWOT Analysis
Testimony
Value Stream Mapping
