BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     MILDENHALL INSTRUCTION 23-301
RAF MILDENHALL                                                                     31 OCTOBER 2006

                                                                                     Civil Engineering

                                                             AIR FORCE ENERGY MANAGEMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 100CES/CEOM                                    Certified by: 100 CES/CC (Scott Hartford, Lt Col)
Supersedes MILDENHALLI 23-301,                                                            Pages: 10
           28 July 2001

This instruction implements AFPD 23-3, Energy Management. It establishes responsibilities and proce-
dures outlining Energy Management policies for RAF Mildenhall. It applies to all assigned, attached or
associated units to the 100 ARW, RAF Mildenhall. It updates the organization for the Energy Manage-
ment Steering Group (EMSG) and Energy Management Working Group (EMWG), Facility Managers,
Base Energy Manager (BEM).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This complete revision updates the organization for the Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG) and
Energy Management Working Group (EMWG), Facility Managers, Base Energy Manager (BEM)


1. Objectives.
   1.1. To provide proper energy management at RAF Mildenhall consistent with Presidential Executive
   Order, DOD Directives, and USAFE guidelines for meeting energy conservation goals, closely related
   environmental compliance requirements, and decreasing operational funds.
   1.2. All organizational commanders, both assigned and tenant are ultimately responsible for meeting
   RAF Mildenhall energy conservation goals and for implementing energy related directives.

2. Organization and Responsibilities.
   2.1. The 100 ARW Commander will be responsible for establishing energy management programs,
   identifying requirements, and executing the program to comply with this instruction. Policy and guid-
   ance for energy conservation program is covered in paragraph 3.1.
   2.2. Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG). The EMSG will be the focal point for
   energy-related matters. The EMSG will be chaired by 100 ARW/CV or designee and consists of the
2                                                        MILDENHALLI23-301 31 OCTOBER 2006


    group commanders and senior representatives of selected squadrons. The EMSG will meet as
    required.
    2.3. Energy Management Working Group (EMWG). Will execute the policies and objectives of the
    EMSG. The EMWG will be chaired by the Base Energy Manager (BEM) and consists of representa-
    tives of primary energy users and concerned parties from the 100 ARW and partner organizations.
    The group will meet quarterly or at the discretion of the BEM.
    2.4. 100th Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (100 CES/CC). Will be responsible for the manage-
    ment of this program for installation facilities.
    2.5. The BEM will be the 100 CES energy manager.
    2.6. 100 CES Chief of Maintenance Engineering (100 CES/CEOM) is responsible for managing and
    evaluating the impact of energy disruptions on the 100 ARW mission and facilities and to take actions
    to eliminate them.
    2.7. 100 LRS/LGRF is responsible for completion of the Fuel Conservation and Consumption Report
    due once per month. This only applies to aviation and ground mobility fuels

3. Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG).
    3.1. The 100 ARW/CV or designee will chair the EMSG. The representatives of the EMSG shall nor-
    mally be comprised of the commanders listed below or their representatives:


     100 OG/CC                       100 SFS/CC                     RAF/CC
     100 MXG/CC                      352 SOG/CC                     100 ARW/PA
     100 MSG/CC                      AAFES                          488 IS/CC
     100 CES/CC                      95 RS/CC
     727 AMS/CC                      100 LRS/CC

    3.2. The BEM will serve as the EMSG secretary.
    3.3. The BEM will prepare the agenda for the EMSG. The meeting agenda is designed to inform the
    installation commander of the status of conservation efforts and the progress being made toward
    established goals. The following issues will be included on the agenda but not be limited to:
       3.3.1. Total energy costs and BTU consumption.
       3.3.2. Progress toward achieving energy goals.
       3.3.3. Reasons for not meeting established goals, if any.
       3.3.4. Status of major ongoing energy-related projects.
       3.3.5. Status of utilities funds and expected energy cost savings.
       3.3.6. Proposed energy projects.
       3.3.7. Recognition of key players and organizations for a job well done.
       3.3.8. Any reports due to higher command levels for the upcoming quarter.
    3.4. The EMSG has the following three primary functions:
MILDENHALLI23-301 31 OCTOBER 2006                                                                           3


      3.4.1. Develop and promote overall base policies to attain the energy-saving goals as mandated by
      the US Air Force and/or higher leadership.
      3.4.2. Be used as a “sounding board” to determine the best methods of conservation and imple-
      mentation for RAF Mildenhall before policy and/or project decisions are made.
      3.4.3. Make suggestions to the chairperson on major policy and budget decisions, while allowing
      the BEM to make minor operational decisions.

4. Energy Management Working Group.
   4.1. The EMWG will implement all matters pertaining to energy conservation as directed by the
   EMSG. The EMWG will only meet as required.
      4.1.1. 100 LRS/LGRF is responsible for all aviation and ground mobility fuels issues.
   4.2. BEM will chair the EMWG and the members will be appointed by the EMSG. Continuity will be
   maintained by the appointment of both a primary and an alternate representative.
   4.3. The members of the EMWG are representatives from:


    100 ARW/PA                      352 SOG                        100 SFS
    100 OG                          95 RS                          100 LRS
    100 MXG                         AAFES
    100 MSG                         100 CES
    727 AMS                         488 IS

   4.4. The responsibilities of the EMWG may include:
      4.4.1. Disseminate, implement, and enforce energy policies within their group.
      4.4.2. Direct, train, and monitor facilities managers on energy conservation at the facility level.
      4.4.3. Keep the group commander informed of energy matters.
      4.4.4. Discuss energy-saving initiatives for approval at the EMSG level.
      4.4.5. Work with the energy manager to improve energy efficiency in their functional areas.
   4.5. The BEM will use the EMWG to expedite the coordination/implementation of programs/ideas/
   policies. The EMWG will provide the energy manager with points of contacts (POCs) within their
   respective organizations.
   4.6. The EMWG will ensure the installation commander’s policies are implemented in the base’s pro-
   cesses where energy savings may be realized, initiate approved projects, and provide recommenda-
   tions to the EMSG as to the best practices for energy conservation.

5. Facility Managers.
   5.1. Facility managers are appointed by each squadron commander and shall be responsible for
   energy conservation duties at the facility level as per the direction of the BEM and/or the EMSG.
4                                                        MILDENHALLI23-301 31 OCTOBER 2006


    5.2. The Facility managers will use the policies and guidelines published by the BEM found in oper-
    ating instructions, policy letters, or directives of the EMSG for managing their respective energy con-
    servation efforts.

6. Base Energy Manager.
    6.1. Energy conservation policy is outlined in AFPD 23-3, Air Force Energy Program Procedural
    Memorandum (AFEPPM) 04-1 Nov 04 (which revised (AFEPPM) 91-1) and other policy statements
    issued by higher headquarters. The BEM will maintain complete files of applicable energy policies,
    regulations, and instructions.
    6.2. The BEM will coordinate and orchestrate the base energy conservation program in a manner such
    that the base adheres to federally mandated energy conservation policy and USAF guidance and direc-
    tives.
    6.3. The BEM will assist commanders, squadrons, associated units, and any other sub-organizations
    on all matters concerning energy conservation and awareness, fuel management, and the use of alter-
    native fuel sources.
    6.4. The BEM will be familiar with and advocate the conservation measures applicable to
    energy-using equipment, devices, buildings, or vehicles assigned to the installation.
    6.5. The BEM will evaluate energy conservation requirements, summarize all energy-related statisti-
    cal data for progress reporting and planning purposes, and initiate energy-awareness programs.
    6.6. The BEM will educate all members of the installation on energy-related issues and initiate
    actions to conserve energy.
    6.7. The BEM will develop energy-saving projects encompassing new construction and renovations
    to existing infrastructure.
    6.8. The BEM will use a project review system to ensure the optimal mixture of energy saving tech-
    nologies is built into new and old facilities.
    6.9. The BEM will look for sources of energy partnering with the energy providers as well as the
    MOD/UK.
    6.10. The BEM, in support of the energy savings program, will be responsible for executing the fol-
    lowing four main categories of program management (Examples are provide for each category but are
    not limited to these examples):
       6.10.1. Planning and Organization: prepare an installation energy plan, review and monitor
       energy-use trends and patterns, and track progress toward meeting DOD energy goals.
       6.10.2. Budgeting and Project Programming: assist in preparing the installation energy budget,
       request funds for energy projects, and calculate avoided energy costs.
       6.10.3. Program Management: implement energy savings in construction projects, establish and
       promote an energy awareness program, and monitor preventive maintenance programs.
       6.10.4. Administrative: prepare Defense Utility Energy Reporting System (DUERS) reports, par-
       ticipate in utilities contract negotiations, and review and evaluate energy suggestions.
MILDENHALLI23-301 31 OCTOBER 2006                                                                        5


7. Guidelines to Approve Installation of Air Conditioning.
   7.1. General Criteria. These are defined in UFC 3-410-01FA 15 May 2003 Design: Heating, Ventilat-
   ing, And Air Conditioning section 4-20. (replaced MIL HDBK 1190 Chapter 10 Section F)
   7.2. RAF Mildenhall does not qualify for air conditioning for ordinary use. Air Conditioning is only
   approved under the conditions stated below even if the requesting unit provides funding.
   7.3. Exceptions to 7.1. Air Conditioning may be installed where:
      7.3.1. Specified as part of an Air Force or Unified Facility Criteria Design Guide for a specific
      type of facility.
      7.3.2. Equipment to be installed and operated must be maintained within certain temperature and
      humidity parameters that will be exceeded in the normal use of the room without air conditioning.
      7.3.3. User-specific guide, Operating Instruction or Technical Order specifies maximum temper-
      ature limits or a humidity range for the room’s function.
      7.3.4. The room has to be secured for classified briefings or training for extended periods.
      7.3.5. The room is totally enclosed and equipment and manning levels cause high temperatures
      that conventional ventilation and ceiling fans cannot reduce to acceptable levels. A design evalua-
      tion will need to be completed before approval will be given.
      7.3.6. For normal office environments: If the facility is within the 75dB contour line on the Air-
      craft Noise Study map for RAF Mildenhall. A copy of the contour map, from the June 1998 Sur-
      vey, is included at Attachment 2.
      7.3.7. For quiet environments: i.e. conference rooms, if the facility is within the 70dB contour line
      on the Aircraft Noise Study map for RAF Mildenhall.

8. Lighting.
   8.1. Interior Lighting:
      8.1.1. Commanders will establish policies within their facilities to ensure personnel turn off lights
      when not in use, especially in unoccupied offices, restrooms, storage rooms, unused offices, infre-
      quently used hallways, etc.
      8.1.2. Facility managers will be responsible for turning off all interior lighting when buildings are
      unoccupied. Exceptions include lighting required by 100 CES, 100 ARW/SE or 100 SFS.
      8.1.3. All Mildenhall personnel are highly encouraged to make use of natural light in their offices
      and facilities.
      8.1.4. For questions on acceptable lighting standards, contact the BEM
   8.2. Exterior Lighting:
      8.2.1. Facility managers are responsible for turning off exterior lights during daylight hours.
      8.2.2. All facility managers should conduct surveys of their facilities to ensure unnecessary lights
      are turned off. Facility managers should contact wing safety and security forces before other appli-
      cable base agencies with any questions or concerns with turning off exterior lighting.
6                                                         MILDENHALLI23-301 31 OCTOBER 2006


    8.3. High Level Hardstand Lighting: Users will turn off all high level hardstand lighting when there
    are no assets on the hardstand. 100 CES will provide training as appropriate.
    8.4. Low Level Hardstand Lighting: Users will turn off all low level hardstand lighting when there are
    no assets on the hardstand. 100 CES will provide training as required.
    8.5. Use of either low or high level lighting, not both, is preferred unless absolutely necessary for
    safety or security reasons.
    8.6. Hangar Lights: Facility managers will turn off interior lights when the hangar is unoccupied.
    8.7. Street Lights: If directed by EMSG, 100 CES will disable up to 25% of base street lights.
    8.8. Sports Field Lighting: 100 SVS will ensure all sports field lighting is turned off when not in use.
    Lighting will only be turned on when absolutely necessary.
    8.9. Dorm Lighting: Dorm residents will turn off lights when rooms are unoccupied. Dorm managers
    will monitor lights and address any issues with the resident(s).

9. Temperature Standards. Unified Facilities Criteria 3-410-01FA, Design: Heating, Ventilating, and
Air Conditioning (HVAC) establishes a maximum temperature setting of 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20
degrees Celsius) for all government buildings in winter and minimum comfort cooling temperature set-
ting of 78 degrees Fahrenheit (25.5 degrees Celsius) in summer.

10. HVAC: Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning systems are primarily the responsibility of 100
CES. Base personnel can give assistance in the area of HVAC problem identification. Base personnel
should monitor environmental conditions and report HVAC systems that are running inefficiently to their
facility manager.

11. Building Management Systems (BMS). BMS controls are connected to a number of HVAC sys-
tems on base. Facility managers will coordinate and advise 100 CES on facility operating hours to ensure
systems are running at optimum energy efficiency.

12. Heating Controls. During mild weather, 100 CES may adjust main boiler plant and individual facil-
ity heating controls to reduce heating oil consumption.

13. Personal Fans. The use of personal fans is encouraged during the summer months as long as proper
thermostat settings are maintained and the benefit of fan usage outweighs the minor increase in electrical
consumption.

14. Air Diffusers. Building occupants will not adjust air diffusers or block them with paper, cardboard,
or other materials. When a diffuser problem occurs, the closure of the diffuser may temporarily solve the
problem. However, it creates a chain reaction that results in an unbalanced air system. The unbalanced air
system will require the system to run longer at a heavier load substantially increasing the energy usage.
Occupants should notify the facility/dormitory manager to solve any problems with air diffusers.

15. Space Heaters.
    15.1. The use of space heaters is prohibited due to high energy usage. The use of space heaters will
    only be approved for the following reasons:
MILDENHALLI23-301 31 OCTOBER 2006                                                                        7


       15.1.1. No other heating equipment is available.
       15.1.2. Existing heating equipment failure not maintaining the designed room temperature for a
       period of 4 hrs or more.
   15.2. Submit requests for space heaters to the facility/dormitory manager. If they concur with the
   space heater request, they will consult the BEM for approval prior to submitting an AF Form 332,
   Civil Engineer Work Request. If approved for use, the space heaters will be UL listed and have
   anti-tipping mechanisms.

16. Radiators. Facility managers will ensure radiators with thermostatic controls are set to setting 3 or
less.

17. Portable/Window Unit Air Conditioning Units.
   17.1. The use of portable/window unit air conditioners is strictly prohibited due to high energy costs,
   unless criteria below are met. The use portable/window unit air conditioning will only be approved for
   the following reasons.
       17.1.1. No other air conditioning is available and the facility is authorized air conditioning.
       17.1.2. Existing air conditioning equipment failure with a requirement to maintain the designed
       temperature.
   17.2. Submit requests for portable/window unit air conditioning to the Facility Manager. If they con-
   cur with the request, they will consult the BEM for approval prior to submitting an AF Form 332,
   Civil Engineer Work Request.

18. Mild Weather Season. During fall and spring, 100 CES will monitor temperatures and turn the
HVAC systems off or on according to the guidelines stated in paragraphs 19. and 20.

19. Fall. During late September and October, 100 CES will monitor weather conditions and activate
heating systems after three consecutive days where the average mean temperature is below 55 degrees
Fahrenheit or if the daily high only reaches 45 degrees Fahrenheit based on historical weather data. The
target date for 100 CES to have all heating systems activated regardless of the weather conditions is 1
November.

20. Spring. During late April and May, 100 CES will monitor weather conditions and turn off heating
systems after three consecutive days where the average mean temperature is above 55 degrees Fahrenheit.

21. Mild Weather Heat/Cool Policy and Quality of Life.
   21.1. Unit commanders will encourage personnel to dress appropriately during periods when indoor
   temperatures may be cool or warm.
   21.2. Building/Dormitory managers will maximize the use of outside air in lieu of air conditioning
   and heating. Building/Dormitory managers will implement this policy and will have personnel in their
   building open windows/doors and use fans to keep the facility comfortable.
   21.3. Building/Dormitory managers will ensure personnel are not opening windows and doors in the
   winter when the heat is running to cool the facility. If necessary, Building/Dormitory managers can
8                                                       MILDENHALLI23-301 31 OCTOBER 2006


    call the CE customer service desk and request for the HVAC shop to adjust the temperature of the
    heater or investigate if the system is off balance.

22. Office Equipment.
    22.1. Desktop Computers: Personnel will shut down all programs and log off of their computers at the
    end of the duty day. USAFE requires computers to remain powered on for maintenance and network
    security upgrades. The 100 CS will remotely configure networked computers to enter standby
    power-saving mode after 45 minutes of inactivity.
    22.2. Computer Monitors/Speakers: Personnel will turn-off all computer monitors and speakers at the
    end of the duty day.
    22.3. Do not use personal screen savers because some screen savers actually waste more energy. For
    computer security, use the default Windows “screen saver option” to lock the computer from use.
    22.4. 100 CS will remotely configure networked computers to shut off monitors automatically after
    ten minutes of inactivity and to enter standby power-saving mode after 45 minutes of inactivity. Team
    Mildenhall personnel are prohibited from adjusting power option properties. Contact your workgroup
    manager with any questions.
    22.5. Copy Machines and Printers: Facility managers will ensure copy machines and printers are
    turned off at the end of the duty day.

23. Energy Policy Exemptions.
    23.1. The Base Civil Engineer will approve/disapprove all energy policy exemptions. Organizations
    must provide documentation supporting waiver requests (AFI, Operating Instructions, Technical
    Specifications, etc.).
    23.2. Components of the energy policy mandated by law or Air Force Instruction cannot be waived.
    23.3. Requestors will route exemption requests through their facility/dormitory manager and com-
    mander to the base energy manager. Please note paragraph 9. requirements prior to submitting
    requests for temperature exemptions.
    23.4. Exemptions are typically limited to lighting levels and temperature standards. Permanent
    exemptions may be granted for some facilities.

24. Additional Energy Conservation Measures. 100 CES will continue to explore new energy conser-
vation measures.



                                               MICHAEL S. STOUGH, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
MILDENHALLI23-301 31 OCTOBER 2006                                               9


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 23-3, Energy Management
AFEPPM 04-1 Nov 04 Air Force Energy Management Plan
UFC 3-410-01FA 15 MAY 2003 Design: Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning
MIL HDBK 1190

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
BEM—Base Energy Manager
BTU—British Thermal Unit
DECA—Defense Commissary Agency
DOD—Department of Defense
DUERS—Defense Utility Energy Reporting System
EMSG—Energy Management Steering Group
EMWG—Energy Management Working Group
MOD—Ministry of Defence
10                         MILDENHALLI23-301 31 OCTOBER 2006


                  Attachment 2

     NOISE CONTOUR MAP FOR RAF MILDENHALL
