BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               MINOT AFB INSTRUCTION 21-120
MINOT AFB
                                                                          23 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                 Maintenance

                                                      AEROSPACE GROUND EQUIPMENT
                                                          DISPATCHING, POSITIONING,
                                                       MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 5 MXS/MXMG                                                       Certified by: 5 MXG/CC
                                                                    (Colonel Patrick E. Butler)
Supersedes:   MINOTAFBI21-120, 27 May                                                  Pages: 6
              2008


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. It
augments the procedures outlined in AFI 21–101, Maintenance Management of Aircraft and
establishes procedures for dispatching, operating, servicing, positioning, and maintaining
Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) assigned to the 5th Bomb Wing. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route the AF IMT 847
from the field through the Base Publishing Manager. Maintain records created as a result of
published processes IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of records
IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), available from the Air Force Portal at the AF
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) link. Contact supporting records
managers as required. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised. Each section and paragraph has been updated with new
information from the previous edition.
1. References: AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, AFI 91-203,
Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety instruction, AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, and T.O. 00-20 series.
2. 5th Maintenance Squadron AGE Flight Responsibilities.
2                                                     MINOTAFBI21-120 23 OCTOBER 2013


    2.1. The AGE Flight is responsible for the inspection, servicing, repair, pickup, and delivery
    of all assigned powered AGE. The Trailer Maintenance section is responsible for the
    inspection and repair of both electric bomblifts and MHU-196/M munitions trailers. All AGE
    Flight personnel will dispatch and manage equipment as directed by this instruction.
    2.2. Drivers will exercise additional caution under poor driving conditions while towing any
    equipment, especially while entering and exiting buildings.
    2.3. Drivers will not tow more than three small AGE units, such as New Generation heaters
    or       FL-1D        light      carts       in      tandem,       per      pintle       hook.
    AGEtowvehicleswithmultiplepintlehooksmaytowunitsintandemoneachside.Whentowingasing
    leunitorunitsinsingletandem,theywillbehookedtothecenterpintlehook.Exception: towing of a
    single unit on a side pintle hook is only permissible within the same aircraft parking area on
    the flight line and is the result of dispatch or pickup of multiple AGE units to or from
    different                                                                            locations.
    Thisistoexpeditedeliveryorremovalofequipment.Example:Apowercartisrequestedonaircraftpa
    rkingspotB-6andanairsourceisrequestedonspotB-15.OncethepowerunitisdroppedoffatB-
    6,theairsourcewillnotneedtoberepositionedtothecenterpintlehookfordeliverytoB15.
    2.4. Drivers will use a spotter when towing AGE within 15 feet of any aircraft or weapons
    storage structure.
    2.5. Drivers will check all units to ensure that cables, ducts, and hoses are disconnected and
    properly stored prior to moving and that the unit is free of FOD. AGE drivers will also
    ensure all pintle hooks on vehicle and equipment are closed and pinned prior to moving
    AGE.
    2.6. The AGE Flight will prepare all powered and non-powered AGE for air and surface
    transport in accordance with applicable directives.
    2.7. AGE
    willdeliverheatersonlywhentemperaturesfallbelow45degreesFahrenheit,includingequivalentw
    indchilltemperaturefactor.
    2.8. Requests for AGE originating outside the 5th Maintenance Group must be submitted to
    the 5th Maintenance Group Commander for approval as listed in paragraph 3.11. If the
    request is approved, AGE personnel will ensure that the designated operators are properly
    trained on the equipment and an AF Form 1297 or equivalent will be used to sign out the
    equipment. The equipment will be serviced as required.
    2.9. If the AGE Flight identifies a unit requiring maintenance and the user still has a need for
    the equipment, a replacement unit will be issued in exchange for the due-in equipment.
    2.10. AGE
    willnotacceptequipmentthathasbeenabused,misused,orhasitemsmissingsuchasductsorhoses.If
    a problem is discovered on the equipment, the driver will notify AGE Flight supervision who
    will notify 5th Maintenance Squadron Maintenance supervision. The equipment will be
    moved after supervision is satisfied with the investigation.
    2.11. At temperatures of 20 degrees Fahrenheit or below, AGE may be dispatched with the
    engine running at the lowest possible speed. If no one is present at the time of delivery, the
MINOTAFBI21-120 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 3


   unit will be shutdown IAW AFI 91-230, Para 24.15.4.            This will increase equipment
   reliability and prevent “cold soaking” of the equipment.
3. General User Responsibilities
   3.1. For any damage noticed by the user already not documented in the AFTO Form 244, the
   user will immediately discontinue use of the equipment and contact 5 MXG Maintenance
   Operation Control Center.
   3.2. Users not assigned to the AGE Flight will back AGE by hand (not vehicles) at all times.
   3.3. Using organizations requiring special adapters will furnish, inspect, install, account for
   and remove them when required.
   3.4. All users of AGE will ensure that equipment is called in immediately when no longer
   required and that units are properly prepared for pickup (cables, ducts, and/or hoses stored
   for transport and all FOD removed). AGE drivers will not pickup any equipment that is not
   properly prepared for transport.
   3.5. Using organizations will provide fire guards as required. Most units are not designed to
   be left unattended while running. Light carts are an exception.
   3.6. Users will not leave AGE unattended within 100 feet of a licensed/site location
   containing explosives.
   3.7. When the user tows an MA-3D air conditioner with other than AGE tow vehicles, the
   vehicle will remain in the lowest gear available due to the weight of the equipment.
   3.8. Users will ensure brakes are engaged on portable fuel bowsers prior to connecting or
   disconnecting tow bar to tow vehicle. Operators must pay particular attention to location of
   brake handle or chocks (located on rear of unit, opposite end of tow bar).
   3.9. Users will ensure the brakes are engaged before disconnecting AGE from a tow vehicle
   when the equipment is parked on an uneven surface. This prevents the equipment from
   rolling when the towbar is disconnected.
   3.10. At temperatures of 20 degrees Fahrenheit or below, maximum effort will be made to
   store all AGE equipment inside heated facilities when not in use. In order to prevent “cold
   soaking” of the equipment, expeditors will make their requests so that the equipment will be
   used within an hour after dispatch.
   3.11. RequestsforAGEoriginatingoutsidethe5thMaintenanceGroupmustbesubmittedtothe5th
   MaintenanceGroupCommanderforapproval.A formal request sheet is at attachment two, and
   will be routed describing the requirement for use, personnel operating the equipment and
   length of time needed. If the requirement is to temporarily assist in a Civil Engineering
   problem, the work order number will be included. Ground heaters assigned to the 91st
   Missile Wing are exempt from this formal request process when being used for missile field
   support.
4. Flight Line Specific User Responsibilities.
   4.1. Only flight line expediters and production supervisors are authorized to request AGE via
   radio or phone. Specialists must request AGE through their expediters or production
   supervisors to ensure proper control and prioritization of the AGE delivered to them. The
4                                                    MINOTAFBI21-120 23 OCTOBER 2013


    requester must ensure that delivery priorities are passed to their AGE drivers, while
    effectively using in-place equipment before requesting additional units.
    4.2. Once AGE has been pre-positioned, control and movement of the AGE within the
    aircraft parking spot becomes the responsibility of flight line expediters and other users.
    Personnel should follow the procedures in paragraphs 2.2 through 2.5. Brakes should be set,
    or chocks used, if provided.
    4.3. TheapplicableproductionsuperintendentorexpediterwillnotifyAGEDispatchwhenequipm
    entisreadyforpick-
    up,specifyingthelocation,type,andfieldnumberofeachunit.Userswillnotifyproductionsuperviso
    rs/expediterswhenequipmentisnolongerrequiredandwillbepickedup.Thisactionisparticularlyne
    cessaryduringwintermonthstoprecludeunitsfrombecomingcold-soaked.
    4.4. Users     will    set   the    drag     chute    stand     brakes    while     in    use.
    Whennotinuse,userswillsecurestandtotiedowncablesontheeastendofDock5ormoortooneoftheb
    arrierblockson theAlternateParkingAreaorOverflowParkingArea.Return drag chute stands to
    one of these three approved places as soon as possible after each use while ensuring that only
    approved high-profile equipment tow routes are utilized.




                                             ALEXIS MEZYNSKI, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 5th Bomb Wing
MINOTAFBI21-120 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                         5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 24 Sep 2012
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety instruction, 15 Jun 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 09 Apr 2013
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003
T.O. 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance General Policy and Procedures, 1 Sep 06

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFIRMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
AF Form 1297— Temporary Issue Receipt
AFTO IMT 244— Industrial/Support Equipment Record, Inspection Document
 6                                                      MINOTAFBI21-120 23 OCTOBER 2013


                                           Attachment 2
                        SAMPLE FORMAL AGE REQUEST LETTER

                                                                                                 (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR 5 MXG/CC

FROM: (requesting org)

SUBJECT: New Generation Heater or Floodlight Request

1. The (requesting org) requests the use of (number and type of flight line AGE equipment) for the
purpose of (reason why needed). The period of use will encompass (dates required) and the 5 MXS AGE
Flight will be promptly notified when the equipment is no longer required. MINOTAFBI 21-201 has
been reviewed and the user responsibilities are understood. The AGE POC’s can be reached at 723-2299
or 3189.

2. The following personnel will operate the equipment and have been trained by the AGE Flight:

            (Rank/Name, 723-XXXX)


2. Please contact (Name) at 723-(XXXX) for any additional information.




                                                       (Requesting Sq’s CC Signature Block)



1st Ind, 5 MXG/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR (requesting unit)

Approve/Disapprove




                                                       (Current MXG/CC, Rank,) USAF
                                                       Commander, 5th Maintenance Group
