BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                       MINOT AFB INSTRUCTION 24-301
MINOT AFB                                                                                19 JUNE 2004
                                                                         Certified Current 25 May 2010
                                                                                        Transportation

                                                         VEHICLE INCIDENT/ACCIDENT & ABUSE




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally.


OPR: 5 LRS/LGRV (2Lt J Mark Nesvig)                                           Certified by: 5 MSG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Maryann H. Chisholm)
Supersedes MINOTAFBI24-301, 18 May 1995                                                        Pages: 3
                                                                                        Distribution: F

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes in this publication are maintained in accordance
with AFPD 37-1, Information Management, and AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://webrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required.
This instruction implements AFI 24-302, Vehicle Maintenance Management, 19 May 1994, and AFMAN
24-307, Procedures for Vehicle Maintenance Management, 06 Aug 2001. This instruction is applicable to
all squadron commanders, Vehicle Control Officers and vehicle operators assigned to Minot Air Force
Base.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision adds specific procedures for Government Service Agency lease vehicle incident/accidents/
abuse processing, enhances accident/abuse notification procedures via electronic routing, and further
defines the category of vehicle incidents. In addition, it also removes the mandatory requirement for the
Report of Survey, defines vehicle incidents apart from accident/abuse cases and allows for charging inci-
dent/accident/abuse damage against the using organization instead of the owning organization if the situ-
ation warrants.


1. Objective: This instruction establishes policies and procedures for implementing and managing the
base vehicle incident/abuse/accident program. It includes specific guidance, general information, and
addresses the definition, authority, disposition, and reporting procedures.
   1.1. The goal of this program is to reduce the number of vehicle incident, accident and abuse cases,
   reducing the risk of personal injury or death, and keeping the cost of repairs to a minimum.
2                                                                  MINOTAFBI24-301 19 JUNE 2004


    1.2. The key to successfully reducing preventable damage to vehicles is placing responsibility where
    it rightfully belongs–with the vehicle operator and the operator’s commander who is charged with
    maintaining standards of vehicle operator training, conduct, and discipline.
    1.3. As per AFMAN 24-307, ACC Sup 1, the unit responsible for the vehicle at the time of the acci-
    dent/abuse will transfer funds to Vehicle Maintenance for the material cost in vehicle accident/abuse
    cases (note: damage incurred on a vehicle being used by other than the owning organization will be
    charged against the using organization as long as the loan of the vehicle was directed by the 5 LRS
    Vehicle Management and Analysis Flight or other competent authority; all others will be processed
    against the owning organization). Vehicle accident/abuse damage less than $500.00 will not be
    recouped as cost analysis indicates the administrative cost of pursuing reimbursement below this level
    is not cost effective. When damages are less than $500.00, the owning organization unit commander
    will be notified of the accident and the case will be closed. 91 SW assets which incur accident/abuse
    costs will follow the same reimbursement guidelines established under existing host tenant agree-
    ments.
    1.4. In accordance with AFMAN 23-220, paragraph 18.4, Unit Commanders will determine whether
    a Report of Survey (ROS) will be initiated.

2. Definitions: Vehicle damage not attributable to fair wear and tear will be identified as an incident,
accident, or abuse.
    2.1. Damage caused by an “Act of God” (wind damage, hail damage, lightning, falling trees, etc.) will
    be categorized as a vehicle incident. A notification letter will be sent to the owning squadron com-
    mander for informational purposes but unit funds will not be transferred for incident repair costs and
    a release letter is not required.
    2.2. Vehicle accidents involve the human element resulting in unintentional damage. This includes all
    collision damage with the exception of an “Act of God”.
    2.3. Vehicle abuse is damage caused by an intentional act or omission that may result in premature
    failure of components or immediate, detectable damage. The following are typical examples of vehi-
    cle abuse:
       2.3.1. Failure to report malfunctions, defects, or damage to the vehicle.
       2.3.2. Operating vehicle with insufficient oil or coolants because of failure to check levels,
       according to established requirements, or failure to monitor instrumentation.
       2.3.3. Running engines at excessive speeds or tampering with governors.
       2.3.4. Operating vehicles using improperly selected gears, such as lugging in high gear, excessive
       revolutions per minute during engine backing, and shifting into reverse when traveling forward.
       2.3.5. Improper distribution or failure to secure cargo loads.
       2.3.6. Unauthorized wiring, marking, or modifications to vehicles.
       2.3.7. Operating a vehicle with broken tire chain links or improperly inflated tires.
       2.3.8. Using a vehicle for other than its designated or intended purpose.
       2.3.9. Tampering with any emission control device.
       2.3.10. Failure to perform operator care.
MINOTAFBI24-301 19 JUNE 2004                                                                              3


       2.3.11. Failure to bring vehicle in for scheduled maintenance.
       2.3.12. Damage to doors, fenders, or windows due to high winds when the vehicle isn't immedi-
       ately reported to maintenance and further damage to the vehicle occurs.
       2.3.13. Excessive use of starting fluid (ether) or fuel line antifreeze.

3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. The Vehicle Management Flight is responsible for identifying suspected vehicle incidents, acci-
   dents and abuses. The Vehicle Maintenance Manager (VMM) or Vehicle Maintenance Superintendent
   (VMS) will evaluate and certify each alleged case. Vehicle Management & Analysis will document
   and track vehicle incident, accident and abuse cases.
   3.2. Unit commanders are responsible for ensuring an investigation of the suspected vehicle accident
   and abuse is conducted and a Report of Survey is initiated when required.
   3.3. Unit Vehicle Control Officers (VCOs) are responsible for providing a release letter to Vehicle
   Maintenance releasing the damaged vehicle for repairs as soon as all facts and evidence have been
   collected to perform a thorough investigation.

4. Procedures:
   4.1. Vehicle Management Flight will initiate an electronic vehicle incident/accident/abuse notifica-
   tion letter routed to the unit VCO with an information copy provided to the unit commander and 5
   LRS commander. This letter will include the estimated repair cost and digital photographs of the vehi-
   cle damage. A second request will be sent on accident/abuse cases if no unit response is received
   within six duty days and the vehicle will be inducted into the normal repair process at that time. The
   repaired asset will not be released back to the unit until Vehicle Maintenance receives the accident/
   abuse release letter so the case file can be closed. Vehicle incidents will inducted into the repair pro-
   cess after the initial notification letter is sent with no other action required by the unit.
   4.2. Vehicles leased from the General Services Administration (GSA) involved in incidents, accidents
   or abuse will be treated the same as AF owned assets and processed accordingly. When GSA bills for
   subsequent repairs, regardless of the dollar value, they will be processed for reimbursement through
   the Vehicle Management Flight, Vehicle Management and Analysis Section.
   4.3. Vehicle accident cases involving any third party liability/private insurance company will be coor-
   dinated through the Base Legal Office. A private estimator/insurance adjuster will accomplish the
   repair estimates and repairs will be accomplished by a private repair agency at the insurance com-
   pany’s expense. All repairs must be inspected by an authorized representative of the Vehicle Manage-
   ment Flight.



                                                       DANIEL J. CHARCHIAN, Colonel, USAF
                                                       Commander, 5th Bomb Wing
