BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              MISAWA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 31-116
MISAWA AIR BASE
                                                                                                                        1 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                                                                      Security

                                                                              MISAWA AIR BASE MOTOR VEHICLE
                                                                                        TRAFFIC SUPERVISION


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.miL for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasabilty restrictions on this publication


OPR: 35 SFS/CC                                                                                              Certified by: 35 SFS/CC
                                                                                                             (Major Leo A. Martin)
                                                                                                                           Pages: 44
Supersedes:    35 FWI 31-204, 28 May 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-2, Law Enforcement; Air
Force Manual 31-116, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, and United States Forces
Japan Instruction 31-205, Motor Vehicle Operations and Traffic Supervision. It outlines
procedures for granting, suspending, and revoking the privilege to operate a POV; registering a
POV; maintaining driver performance records and driver improvement programs; enforcing
installation traffic laws; and monitoring off-installation traffic activities. Attachment 1 provides
a more detailed glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been significantly revised. This instruction incorporates changes from
35FWI 31-204 which it replaces and must be thoroughly reviewed.


       1.      Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    2
       2.      Driving Privileges ..................................................................................................        2
       3.      Motor Vehicle Registration ....................................................................................              7
       4.      Traffic Planning and Code. ....................................................................................              9
Table 1.       Speed Restrictions ..................................................................................................        9
       5.      Driving Records and the Traffic Point System. .....................................................                         12
 2                                                                          MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


        6.      Impoundment of Vehicles. .....................................................................................   15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                   18

Attachment 2—REQUEST FOR NON-SOFA DRIVING PRIVILEGES                                                                             22

Attachment 3—AUTHORIZATION TO USE MISAWA BASE FACILITIES/SERVICES
             AND ON BASE DRIVING PRIVILEGES                                                                                      23

Attachment 4—MISAWA TRAFFIC RULES/ POINTS/SUSPENSION/REVOCATION
             TABLE                                                                                                               24

Attachment 5—SAMPLE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION LETTER                                                                              33

Attachment 6—REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW                                                                                   35

Attachment 7—REQUEST FOR DRIVER REINSTATEMENT                                                                                    36

Attachment 8—LIMITED OR RESTRICTED POV DRIVING PRIVILEGES REQUEST
             LETTER                                                                                                              37

Attachment 9—POV LIMITED DRIVING PROPOSAL                                                                                        39

Attachment 10—LIMITED OR RESTRICTED GOV DRIVING PRIVILEGES REQUEST
             LETTER                                                                                                              40

Attachment 11—GOV LIMITED DRIVING PROPOSAL                                                                                       42

Attachment 12—REBUTTAL OF TRAFFIC CITATION FORMAT                                                                                43

Attachment 13—REQUEST FOR RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE FORMAT                                                                    44


1. Introduction.
     1.1. Program Management. This instruction implements policy, assigns responsibility, and
     establishes procedures for motor vehicle traffic supervision on Misawa Air Base (MAB).
     This instruction provides additional MAB specific guidance to complement guidance found
     in AFI 31-218 (I); AFMAN 31-116; and USFJ 31-205. Please refer to these documents for
     additional instructions. This instruction applies to all US Forces personnel (including active
     duty, reserve, and DoD civilian employees) and their dependents; contractors and employees
     accompanying the force under Article XIV of the Status of Forces Agreement; and any
     personnel operating a vehicle on MAB.
     1.2. Responsibilities. The 35 SFS/CC is the 35 FW/CC’s principal advisor on issues
     pertaining to the lawful movement of personnel and traffic.
     1.3. Delegation of Authority. The 35 FW/CC delegates daily administration of the
     installation traffic supervision program to the 35th Mission Support Group Commander (35
     MSG/CC).
2. Driving Privileges
     2.1. Requirements for Driving Privileges.
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                  3


     2.1.1. The 35 FW/CC grants the privilege of driving on MAB for US Forces personnel
     and their dependents through the issuance of the US Forces Japan Operator’s Permit for
     Civilian Vehicle (USFJ Form 4EJ), which allows personnel to operate a POV in Japan.
     Personnel must comply with the laws governing motor vehicle registration and operation
     both on and off the installation or they may be required to forfeit the privilege of driving
     on the installation and maintaining a USFJ Form 4EJ. The 35 FW/CC delegates to the
     MSG/CC the authority to suspend or revoke these driving privileges.
     2.1.2. US Forces personnel operating a motor vehicle in Japan must produce, upon
     request from US or Japanese law enforcement officials, the following:
        2.1.2.1. Military Registration and Certificate of Title of Motor Vehicle.
        2.1.2.2. USFJ Form 4EJ, supported by an official Department of Defense
        Identification Card.
        2.1.2.3. Valid/Current Japanese Compulsory Insurance (JCI) and Property Damage
        Liability Insurance. EXCEPTION: Liability insurance not required for motorcycles
        during winter season as directed by the 35 FW/CC
        2.1.2.4. Current year USFJ Form 15 A/B, Vehicle Registration Decal (for use on 4-
        wheel vehicles) or USFJ Form 15B, Vehicle Registration Decal (for use on 2-wheel
        vehicles), properly affixed to motor vehicle.
        2.1.2.5. Annual Road Tax payment receipt.
        2.1.2.6. Official DoD Identification Card or other appropriate identification for non-
        DoD civilians.
  2.2. USFJ Form 4EJ.
     2.2.1. The minimum standards for obtaining a USFJ Form 4EJ are as follows:
        2.2.1.1. The applicant must be covered under SOFA. Applicants must present a valid
        and current operator's permit issued by any state or territory of the US or by the
        District of Columbia; an international driver's permit; a valid Government of Japan
        (GOJ) operator’s permit; or written proof that he or she has successfully completed a
        certified formal driving course.
        2.2.1.2. For those members with an expired state license whose state does not permit
        extension while overseas, renewal by mail, etc., the 35 FW/CC may grant a waiver
        for a one-time renewal of the USFJ Form 4EJ, subject to the individual's driving
        record while at Misawa. 35 FW/CC delegates the authority to the 35 SFS/CC.
        Applicants must attend and pass the written exam for the Traffic Safety Course II.
        EXCEPTION: Personnel issued a USFJ Form 4EJ from another installation or a
        Japanese driver’s license are only required to attend the class. Personnel, who fail the
        written exam, are required to re-attend the Traffic Safety Course II, Local Conditions
        and re-take the written examination.
        2.2.1.3. Military members 25 years of age and younger will not receive their licenses
        immediately following the Course II test. Rather, their licenses will be available for
        unit commanders or their designated representative to pick up at 35 FW/SE.
4                                                      MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


           Commanders or their designated representatives will then issue licenses directly to
           their high-risk age group members after the members have received a safety briefing.
              2.2.1.3.1. For all active-duty Navy personnel meeting the criteria above, licenses
              will be retrieved from 35 FW/SE by the Navy Safety office. The Navy Safety
              office will then be responsible for issuing these licenses to Navy Commanding
              Officers, Officers-In-Charge, Department Heads, or their designated
              representative.
       2.2.2. Applicants must be 18 years or older to operate a POV off the installation in
       Japan. Minors who are 16 and 17 years old may be issued a permit “FOR ON-BASE
       USE ONLY” if they otherwise meet the requirements of this instruction. Minors are only
       authorized to transport immediate family members. Minors without a valid and current
       operator’s permit may be eligible for a student driving permit, which is only issued for 90
       days. A student driving permit allows minors to practice driving on base, under parent or
       guardian supervision, while they complete a formal driver education class.
       2.2.3. Temporary Duty (TDY) or Temporary Assignment Duty (TAD) personnel may
       receive driving privileges upon request from their local commander if they meet the
       following criteria:
           2.2.3.1. Personnel performing a tour of less than 90 days may obtain “GOV FOR
           ON-BASE USE ONLY” privileges upon request if they otherwise meet the
           requirements of this instruction. This permit will not allow them to operate a POV.
           The assisting unit VCO/VCNCO will conduct a local conditions briefing provided by
           35 FW Safety Office; upon completion, the VCO/VCNCOs will issue the individual
           an AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency for ―GOV On-Base Driving Privileges
           ONLY.
           2.2.3.2. Personnel performing a tour of 90 days or longer may obtain full driving
           privileges upon request if they otherwise meet the requirements of this instruction.
       2.2.4. Non-SOFA personnel providing support to MAB and/or visitors of assigned
       SOFA members with a valid international driver’s permit will be allowed to operate a
       rental vehicle on base for the duration of their visit. For situations involving a hardship
       for an assigned SOFA member, the 35 FW/CC (delegated to 35 MSG/CC) may approve
       on base driving for Non-SOFA family members, step-parents, or guardians who possess a
       valid license/permit recognized by Japan IAW USFJI 31-205. This special application
       and authorization letter (Attachments 2 & 3) should be granted on the basis of reducing
       hardships imposed on members and/or their families by illness, deployment(s) or
       extenuating circumstances. Before issuance of a 4EJ, these Non-SOFA members must
       complete all the same driving requirements as a SOFA member (i.e. Local Traffic Safety
       Course II).
       2.2.5. Non-SOFA retired personnel may operate a motor vehicle on MAB without a
       USFJ Form 4EJ. Retiree’s must be in possession of a current international or Japanese
       driver’s license. Retiree’s may also register for a new USFJ Form 15 A/B starting on
       May 1st of each year.
    2.3. Suspension and Revocation of Driving Privileges.
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                 5


     2.3.1. The 35 FW/CC delegates suspension and revocation of driving privileges to 35
     MSG/CC. 35 MSG/CC may suspend or revoke driving privileges for serious violations.
     Refer to paragraph 5, Driving Records and the Traffic Point System, and Attachment 4 of
     this instruction for the traffic point system and suspension/revocation periods. A
     suspension is a forfeiture of driving privileges for less than one year, while a revocation
     is a forfeiture of driving privileges for 1 year or more. Suspensions and revocations
     affect both on and off-base driving privileges for POV and GOVs.
     2.3.2. MAB will honor driving suspensions and revocations from other DoD
     Installations.
     2.3.3. Suspension and/or revocations must be coordinated with Reports and Analysis (35
     SFS/S5RA). NOTE: Preliminary suspensions as identified in Attachment 4 with a (P)
     will be issued by Security Forces at the time of the incident, with the suspension taking
     effect immediately.
         2.3.3.1. When a vehicle operator has been identified for any of the offenses which
         initiates preliminary suspension/revocation, 35 SFS/S5RA will generate a
         suspension/revocation package to be approved/disapproved by the 35 MSG/CC (See
         Attachment 5 for format).            If package is disapproved, preliminary
         suspension/revocation is rescinded.
         2.3.3.2. Upon receiving an approved suspension or revocation package, 35
         SFS/S5RA will notify the individual’s first sergeant/commander. The operator must
         report to 35 SFS/S5RA within 3 duty days to acknowledge the suspension/revocation
         or request an appeal for further action. If the member accepts the suspension
         /revocation, they will surrender their USFJ Form 4EJ, or 35 FW Form 98EJ,
         Provisional Visitor/Vehicle Pass to the 35 SFS/RA section for the duration of the
         suspension/revocation. 35 SFS/S5RA will then update DBIDS to reflect the
         suspension/revocation. It is the responsibility of the Unit CC or CCF to ensure the
         operators GOV license is surrendered to 35 LRS Operator Records & Licensing
         office who will maintain it for the duration of the suspension/revocation.
  2.4. Administrative Due Process for Suspensions and Revocations.
     2.4.1. If the operator requests an appeal, they have 14 calendar days from the day of
     notice for suspension/revocation to request an administrative review with the 35
     MSG/CC. The request for an appeal must be endorsed by the requestor’s commander, or
     civilian equivalent supervisor for tenant agencies, prior to submitting the request.
     Military members must indicate all matters they believe are relevant for the 35 MSG/CC
     to consider, including any extenuating circumstances and should state clearly what relief
     they seek (e.g., a shorter suspension than proposed, no suspension or other circumstance)
     in a memorandum. The memorandum and suspension letter (Refer to Attachment 6) will
     be processed by 35 SFS/S5RA and sent to the 35 MSG/CC for action. Administrative
     hearings will be paperwork only unless the 35 MSG/CC determines an in-person hearing
     is necessary to address specific suspensions or revocations.
     2.4.2. While suspension/revocation is being reviewed, the suspension/revocation will not
     take effect until the first duty day following a decision on the review. The 35 MSG/CC
     will notify     35 SFS/S5R of his/her findings. Those operators found not to have
6                                                      MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


       committed an offense will have suspension/revocation process rescinded while those
       found to have committed an offense will have driving privileges terminated immediately.
       35 SFS/S5RA will notify the unit commander/first sergeant of the final
       actions.(Exception: preliminary suspensions will remain in effect during the
       appeal/review process).
    2.5. Reinstatement of Driving Privileges. All drivers suspended or revoked must apply for
    USFJ Form 4EJ reinstatement. Requests for full reinstatement of driving privileges must be
    endorsed by the respective unit commander or first sergeant and processed through 35
    SFS/S5RA (Refer to Attachment 7). Reinstatement will only be approved upon successful
    completion of Course V, Driver Improvement Course, through the 35 FW/SE. For driving
    offenses involving drinking or substance abuse, reinstatement will only be approved upon
    proof of completion of the substance abuse program through the 35th Medical Group (35
    MDG) and Course V, Driver Improvement Course. Other services/tenant units on Misawa
    AB will attend the driver improvement course(s) required by their service component, if any,
    in addition to the requirements stated above.
    2.6. Restricted Driving Privileges or Probation.
       2.6.1. The installation commander or MSG/CC may authorize partial or restricted
       driving privileges to those whose authority to drive on military installations was
       suspended or revoked by a military service authority.
       2.6.2. All requests for restricted driving privileges must be endorsed by the unit
       commander or first sergeant and processed through 35 SFS/S5RA for 35 MSG/CC
       approval or disapproval (Refer to Attachment 8). Personnel must show documented
       proof they are scheduled for the appropriate program required for driving privileges
       reinstatement prior to approval.
       2.6.3. The requestor will identify the vehicle to be driven, the location and occasion in
       which the vehicle can be driven, and specify driving privileges that are mission essential
       or based upon a family hardship. The following facilities are considered mission
       essential: base hospital for emergencies, base gas station, base commissary, Child
       Development Center (CDC), DODDS schools (if applicable), work and similar functions.
       A copy of the restricted driving letter will be kept in the vehicle at all times (Refer to
       Attachment 9).
       2.6.4. Personnel granted POV restricted-driving privileges will take their restricted
       driving privileges letter to 35 SFS/S5P, who in-turn will issue a new USFJ Form 4EJ
       stamped with “Limited.” For personnel granted limited or regular GOV driving
       privileges, the reinstatement letter is submitted to the 35th Logistics Readiness Squadron
       Vehicle Operations (35 LRS/LGRDDO) for GOV permit re-issue (Refer to Attachment
       10 & 11).
       2.6.5. If restricted privileges are approved and the member is subsequently operating a
       vehicle outside of the restricted privileges, they will lose their restricted driving
       privileges and have the original suspension or revocation reinstated, retroactive from the
       date of the initial offense. Unit commander and offender notifications are the only
       requirements.
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                   7


3. Motor Vehicle Registration
   3.1. Registration Policy. All vehicles on Misawa Air Base must be registered.
      3.1.1. Unaccompanied personnel are authorized one 4-wheel and one 2-wheel vehicle.
      Accompanied personnel are authorized two 4-wheel and two 2-wheel vehicles. Personnel
      who desire a permanent vehicle waiver to these policies must submit a request with
      justification through the Pass and Registration office and approved by the 35 SFS/CC.
      Due to limited parking on-base, approval will be on a case by case basis and not
      automatic. Temporary vehicle waivers, not to exceed 30 days, can be approved by Pass
      and Registration.
      3.1.2. Personnel stationed at Misawa for a tour of six months or less may not purchase or
      register a vehicle.
      3.1.3. Personnel may not buy, sell, broker, or transfer cars as a commercial business.
   3.2. Registration procedures.
      3.2.1. SOFA personnel (including non-SOFA retired personnel) can register vehicles
      from another SOFA member, from a Japanese national, or a Japanese Dealership through
      the pass and registration office.
          3.2.1.1. When purchasing from another SOFA member, the buyer and seller must
          appear together, or be represented by a Power of Attorney (POA), at the Pass and
          Registration office with the vehicle title; JCI (valid for at least 30 days); liability
          insurance (valid for at least 7 days); current road tax receipt and decal; 35 FW Form
          71, Vehicle Registration Form or Defense Biometrics Identification (DBIDS) Form;
          military ID; and current MAB 4EJ. Pass and Registration will have the members sign
          the 35 FW Form 97EJ, Confirmation of Procedures for POV
          Registration/Transaction; Japanese POA; and Japanese Vehicle Transfer Request.
          The Road Tax decal will be removed and exchanged for a two week vehicle pass to
          complete registration.
          3.2.1.2. When purchasing from a resident of Japan, the buyer must present the
          vehicle title, JCI, current road tax receipt, and name and address of seller (in English
          and Japanese). The buyer will sign the 35 FW Form 97EJ, Japanese POA, and
          Japanese Vehicle Transfer Request. The buyer will then need to have the seller sign
          the POA.
          3.2.1.3. When purchasing from a dealership, the buyer must present the vehicle title
          and sales agreement to the Pass and Registration office. The buyer will sign the 35
          FW Form 97EJ, Japanese POA, and Japanese Vehicle Transfer Request.
          3.2.1.4. The buyer will then take all documents to a Japanese car dealer, insurance
          company, or Land and Transportation Office to pay for a new vehicle title, insurance
          (liability and JCI), current road tax, and inspections, as applicable. Buyer will return
          to Pass and Registration within the 2 weeks of initially signing their paperwork with
          the new documents to complete registration. If the buyer has not received the title
          within 2 weeks after signing the original paperwork, the buyer is required to return to
          Pass and Registration to receive an extension of the time limit. Pass and Registration
          will assign the requester a new USFJ Form 15A/B Vehicle Decal.
8                                                      MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


       3.2.2. Non-SOFA personnel must register their vehicles with 35 SFS Visitor Control
       Center.
           3.2.2.1. Master Labor Contractor (MLC) personnel will complete 35 FW Form 54,
           Application for Vehicle Registration. For issuance of 35 FW Form 95EJ, Local
           National Vehicle Registration Decal, personnel must present: a DBIDS Card or 5 AF
           Form 98EJ and temporary pass; current driver's license; proof of JCI and current
           inspection; and proof of title and road tax.
           3.2.2.2. The 35 FW Form 95EJ will be displayed in the lower right-hand corner of
           the windshield while the vehicle is on the installation, in compliance with GOJ
           requirements. The expiration date on the 35 FW Form 95EJ will coincide with the
           driver's gate pass or contract period, whichever is earlier. Permanent MLC
           employees are not to exceed 5 years. For contractors, the length of the expiration
           period will not exceed 1 year.
       3.2.3. Special purpose vehicles, such as ATVs, dirt bikes, off-road or other recreational
       vehicles, must be registered with a 35 FW Form 71. These are only authorized for use at
       approved locations, not on public roadways. Liability insurance for special purpose
       vehicles is not required; however, liability insurance is strongly recommended.
       3.2.4. Personnel with a valid need for a handicapped decal must provide Pass and
       Registration with a letter from a medical care provider outlining the need and duration of
       handicapped access.
    3.3. Deregistration of vehicles.
       3.3.1. Personnel can deregister their vehicles at Pass and Registration by properly
       transferring ownership of the vehicle, salvaging the vehicle through an approved salvage
       yard, or exporting.
       3.3.2. Transfer of Ownership. Current owner will transfer ownership using 35 FW Form
       97EJ.
       3.3.3. Salvage of Vehicle. Owners must go to an approved salvage yard to retrieve a
       junk/scrap receipt, front and back license plates, USFJ Form 15 A/B vehicle decal, and
       registration paperwork and must bring these items to Pass and Registration. Pass and
       Registration will issue a Japanese POA and 35 FW Form 97EJ to be taken to a local
       insurance company to acquire a deregistered title certificate. This certificate must be
       brought back to Pass and Registration within 5 duty days.
       3.3.4. Exporting of Vehicle. The owner must coordinate with TMO; bring the vehicle
       and export documents to Pass and Registration; sign 35 FW Form 97EJ and Japanese
       POA; take all documents to an insurance company to acquire an export title certificate.
       The owner then must bring the certificate and documents back to Pass and Registration
       for final processing.
       3.3.5. In order to out-process from Misawa, personnel must provide proof of vehicle
       deregistration to Pass and Registration no later than five duty days prior to final out-
       processing. A Power of Attorney showing the member is in the process of selling and
       deregistering a vehicle will suffice with a unit commander’s action letter.
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                   9


       3.3.6. In the event a vehicle is not properly deregistered or the POA expires, the vehicle
       is considered abandoned and will be processed IAW with Section 6 of this instruction.
       The responsibility to enact the disposition process and payment of all associated fees lies
       with the unit of the most current registered owner for the vehicle. Upon notification, the
       unit has 14 days to complete the salvage process and reimbursement of all associated
       fees.
4. Traffic Planning and Code.
   4.1. Traffic Code. These provisions apply to all persons who operate motor vehicles on
   MAB or any area under the jurisdiction of the 35 FW/CC. 35 SFS performs the mission of
   directing, controlling and enforcing traffic rules, ensuring motor/non-motor vehicles,
   materials and personnel flow safely and efficiently over roadways. Refer to Attachment 4 for
   specific MAB traffic rules and AFI 91-207 for bicycle/motorcycle guidance.
   4.2. Speed Limits. 35 SFS monitors the speed of traffic on the installation by utilizing
   speed-measuring devices and vehicle pacing. Speed restrictions are listed in Table 4.1.

Table 1. Speed Restrictions
 LOCATION:                                                             MPH            KPH
 All roadways, except where posted                                     25 MPH         40 KPH
 Maximum speed of mopeds or motorcycle less than 50cc                  18 MPH         30 KPH
 Parking Lots                                                          9 MPH          15 KPH
 Passing Troop movements                                               12 MPH         20 KPH
 Residential areas                                                     18 MPH         30 KPH
 Road Construction                                                     9 MPH          15 KPH
 Sollars, Cummings and Edgren School Zones, when children are          15 MPH         25 KPH
 present and during a school function
 Vehicles in tow, with approved equipment                              18 MPH         30 KPH
 When backing                                                          6 MPH          10 KPH

 NOTE:1. All Traffic Tickets written on/off base in Japan are written in KPH.

   4.3. Moving violations require the operator to have physical control/operation of the vehicle.
       4.3.1. Non-Moving violations do not require physical control/operation of the vehicle;
       this includes parking violations, administrative violations, children and/or animals left
       unattended in a vehicle or defective equipment. Parking violations, administrative
       violations, children and/or animals left unattended in a vehicle are assessed points.
       Defective equipment violations are only assessed points when the 72 hours or extension
       period has expired and no proof of repair is provided.
       4.3.2. Serious incidents identified in Attachment 4, will result in an automatic suspension
       or revocation of base driving privileges for the period(s) indicated. Serious incidents
       include both moving and non-moving violations.
10                                                    MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


  4.4. Blood or Breath Alcohol Concentration Standards.
     4.4.1. Security Forces personnel incorporate results from three Standardized Field
     Sobriety Tests (Horizontal Gaze Nystagmus, One-leg Stand and Walk and Turn) (SFST),
     observation techniques and ability to follow simple instructions as cues to determine
     probable cause for drivers suspected of DUI. In addition to the SFST, a Portable Breath
     Testing (PBT) device may be used by properly trained SF members as an additional tool
     to determine probable cause for drivers suspected of DUI.
     4.4.2. Under the Implied Consent Policy, the prescribed evidentiary test for obtaining
     blood-alcohol concentration on MAB is blood. The driver does not have the right to legal
     counsel when determining if he/she will consent to the blood test. Failure to take or
     complete a lawfully requested chemical test will result in immediate
     suspension/revocation of driving privileges for 1 year. If the blood test or Standardized
     Field Sobriety Tests are refused, the driver will lose their base driving privileges for a
     period of 1 year in addition to any other violation measures.
     4.4.3. Security forces will complete a Security Forces Management Information System
     (SFMIS) incident report for Driving While Impaired for .05 to .079 BAC and a SFMIS
     report titled Driving Under the influence (DUI) for results above .08 BAC, on or off
     base, or when an operator refuses to provide a sample, but circumstances indicate the
     presence of alcohol.
     4.4.4. USFJI 31-205 defines the legal BAC levels over which vehicle operators will not
     operate a motor vehicle. Refer to Attachment 4 of this instruction.
  4.5. Traffic Accident Reporting/Investigation.
     4.5.1. Minor traffic accidents are classified as accidents that result in no injuries and
     minor damage to the vehicles or property damage valued at under $10,000 USD; minor
     damage is further defined as the vehicle(s) being able to move under its own power, or
     may require minor on the spot maintenance to repair it; such as pulling away an object so
     the tire can move freely or changing or replacing a tire that may have deflated as a result
     of the accident
     4.5.2. Major Vehicle Accidents are classified as accidents that result in injuries or death
     (to include pedestrians), disabling functional damage, major property damage or vehicle
     damage in excess of $10,000 USD. All major vehicle accidents require a detailed
     investigation by SFS, including the completion of an AF Form 1315, Accident Report,
     accident narrative, field sketch, scale diagram (for death or serious injury), when
     available a trained accident investigator should conduct major vehicle accident
     investigations.
     4.5.3. Vehicle Accident Reporting
         4.5.3.1. Vehicle operators involved in any accident or any assigned SOFA status
         personnel witnessing a vehicle accident will immediately notify the Misawa Base
         Defense Operation Center (BDOC) and provide any information requested.
         4.5.3.2. Minor Vehicle Accident Response. Minor accidents occurring on the
         installation do not require SFS response; the BDOC Controller will determine if SFS
         response is required. If the BDOC controller determines SFS response is not
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                    11


         required, the parties involved will report to the Security Forces Headquarter (building
         646) to complete a minor accident report. SFS will respond to all off-base minor
         accidents within a 30 KM range of the installation and act as a liaison with JNP when
         manning and weather conditions permit. (NOTE: SFS will respond to all minor
         vehicle accidents involving government vehicles or as directed by SF leadership).
         4.5.3.3. Major Vehicle Accident Response. SFS will respond to all major vehicle
         accidents reports within their jurisdiction, to include accidents occurring off the
         installation, where they will act as a liaison with JNP. 35 FW/JA may also be
         contacted to assist the member by providing them a SOFA briefing.
     4.5.4. At the request of 35 SFS, 35 LRS/35 FSS will tow disabled vehicles when the
     vehicle presents a roadway safety hazard. 35 LRS/35 FSS will only tow the vehicle to a
     point where it does not pose a hazard. It is the owner’s responsibility to ensure their
     vehicles are removed from the area within 72 hours or face possible impoundment. If the
     vehicle is needed for investigative purposes, 35 LRS/35 FSS will transport the vehicle to
     the 35 SFS impoundment lot. 35 SFS Investigations Section (35 SFS/S2I) is the point of
     contact for all impounded vehicles.
     4.5.5. The following agencies are authorized to access accident data:
         4.5.5.1. All commanders and first sergeants of individual(s) involved in the accident
         and Unit Vehicle NCO’s when a GOV is involved.
         4.5.5.2. 35 FW/SE.
         4.5.5.3. 35 FW/JA.
         4.5.5.4. NAFM Safety
         4.5.5.5. All other requests must be made through the Freedom of Information Act
         (FOIA).
  4.6. Government Vehicle Operators will, in addition to the above:
     4.6.1. Refrain from making oral or written statements to anyone involved in the accident,
     or to the agents or representatives of anyone involved in the accident, regarding cause of
     the accident, liability, the possibility of pursuing a claim, or the possibility of approval of
     any claim.
     4.6.2. Complete SF 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report, on GOVs at the scene of the
     accident and deliver it to the 35 LRS Vehicle Management, Customer Service Office
     NLT 24 hours after the accident. If accident occurs on a weekend or holiday, then the SF
     91 must be delivered NLT noon of the first duty day following the accident.
     4.6.3. Render reasonable assistance to injured parties and summon an ambulance, if
     needed.
     4.6.4. Report the accident to the appropriate civilian police agency and to SFS
     immediately.
     4.6.5. Properly identify themselves to police authorities and persons directly involved in
     the accident investigation.
  4.7. Reserved Parking.
 12                                                     MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


      4.7.1. Reserved parking spaces are designated to meet essential mission requirements.
      Reserved parking spaces are reserved 24 hours a day, with the exception of customer
      parking. Customer reserved parking spaces are reserved only during the operating hours
      of the facility.
      4.7.2. Reserved slots will not exceed 10 percent of the total number of parking slots at
      each facility and will be limited to the below personnel or vehicles:
      4.7.3. 35 FW/CC, 35 FW/CV and 35 FW/CCC throughout the installation as
      required/needed.
      4.7.4. Group Commanders, Deputy Group Commanders and Group Superintendents or
      service equivalent at their primary duty location as defined by the location of their office;
      to include the 35th FW Headquarters (building 507) and collocated club (buildings 486
      and 485).
      4.7.5. Unit Commanders, Unit Enlisted Managers/Superintendents (E-9) and Unit First
      Sergeants or service equivalent at their primary duty location as defined by the location
      of their office.
      4.7.6. General officers/DVs throughout the installation as required/needed; General
      Officer and DV reserved parking will through the use of temporary signs for the duration
      of their visit.
      4.7.7. Colonels/0-6 and CMSgt/E-9 at the Collocated club, Exchange and Commissary.
      4.7.8. Government vehicles supporting sortie generation, major accident response or
      emergency response (Fire, Police or Medical).
      4.7.9. Customer parking with specified time limits, not to exceed 20 minutes.
      4.7.10. Disabled or handicapped people through the use of an approved Handicapped
      decal.
   4.8. Road Closures/Diversion of Traffic/Gate Closure Request.
      4.8.1. Request to close roads, divert traffic or close installation gates will be coordinated
      through 35 SFS, 35 CES, 35 MDG and 35 FW Safety to the 35 MSG/CD for approval, 14
      days prior to the request.
      4.8.2. Requestors must justify the reason for closure or diversion and provide a detailed
      plan for road closures or roadway diversion. The plan must include a map over lay of the
      roadway being closed or diverted and a detour route; in addition the over lay must
      include the positions of all traffic control points (TCP’s), physical barriers and warning
      signs used to close or divert traffic. The requestor is responsible for the supply of all
      TCPs, barriers, signs and for making mass notification to the public concerning the
      closure or diversion.
5. Driving Records and the Traffic Point System.
   5.1. The traffic point system provides a uniform administrative device to impartially judge
   driving performance. This system is not a disciplinary measure or a substitute for punitive
   action. All citations issued by a competent authority, to include but not limited to, Japanese
   National Police, USAF Security Forces, Security Forces Augmenter’s and properly trained
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                 13


  parking wardens, will be logged in SFMIS and assessed points, suspensions or revocations as
  outlined in this instruction. Refer to Attachment 4 of this instruction for specific points and
  suspension/revocation periods.
  5.2. Moving and Non-Moving Violations. Personnel accumulating a total of 12 points
  within a one-year period, or 18 points within a 2-year period, will have their driving
  privileges suspended for 6 months. Unit commander and first sergeant will be notified of
  individuals who are subject to suspension/revocation. When two or more violations are
  committed on a single occasion, points will be assessed for each violation.
  5.2.1. Compliance Violations. Compliance violations are issued for vehicle equipment
  violations, violators have 72 hours to correct equipment violations. Extension of the 72-hour
  period may be requested if extenuating circumstances exist. All requests to extend the 72-
  hour period will be made to the 35 SFS Police Services Section during normal duty hours or
  the on-duty flight chief during non-duty hours in writing. Failure to comply with the 72-hour
  time limit or any approved extension will result in an assessment of 2 points on the
  operator/owners driving record.
  5.3. Traffic Citation Rebuttal Process.
     5.3.1. The rebuttal process is as follows: When a violator receives a ticket and feels the
     ticket was unjustified, he/she may rebut the ticket. The violator must draft a
     memorandum, specifically citing evidence that disproves the validity of the ticket (Refer
     to Attachment 12). The memo and the original copy of the ticket in question (white
     copy) will be submitted to 35 SFS/S5RA for processing within 10 duty days of receiving
     the ticket. Late rebuttals will not be accepted. The letter must be endorsed by the
     violator’s commander. A completed package, including any evidence the violator wishes
     to submit, will be forwarded from 35 SFS/S5RA to the 35 SFS/CC. If the 35 SFS/CC
     concurs with the rebuttal, the rebuttal process is complete, and the violator is notified of
     the action taken through his commander or first sergeant. If the SFS/CC non-concurs
     with rebuttal, it is forwarded to the 35 MSG/CC for final decision and the violator will be
     notified of the results.
         5.3.1.1. 35 SFS/S5RA will not review or forward ticket rebuttals without a
         memorandum letter endorsed by the violator’s unit commander. The violator’s unit
         commander must either concur or non-concur with the rebuttal.
     5.3.2. Rebuttals may not be accepted based on the following circumstances:
         5.3.2.1. Correctable and administrative errors on the violation.
         5.3.2.2. Similar un-cited violations of others.
  5.4. Point System Application.
     5.4.1. The point system applies to all SOFA Status, Contract and Master Labor Contract
     personnel to include their dependents, and all other individuals subject to this instruction
     operating a POV on or off the installation.
     5.4.2. The use of the point system and procedures prescribed herein are mandatory and
     will be handled IAW AFM 31-116, AFI 31-218 and USFJI 31-205.
14                                                     MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


      5.4.3. The assessment of points for off-base infractions not listed in Attachment 2 or
      other instructions will be coordinated with the SF Liaison office for action.
  5.5. Point System Procedures.
      5.5.1. SFS record traffic violations and assess points IAW this instruction as follows:
      For an offense that results in an apprehension or is considered reckless driving, an AF
      Form 3545, Incident Report, and/or supporting documents will be prepared. If the
      incident is an alcohol or drug related driving offense and an observed traffic violation
      was the initial reason for contact, a DD Form 1408 will also be submitted. Points will be
      assessed IAW Attachment 4. Violations will be recorded on the DD Form 1408.
      5.5.2. Points assessed against a person remain active and will be managed IAW AFM
      31-116.
  5.6. Traffic complaints.
      5.6.1. When a traffic complaint is received the complainant must be willing to provide a
      written statement. Failure to provide a written statement or an adequate description of
      the vehicle (e.g., color, make, license plate number [i.e., Aomori (Prefecture) 58Y 57-
      89]) will result in no action being taken. Once a written statement is obtained, the
      incident will be recorded in the 35 SFS blotter. Complaints will be forwarded to the
      suspected violators unit of assignment for corrective action. Traffic points will not be
      assessed for traffic complaints.
  5.7. Off-installation traffic activities.
      5.7.1. 35 SFS maintains a close liaison with the JNP agencies and when possible
      provides prompt notification to JNP when SOFA vehicle operators are involved in
      accidents or incidents. JNP will also provide prompt notice to SFS when SOFA vehicle
      operators are involved in traffic accidents or detained for serious violations of Japanese
      traffic laws. All SOFA personnel MUST provide JNP officials their DoD ID cards and
      USFJ Form 4EJ upon request. Geneva Convention cards do NOT meet this requirement.
      5.7.2. JNP notifies SFS on most minor infractions of Japanese traffic laws. Host nation
      traffic supervision operations may result in citations, arrest, fines, and vehicle
      impoundment. All fines and fees must be paid in yen.
          5.7.2.1. When JNP notifies 35 SFS of a violation committed off base by US Forces
          personnel or their families, 35 SFS/S5RA assesses penalties according to Tables 5.1.
          and 5.2. of AFM 31-116 and Attachment 2 of this instruction. 35 SFS/S5RA then
          forwards a notification of the alleged offense to the appropriate unit for action,
          including details on points assessment, suspension and/or revocation.
          5.7.2.2. Personnel receiving the following off-base citations will accomplish the
          following upon coordination with 35 FW/JA:
              5.7.2.2.1. If the violator was given a blue copy of the ticket, they are only
              required to pay the fine. You have 7 days from the day after the citation is issued
              to pay the fine at a Japanese bank or Japanese post office. Always keep the receipt
              as proof of payment. Failure to pay the fine can result in your arrest. If you have
              a valid reason as to why you cannot pay the fine within the 7-day period, contact
              the 35 SFS/S3 immediately. Personnel who fail to pay traffic fines by the
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                 15


             suspense will have their driving privileges suspended for 30 days.
             5.7.2.2.2. If the violator was given a red copy of the traffic ticket, they must
             retain the ticket until they are contacted to report to court. The Japanese
             prosecutor will contact 35 FW/JA, unit commander, first sergeant, or agency
             chief. Personnel who fail to report to their scheduled court date will have their
             driving privileges suspended for 6 months.
             5.7.2.2.3. 35 FW/JA will coordinate with the violator’s unit and subsequently
             place the violator on administrative hold, pending adjudication. The violator is
             not permitted to depart on leave or TDY off-island until the ticket is resolved.
             Prior to proceeding to court, the legal office will conduct a briefing outlining the
             violator’s rights under the SOFA.
                 5.7.2.2.3.1. 35 FW/JA will provide 35 SFS/S5 a listing as well as updates of
                 all personnel placed on administrative hold.
          5.7.2.3. JNP ticketing procedures: 35 SFS/S5RA is notified by JNP anytime a SOFA
          member is issued a traffic ticket. The 35 SFS/S5RA notifies the violator’s unit of
          these infractions via Memorandum titled Notification of Traffic Infraction or
          Notification of Alleged Offense.
          5.7.2.4. Armed forces traffic tickets are forwarded to the 35 SFS/S5RA for
          processing and dissemination. On receipt of the traffic ticket or other law
          enforcement report, the unit commander, first sergeant, or a designated supervisor
          will conduct an inquiry. Afterwards, the commander will take consider what, if any
          disciplinary or administrative action to take. Upon receipt, the action is recorded on
          the back of the ticket and returned to 35 SFS/S5RA for updating/filing.
             5.7.2.4.1. Commanders must meet the established suspense time of 14 days in
             completing actions on DD Form 1408. Notify 35 SFS/S5RA of those cases
             requiring an extension.
6. Impoundment of Vehicles.
   6.1. The 35 SFS/S2I is responsible for impounding all SOFA vehicles on MAB.
   6.1.1. 35 LRS will provide 24-hour towing support, when requested by SFS.
      6.1.2. Personnel from 35 LRS/LGRDDO and 35 SFS/S2I are not liable for any damages
      incurred to any POV, NAF, DECA, or AAFES vehicle being towed or removed under
      these conditions.
   6.2. Standards for Impoundment.
      6.2.1. Vehicles used in the commission of a crime or containing evidence of criminal
      activity will be seized and/or impounded at the discretion of 35 SFS or AFOSI.
      6.2.2. Vehicle may be impounded at the discretion of the on-duty SF Flight Chief when
      it interferes with force protection measures; security of protective level (PL) resources;
      impedes traffic; threatens public safety, is abandoned, has outdated administrative
      paperwork, is illegally parked or interferes with snow removal operations.
      6.2.3. When directed by the 35 FW/CC, 35 MSG/CC or 35 SFS/CC.
16                                                    MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


     6.2.4. Prior to impounding any vehicle meeting the description in Para 6.2.2., SFS will
     make a reasonable attempt to rectify the situation by contacting the owner and having
     them move the vehicle within the time constraints set by SFS, when this fails the vehicle
     will be impounded.
     6.2.5. All vehicles in the above categories located off base may be towed and impounded
     when they are identified as abandoned or Japanese authorities request assistance. 35
     SFS/S2I impounds, releases and disposes of all claimed and unclaimed vehicles, IAW
     AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigations Program, and DoD Manual 4160.21-M,
     Defense Materiel Disposition Manual.
     6.2.6. The vehicle owner is responsible for all fees associated with impoundment to
     include any towing and storage fees.
  6.3. Impoundment of Abandoned Vehicles.
     6.3.1. 35 SFS will complete a DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Citation, and DD
     Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice, when they discover or are notified of suspected
     abandoned vehicles. This will be documented in the 35 SFS blotter.
     6.3.2. The pink copy of the ticket will be placed on the vehicle. The violator will be
     allowed 72 hours to report to the 35 SFS Law Enforcement Desk to clear the ticket and
     abandoned vehicle notice.
     6.3.3. If the violator fails to report to the 35 SFS Law Enforcement Desk within 72
     hours, the DD Form 2504 will be processed by 35 SFS/S2I. (One copy will be placed
     with the vehicle case file and the other copy will be forwarded to the individual’s unit.)
     35 SFS will attempt to identify or locate the registered owner of the vehicle. If unable to
     do so they will notify 35 SFS/S2I to process and impound the vehicle as an abandoned
     vehicle, and will document it in the blotter. When the registered owner can be identified
     and is still assigned/located at MAB, the owner and assigned unit will be responsible for
     disposition of the vehicle within 3 duty days.
  6.4. Form Documentation. DD Form 2506, Vehicle Impoundment Report: Contact will be
  made with the owner’s assigned or last assigned (if member has departed MAB) Unit
  CC/CCF via telephone, email and/or memorandum informing them of the impounded vehicle
  and parameters of MABI 31-116. The following procedures apply and will be documented
  in the blotter.
     6.4.1. 35 SFS/S2I will contact 35 LRS Vehicle Operations to arrange for the vehicle to
     be towed to the impoundment lot.
        6.4.1.1. 35 SFS/S2I and the towing agency will complete a DD Form 2505,
        Abandoned Vehicle Removal Authorization, prior to vehicle removal. 35 SFS/S2I
        will witness the vehicle removal process.
     6.4.2. Once the vehicle has been impounded for abandonment, an entry will be made in
     the 35 SFS blotter stating the make, model, year, registration and/or license number of
     the vehicle and location from which it was impounded. Impounded vehicles will be
     thoroughly searched and inventoried via DD Form 2506. The owner’s CC/CCF will
     appoint an NCO as a unit representative to conduct a thorough joint inventory via DD
     Form 2506 with 35 SFS/S2I. A DD Form 2506 will be completed for each vehicle
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                   17


     impounded. 35 SFS/S2I will ensure any valuable personal property found in the vehicle
     is annotated. If the vehicle is locked, a visual inventory will be done through the window
     so as not to cause damage to the vehicle.
     6.4.3. If the owner or lien holder is identified, and no longer present in Japan, a DD
     Form 2507 and a letter will be forwarded to him/her via certified mail, within 5 duty
     days, stating their vehicle has been impounded. The owner or lien holder will be advised
     that if no reply is received by the applicable date (60 days of the date the DD Form 2507
     and letter are mailed); the vehicle will be disposed of through a local salvage dealer or
     other authorized agency. The unit of assignment of the owner while stationed at Misawa
     is responsible for reimbursing any fees associated with impoundment of the vehicle to
     include towing and storage. Upon notification, the unit has 14 days to complete the
     salvage process and reimbursement of all associated fees.
         6.4.3.1. The owner or lien holder may claim the vehicle or release it to the
         government by completing the release on the back of the DD Form 2507. The vehicle
         will not be moved from the impoundment lot unless all base regulatory requirements
         are met. Prior to releasing the vehicle the vehicle owner is responsible for
         reimbursing any fees associated with impoundment of the vehicle to include towing
         and storage.
         6.4.3.2. If the owner cannot be identified, within 60 days of impoundment and all
         reasonable attempts have been made to contact the owner, the DD Form 2504 will be
         annotated and the vehicle will be released to a local salvage dealer or other authorized
         agency and disposed of IAW AFI 31-206 and DoD Manual 4160.21-M. If the owner
         cannot be identified, or contacted within 60 days, Pass and Registration will have the
         authority to de-register abandoned vehicles via the appropriate LTO and GOJ
         agencies. All attempts to contact the owner will be made prior to de-registration;
         however, permission is not required.
  6.5. If the vehicle was impounded as a result of possible abandonment, the vehicle will not
  be released until approval is granted by 35 SFS/S2I.
     6.5.1. The vehicle may be driven out of the impound lot if all base regulatory
     requirements (i.e. insurance, registration, safe operating order, etc.) are met. If a vehicle,
     other than a wrecker, is utilized to tow the vehicle from the impound lot, an “A” “I” or
     “T” framed tow device or bar will be utilized.
     6.5.2. In all cases, a letter signed by the vehicle owner’s unit commander, first sergeant
     or agency chief is required to retrieve the vehicle. Refer to Attachment 13 of this
     instruction.




                                            STEPHEN C. WILLIAMS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 18                                                   MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-201 Security Police Standards and Procedures, 30 March 2009
AFI 31-218_IP Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 22 May 2006
AFMAN 31-201, V7 Security Forces Administration and Reports, 28 August 2009
USFJI 31-205 Motor Vehicle Operations and Traffic Supervision
Prescribed Forms
35 FW Form 54, Application for Vehicle Registration
35 FW Form 71, Military Registration and Certificate of Title of Motor Vehicle
35 FW Form 95EJ, Local National Vehicle Registration Decal
35 FW Form 97EJ, Confirmation of Procedures for POV Registration/Transaction
35 FW Form 162, Long Term Parking Request.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 2293, U.S. Air Force Motor Vehicle Operators Identification Card
USFJ Form 4EJ, U.S. Forces, Japan Operators Permit for Civilian Vehicle
USFJ Form 15A, Vehicle Registration Decal (for Use on 4-Wheel Vehicles)
USFJ Form 15B, Vehicle Registration Decal
DD Form 1408, Traffic Ticket, Armed Forces
DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice
DD Form 2506, Vehicle Impoundment Report
DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment
Optional Form (OF) 346, U.S. Government Motor Vehicle Operator’s Identification Card

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
DFC—Defense Force Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
DUI—Driving Under the Influence
GOJ—Government of Japan
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                   19


GSU—Geographical Separated Unit
JCI—Japanese Compulsory Insurance
JNP—Japanese National Police
MAB—Misawa Air Base
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POA—Power of Attorney
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
S5RA—Security Force Reports and Analysis
SF—Security Force(s)
SFA—Security Forces Administration
SFO—Security Forces Operations
SOFA—Status of Force Agreement
USFJ—United States Forces Japan

Terms
35 FW Form 95EJ, Local National Vehicle Registration Decal—Identifies individuals and
vehicles not possessing appropriate DoD and installation media. Passes issued from other
installations are not valid for entry onto MAB. The duration of the pass will coincide with the
length of the visit. The sponsor, not the visitor determines pass length.
Ability—The physical proximity, coupled with the motor skills to put the vehicle in motion by
manipulation of the ignition, gears, and/or release of the emergency brake. A young child being
left unattended in a vehicle could have the ability and physical motor skills to release the
emergency brake and put a vehicle into motion.
Access—The right and privilege to enter or utilize.
Drunk or Impaired—Any level of intoxication that is sufficient to impair the rational and full
exercise of the mental or physical faculties. The term drunk is used in relation to intoxication by
alcohol. The term impaired is used in relation to intoxication by other substances other than
alcohol.
Installation Entry/Exit Point Checks—Administrative inspections directed by the installation
commander designed to protect the readiness, health and welfare of the installation.
Major Accident—An accident that causes a fatality or injuries, the vehicle cannot be moved
under its own power or it sustained over $10,000 in damage.
Minor Accident—An accident where no one was injured, sustained less than $10,000 in
damages and the vehicle is able to move under its own power.
On Base—The areas confined within MAB and the roadway outside Friendship Gate to the first
traffic light.
 20                                                      MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


Operate—Operating a vehicle, aircraft, or vessel includes not only driving or guiding a vehicle
while it is in motion, either in person or through the agency of another, but also setting of its
motive power in action, or the manipulation of its controls so as to cause the particular vehicle to
move.
Parked and/or Standing—The vehicle is stationary, with or without the engine running, with or
without the operator at the controls. Parked and/or standing vehicles can be legally or illegally
parked. For the purpose of enforcement, there is no difference between parked and standing. No
vehicle will be left unattended with the engine running.
Passenger—Person within the vehicle other than the operator.
Pedestrian—Any person who is near or on a roadway using a sidewalk, roadway edge, parking
lot, pedestrian road crossing, driveway, or similar location.
Physical Control and Actual Physical Control—These terms are synonymous. They describe
the present capability and power to dominate, direct, or regulate the vehicle either in person or
through the agency of another, regardless of whether such vehicle is operated. For example, the
intoxicated person seated behind the steering wheel of a vehicle with the key in the vehicle in or
near the ignition but with the engine not turned on could be deemed in actual physical control of
the vehicle. However, the person asleep in the back seat with the keys in his or her pocket would
not be deemed in actual physical control. Physical control necessarily encompasses operation.
Reckless Driving—The operation of a vehicle is reckless when it exhibits a culpable disregard
of foreseeable consequences to others from the act or omission involved. Recklessness is not
determined solely by reason of the happening of an injury, or the invasion of the rights of
another, or by proof alone of excessive speed or erratic operation, but all of these factors may be
admissible and relevant as bearing upon the ultimate question; whether, under all the
circumstances, the manner of operation of the vehicle was of that heedless nature which made it
actually or imminently dangerous to occupants, or to the rights or safety of others. It is driving
with such a high degree of negligence that if death were caused, the accused would have
committed involuntary manslaughter, at least. The condition of the surface on which the vehicle
is operated, the time of day or night, the traffic and the condition of the vehicle are often matters
of importance in the proof of an offense.
Roadway—A portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel,
exclusive of the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder even though persons riding bicycles, or other human
powered vehicles use such sidewalk, berm, or shoulder. A highway typically includes two or
more separate roadways. The term roadway as used herein, shall refer to any such roadway
separately, but not to all such roadways collectively. Roadway lanes are identified from the curb
to centerline.
Skaters—Individual operating roller skates, roller blades, skateboard and T-handled boards and
scooters. Motorized versions of the above (gas or electric powered) are prohibited on MAB
roads.
Sobriety Checkpoints—Sobriety checkpoints are based on crime trend and traffic enforcement
analysis, and are designed to protect the readiness, health and welfare of the installation. 35 SFS
personnel, as augmented by 35 FW units, conduct checks.
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                             21


U—Turn—Turning a vehicle on a roadway so as to go in the opposite direction whether done by
one continuous move or not.
Vehicle—Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
 22                                                     MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


                                            Attachment 2
                   REQUEST FOR NON-SOFA DRIVING PRIVILEGES

Figure A2.1. Request For Non-SOFA Driving Privileges
MEMORANDUM FOR 35 MSG/CC
                          35 SFS/S5PI
       FROM: Sponsor/Unit Assigned
SUBJECT: Request Approval of USFJ Form 4EJ Issuance for Non-SOFA Member
1. I would like to request the issuance of USFJ Form 4EJ for the following Non-SOFA member.
Explain reason for issuance (i.e. hardship due to illness, deployment, etc). If approved, the Non-
SOFA member will complete the local Traffic Safety Course II.
              Name             Passport #            State Side D/L &          Dates of Visit
                                                   International D/L #s
                                                 Add International D/L #
  John Doe                123456778                                         1 Apr – 30 Apr 13
                                                 only if issued.


2. If you have any questions, please contact me at DP 226-xxxx/HP xxx-xxxx or the 35th
Security Forces Squadron Pass and Registration office at 226-3995/2627.


                                                     Sponsor’s Signature Block

1st Ind, Section Commander/Unit Commander/Agency Chief

MEMORANDUM FOR 35 MSG/CC

Concur / Non-concur.

                                                     Unit Commander Signature Block

2nd Ind, 35 MSG/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/S5PI

Approved / Disapproved.

                                                     Signature block of
                                                     Commander, 35th Mission Support Group
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                     23


                                          Attachment 3
AUTHORIZATION TO USE MISAWA BASE FACILITIES/SERVICES AND ON BASE
                      DRIVING PRIVILEGES

Figure A3.1. Authorization to Use Misawa Base Facilities/Services and On Base Driving
Privileges
MEMORANDUM FOR 35 FSS/CC
                35 SFS/CC
                35 SFS/S-5/PI
                EXCHANGE/GM
                DECA/SM
FROM: 35 MSG/CC
SUBJECT: Authorization to Use Misawa Base Facilities/Services and On Base Driving
Privileges
1. Effective immediately, the following individual is authorized the use of Misawa Air Base
facilities and services as indicated in paragraph 3 below. This authorization is valid through
[date].

    Name                             Citizenship          Passport             DOB
    Ms Jane Smith                    US                   12345678             01-Jan-65
2. Ms Smith is the Bona Fide Guest (BFG) of her son, TSgt John Smith, 35 XXX. Additionally,
Ms Smith will be caring for TSgt Smith’s dependent children while TSgt Smith is TDY to
[location] for [reason].
3. Privileges:
   a. Ms. Smith is authorized use of Misawa Air Base facilities and services as a BFG IAW
Weasel NOTAM 35FW-XX-XX Base Privileges for Non-SOFA Personnel.
   b. In her role as caretaker for the qualified dependent children of TSgt Smith, Ms. Smith is
authorized to act as a purchasing agent. In particular, Ms. Smith may execute duty-free
shopping privileges (Commissary, Exchange, Exchange contractor services, gas station, FSS
retail & auto hobby activities, bazaars) on behalf of the qualified dependents of TSgt Smith.
   c. Upon successful completion of the Traffic Safety Course offered by the 35 FW Safety
Office, Ms. Smith is authorized to drive Y-plated vehicles ON-BASE ONLY IAW USFJI 31-205
para 2.1.3 and 2.1.4. TSgt Smith assumes sole responsibility to ensure all directives are
followed. This letter and the driving safety course completion certificate will serve as her
driving permit.
4. Please refer questions to the 35th Mission Support Group Deputy Commander at 226-3504.


                                                     Signature block of
                                                     Commander, 35th Mission Support Group
 24                                                  MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


                                        Attachment 4
      MISAWA TRAFFIC RULES/ POINTS/SUSPENSION/REVOCATION TABLE

Figure A4.1. Misawa Traffic Rules/Points/Suspension/Revocation Table
               Non-Moving Violations/Parking                    Suspension/Revocation
                        Violations                                    Offenses
  MTR #                      (Note 1)                  Points          (Note-6)
MTR-0001     Parking: In Excess of 72hrs                 2
             Parking: Unattended Motor Running
MTR-0002                                                 2
             (Note 9)
MTR-0003     Parking: Beyond Time Limit                  2
MTR-0004     Parking: In Reserved Parking Space          2
             Parking: In Handicapped Parking Space
MTR-0005                                                 3
             (no decal)
MTR-0006     Parking: In No Parking Area (sign)          2
             Parking: Obstructing the Flow of
MTR-0007                                                 2
             Traffic
             Parking: Beyond 12 inches from
MTR-0008                                                 2
             Curb/Road edge
             Parking: With Key in Vehicle
MTR-0009                                                 2
             Unattended
             Parking: During Snow Removal Period
MTR-0010                                                 2
             (sign)
MTR-0011     Parking: On Seeded Area                     2
             Parking: Area not Designated as a
MTR-0012                                                 2
             Parking Area
MTR-0013     Parking: On a Sidewalk                      2
             Parking: Blocking
MTR-0014                                                 2
             Driveway/Entrance/Exit
MTR-0015     Parking: Within 15 ft of Intersection       2
MTR-0016     Parking: Within 15 ft of Fire Hydrant       2
             Parking: Within 20 ft of Fire Station
MTR-0017                                                 2
             entrance/exit

MTR-0018                                                 2
             Parking: Within 15 ft of a Crosswalk
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                        25


                                                             Suspension/Revocation
                                                                   Offenses
 MTR #        Non-Moving Violations General         Points         (Note-6)
           Parking: Within 30 ft of school bus
MTR-0019                                              2
           stop
MTR-0020   Parking: Within Fire Lane                  2
MTR-0021   Parking: Against the Flow of Traffic       2
           Parking: Against Direction of Sign
MTR-0022                                              2
           and/or Device
MTR-0023   Misuse of handicap decal                   3
           GOJ Road Tax/Base Decal: failure to
MTR-0024                                              2
           display/maintain all required decals
MTR-0025   CB Radios: Use or possession               2
           Decal Placement: Failure to affix
MTR-0026   GOJ/Base decals to top front center of     2
           windshield
           JN Traffic Fines: Failure to Pay by
MTR-0027                                              0       30-Day Suspension
           Suspense
           Driving Without or with Expired
                                                             Subject to Suspension
MTR-0028   JCI/Liability Insurance
                                                                  See Note 10
           (Note 10)
           Licensing: failure to adhere to all
MTR-0029                                              0       30-Day Suspension
           licensing/permit requirements
           Offensive material: applied/painted or
MTR-0030                                              2
           affixed to motor vehicle
           Radar Detection Device: Use or
MTR-0031                                              3
           possession
           Rent/Lend a SOFA status vehicle to
MTR-0032                                              2
           non-SOFA status operator
           Unattended Child in Vehicle: (see
MTR-0033
           below)
MTR-0034   Newborn to 5 YOA: left unattended          0       180-Day Suspension
MTR-0035   6 to 12 YOA:                               6
MTR-0036   Animal Left in Vehicle (Note 2)            6
           Vehicle Registration: Failure to
MTR-0037                                              6
           Register/De-Register
26                                                    MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


           Non-Moving/Vehicle Equipment                        Suspension/Revocation
MTR #      Violations (Note 3)                        Points   Offenses(Note-6)
           Failure to Follow directions of
MTR-0038                                                  0         30-Day Suspension
           Fire/Police personnel
MTR-0039   Abandoned Vehicle                              3

           Fluids such as gasoline, oil, coolant and
MTR-0040   other operating fluids are prohibited     2
           from leaking from the vehicle
           License Plates: Covered or failure to
MTR-0041   mount so that they are not obscured,       2
           covered or tilted
           License Plates: Failure to securely
MTR-0042                                              2
           fastened
           License Plates: Failure to have front
MTR-0043                                              2
           and rear plates
           Major Vehicle Maintenance:
           Conducted in military family housing
           or the dormitory parking lots. Vehicle
MTR-0044   lifted by unapproved devices, with      2
           safety equipment in place to perform
           minor maintenance. Lifted vehicles left
           unattended.
MTR-0045   Seat belts not in working order            2
           Tinted Windows: Vehicle windows
           having a tint on the windshield and
MTR-0046                                              2
           driver’s or passenger’s front door
           window
           Tires: Failure to maintain 1/16 of an
MTR-0047                                              2
           inch of tread, with no defects
           Vehicle body parts to include bumpers
MTR-0048                                              2
           not permanently affixed
           Vehicle Exhaust: Nonoperational,
           extending past the rear bumper or
           discharge exhaust emission left, right,
           or downward. The exhaust pipe not
MTR-0049                                              2
           extending to the rear and at more than a
           30-degree angle from a perpendicular
           line. Muffler lower than 9 centimeters
           to the ground
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                          27


           Non-Moving/Vehicle Equipment                        Suspension/Revocation
MTR #      Violations (Note 3)                        Points   Offenses(Note-6)
           Vehicle Exhaust: emitting excessive
MTR-0050                                              2
           exhaust or smoke or noise
           Vehicle lighting/turn signals:
MTR-0051   Nonoperational or not working as           2
           intended
           Vehicle Modification: Operating motor
           vehicle with its length, width, or height
           exceeding those designated on the
MTR-0052   current inspection certificate. Height    2
           adjustments or fender flares on 52, 53,
           54, 58, 77, 78, 500, 501, 502 plate
           series
MTR-0053   Unsafe Vehicle/load                        2
           Vehicle seats not designed for
MTR-0054   automobile use or not permanently          2
           attached in the proper location
           Vehicle Standards: Vehicle not
           operated in compliance with the
           manufacturer’s operating standards;
           lighting, braking, steering or safety
MTR-0055   systems non-operational or not meeting     2
           all of the manufacturer’s standards.
           Modifications to vehicles not meeting
           or exceeding the manufacturer’s
           standards
           Vehicle Windows/Windshields: Failure
MTR-0056   to maintain as operational/free of         2
           defects
           Windshield Wipers: Will be operational
MTR-0057   and able to clear rain from the        2
           windshield
MTR-0058   Breaking Traction/Excessive speed              3
           Child Safety Seat Requirements: (Note
MTR-0059
           4)
           Child under 4 years of age and any
           child less than 50 pounds (regardless of
MTR-0060                                                  4
           age) not secured in an appropriate child
           restraint system
28                                                     MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


                                                                 Suspension/Revocation
                     Moving Violations                                 Offenses
 MTR #                     (Note 3)                     Points          (Note-6)
           Children ages 4 through 7, weighing
           over 50 pounds and less than 4 feet 9
MTR-0061   inches shall be secured in a booster seat      4
           or other appropriate child restraint
           system
           Children ages 8 and above and no less
           than 4 feet 9 inches in height will be
MTR-0062                                                  2
           properly secured in a vehicle seat belt
           or booster seat.
           Child restraint system used/installed
MTR-0063                                                  2
           improperly
           Driver involved in accident is deemed
MTR-0064   responsible (only added to points              1
           assessed for specific offenses)
           Driving vehicle in violation of
MTR-0065                                                  3
           licensing restriction/endorsement
           Driving with expired license (USFJI
MTR-0066                                                  3
           Form 4EJ)
           Driving without an issued license
           (USFJI Form 4EJ) (suspension will
MTR-0067   begin on the first day they would              0        30-Day Suspension
           normally become eligible for a license,
           if one has not been issued)
           DUI-Driving Under the                                 1-Year Revocation (P)
MTR-0068   Influence=0.08% or greater                     0
                                                                        (Note 5)
           DWI-Driving While Impaired=0.05%                      180-Day Suspension (P)
MTR-0069   but less than 0.08%                            0
                                                                        (Note 5)
           DWDI-Driving While Drinking
                                                                 12-Hour Suspension (P)
MTR-0070   Indicated (OFF BASE)                           0
                                                                        (Note 5)
           0.03% but less than 0.049%
           Failure of operator or occupants to use                 30-Day Suspension
           available restraint system devices while
MTR-0071   moving (operator assessed points)              0
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                              29


                                                                   Suspension/Revocation
                     Moving Violations                                   Offenses
 MTR #                     (Note 3)                     Points            (Note-6)
           Failure to obey traffic
           signals/instructions of an enforcement
           officer or traffic warden; or any official
MTR-0072   regulatory traffic sign/device requiring       4
           a full stop or yield of right of way;
           denying entry; or requiring direction of
           traffic
MTR-0073   Failure to report an accident                  0           30-Day Suspension
           Failure to stop for school bus or
MTR-0074                                                  0           30-Day Suspension
           school–crossing signals
           Failure to wear an approved helmet,
           PPE and/or reflective vest while
           operating or riding on a motorcycle,
MTR-0075                                                  3
           MOPED, or a three or four–wheel
           vehicle powered by a motorcycle–like
           engine
           Failure to yield (no official sign
MTR-0076                                                  4
           involved)
           Failure to yield right of way to
MTR-0077                                                  4
           emergency vehicle
           Failure to yield to pedestrians in
MTR-0078                                                  3
           designated walkway/crosswalk
           Fleeing or attempting to elude police                 1-Year Revocation (P) (Note
MTR-0079                                                  0
                                                                 5)
           Fleeing the scene of an accident
MTR-0080                                                  0           1-Year Revocation
           (property damage only)
MTR-0081   Following too close                            4
MTR-0082   Improper Overtaking                            3
MTR-0083   Improper Passing                               4
           Improper turning movements (no
MTR-0084                                                  3
           official sign involved)
           National Anthem: Failure to stop while
MTR-0085                                                  3
           anthem is playing

MTR-0086   Noise Restrictions: emitting any type of       3
           sound/music beyond 20 ft from the
30                                                   MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


           vehicle
                                                                  Suspension/Revocation
                     Moving Violations                                  Offenses
 MTR #                     (Note 3)                   Points             (Note-6)


           Open alcohol container in passenger
MTR-0087                                                0          180-Day Suspension
           compartment
MTR-0088   Operating an unsafe vehicle                  2
           Owner knowingly and willfully
MTR-0089   permitting an impaired person to             0          180-Day Suspension
           operate the owner’s motor vehicle
           Random Anti-Terrorism Measures:
MTR-0090                                                3
           failure to comply
           Reckless driving (willful/wanton
MTR-0091   disregard for safety of persons or           0           1-Year Revocation
           property)
           Refusal to submit to a random
MTR-0092   antiterrorism measure/base entry point       0           30-Day Suspension
           inspection
           Speed contests: Participating in a
MTR-0093                                                6
           speed contest or race
           Sobriety Check Point: Circumventing
MTR-0094                                                6
           or avoiding
MTR-0095   Speed too fast for conditions                2
           Speed too slow causing potential safety
MTR-0096                                                2
           hazard
           Speeding 1 to 16 KPH over posted
MTR-0097                                                3
           speed limit
           Speeding 17-24 KPH over posted
MTR-0098                                                4
           speed limit
           Speeding 25-32 KPH over posted
MTR-0099                                                5
           speed limit
           Speeding 33 KPH over posted speed
MTR-0100                                                0           1-Year Revocation
           limit
           School zone violation enhancement                   Subject to suspension see
MTR-0101                                                0
           (Note 6)                                            notes
MTR-0102   Traction control devices (15 Nov – 31        3
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                      31


               Mar or winter months as directed by 35
               FW/CC): Failure to use proper traction
               devices (four snow tires, all weather
               tires, or tire chains when directed
               Use of Cellular Phone/Device: Talking                           Suspension:
               or texting messaging while operating a                      1st offense 30 days
MTR-0103       Motor Vehicle is prohibited (Note-7)            0
                                                                         Subsequent Violations:
                                                                                 180 days
               Wearing of headphones/earphones
MTR-0104       while driving a motor vehicles (In both         3
               ears)
               Winter Operations: Snow and ice must
MTR-0105       be cleared from the vehicle windows,            3
               hood, roof and trunk area
               Winter Operations; Failure to comply
MTR-0106                                                       3
               with snow removal operations/signs
               Failure to utilize headlights while
               operating or riding on a motorcycle,
MTR-0107                                                       2
               MOPED, or a three–wheel vehicle
               powered by a motorcycle–like engine
               Failure to have proper equipment on
MTR-0108       two-wheel vehicle (i.e. two rear-view           2
               mirrors)
NOTES:
1. Emergency response vehicle are exempt, when on official business.
2. Animals left in dangerous conditions in vehicle, i.e., hot weather where interior temperatures
may reach dangerous levels, or where conditions are deemed hazardous by a reasonable person.
3. Two Points will only be assessed for Vehicle Equipment violations if the operator/owners fail
to correct the discrepancy within 72 hours or by the approved extension date.
4. Applies to not using or when child restraint system is improperly installed, i.e., car seat, infant
carrier, booster seat, belt/strap modification (when required by manufacturer), etc. Assess four
points when no restraint system of any kind is used.
5. (P) indicates the violator will be issued a Preliminary Suspension by Security Forces at the
time of the incident; with concurrence of the 35 MSG/CC, the suspension will take effect
immediately.
6. School zone violation enhancement suspension penalties:
       Speeding 17-24 KPH over posted speed limit: 30-Day Suspension
       Speeding 25-32 KPH over posted speed limit: 60-Day Suspension
 32                                                     MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


7. Emergency vehicle operators are exempt when cell phone use is conjunction with their official
duties. All Suspension/Revocation periods are maximum and not to exceed the period indicated,
however the MSG/CC may reduce the suspension/revocation period as he/she sees fit based on
the totality of the circumstances.
8. Emergency vehicle operators are exempt when cell phone use is conjunction with their official
duties.
9. During winter periods, vehicles may be left running unoccupied outside of personal residence
for no more than 20 minutes to warm up the engine prior to operating. Operators are responsible
for the safety and to ensure vehicles are secured at all times when they are not with the vehicle.
Vehicle operators are prohibited from leaving a vehicle running while entering a facility to
conduct business (i.e. stopping at the Shoppette, Post Office, etc.).
10. Driving Without or with Expired JCI/Liability Insurance. Owner/Sponsor will receive:
       45 days or greater: 6-Month Suspension
       6 to 44 days: 1-Month Suspension
       5 days or less: 3 Points
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                           33


                                             Attachment 5
                    SAMPLE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION LETTER

Figure A5.1. Sample Suspension Or Revocation Letter
MEMORANDUM FOR 35 UNIT
ATTENTION: A1C JOHN DOE
FROM: 35 MSG/CC

SUBJECT: Suspension of Driving Privileges for Driving without Liability Insurance

1. On xx xxx xx, you were cited for Driving without Liability Insurance. This was your first ticket within
a 12 month period, reference ticket #XXXXXXXX. IAW AFMAN 31-116, USFJI 31-205, and MABI
31-116, your driving privileges are suspended for a period of xx days. You are not allowed to drive any
motor vehicle, including those licensed and registered under the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) or
Government Operated Vehicle (GOV) during the duration of the suspension. This suspension will begin
in 14 calendar days after receipt of this letter unless you intend to submit a rebuttal (Paragraph 2). You
must surrender your USFJ Form 4EJ Operator’s Permit for Civilian Vehicle the day the suspension period
begins.
2. You may request a hearing regarding this action. Your written request must be received by 35
SFS/S5RA within 14 calendar days after you receive this letter. If your request is received on time, this
suspension will not take effect until the completion of the hearing process. (Exception: preliminary
suspensions will remain in effect during the appeal/review process). If a hearing is not requested, the
suspension will take effect in 14 calendar days after receipt of this letter. At a hearing, you may only
present matters regarding whether your driving privileges should be suspended and the length of the
suspension. You may, at your own expense, present witnesses and be represented by counsel or other
representatives. DOD civilian employees may have a personal representative present at the administrative
hearing IAW applicable laws and regulations.
3. Under certain conditions you may be allowed restricted driving privileges. All requests for restricted
driving privileges must be submitted in writing to 35 SFS/S5RA and must include a statement that your
license has not been suspended or revoked by state, federal, or Japanese licensing authorities. Your
commander must submit or endorse all requests for restricted driving privileges. For further guidance on
the restricted driving requests, refer to MABI 31-116.
4. In accordance with MABI 31-116, all requests for full reinstatement of driving privileges must be
endorsed by the respective unit commander or first sergeant and show proof of attendance at one of the
programs below. If the individual fails to complete the required courses, their suspension or revocation of
installation driving privileges will be extended until completion.
   a. Completion of Course V, Driver Improvement Course


   b. Members who committed a DUI, DWI, or DWDI infraction must complete a substance abuse
   program through the 35 MDG (exception: civilians are encouraged to attend, but not required).
 34                                                          MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013



5. Personnel who have their driving privileges suspended/revoked for 1 year or more will de-register their
vehicle with the Pass and Registration section within 3 duty days of the offense and remove the vehicle
from the installation.




                                                          Signature block of the
                                                          Commander, 35th Mission Support Group

1st Ind to 35 MSG/CC, Suspension of Driving Privileges for Driving without Liability Insurance
A1C JOHN DOE
MEMORANDUM FOR 35 MSG/CC
Receipt acknowledged. I do / do not request a hearing in regards to the action taken against me
in the matters of case #XXXXXXXXXX. I do / do not waive my right to the 14 calendar days
until my suspension/revocation begins, and request that my suspension/revocation start earlier on
_____________.

I understand I may only present matters regarding whether my driving privileges should be suspended or
revoked and the time for the suspension or revocation. I also understand I may present witnesses and be
represented by counsel at my own expense.
I understand that any violation of this suspension/revocation or any violation of restricted driving
privileges under this suspension/revocation is punishable under Article 92 of the UCMJ (Failure to Obey
a Lawful Order or Regulation), and will result in a mandatory two year revocation of driving privileges
IAW AFI 31-218.
___________________________________ _______________ ________________
Signature                                   Duty phone         Date acknowledged
Memo for Record:
This letter was served by ____________________________________/S5RA on _____________.
START: _____________________
END: _______________________
REINSTATE: ________________
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                     35


                                           Attachment 6
                       REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW

Figure A6.1. Request For Administrative Review

MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/CC
                          35 SFS/S5RA
FROM: Individual Who Received the Suspension
SUBJECT: Administrative Review Request
1. The Individual must indicate all the reasons for discussing the length, cancellation or
extenuating circumstances of the suspension. This memorandum and suspension letter will be
processed by 35 SFS/S5RA and sent to the 35 SFS/CC and 35 MSG/CC for action.
2. After receiving action from 35 MSG/CC, 35 SFS/S5RA will notify the unit CCF of action.
3. Please note the letter must be written in this format. If you have further questions, please
contact 35 SFS/S5RA at 226-2241.


                                                      Requestor’s Signature Block


1st Ind, Section Commander/Unit Commander/Agency Chief


MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/S5RA


Concur/Non-concur.


                                                      Unit Commander
                                                      Signature Block

NOTE: Administrative reviews are paperwork only (i.e. statements, justification for
cancellation of suspension/revocation, etc.) unless the 35 MSG/CC determines an in-person
hearing is necessary to address specific suspensions or revocations. The violator will not
physically appear before the 35 MSG/CC.
 36                                                    MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


                                         Attachment 7
                       REQUEST FOR DRIVER REINSTATEMENT

Figure A7.1. Request for Driver Reinstatement

MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/S5RA
FROM: Unit CC/CCF
SUBJECT: Reinstatement of Driving Privileges

1. Request the driving privileges of SSgt John A. Doe be reinstated. He/she has completed all
requirements for reinstatement.
   Course V, Driver Improvement Course, Date: ____________.
2. For any questions please call 226-xxxx.




                                                   SIGNATURE BLOCK
                                                   Unit CC/CCF
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                37


                                          Attachment 8
    LIMITED OR RESTRICTED POV DRIVING PRIVILEGES REQUEST LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/S5RA
FROM: Self-Explanatory
SUBJECT: Request for Limited Driving Privileges for A1C John Doe, 35 SFS/XXXXX
Must also fill out limited Driving Proposal. (Refer to Attachment 9).
1. Request restricted driving privileges for the following reasons:
  a. Mission Essential: Rank Name current duty schedule is rotating swings and midnight shifts.
He or she is a hostage negotiator and is on 24-hour call. Limited driving privileges will allow
him to respond to emergency hostage situations on base.
  b. Family Hardship: A1C John/Jane Doe is a single parent and resides off base. He or she has
two school age children that have a skin infection requiring weekly hospital appointments for 2
months. Limited driving privileges will allow him to provide medical care for his children.
   c. If authorized, Rank Name will use the following vehicle: 1988 white Mazda four-door,
license plate number H XXX Y XXXX.
  d. Route of Travel (be specific). The only authorized stop will be Elementary School
(Specify), base gas station and the base hospital for emergency purposes only.
2. Rank Name has attended the substance abuse alcohol program for individuals involved in an
intoxicated (drug or alcohol) motor vehicle incident and/or Course V (Defensive Driver
Improvement) (if applicable).
3. Rank Name, license has not been revoked or suspended by State, Federal or Japanese
authorities.
4. If you have any questions please contact me at xxx-xxxx.


                                                     Requestor’s Signature Block

1st Ind, First Sergeant/Section Commander/Unit Commander/Agency Chief

MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/S5RA

Concur/Non-concur.

                                                     Unit Commander/Agency Chief
                                                     Signature Block

NOTE: The Requestor Will:
Use organizational letterhead.
Identify the vehicle to be driven.
 38                                                          MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


The location and occasion in which the vehicle can be driven.
Specify the driving privileges that are mission essential.
Individuals will only be able to drive to and from these facilities:
Base hospital for emergencies
Base gas station
Commissary/BX
Work
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                       39


                                           Attachment 9
                            POV LIMITED DRIVING PROPOSAL

Figure A9.1. POV Limited Driving Proposal
MEMORANDUM FOR Unit

ATTENTION: SRA JOHN A. DOE

FROM: 35 MSG/CC

SUBJECT: Limited Driving Privileges Results

1. Request for limited POV driving privileges is approved/disapproved.

2. Privileges are granted to the following areas:

Work: From/To Work (Bldg 90)

       Duty Hours: 24 hrs. (Shift Work Schedule)
       Allowed Hours __________ Gas Station: North side/Main Base/Both

Additional Areas: (Base Hospital, Post Office, Off-base -- Residence Address, etc.)

If you reside off-base, you may enter the base via the following gates:                 (When
driving off-base, you must take the most direct route to your residence; you are not allowed to
drive to any other locations outside of MAB)

3. You may operate the following vehicle only POV: 1995 Silver Toyota Aristo, 300Y-4709

4. These privileges may be withdrawn and the original suspension or revocation action
continued should you violate these restrictions, be found at fault in a traffic accident, or cited for
a moving violation.


                                                    Signature block of the
                                                    Commander, 35th Mission Support Group
 40                                                      MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


                                          Attachment 10
      LIMITED OR RESTRICTED GOV DRIVING PRIVILEGES REQUEST LETTER

Figure A10.1. Limited or Restricted GOV Driving Privileges Request Letter
MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/S5RA

FROM: Self-Explanatory

SUBJECT: Request GOV Limited Driving Privileges for A1C John Doe, 35 SFS/XXXXX
Must also fill out limited Driving Proposal. (Refer to Attachment 11).

1. Request restricted driving privileges for the following reasons:

  a. Mission Essential: Rank Name current duty schedule is rotating swings and midnight shifts.
He or she is a hostage negotiator and is on 24-hour call. Limited driving privileges will allow
him to respond to emergency hostage situations on base.

  b. Family Hardship: A1C John/Jane Doe is a single parent and resides off base. He or she has
two school age children that have a skin infection requiring weekly hospital appointments for 2
months. Limited driving privileges will allow him to provide transportation for his children’s
medical care.

   c. If authorized Rank Name will use the following vehicle: 1988 white Mazda four-door,
license plate number HXXX Y XXXX.

  d. Route of Travel (be specific). The only authorized stop will be Elementary School
(Specify), base gas station and the base hospital for emergency purposes only.

2. Rank Name has attended the substance abuse alcohol program for individuals involved in an
intoxicated (drug or alcohol) motor vehicle incident and/or Course V (Defensive Driver
Improvement) (if applicable).

3. Rank Name, license has not been revoked or suspended by State, Federal or Japanese
authorities.

4. If you have any questions please contact me at xxx-xxxx.




                                                     Requestor’s Signature Block
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                         41



1st Ind, First Sergeant/Section Commander/Unit Commander/Agency Chief, Date

MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/S5RA

Concur/Non-concur.
                                                        Unit Commander/Agency Chief
                                                        Signature Block

NOTE: The Requestor Will:
Use organizational letterhead.
Identify the vehicle to be driven.
The location and occasion in which the vehicle can be driven.
Specify the driving privileges that are mission essential.
Individuals will only be able to drive to and from these facilities:
Base hospital for emergencies
Base gas station
Commissary/BX
Work
 42                                                        MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


                                           Attachment 11
                            GOV LIMITED DRIVING PROPOSAL

Figure A11.1. GOV Limited Driving Proposal

MEMORANDUM FOR Unit
ATTENTION: SRA JOHN A. DOE
FROM: 35 MSG/CC
SUBJECT: GOV Limited Driving Privileges Results
1. Request for limited GOV driving privileges is approved/disapproved.
2. Privileges are granted to the following areas: On/Off base.


3. These privileges may be withdrawn and the original suspension or revocation action
continued should you violate these restrictions, be found at fault in a traffic accident, or cited for
a moving violation.




                                                       Signature block of the
                                                       Commander, 35th Mission Support Group
MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013                                                                     43


                                          Attachment 12
                      REBUTTAL OF TRAFFIC CITATION FORMAT

Figure A12.1. Rebuttal Of Traffic Citation Format


MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/CC
FROM: Individual Who Received Traffic Ticket
SUBJECT: Rebuttal of Traffic Ticket
1. The violator must draft a memorandum specifically citing evidence that disproves the validity
of the ticket within 10 duty days of receipt of the violation. The memorandum and the original
copy of the ticket in question (white copy) will be forwarded to 35 SFS/S5RA for processing.
2. Please note the letter must be written in this format. If you have further questions, please
contact 35 SFS/S5RA at 226-2241.



                                                      Requestor’s Signature Block

1st Ind, Section Commander/Unit Commander/Agency Chief

MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/S5RA

Concur/Non-concur.

                                                      Unit Commander
                                                      Signature Block
 44                                                       MISAWAABI31-116 1 AUGUST 2013


                                          Attachment 13
           REQUEST FOR RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE FORMAT

Figure A13.1. Request for Release of Impounded Vehicle Format
MEMORANDUM FOR 35 SFS/S2I
FROM: Name of Requestor
SUBJECT: Request for Release of Impounded Vehicle
1. My privately owned vehicle was impounded on (date) in connection with a case of (DUI/DWI,
expired JCI, expired road tax, reckless driving, illegal parking, abandonment, or other criminal
activity.). The vehicle is a (year, color, make, model and license plate number).
2. My command has taken final action on this incident; likewise, final disposition has been
completed with the Wing Traffic Review Officer (if applicable).
3. (REQUESTER WILL USE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPHS)
My driving privileges were not suspended or revoked, so I request the vehicle be turned over to
me. Or insert the appropriate: My driving privileges were suspended for less than 6 months;
therefore, I request my vehicle be released into the custody of (full name, rank, and social
security number [SSN]).
My driving privileges were revoked for 6 months or more; therefore, I am going to de-register,
sell, or dispose of my vehicle. I request release of the registration and title papers so I can
accomplish deregistration or title transfer.


                                                      Requestor’s Signature Block

FROM: Unit Commander, First Sergeant, or Agency Chief
TO: 35 SFS/S2I
1. Forwarded recommending approval/disapproval.
2. Final action has been taken on this case, and there is no further need to hold the vehicle.


                                              Unit Commander/First Sergeant/Agency Chief
                                              Signature Block
NOTE: Utilize organizational letterhead.
