BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          MOODY AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
MOODY AIR FORCE BASE                                                          48-101

                                                                                      11 MAY 2011

                                                                               Aerospace Medicine

                                                            ANIMAL CONTROL AND DISEASE
                                                                           PREVENTION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the E-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 23 AMDS/SGPM                                                        Certified by: 23 MDG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Mark A. Koppen)
Supersedes:    MAFBI 48-101, dated 26                                                      Pages: 8
               Mar 09


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine
Program, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 48-131, Veterinary Health Services. It establishes
local policy and prescribes procedures concerning the possession and control of animals at
Moody Air Force Base (MAFB) as well as measures necessary to protect the health and safety of
personnel and animals on this base. The privilege of maintaining a privately owned animal on
this base is dependent on the animal's continuing ability to live harmoniously within the military
community. The base commander may withdraw this privilege if the owner fails to comply with
this instruction. This instruction was instituted to reflect the standards for identification, health
and behavior of personally owned animals residing on base. This instruction requires collecting
and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3013,
Secretary of the Army; Army Regulation 40-905, Veterinary Health Services; and E.O. 9397
(SSN). System of records notice A0040-905 DASG applies. Each form that is subject to the
provisions of AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, required by this publication, contains a Privacy
Act Statement, either incorporated in the body of the document or in a separate statement
accompanying each document. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in the publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records      Disposition    Schedule     (RDS)      located     at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
 2                                                           MOODYAFBI 48-101 11 MAY 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include removal of all references to government military family housing.
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Pet owners must become familiar and comply with this instruction.
     1.2. The Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF) and the Veterinary Services Chief are located
     in Building 111, and directs all animal health programs on base through the Base
     Commander.
     1.3. Injured wild, stray or privately owned animals will be captured by 23 CE/Pest
     Management. If required, animals will be taken to the VTF for treatment and/or quarantine.
     Pest Management will arrange transportation of animal to the Lowndes County Animal
     Shelter (LCAS) for disposition and/or disposal during normal duty hours.
     1.4. Base Civil Engineering (BCE) takes action to control insect and arthropod vectors
     capable of transmitting diseases. Additionally, BCE is responsible for retrieving and
     disposing of dead animals with the exception of family pets. No cat, dog, bat, fox, raccoon,
     skunk, or any other rabies disease reservoirs found dead on base will be disposed of without
     prior consent of the Veterinary Services Chief, with the exception of animal deaths caused by
     traffic accidents.
     1.5. The Public Health Office coordinates all animal bite reporting procedures with the
     Veterinary Services Chief to include monitoring quarantine actions.
     1.6. The Housing Management Branch (23 CES/CEH) is responsible for providing a copy of
     this instruction to each military sponsor occupying government owned and privatized
     quarters/housing.
     1.7. Exclusion Clause:
        1.7.1. Military Family Housing considered privatized housing is no longer deemed part
        of the base and is not subject to policies that are published in this instruction unless
        agreed upon by the private owner.
        1.7.2. All residents, civilian and military, are required to follow local laws and policies
        established by Privatized Military Housing that govern animal control to include
        microchipping and are required to follow the local city, county, and state ordnances.
        1.7.3. Military members have a choice to have pets seen at the base veterinarian’s office.
        1.7.4. LCAS requires all pet owners to keep current/update registration information for
        their pets. Pet owners must tag pets (3 months or older) if they have received their rabies
        vaccination.
2. Terms Explained:
     2.1. Pet Animal. In this instruction, a pet (companion) animal is defined as any canine,
     feline, ferret, bird, fish, domesticated rabbit or caged pet (hamster, gerbil, rat, mouse, guinea
     pig, etc.) of commonly acceptable size which can be properly and adequately maintained,
     housed and cared for on base. Animals not included in this definition, and thus not permitted
MOODYAFBI 48-101 11 MAY 2011                                                                    3


   to be housed on base, include horses, general farm animals including pot-bellied pigs, and
   ALL wild animals (skunks, raccoons, nonhuman primates, foxes, squirrels, coyotes, wolves,
   wolf-hybrids, etc.). Any animal not specifically mentioned above will be kept only at the
   discretion of the Veterinary Services Chief.
   2.2. Rabies Suspect. Any wild or domesticated animal capable of transmitting rabies
   implicated in the bite or scratch of a human, regardless of vaccine status.
3. Procedures:
   3.1. Registration, Immunization and Microchipping:
      3.1.1. All dogs and cats maintained on government owned quarters will be registered
      with the VTF within 14 days of arrival on base or after acquisition. For specific
      requirements concerning pets in base privatized housing, refer to The Landings at
      Moody’s pet policy.
      3.1.2. For pets registered with the VTF, written documentation of rabies vaccination is
      required and must be presented at the time of registration. Use DD Form 2208, Rabies
      Vaccination Certificate; National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians
      (NASPHV) Form 51, Rabies Vaccination Certificate or an equivalent form. An
      appointment will be made with the VTF or an off-base veterinarian to have the required
      vaccinations administered, if the vaccination status is not current or the animal is too
      young. Pet registration (and subsequently the ability to buy products from the veterinary
      treatment facility) expires when the rabies vaccination expires. It is the responsibility of
      the owner to know when vaccinations expire.
      3.1.3. Multivalent distemper vaccines are strongly recommended for both dogs and cats
      to provide maximum protection against viral and bacterial diseases. A need for
      additional vaccines can be determined on a case by case basis.
      3.1.4. Microchipping is MANDATORY for all cats and dogs registered at the VTF. The
      pet owner must present proof of microchipping at the time of registration. Pet owners
      must make an appointment, with either the VTF or an off-base veterinarian, to have this
      service performed for any animals that have not yet received a microchip. Microchipping
      is essential to allow lost animals to be returned to their owners, and to prevent the
      unlawful abandonment of animals on base. Owners are responsible for assuring that the
      contact information associated with the microchip is kept accurate.
   3.2. Care and Control of the Animal. The privilege of pet ownership on base is contingent
   on the pet owner’s ability to adhere to the following conditions:
      3.2.1. Owners must ensure that their animals are adequately housed, fed, watered and
      humanely cared for. Cruel or injurious mistreatment, abandonment and/or neglect are
      prohibited.
      3.2.2. Owners must prevent their animal from becoming a nuisance or menace to other
      persons, animals, or property on base. A "nuisance" is defined as "that which causes
      trouble, annoyance (e.g., prolonged barking or howling) or causes damage to private or
      public property." All animals will be controlled to prevent them from biting or causing
      injury to people or other animals.
4                                                     MOODYAFBI 48-101 11 MAY 2011


    3.2.3. Owners will ensure their pet is leashed at all times when exercising or walking the
    animal off the owner's assigned premises -- there is no exception to this policy.
    3.2.4. Owners must clean up animal waste immediately to prevent a breeding ground for
    flies and disease organisms. This will also protect children from coming into contact
    with fecal material that may contain dangerous parasites. Owners must also prevent their
    animals from urinating on and damaging shrubs, flowers, grass or other materials in the
    occupant's area of responsibility or any other government property.
    3.2.5. Owners must ensure that female pets in heat are kept confined except when
    exercised on a leash and under direct supervision of an adult.
    3.2.6. Owners must make sure their animal(s) wear a collar or harness bearing the
    current rabies tag number. Replacements for lost or stolen tags must be obtained at the
    VTF, 257-3312.
    3.2.7. Owners must assist in obtaining immediate medical attention for persons bitten,
    scratched or injured by their pet.
    3.2.8. Owners must abide by published quarantine procedures (see paragraph 6.2).
    3.2.9. Owners may not breed animals for sale on or off base. The MAFB veterinary
    treatment facility will not provide services for animals bred for profit, including
    accidental litters. However, kittens and puppies that will be kept by the military sponsor
    can receive full veterinary services. False claims of ownership will result in permanent
    denial of military veterinary services and possibly disciplinary action.
    3.2.10. Owners must clear through the VTF and obtain the health records of their
    animals upon relocation/reassignment from MAFB, transfer or termination of pet
    ownership.
    3.2.11. Owners may not permit animals in the following buildings or activities:
       3.2.11.1. Medical buildings (except the VTF, as part of an official pet therapy
       program, or service animals).
       3.2.11.2. Food service facilities.
       3.2.11.3. Base Exchange or Commissary facilities.
       3.2.11.4. Recreation Center, clubs and swimming pools.
       3.2.11.5. Theaters.
       3.2.11.6. Barber and beauty shops.
       3.2.11.7. Dormitories (except fish).
       3.2.11.8. Any other place where pet animals may create a nuisance and/or health
       hazard.
    3.2.12. Guide dogs/assistance dogs accompanying patrons or military working dogs in
    performance of their duties are permitted anywhere their patrons are authorized so long
    as they are under control.
MOODYAFBI 48-101 11 MAY 2011                                                                   5


   3.3. Housing of Animals:
       3.3.1. Animals cannot be housed in dormitories, transient quarters or work areas.
       However, caged small animals, caged birds and fish may be kept unless their presence
       leads to disruption of neighbors or destruction of property.
           3.3.1.1. The owners must assure their pets do not accidentally injure other people or
           animals or become a nuisance to the community. Dogs and cats will not be left out-
           of-doors attached by any means to anything unattended nor housed in garages or
           storage areas.
       3.3.2. Moody AFB recreational areas.       Out-of-doors housing of pet animals is not
       permitted in these areas.
4. Prohibited Acts. The following incidents are cause for disciplinary action to be taken against
the offender:
   4.1. Leaving any animal unattended in any vehicle parked on base in a manner which
   threatens the life or well-being of the animal.
   4.2. Ill-treating, tormenting, overworking or otherwise abusing an animal.
   4.3. Willfully using any known toxic substances in areas accessible to animals.
   4.4. Repeatedly provoking or antagonizing an animal.
   4.5. Failure to discharge the responsibilities of a pet owner as specified in paragraphs 3.1.,
   3.2. and 3.3.
   4.6. Discarding of pets (alive or deceased) that have been involved in a human bite or
   scratch incident in the previous 10 days.
   4.7. Maintenance of wild animals as defined in paragraph 2.1.
5. Removal of Animals from Privatized Housing. Refer to The Landings at Moody pet
policy.
6. Injuries Caused by Animals. Individuals bitten or scratched by an animal will report to
their Primary Care Manager at the 23rd Medical Group, or their civilian medical provider for
medical treatment. The attending medical officer is responsible for the treatment of the patient
and requesting quarantine action of the animal by Veterinary Services (initiate DD Form 2341,
Report of Animal Bite -- Potential Rabies Exposure).
   6.1. If the incident occurs on base, the pet owner will be located by Veterinary Services and
   the quarantine measures required will be described to them as stated below in Paragraph 6.2.
   If the animal involved is a stray, the 23 MDG must immediately notify the 23 SFS Control
   Center for capture and transportation of animal as outlined in Paragraph 1.3. If the incident
   occurs off-base, Veterinary Services will notify the LCAS or the Health Department which
   oversees the county that the bite occurred in, so that the Health Department may ensure a
   proper quarantine is initiated.
   6.2. Quarantine Action:
       6.2.1. Any animal kept on base identified as inflicting a bite and/or scratch wound on a
       human must be taken to the VTF for examination as soon as possible, but no later than 48
 6                                                         MOODYAFBI 48-101 11 MAY 2011


       hours following the incident. This is to determine whether an animal is showing signs
       consistent with rabies. When the bite/scratch occurs on a weekend or holiday, the animal
       will be taken for examination on the next duty day.
       6.2.2. If at the time of exam the animal shows no signs of rabies, the animal inflicting the
       bite will be placed on a 10-day home quarantine (10-day period starts from the date of the
       bite/scratch) and will be a rabies suspect for the duration of the quarantine period.
       6.2.3. At the initial examination, the veterinarian or veterinary technician will schedule
       the animal for future examination at the end of the 10-day quarantine. Failure to comply
       with home quarantine rules of scheduled examination by the VTF will result in
       mandatory 10-day quarantine at an approved civilian quarantine facility at the expense of
       the owner. Animals with expired rabies vaccinations will be given a rabies vaccination at
       the end of the 10-day quarantine period at the expense of the owner.
       6.2.4. Any pet animal that is bitten or scratched by a bat or by a wild carnivorous
       mammal which is not available for rabies testing, should be regarded as having been
       exposed to a rabid animal. Dogs and cats that are current on rabies vaccinations should
       be revaccinated immediately and placed on home quarantine for 30 days. If the pet is not
       vaccinated or current on rabies vaccination, it should be euthanized immediately and
       tested for rabies or confined under the observation of a civilian veterinarian for 30 days at
       the owner's expense.
       6.2.5. Military Working Dogs (MWD). MWD are a special case because their medical
       history of vaccination is firmly established and documented. In addition, chance of
       exposure to a rabid animal is extremely unlikely because MWD never spend time outside
       their kennels without being under direct supervision by their handler. MWD are also
       more likely to bite a person because they are trained specifically to do so. Therefore,
       when an MWD bites a suspect in the line of duty or their handler during the course of
       training, they are exempt from the 10-day rabies quarantine. If a MWD bites anyone
       while not under command to do so (i.e. “un-provoked”), including a Security Forces
       handler, they are subject to a 10-day “working” quarantine. A working quarantine is
       defined as quarantine from the general public which still allows for training and
       performance of basic duties. The dog can still perform all duties, as long as they are not
       exposed to the public. For example, the dog could still train one-on-one with its handler
       but could not perform gate duty which would expose the dog to the general public.
       6.2.6. The 23 SFS/820 BDG kennels will never be used to house stray animals. MWD
       handlers will never be utilized to capture, assist in capture, or assist in transportation of
       stray animals. MWD handlers will not conduct stray animal check for any reason.
       MWD vehicles will not be utilized for stray animal transport under any circumstance.
       Contact with other animals by MWD or their handlers are kept to absolute minimum to
       avoid spreading disease.
7. Stray Animals. Stray animals on base will be picked up by 23 CE/Pest Management and
transported to LCAS (commercial phone: 229-671-2760/2761). Any stray acquired as a result of
a bite incident will be transported to the base VTF for initial assessment and will be quarantined
for 10 days.
MOODYAFBI 48-101 11 MAY 2011                                                7



8. AdoptedForms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate
DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite--Potential Rabies Exposure
NASPHV Form 51, Rabies Vaccination Certificate.




                                         GARY W. HENDERSON, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 8                                                       MOODYAFBI 48-101 11 MAY 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 3 August 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005
AFI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29 August 2006
Army Regulation 40-905, Veterinary Health Services

Abbreviations and Acronyms
23 CES/CEH—-23rd Civil Engineering Squadron Housing Management Branch
23 SFS—-23rd Security Forces Squadron
BCE—-Base Civil Engineer
LCAS—-Lowndes County Animal Shelter
MAFB—-Moody Air Force Base
MWD—-Military Working Dogs
NASPHV—-National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians
VTF—-Veterinary Treatment Facility

Terms
Working Quarantine—Quarantine from the general public which still allows for training and
performance of basic duties
