BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              MOUNTAIN HOME AFB INSTRUCTION 90-201
366TH FIGHTER WING                                                                                                              2 APRIL 2007

                                                                                                                            Command Policy

                                                                                       EXERCISE EVALUATION PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                           www.w-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 366 FW/XP                                                         Certified by: 366 FW/XP (Lt Col Kevin W. Brown)
Supersedes MHAFBI 10-402, 9 June 2003, and                                                                   Pages: 23
           MHAFBI 90-202, 4 November 2004

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General--The Inspection
System. It further defines guidance contained in the following regulations: AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emer-
gency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations; AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and
Execution; AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events; and AFI 90-201 and ACC Supplement 1,
Inspector General Activities. This instruction establishes procedures and outlines responsibilities within
the 366th Fighter Wing (366 FW) not directly delineated within the parent instructions and is applicable
to all wing and associate units assigned to Mountain Home Air Force Base (MHAFB). Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in AFMAN 37-123 (to be replaced by AFMAN 33-363), Man-
agement of Records, are maintained in accordance with this manual, and are disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact
supporting records managers as required. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.
      1.     General. ......................................................................................................................    3
      2.     Exercise Types: ..........................................................................................................         3
      3.     Exercise Evaluation Team (EET): .............................................................................                     4
      4.     Exercise Development: ..............................................................................................               8
      5.     Exercise Execution: ...................................................................................................           11
      6.     Exercise Reporting: ....................................................................................................          12
      7.     Compliance Inspections: ............................................................................................              13
      8.     Antiterrorism/Force Protection ..................................................................................                 15
      9.     Forms Prescribed/Adopted: .......................................................................................                 16

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                17
2                                      MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


Attachment 2— 366 FW EET COMPOSITION                                    20

Attachment 3— SAMPLE EET MEMBER APPOINTMENT LETTER                      23
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                                       3


1. General. 366 FW must be properly trained and prepared for any operational requirements or contin-
gencies such as deployments, employment in-theater, major accidents, natural disasters, severe weather,
and terrorist activity. To be ready, wing personnel must train, exercise, and be evaluated against specific
standards. Wing Plans and Programs, Deployments, and Assessments Office (366 FW/XP) is in place to
ensure the wing’s exercise evaluation program adequately prepares wing personnel by coordinating a
wing exercise schedule, staffing and training an Exercise Evaluation Team (EET), and executing exer-
cises and inspections.

2. Exercise Types:
   2.1. Phase I Deployment Operational Readiness Exercise (ORE). Evaluates the wing’s ability to
   respond to a Prepare to Deploy Order (PTDO) and a Deployment Order (DEPORD). Phase I tests the
   wing’s ability to deploy equipment, personnel, and cargo in support of operations that the wing would
   typically be called upon to support. Phase I OREs are developed and executed IAW AFI 10-403,
   Deployment Planning and Execution, and the wing’s Installation Deployment Plan. Evaluation crite-
   ria are IAW Addendum A of ACC Supplement 1 to AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities. A
   Phase I can be conducted as a stand-alone exercise, or combined with a Phase II Employment ORE.
   2.2. Phase II Employment ORE. Evaluates the wing’s ability to accomplish the mission in a war-
   time environment. Phase II OREs include surge sortie rates and 24-hour operations under constant
   threat of enemy attack. Possible hostile actions against an airbase include chemical, biological, radio-
   logical, nuclear and high-yield explosives (CBRNE) and information warfare attacks through various
   methods such as ballistic missiles, aircraft, special operations forces and terrorists. Planning and sce-
   nario development are based on the wing’s subordinate units’ Designed Operational Capability
   (DOC) statements. A Phase II can be conducted as a stand-alone exercise, or combined with a Phase
   I Deployment ORE.
   2.3. Emergency Management Exercise (EME). An EME evaluates the wing’s ability to respond to
   man-made or natural disasters. EMEs are conducted at least once every quarter to fulfill requirements
   in AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations. One
   EME per year may be conducted as a tabletop exercise. EME types include major accidents, terrorist
   use of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), natural disasters, and enemy attack.
   2.4. Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) Exercises. AT/FP exercises test an installation’s abil-
   ity to respond to terrorist acts such as use of WMD or explosives against the installation. A minimum
   of two AT/FP exercises will be conducted per year to include one major exercise and one minor exer-
   cise. The minor exercise may be a tabletop exercise. AT/FP exercises may be stand alone exercises
   or held in conjunction with an EME or other type of exercise.
   2.5. Unit Compliance Exercises (UCE). UCEs mirror an IG Unit Compliance Inspection (UCI), and
   include an inspection of applicable Compliance and Standardization Requirements Lists (C&SRL)
   published on the ACC publications web site. The inspection must include an assessment of the wing’s
   compliance with USAF and ACC special interest items (SII), and documentation of Wing Com-
   mander’s certified programs. UCEs should be initiated at least six months prior to a scheduled UCI to
   ensure compliance with applicable C&SRLs. A UCE may be directed at any time at the discretion of
   366 FW/CC. Recent HHQ inspections and visits which evaluate unit compliance may supplement
   UCEs at the discretion of 366 FW/CC.
4                                                     MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


    2.6. Unit Self-Assessments/Self-Inspections. Unit self-inspection programs will be conducted IAW
    AFI 90-201.

3. Exercise Evaluation Team (EET):
    3.1. Overview. EET has the primary role of providing 366 FW/CC with an independent assessment
    of wing readiness. In this role, EET members must embrace the role of "honest brokers" as they craft
    the exercise schedule of events and evaluate unit performance. Compliance with standards set in var-
    ious directives constitutes the core guideline for EET evaluation. EET has the secondary role of sup-
    porting wing efforts to improve wartime readiness and response capabilities by providing training
    opportunities to players. To achieve this, EET members must carefully balance the need to allow
    players to work through the problems in the exercise scenario with the responsibility to identify pro-
    cess flaws and execution errors. Exercise planning should include specific, quantifiable, and achiev-
    able objectives that address these two areas. EET is charged with assisting 366 FW/XP in all aspects
    of exercise scenario development, execution, evaluation, and reporting.
    3.2. Authority and Management. 366 FW/XP Chief or Wing Assessments Branch Chief serves as
    the wing EET chief/Warlord, and has overall responsibility of overseeing management of the entire
    EET. The EET chief determines the composition of, coordinates training for, provides tasking to, and
    directs the conduct of the EET. EET chief holds the right to remove EET members not meeting or
    complying with requirements. EET chief will also serve as chair of the Scenario Working Group
    (SWG), and review exercise scenarios to ensure they meet the requirements of AFI 90-201, ACC Sup-
    plement 1, Addendum A, and other instructions based on exercise type.
    3.3. Composition and Requirements. EET consists of qualified and experienced personnel drawn
    from functional areas and organizations within 366 FW. It serves as a pool of personnel used to plan,
    develop, conduct, evaluate, and report on local exercises. Units are encouraged to appoint alternate
    members, should the primary be unavailable to perform EET functions. Attachment 1 lists team
    composition requirements.
       3.3.1. Commanders should select EET members based on their professionalism, experience,
       maturity, and ability to conduct an independent assessment of the unit’s capability. Selected indi-
       viduals will have at least one year retainability prior to date of selection, and should plan to serve
       as an EET member for a minimum of 1-year. EET members must hold, as a minimum, a SECRET
       clearance.
       3.3.2. Commanders are responsible for providing sufficient EET manning to cover a 24-hour
       exercise schedule and ensure that EET members are available for EET duty during exercises. EET
       members (nonaircrew) cannot be dual-tasked as players and evaluators or held responsible for
       non-EET duties during exercises. EET members (aircrew) should be allowed to perform EET
       duties to the fullest extent possible with limited dual-tasking as players.
       3.3.3. Commanders must identify their unit EET members to 366 FW/XPA through official
       appointment letters IAW Attachment 3. Changes to EET personnel must be identified in a new
       letter forwarded to 366 FW/XPA.
       3.3.4. Each group commander will assign a group EET chief and alternate in memo format IAW
       Attachment 3. The Group EET chief is directly responsible for their team members and will
       serve as the main POC for their respective group. Group EET chiefs should have at least 1-year
       retainability in the EET position. Group EET chiefs are responsible for:
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                                     5


         3.3.4.1. Gathering exercise objectives and inputs from group leadership.
         3.3.4.2. Representing their group in SWG meetings.
         3.3.4.3. Scheduling group members to cover exercise time periods when the duration exceeds
         a normal duty day, consistent with the overall timetable established by the Warlord.
         3.3.4.4. Representing their area at EET meetings during exercises.
         3.3.4.5. Monitoring the full scope of the exercise to ensure complete coverage of graded areas
         pertaining to their group.
         3.3.4.6. Compiling exercise report inputs from their team members and consolidating those
         inputs for inclusion in the exercise report.
         3.3.4.7. Validating report findings and observations with team members and exercise players.
         This validation process will include discussing proposed findings with the appropriate group
         commander and staff prior to submitting to the Warlord for inclusion in the final report.
         3.3.4.8. Assigning grades to their group's evaluated areas for inclusion in the final exercise
         report.
  3.4. General Responsibilities. EET members must perform their EET responsibilities as trusted
  agents. Only EET members appointed by letter to 366 FW/XPA and actively supporting the exercise
  are privy to exercise planning and execution materials (e.g., script, injects, etc.). As trusted agents,
  EET members are bound not to divulge exercise information to unauthorized personnel, to include
  commanders. Trusted agent information cannot be reproduced without the expressed consent of 366
  FW/XPA.
     3.4.1. EET members are the main interface with their respective unit commanders and supervi-
     sors. They are responsible for reviewing past exercise/inspection reports and coordinating with
     their commanders to develop objectives by which to test and evaluate unit effectiveness.
     3.4.2. EET members assist 366 FW/XPA in developing realistic scenarios to support exercise
     objectives. They are responsible for developing scripted events and appropriate inputs to drive
     exercise play in their respective functional areas. Script events must be coordinated with other
     units affected by the particular event to ensure all players involved execute appropriate and realis-
     tic responses.
     3.4.3. EET members will ensure they satisfy all required training as identified by 366 FW/XPA
     and attend all scheduled EET meetings.
     3.4.4. EET members evaluate functional areas IAW AFIs 10-403, 10-2501, 90-201, DoD
     5200.1-R, AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, Information Security Over-
     sight Office (ISOO) Marking Guide, applicable ACC and MHAFB supplements, and checklists.
     3.4.5. Specific Duties. A group EET chief will be appointed among the squadron/unit EET chiefs
     within that group. They will serve as the main POC for coordinating with 366 FW/XPA on exer-
     cise matters (e.g., group exercise objectives, script events, etc.) within their group. Individual
     group EET chiefs have the following additional/specific duties.
         3.4.5.1. The 366th Operations Group (366 OG) EET chief serves as the central POC for flying
         operations, airspace, air traffic control and support. They ensure:
             3.4.5.1.1. Identification of sortie and flying hour factors for exercise planning.
6                                             MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


       3.4.5.1.2. Coordination of Wing Intel scenario support, Air Tasking Order (ATO), Muni-
       tions Load Order (MLO), and Airspace Coordination Order (ACO) with the required
       trusted agents prior to beginning of the exercise (STARTEX).
       3.4.5.1.3. A White Force (trusted agent) cell is created to act as the Combined Air Opera-
       tions Center (CAOC) during the exercise for purposes of coordinating ATO. This cell will
       also perform Range Training Officer duties. These individuals will normally come from
       366 OSS/OSK (Weapons and Tactics Flight).
       3.4.5.1.4. Listing of major commitments or extenuating circumstances that would influ-
       ence 366 OG evaluation planning and forward to FW/XPA.
       3.4.5.1.5. Tailored exercise scenarios and intelligence summaries are developed for spe-
       cific exercises.
       3.4.5.1.6. Development of air traffic control (ATC), life support, and weather inputs for
       the exercise.
       3.4.5.1.7. Enough EET coverage to provide flight evaluation.
       3.4.5.1.8. Development of unexploded ordnance (UXO) exercise inputs.
    3.4.5.2. The 366th Mission Support Group (366 MSG) EET chief ensures:
       3.4.5.2.1. Development of UXO exercise inputs.
       3.4.5.2.2. Development of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and high-yield
       explosive (CBRNE) exercise inputs.
       3.4.5.2.3. Identification of structural conditions that may affect or be affected by the exer-
       cise.
       3.4.5.2.4. Development of airfield and building damage inputs for exercises as required.
       3.4.5.2.5. Development of airfield damage scenarios for Airfield Damage Repair (ADR)
       evaluation.
       3.4.5.2.6. Development of aircraft crash/fire/rescue scenarios.
       3.4.5.2.7. Development of exercise inputs to evaluate Personnel Support for Contingency
       Operation (PERSCO), airbase ground defense, food service, mortuary affairs, command,
       control, communications, computers and information (C4I) infrastructure, billeting and
       shelters.
       3.4.5.2.8. Providing inputs for developing Unit Type Code (UTC) deployment sequence
       and timetables.
       3.4.5.2.9. Identification of communications factors that may affect or may be affected by
       the exercise (i.e., Secret Internet Protocol Routed Network (SIPRNET) locations and
       availability).
    3.4.5.3. The 366th Medical Group (366 MDG) EET chief ensures:
       3.4.5.3.1. Providing moulage support as required.
       3.4.5.3.2. Development of casualty inputs for exercise scenarios.
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                                   7


            3.4.5.3.3. Providing injury cards for EET use. Injury cards direct recipients to report to
            nearest medical facility or Casualty Collection Point (CCP) for processing.
            3.4.5.3.4. Identification of environmental factors that may affect or may be affected by the
            exercise.
            3.4.5.3.5. Development of bio-environmental engineering/public health exercise inputs.
            3.4.5.3.6. Development of UXO exercise inputs.
         3.4.5.4. The 366th Maintenance Group (366 MXG) EET chief ensures:
            3.4.5.4.1. Identification of potential conflicts in the deployment, generation and launch
            timetables.
            3.4.5.4.2. Development of exercise inputs to evaluate deployment work center functions
            and maintenance operations.
            3.4.5.4.3. Identification of maintenance-related issues that may affect or may be affected
            by the exercise.
            3.4.5.4.4. Development of UXO exercise inputs.
            3.4.5.4.5. Coordination with 366 OSS/OSK (Weapons and Tactics Flight) in development
            of the Munitions Load Order (MLO), and establishing the Munitions Report (MUREP)
            format for use during Phase II exercises. MUREP will be forwarded to Munitions Flight
            personnel no later than 10 days prior to STARTEX.
         3.4.5.5. Wing Staff Agency (WSA) EET chief ensures inputs for all staff agencies are submit-
         ted and UXO inputs are developed.
  3.5. EET Training. 366 FW/XPA schedules training and maintains documentation for EET mem-
  bers.
     3.5.1. Initial Training. Upon identification as an EET member, it is the member’s responsibility
     to sign up for training through 366 FW/XPA. Member will not be permitted to act as an evaluator
     until trained.
     3.5.2. Smokes and Bangs Training. 366 FW/XPA will ensure a sufficient number of EET mem-
     bers are qualified and current in ground burst simulator (GBS) and smoke grenade training, to
     form a sufficient number of two-person teams to support 24-hour exercise coverage.
     3.5.3. Self-Aid/Buddy Care (SABC). Each EET member is expected to be current in SABC train-
     ing and knowledgeable to provide on-the-spot training during exercises. Instructor training is rec-
     ommended.
     3.5.4. Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) specific. As a recognized expert in their field, EET
     members are expected to remain current on all AFSC specific tasks.
  3.6. EET Identification Badge. EET identification will be determined by the Warlord, or Chief of
  Assessments (may include the use of badges, armbands or hats).
  3.7. Uniform wear. FW/CC and/or FW/CV may choose from one of three options for EET Mis-
  sion-Oriented Protective Posture (MOPP). 1) No MOPP for EET. 2) EET members will not MOPP
  above level two in order to conduct/evaluate exercise. 3) EET will MOPP IAW current MOPP level
  after observing and evaluation initial response. EET may remove mask to provide training. EET will
8                                                     MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


    be MOPP 2 or lower when detonating smokes and bangs. EET must be trained to drive in MOPP
    and will carry proper documentation. If not properly trained, EET will not drive. EET will use com-
    mon sense and remove MOPP gear as appropriate during safety situations.
    3.8. EET Access. EET members must be identified on an appropriate Entry Authorization List
    (EAL) provided by their units. Players must allow EET members unrestricted access to their areas,
    provided their names are on the EAL without compromising basic security. EET members will not
    enter facilities or restricted areas to evaluate security awareness by clandestine or stealthy means, and
    will not enter facilities they are not required to evaluate.
    3.9. EET Continuity. Each group chief will maintain an EET Continuity Binder to ensure responsi-
    bilities are passed on to successors and exercise lessons learned are documented and included in hot-
    wash sessions for continual improvement. Group chiefs may direct squadron chiefs to maintain an
    EET Continuity Binder. If squadron chief EET Continuity Binders are maintained, they will be refer-
    enced in the group chief EET Continuity Binder by the use of DD FORM 2861, Cross-Reference,
    filed in Tab A. Continuity binders will contain the following:
       3.9.1. Tab A. Copy of appointment letters and EET member listing. DD Form 2861, Cross Ref-
       erence, if applicable.
       3.9.2. Tab B. MHAFBI 90-201.
       3.9.3. Tab C. Organization’s applicable portions of ACC Supplement 1 to AFI 90-201, and
       Addendums to ACC Supplement 1 to AFI 90-201. MDG EET personnel will also include appli-
       cable portions of ACC MEDEC CONPLAN.
       3.9.4. Tab D. Miscellaneous information (e.g., organization’s lessons learned, specific SIIs, etc.).

4. Exercise Development:
    4.1. Scheduling. Warlord or 366 FW/XP designee will make recommendations to wing leadership
    concerning scheduling of exercises.
    4.2. Planning. Proper planning for an exercise will involve determining exercise objectives from 366
    FW/CC/CV, and each group commander, soliciting inputs from each group EET chief and key EET
    members or Trusted Agents such as Intel and the 366th Logistics Readiness Squadron (366 LRS)
    (Phase I only), and convening SWG as necessary. The following steps are necessary to properly plan
    an exercise:
       4.2.1. Defining the concept. Exercise concept guides and focuses the planning effort. It deter-
       mines the type, duration, and level of exercise play. It identifies the major participants, systems,
       plans, procedures, and activities. It should include a review of results from previous exercises and
       real-world lessons learned.
       4.2.2. Setting the objectives. Exercise planning is centered on the objectives of 366 FW/CC. As
       a part of this effort, it is the responsibility of EET team chiefs to coordinate with commanders to
       ensure unit specific mission requirements are met. Exercise objectives should also include previ-
       ously identified deficiencies to assess if they have been resolved.
       4.2.3. Designing the exercise. In designing an exercise, team members should address the
       required level of play for participants, the extent of role-playing, and level of simulation. Exercise
       planners should forecast affected agencies and incorporate them in the planning process.
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                                      9


     Sequence events to ensure realism and that the play supports exercise objectives. Exercise plan-
     ners must consider level of simulation.
     4.2.4. Script. The script is a compilation of planned events or inputs that depict activities injected
     during the exercise by EET. Script events are finalized by the planning group at least one week
     prior to exercise to ensure sufficient time for proper coordination. The script is specific for EET
     members; information contained within will not be released to unauthorized personnel. EET
     members will exercise proper handling to ensure confidentiality and limited disclosure to trusted
     agents and/or EET members.
        4.2.4.1. Final script should include, as a minimum, for each event:
            4.2.4.1.1. Day of execution
            4.2.4.1.2. Time of execution
            4.2.4.1.3. Duration
            4.2.4.1.4. Description
            4.2.4.1.5. Location
            4.2.4.1.6. OPR
            4.2.4.1.7. Props needed (e.g., smokes and bangs, trusted agents, UXOs, moulage)
            4.2.4.1.8. Training objective
            4.2.4.1.9. Termination criteria
        4.2.4.2. Intelligence. Intel scenario is general in nature and designed to provide players with
        an understanding of the situation as it affects their operations during exercise play. Pre-exer-
        cise and intelligence scenarios provide rationale for the script, and are the means to activate
        plans, policies, procedures, and systems for analysis. 366 FW/XPA and Intel will include
        real-world intelligence to the maximum extent possible, but will adjust scenarios, as necessary,
        to achieve exercise objectives.
        4.2.4.3. EET chiefs, for each participating unit, contribute to the development of the script,
        relating each event to an exercise objective.
        4.2.4.4. An exercise input may be transmitted by message, document, phone call, card
        hand-off, face-to-face encounter, or other transmission means. During exercises, EET mem-
        bers inject inputs according to the script flow.
        4.2.4.5. To develop the script:
            4.2.4.5.1. Review exercise objectives and relevant documents such as DOC statements,
            UTC MISCAPs, AFI 90-201, ACC Supplement 1 to AFI 90-201 Addendum A, and appli-
            cable functional guidance.
            4.2.4.5.2. Review previous exercises/trends.
            4.2.4.5.3. Create script from desired learning objectives. Events should cause responses
            with which to evaluate the objectives. Ensure the Intel scenario is considered when devel-
            oping script events.
10                                                    MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


                4.2.4.5.4. Determine how to introduce script events. Input should correspond to how the
                events would occur under real-world conditions. Coordinate events with other EET mem-
                bers of organizations it will affect.
                4.2.4.5.5. Coordinate scripted activities with affected agencies to ensure events are ade-
                quate to cause the desired activities.
                4.2.4.5.6. Identify the individual(s) introducing the event, and assign POCs to prepare
                events and provide equipment/props.
                4.2.4.5.7. EET Group Chiefs will develop input cards for EET members.
        4.2.5. 366 FW/XP will submit an AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis,
        describing the exercise in general details to include: location, number of personnel, equipment and
        vehicle usage, and duration. The AF Form 813 will be submitted to 366 CES/CEV not later than
        2 weeks prior to the exercise dates for analysis.
     4.3. Simulations/Waivers. Exercise simulations should only be used when absolutely necessary.
     Standard approved ACC simulations can be found at https://131.6.12.120/, and Mountain Home spe-
     cific simulations can be found on the 366 FW/XP Intranet site. For new simulations or waivers to
     existing simulation, group chiefs should submit a request per format on 366 FW/XP Intranet website.
     366 FW/XP will ensure each group EET chief coordinates annual reviews of all group simulations,
     and submits validations.
     4.4. Safety. Wing Safety (366 FW/SE) will assist exercise planners with their risk assessments prior
     to any exercise. FW/XP will disseminate the assessment to commanders and EET personnel. Opera-
     tional Risk Management (ORM) will be incorporated into exercise planning and briefed during EET
     meetings.
        4.4.1. Wing exercises drive a significant increase in the level of unit ops tempo. Fatigue, abnor-
        mal duty hours, and heat/cold stress all increase the potential for mishaps. Any person may stop
        specific exercise activity if an unsafe condition or actual emergency occurs. If a safety hazard
        develops, all personnel must immediately take whatever action necessary to prevent injury to per-
        sonnel or damage to equipment. If an actual emergency, accident, or injury occurs, EET members
        or participants must immediately contact the appropriate response agency (e.g., hospital, fire
        department, etc.) to ensure responding personnel are briefed on “real world” response require-
        ments. IG Control Center (ATNAS OPS) will be notified of such occurrences as soon as possible.
        The Warlord or EET designee will suspend exercise play as required until the situation is resolved.
        Evaluators will ensure that units have documented mishap reporting procedures and ensure that all
        personnel are aware of required actions. Unit adherence to safety guidelines and procedures are
        evaluated on all exercises.
        4.4.2. Exercise Emergency Response. Emergency vehicles responding to exercise events must
        obey traffic rules and speed limits and may not use warning lights until on-scene.
        4.4.3. Real-World Emergency Response. Emergency vehicles/personnel responding to real-world
        emergencies are exempt from exercise play for the duration of the emergency.
        4.4.4. Wing Safety personnel. To ensure 24 hour coverage is maintained by Flight, Ground, and
        Weapons safety disciplines to detect and mitigate hazardous situations, all Wing Safety personnel
        will be designated as Exercise Safety Observers. Wing Safety personnel not participating in the
        exercise will be issued an Exercise Observer badge, and will also wear their Safety identification
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                                      11


      badge. To maintain combat readiness, any member due for deployment in the next AEF cycle will
      be a participant in Phase I or Phase II exercises.
   4.5. Security. Exercises provide a unique opportunity for potential adversaries to gain insight into the
   wing’s combat capability. Personnel must be particularly vigilant in adhering to Operations Security
   (OPSEC) and proper security practices during exercises. Any person may intervene in specific exer-
   cise activity to protect classified materials or prevent inadvertent disclosure of sensitive unclassified
   information. EET and the 366th Security Forces Squadron (366 SFS) should be notified immediately
   when a security violation occurs. Warlord will suspend exercise play as necessary until situation is
   resolved.

5. Exercise Execution:
   5.1. Command Relationships. 366 FW/CC maintains operational control of all player forces. Dur-
   ing the exercise, ATNAS OPS has tasking authority as HHQ. During exercises, EET members work
   for the Warlord until released. Any coordination necessary for the ATO will be made by the required
   exercise player directly with the White Force cell simulating the CAOC, who will pass on changes
   and coordination to ATNAS OPS.
   5.2. STARTEX:
      5.2.1. Phase I. The PTDO starts the Phase I exercise. 366 FW/XP will send PTDO to the 366
      FW/CP (Command Post) through an e-mail from ATNAS OPS.
      5.2.2. Phase II. An intent to exercise message is published 30 days prior to STARTEX, identify-
      ing when the exercise will start, and what the exercise objectives will be. Exercise special instruc-
      tions (SPIN) will be released NLT 3 days prior to STARTEX, to ensure players understand
      specific rules of engagement (ROE) for exercise play. An exercise build-up SPIN will be released
      NLT one week prior to STARTEX to outline exercise build-up timeline and ROEs.
      5.2.3. EME. First responders up-channel events to command post. Initial reactions include
      recalls of the Emergency Operations Center and/or Battle Staff/Commander’s Support Staff acti-
      vation. Scripted Intel messages may also drive desired response in some cases, such as Force Pro-
      tection exercises.
   5.3. ENDEX. 366 FW/CC will terminate the exercise through the Warlord once desired objectives
   are met. All units will follow reconstitution guidance as outlined by ATNAS OPS in a SPIN.
   5.4. Exercise Messages/Communication. Communication is the key to effectively controlling exer-
   cises. The Warlord is responsible for ensuring required messages are pre-generated to properly begin
   an exercise. 366 FW/XP staff acts as a HHQ necessary for reporting purposes and communication
   flow between the wing and an agency necessary for mission accomplishment. Any exercise e-mail
   messages generated from 366 FW/XP as HHQ will come from the ATNAS OPS e-mail account, and
   any messages sent from an exercise player to HHQ will be sent to the ATNAS OPS e-mail account.
      5.4.1. Phase I:
          5.4.1.1. PTDO. PTDO is generated as a HHQ message from 366 FW/XP to 366 FW/CP.
          5.4.1.2. DEPORD. DEPORD will establish the Reference Start Time (RST) for the exercise
          and will begin the main exercise evaluation.
12                                                     MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


            5.4.1.3. SPINs. 366 FW/XP authors SPINs to convey information to units and provide HHQ
            inputs to the exercise. An example would be aircraft load requirements during generation.
            5.4.1.4. Base Support Plan (BSP). BSP for the deployed location will be obtained from LRS.
            LRS will provide all data contained in the real-world BSP for the deployed location
        5.4.2. Phase II.
            5.4.2.1. Intent to Exercise. This message will be sent to command post 30 days prior to
            STARTEX (if the Phase II is not done in conjunction with a Phase I).
            5.4.2.2. SPINs. 366 FW/XP authors SPINs to convey information to units and provide HHQ
            inputs to the exercise.
            5.4.2.3. Base-X Plan. Each functional area is responsible for a specific annex that explains in
            detail the support provided during the Phase II, and defines where and how each unit plays
            during a Phase II exercise. The Base-X Plan serves the same purpose from a planning per-
            spective for a Phase II that the ESP serves for the Phase I.
        5.4.3. EME. EMEs may be initiated through message, phone call, or input cards. They may also
        be initiated by first responders or individuals first identifying the situation and up-channeling
        through the chain of command.
     5.5. Exercise Scenario Support. 366 FW/XP is responsible for coordinating with appropriate EET
     members for smokes and bangs support, props, casualties, and other simulations to enhance realism
     during the exercise.
        5.5.1. Trusted Agents. Trusted Agents will provide coordination and expertise to 366 FW/XP
        staff when requested. For example, the Installation Deployment Officer may be called upon to
        assist in the development of the exercise mobility tasking and airflow. Also, Wing Intelligence
        will be called to develop scenarios for the SWG to support 366 FW/CC objectives. A casualty
        pool will also be considered trusted agents, as they will be informed of exercise details through the
        course of their support. Trusted Agents will not reveal details of the exercise to anybody without
        the permission of the EET Chief.
     5.6. Play Areas. Exercise maps depicting play areas will be available in the Base-X plan and posted
     to the 366 FW/XP Intranet web site. Changes to the Base-X plan will be published in SPINs. Individ-
     uals outside of play areas will not be expected to respond to exercise scenarios.

6. Exercise Reporting:
     6.1. Evaluation/Rating. EET evaluates all major areas and sub-areas and determines the ratings
     based on mission performance, readiness, and compliance. All EET members will use the rating sys-
     tem and standards as defined in ACC Supplement 1 to AFI 90-201, Addendum A.
     6.2. Reports. Reports must be completed within the time specified by the Warlord. Reports must
     address strengths, findings, areas for improvement, and superior performers. Ratings are an assess-
     ment of the wing’s ability to accomplish its mission.
        6.2.1. Initial input. Upon ENDEX, unit/agency EET members must submit their initial observa-
        tions/inputs to their team chiefs.
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                                   13


      6.2.2. Validated EET Reports. Group EET Chiefs will compile and validate all findings for their
      respective areas and submit a final report to FW/XP NLT the suspense. Final reports must address
      all areas outlined in ACC Supplement 1 to AFI 90-201, Addendum A, and must include appropri-
      ate OPRs and reference material for each finding. Each group report should also include a list of
      superior performers. The list should include name, office symbol, and reason for identification.
      Superior performers can be individuals or teams. All reports will be forwarded to 366 FW/XP.
      6.2.3. Final Exercise Report. 366 FW/XP will compile all validated findings, strengths and areas
      of improvement, and publish a comprehensive report within ten working days after ENDEX. The
      report will be published on the 366 FW/XP Intranet website.

7. Compliance Inspections:
   7.1. Concept. Compliance Inspections are covered under AFI 90-201, ACC Supplement 1 to AFI
   90-201, and Addendum J of the ACC Supplement. Compliance inspections occur to ensure compli-
   ance with public law, Executive Orders (EO), Department of Defense (DoD), and Air Force direc-
   tives. Compliance inspections will normally cover compliance with ACC’s C&SRL, Air Force and
   ACC SII, Wing Commander Certified Programs, and task evaluations. Compliance checklists gener-
   ated from local instructions should also be inspected. EET members will be used to conduct UCEs.
   7.2. Compliance and Standardization Requirements Lists (C&SRL). C&SRLs are published in
   ACC’s 90 series of publications. Each functional area will have an ACC directive that includes its
   C&SRL. For example, the Communications Squadron would be subject to ACCDIR 90-283, Compli-
   ance and Standardization Requirements List -- Communications and Information Systems (SC) Func-
   tional Area. This C&SRL contains a checklist that ACC/IG would use to inspect the compliance level
   of a communications squadron. Each squadron or functional area can use their respective checklist to
   prepare for a unit compliance inspection or exercise. Each C&SRL contains three categories of
   checklist items.
      7.2.1. Critical Compliance Objectives (CCO). Items defined by the ACC staff as key result areas
      for a successful mission accomplishment including, but not limited to, items where noncompli-
      ance could result in serious injury, loss of life, excessive cost, or litigation. CCOs are shown in
      BOLD AND ALL CAPS FORMAT.
      7.2.2. Core Compliance Items (CCI). Areas that require special vigilance and are important to
      overall performance of the unit, but are not deemed critical. Noncompliance would result in some
      negative impact on mission performance, or could result in injury, unnecessary cost, or possible
      litigation. CCIs are shown in ALL CAPS FORMAT.
      7.2.3. General Compliance Items (GCI). Areas deemed fundamental to successful overall perfor-
      mance of the unit, but noncompliance would result in minimal impact on mission accomplish-
      ment, or would be unlikely to result in injury, increased cost, or possible litigation. GCIs are
      shown in sentence case format.
   7.3. Rating System/Method. ACC uses the following ratings to score each individual checklist item:
      7.3.1. Complies. In compliance with applicable directives. Few if any discrepancies noted. Best
      practices and information of cross tell value may exist.
      7.3.2. Complies With Comments. In compliance with intent of directive, but improvement
      required. The item has cross tell value.
14                                                    MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


        7.3.3. Does Not Comply. Not in compliance. Could result in injury, loss of life, excessive cost,
        litigation, or adverse mission impact. Cross tell value exists, may result in a finding.
     7.4. Findings. Any "Does Not Comply" rating for a checklist item can lead to a finding. A finding by
     the inspection team means they have identified a core problem the unit needs to correct. Findings
     must be answered by squadron commanders through EET chain of command to the Warlord.
     7.5. Responsibilities:
        7.5.1. 366 FW/XP:
            7.5.1.1. Proposing and obtaining approval for a UCE schedule through wing leadership.
            7.5.1.2. Coordinating wing preparation through group/squadron EET chiefs.
            7.5.1.3. Inspecting all SIIs, Wing Commander Certified Programs, and coordinating task eval-
            uations with appropriate EET chiefs/members.
            7.5.1.4. Coordinating final report for purpose of reconciling discrepancies and findings, and
            conducting an outbrief with wing leadership.
            7.5.1.5. Monitoring all open items from final report until each item is closed.
            7.5.1.6. Scheduling and conducting UCE-specific EET training. Emphasis will be placed on
            the evaluation system and assigning correct ratings based on performance.
        7.5.2. Group EET chiefs:
            7.5.2.1. Preparing group for UCE. Familiar with 90 series of ACC publications and have a
            comprehensive list of all C&SRLs applicable to their group.
            7.5.2.2. Coordinating completion of inspections when C&SRLs cross squadrons or functional
            areas within a group.
            7.5.2.3. Receiving/consolidating/submitting all group inspection reports for inclusion in the
            final report.
            7.5.2.4. Ensuring any findings within the group are answered according to 366 FW/XP’s
            post-exercise schedule, and keeping group leadership abreast of the group’s performance/
            issues.
        7.5.3. Squadron EET chiefs:
            7.5.3.1. Leading the UCE within their squadron, performing an honest, critical evaluation, and
            sending ratings for each CCO to 366 FW/XP through their group chief.
            7.5.3.2. Ensuring findings within the squadron are answered, and keeping squadron leadership
            abreast of the squadron’s performance/issues.
     7.6. Sources of information:
        7.6.1. ACC C&SRLs. Each functional area’s C&SRL(s) can be found in ACC’s 90 publication
        series.
        7.6.2. IG documentation. ACC’s IG web site includes past inspection reports and preparation
        steps for a UCI. Each squadron has access to this web site, and can adequately prepare for wing
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                                     15


      or IG inspections through identifying all checklist items and paying special attention to "high
      miss" items.
      7.6.3. Required documentation. Each group and squadron EET chief will be required to main-
      tain an organizational self-inspection binder detailing the organization’s self-inspection proce-
      dures. The following are the required tabs for unit self-inspection binders:
          7.6.3.1. Tab A. Copy of appointment letters and EET member listing.
          7.6.3.2. Tab B. MHAFBI 90-201.
          7.6.3.3. Tab C. Organization’s applicable C&SRL(s) and locally developed checklists.
          Locally developed checklists are normally based on local instructions.
          7.6.3.4. Tab D. Open items or open findings and closure process tracking.
          7.6.3.5. Tab E. Miscellaneous information (e.g., prior unit inspections, cross tell reports, sim-
          ilar unit reports, unit/functional SIIs, applicable message traffic, etc.).

8. Antiterrorism/Force Protection
   8.1. One major and one minor AT/FP exercise will be conducted per year. The minor exercise can be
   a tabletop, and both may or may not be conducted with an EME or other type of exercise to fulfill var-
   ious requirements.
   8.2. Major AT/FP exercise. The major AT/FP exercise will not be a tabletop exercise. It will be
   designed for maximum base participation and will include:
      8.2.1. Indications of surveillance on and off base to test base reporting procedures.
      8.2.2. Implementation of each force protection condition (FPCON) with enough time spent on
      each FPCON to fully evaluate its effectiveness.
      8.2.3. Full implementation and evaluation of the installation barrier plan.
      8.2.4. Terrorist use of WMD.
      8.2.5. Mass notification procedures.
      8.2.6. Evaluation of reporting plans to evaluate traffic flows and unit support of staggered report-
      ing plans.
   8.3. Minor AT/FP exercise. The minor AT/FP exercise may be a tabletop exercise and will include, at
   a minimum, first responders such as the Emergency Operations Center (EOC), Bioenvironmental
   Engineering, Security Forces, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD), Emergency Medical Services,
   Fire Department, HAZMAT, Public Health, and CE Readiness. The focus of the exercise should be on
   first responder procedures and tactics, and should also attempt to incorporate local agencies involved
   in base AT/FP plans through memorandums of agreement.
   8.4. Some or all of the base EET will be used as required to evaluate and report on AT/FP exercises.
16                                          MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


9. Forms Prescribed/Adopted: AF Form 813 and DD Form 2861



                                       ANTHONY J. ROCK, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                           17


                                        Attachment 1

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Airspace Coordination Order
ADR—Airfield Damage Repair
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AT—Antiterrorism
ATC—air traffic control
ATNAS OPS—IG Control Center
ATO—Air Tasking Order
C41—computers and information
CAOC—Combined Air Operations Center
CBRNE—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and High-Yield Explosives
CCO—Critical Compliance Objectives
CCP—Casualty Collection Point
CSS—Commander’s Support Staff
C&SRL—Compliance and Standardization Requirements Lists
DCG—Disaster Control Group
DEPORD—Deployment Order
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DoD—Department of Defense
EAL—Entry Authorization List
EET—Exercise Evaluation Team
EM—Emergency Management
EO—Executive Order
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
ESP—Expeditionary Site Plan
FP—Force Protection
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
GBS—Ground Burst Simulator
GCI—General Compliance Items
18                                               MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
ISOO—Information Security Oversight Office
MHAFB—Mountain Home AFB
MISCAP—Mission Capability
MLO—Munitions Load Order
MOPP—Mission-Oriented Protective Postures
MUREP—Munitions Report
OPSEC—Operations Security
ORE—Operational Readiness Exercise
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PERSCO—Personnel Support for Contingency Operation
PTDO—Prepare to Deploy Order
ROE—Rules of Engagement
RST—Reference Start Time
SABC—Self-Aid Buddy Care
SC—Communications and Information Systems
SII—Special Interest Items
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Routed Network
SPIN—Special Instructions
STARTEX—Start of Exercise (Inspection)
SWG—Scenario working Group
UCE—Unit Compliance Exercise
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UTC—Unit Type Code
UXO—unexploded ordnance
WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction
WSA—Wing Staff Agency

Terms
Warlord—Title given to the exercise program manager responsible for exercise development and
execution. Acts as Chief of the EET. Will normally be 366 FW/XP Chief, or the Wing Assessments
Branch (FW/XPA) Chief. Responsible for exercise preparations, to include obtaining approval through
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                                          19


wing leadership, concept briefings, mass briefings as necessary, and preparation of EET. Responsible for
preparation of and distribution of the final report, EET hotwash, and 366 FW/CC (Commander) outbrief.
EET Group Chief—Person responsible for overall EET actions within a group. Individual is designated
in writing by each group commander, and should be a senior member with a broad background in their
organization’s mission. Responsible for compiling, reviewing, and submitting group write-ups and
reports upon exercise completion. Directs and coordinates actions of squadron EET chiefs. Maintains the
group’s EET continuity binder.
Squadron EET Chief—Manages EET members and squadron team chiefs within a squadron.
EET Team Chief—Acts as the subject matter expert for their area. A unit may have one or more team
chiefs, depending on the complexity of the unit’s mission. Team chiefs will be called upon to participate
in scenario development, and other responsibilities as specified by the Warlord. Team chiefs are named
by their squadron CC/staff agency chief at the recommendation of their squadron chief.
EET Member—Backbone of the EET. Each EET member is named, in writing, by their squadron
commander/staff agency chief, and should be of the highest caliber NCO or officer. The individual should
be considered to be an expert in their field, and have at least one year of retainability in their EET position.
EET members should play a central role in preparing their squadron for exercises through coordinating
and conducting training.
Trusted Agent—An individual who is not part of the EET, but must be given or provide information for
the purposes of coordinating the exercise. These individuals must not release any exercise information
unless authorized by the Warlord.
Scenario Working Group (SWG)—Made up of key EET members such as group chiefs, team chiefs,
trusted agents, and recognized subject matter experts. SWG will be staffed and chaired by the Warlord on
an as needed basis.
ATNAS OPS—Office acting as Higher Headquarters (HHQ) during exercises. Normally manned
exclusively by 366 FW/XP personnel. 726 ACS/SCQ, or their designated appointee, will fill this position
for 726 ACS only exercises.
ESP—Expeditionary Support Plan. The purpose of an installation’s ESP is to identify total base
capabilities and assess supportability of wartime or contingency operations. This is accomplished by
identifying total base resources (e.g. available billeting and messing, vehicles, communications, airfield
parking, etc.) against planned contingency and wartime tasking. A deploying unit can use the ESP of the
location they will be deploying to for the purpose of identifying support items available for their beddown
at that location. The ESP is provided by the base Installation Deployment Office (IDO).
Cross Tell Report—Reports used to share information between units. Normally identifies issues leading
to noncompliance with DOD directives, AFIs, and HHQ directives.
STARTEX—Beginning of the exercise.
ENDEX—End of the exercise.
20                                            MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


                                        Attachment 2

                                  366 FW EET COMPOSITION


     POSITION         EVALUATION AREA             OPR        NUMBER   PH I   PH II
                                                           AUTHORIZED
XP Team
EET Chief            All                      FW/XP             1       1      1
EET Core             All                      FW/XP            13      13     13
ATO                  AT/FP                    FW/ATO           1       1      1
Operations Team
Operations Group     Operations               OG/OGV            1       1     1
Chief
Operations Team      Operations               OG/OGV            1       1     1
Chief
                     389 FS                   OG/OGV            1       1     1
                     390 FS                   OG/OGV            1       1     1
                     391 FS                   OG/OGV            1       1     1
                     Life Support             OSS/OSTL          2       2     2
                     Intelligence             OSS/OSI           2       1     2
                     Weather Support          OSS/OSW           2       1     2
                     RAPCON/Tower/Base Ops    OSS/OSA           2       2     2
                     OPSEC                    OSS/OSSP          2       1     2
                     726 ACS                  ACS/SCQ           8       8     8
                     726 ACS                  ACS/CCV           3       1     2
                                              and ACS/
                                              CCV
Maintenance Group
Maintenance Group    QA                       MXG/MXQ           1       1     1
Chief
Includes Team Chiefs Maintenance (QA)         MXG/MXQ          23      23     23
Includes Team Chief Weapons Maintenance/      MXG/MXW          6        6      6
                     Loading
                     Maintenance Operations   MXG/MXQ           2       2     2
                     Center
Mission Support
Group
MSG Group Chief                               MSG               1       1     1
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                   21


    POSITION          EVALUATION AREA               OPR       NUMBER   PH I   PH II
                                                            AUTHORIZED
                     Supply (Includes            LRS/LGRS        3       3     2
                     MOBAGS)
                     POL                         LRS/LGRF        4       4     4
                     Transportation              LRS/LGRV        4       2     4
                     Contracting                 MSG/CONS        2       1     2
                     PDF/PERSCO                  MSG/MSS         2       2     1
                     CE                          MSG/CES         4       2     4
                     CE Readiness                CES/CEX         2       1     2
                     CE EOD                      CES/CED         2       1     2
                     CE Fire Department          CES/CEF         2       1     2
                     Security Forces             MSG/SFS         4       2     4
                     Communications              MSG/CS          5       5     5
                     Services                    MSG/SVS         2       1     2
Mobility Team        *Filled with current EET
                     personnel
(MSG)                Deployment Control Center   LRS/LGRR        2       2
(MSG)                *PDF/PERSCO                 MSG/MSS         1       1     1
(FW)                 PDF                         FW/MEO          1       1
(MSG)                *CDF                        MSG/CONS        1       1
(FW)                 CDF                         FW/MEO          1       1
Medical Group
Medical Group Chief Medical Operations           MDG             1       1     1
                     Decontamination             MDG/ADS         1             1
                     Casualty Management         MDG/MDOS        2       1     2
                     Bio-Environmental           MDG/ADS         1             1
                     Flight Medicine             MDG/ADS         1       1     1
Fighter Wing Staff
FW Staff Group Chief                             FW/Staff        1       1     1
                     Command Post                FW/CP           2       2     2
                     Comptroller Squadron        FW/CPTS         2       1     2
                     Chaplain                    FW/HC           2       2     2
                     Legal                       FW/JA           1       1     1
                     Public Affairs              FW/PA           2       2     2
                     Safety                      FW/SE           2       2     2
22                                                MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007


     POSITION           EVALUATION AREA                OPR         NUMBER   PH I          PH II
                                                                 AUTHORIZED
                       MEO                        FW/MEO              1      1
Total EET Positions
                       OG                                               17         14       17
                       MXG                                              32         32       32
                       MSG                                               37         26      35
                       MDG                                               6          3        6
                       FW                                               13         12       12
                       TOTALS                                           120        102     117
NOTE: These numbers are recommended and represent the amount of evaluator slots for a given exer-
cise. 366 FW/XP will hold an EET meeting prior to exercise start and squadron chiefs will ensure the
team members who are evaluating the exercise are identified. Commanders may deviate from these rec-
ommended numbers after coordination with 366 FW/XP provided capability exists to fully assess unit
effectiveness. EET manning for EMEs and UCEs will be determined as necessary prior to STARTEX.
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI90-201 2 APRIL 2007                                                                                                     23


                                                            Attachment 3

                               SAMPLE EET MEMBER APPOINTMENT LETTER

                                                                                                                            Date

MEMORANDUM FOR 366 FW/XP

FROM: ____________

SUBJECT: Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) Appointment

1. I am providing the following EET member’s information for your records:


                 NEW MEMBER                                MEMBER INFORMATION UPDATE


LAST NAME:_____________________________ FIRST NAME:_____________________________                           MI:__________

RANK:_____________________                                            DATE ASSIGNED TO EET:____________________

AFSC:______________ ORGANIZATION/OFFICE:_______________________ DUTY PHONE:_________________

HOME PHONE:____________ PCS/DOS DATE:_____________LAST SIX (EAL PURPOSES ONLY): _____________


MEMBER REPLACING:_________________________________________


             CLEARANCE:                        TOP SECRET               POSITION:                     MEMBER
                                               SECRET                                                 TEAM CHIEF
                                                                                                      SQDN CHIEF
                                                                                                      GRP CHIEF



EVALUATION AREA(S):
(Basic areas of observation for EET
member, must be filled in)




2. Individual listed above is certified to perform exercise evaluations, has a minimum of 1-year retainability on EET and will be scheduled
to attend EET orientation training.



                                                            ________________________________________________
                                                            Group/Squadron Commander Name and Signature

*NOTE: Personnel identified as group team chiefs require group commander’s signature.


 This document contains information which must be protected IAW AFI 33-332 and DoDR 5400-11; Privacy Act of 1974 as Amended
                                        Applies, and it is For Official Use Only (FOUO)
