BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              MOUNTAIN HOME AFB
MOUNTAIN HOME AFB                                                       INSTRUCTION 23-302

                                                                                  9 MARCH 2011
                                                               Certified Current 23 February 2012
                                                                             Vehicle Management

                                                           VEHICLE ACCIDENT AND ABUSE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 366 LRS/LGLOC                                                       Certified by: 366 LRS/CC
                                                                          (Major Jamaal E. Mays)
                                                                                           Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 23-302, Vehicle Management. This
instruction applies to all squadron commanders, tenant units, vehicle control officers (VCO),
vehicle control noncommissioned officers (VCNCO) and vehicle operators assigned to or on
temporary duty (TDY) on Mountain Home AFB (MHAFB), including Air National Guard units
and Air Force Reserve Command. EXCEPTION: 726th Air Control Squadron (ACS) is a self-
sustaining unit. As such, they will manage their own accidents and abuses in accordance with
(IAW) AFI 23-302 and ACS policies. This instruction establishes the policies and procedures
for implementing and managing the wing’s vehicle accident, abuse and incident program. It
includes specific guidance and addresses the definitions, authority, disposition, reporting
procedures and reimbursement of repairs for military vehicle accidents, abuse and incidents.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as
required. Refer recommended changes and questions regarding this publication to the office of
primary responsibility using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, route AF Forms 847 through the base publications and forms manager.

1. Objective. The commander is charged with maintaining high standards of vehicle operator
training and discipline and consequently, using the procedures set forth in paragraph 5.6., of this
instruction, units will transfer expenses for the actual cost to repair accident and abuse damage to
vehicles operated by their personnel.
2. Goal. To reduce the number of vehicle accidents, abuse and incident cases, thereby, keeping
the cost of repairs to an absolute minimum.
 2                                             MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI23-302 9 MARCH 2011


3. Definitions:
     3.1. A vehicle accident is a result of a collision.
     3.2. Vehicle abuse is normally considered damage caused by willful or negligent acts of
     improper operation or care. Refer to Attachment 2, Types of Vehicle Abuse, for examples of
     vehicle abuse.
     3.3. Incidents are classified as damage caused by acts of nature, natural disasters, mechanical
     failures or other phenomenon that could not have been avoided by safe operation or adequate
     vehicle care during non-use. Examples of incidents may also include damage resulting from
     normal use for the vehicle’s intended purpose (i.e., snow removal or heavy construction
     work). Using organizations are not required to reimburse for damage caused by incidents.
4. Responsibilities:
     4.1. Vehicle Management. The 366th Logistics Readiness Squadron (366 LRS), Vehicle
     Management Flight (LGRV) is responsible for identifying damage from accidents, suspected
     abuse and incidents. 366 LRS/LGRV flight chief, vehicle fleet manager, or their designated
     representative will evaluate each case of accident/abuse damage. Documentation and
     tracking of the accident, abuse, or incident damage repair is the responsibility of the Vehicle
     Management and Analysis Section (VM&A) in 366 LRS/LGRV.
     4.2. Vehicle Operator. The vehicle operator has the primary responsibility to prevent a
     vehicle accident, abuse, or incident. On base vehicle accidents will be reported immediately
     to the 366th Security Forces Squadron. Off base vehicle accidents will be reported to local
     law enforcement. All vehicle damages will be reported to unit VCO/VCNCO and 366
     LRS/LGRV. Vehicle operators will provide copies of accident reports to Vehicle
     Management Customer Service when turning in vehicles for repairs.
     4.3. Vehicle Control Program. Unit’s VCO/VCNCO will inspect their unit’s vehicles
     periodically for unreported damage.
     4.4. Using Organization. Reporting damage to an AF vehicle is the unit’s responsibility.
     Financial responsibility for vehicle damage resulting from accident and/or abuse rests with
     the vehicle operator’s assigned organization. In cases where multiple government-owned
     vehicles (GOV) are involved in an accident and an investigation cannot determine fault,
     repair cost will be the responsibility of the organization/squadron to which the operator is
     assigned. Group commanders are responsible for accuracy, review and completeness of
     Report of Surveys (ROS) originating within their squadrons. Using organizations are
     required to initiate internal investigations into circumstances surrounding vehicle damage not
     attributed to fair wear and tear IAW AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force
     Property.
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI23-302 9 MARCH 2011                                                             3



5. Procedures: Upon determination of vehicle damage as a result of accident, abuse or
incident:
   5.1. 366 LRS/LGRV will initiate a work order estimating repair costs. A package including
   the estimate work order, accident report, photos, along with an email detailing the accident or
   abuse damage will be sent by Vehicle Management & Analysis to the responsible
   organization’s commander and VCO/VCNCO. Send a courtesy copy to 366 LRS/CC
   (Commander), 366 LRS RA (Resource Advisor), 366 FW/SE (Safety) and the wing ROS
   manager. Repairs to the damaged vehicle will then begin.
   5.2. 366 LRS/LGRV will ensure photos of damaged areas are taken prior to repair. At the
   request of the using organization’s commander, VM&A will prepare an AF Form 20, Repair
   Cost and Reparable Value Statement, depicting actual cost expended to repair the vehicle.
   The AF Form 20 is required if liability is assessed in the ROS process.
   5.3. The using organization is responsible for any additional photographs or accident reports
   required for their own investigation.
   5.4. Once repairs are complete a second package including photos, repair work order,
   Product Control Number 25 repair report, and a letter identifying the exact cost of the
   accident or abuse damage repairs will be signed by VFM/VMS, and sent to the responsible
   organization’s commander and VCO/VCNCO. 366 LRS RA will work with the responsible
   organization’s RA to collect funds to cover repair costs.
   5.5. When payment for damage, either voluntary or through use of the Department of
   Defense (DD) Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, is involved, the
   actual cost of repairs is computed using an AF Form 20 IAW AFMAN 23-220.
   5.6. The organization responsible for damages is responsible for material cost and contract
   repair costs to repair accident and/or abuse-related damage. Reimbursement is made
   regardless of an individual member’s pecuniary liability.
   5.7. The 366 MSG/CC will resolve issues regarding organizational fault or negligence of
   accident and/or suspected abuse cases that cannot be resolved by the 366 LRS/CC.
6. Accident Reporting Procedures for Privately Owned Vehicles (POV) and Government
Owned Vehicles (GOV):
   6.1. Reporting Procedures. Report accidents involving vehicles on Standard Form (SF) 91,
   Operators Report of Motor Vehicle Accident. Ensure you obtain the names of all individuals
   involved, including witnesses and police. Complete and deliver the SF 91 to the unit
   VCO/VCNCO, along with narrative, in your own words, of the events.
   6.2. POV Procedures. All vehicle accident cases involving a GOV and a POV with private
   insurance will be coordinated through 366 FW/JA (Judge Advocate) (Base Legal Office).
   6.3. GOV Procedures.      Accomplish repair estimates and actual GOV repairs with 366
   LRS/LGRV.
 4                                        MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI23-302 9 MARCH 2011


7. Forms Adopted and Prescribed:

7.1. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss
SF 91, Operator’s Report of Motor Vehicle Accident

7.2. Prescribed Forms:

No forms prescribed.




                                           RONALD D. BUCKLEY, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI23-302 9 MARCH 2011                                                          5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007, incorporating through change 2, 1 June 09
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACS—Air Control Squadron (726 ACS)
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
CC—Commander
DD—Department of Defense
FW—Fighter Wing
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
IAW—In Accordance With
JA—Judge Advocate (366 FW/JA)
LGRV—Vehicle Management Flight (366 LRS/LGRV)
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron (366 LRS)
MHAFB—Mountain Home AFB
MSG—Mission Support Group (366 MSG)
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RA—Resource Advisor
ROS—Report of Survey
SE—Safety (366 FW/SE)
SF—Standard Form
TDY—Temporary Duty
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VCO—Vehicle Noncommissioned Officer
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
VMS—Vehicle Management Superintendent
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis
 6                                           MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI23-302 9 MARCH 2011


                                          Attachment 2
                      EXAMPLES OF POTENTIAL VEHICLE ABUSE

A2.1. Examples of Potential Vehicle Abuse:
     A2.1.1. Failure to accomplish operator maintenance IAW AFI 23-302 paragraph 3.13.
     resulting in damage to the vehicle that was otherwise preventable.
     A2.1.2. Not reporting maintenance discrepancies that affect vehicle safety or mission
     capability, or not reporting accident damage within 1-duty day, or not reporting safety
     discrepancies as soon as possible or if after duty hours, the next duty day.
     A2.1.3. Overloading or failing to tie down or otherwise secure cargo.
     A2.1.4. Tampering with governors or pollution control devices.
     A2.1.5. Operating vehicle/equipment with broken tire chains or improperly inflated tires.
     A2.1.6. Failure to protect the painted surface from oxidization and corrosion.
     A2.1.7. Modifying a vehicle/equipment without written permission from 366 LRS/LGRV
     flight chief or superintendent.
     A2.1.8. Refueling a vehicle with incorrect type fuel, that is, diesel instead of gas or vice
     versa.
     A2.1.9. Contributing to wind damage by not parking vehicle into the wind or restraining
     doors when opening.
     A2.1.10. Riding or slipping clutches, except when necessary to maintain control of a vehicle
     during backing operations.
     A2.1.11. Operating vehicles using improperly selected gears, such as lugging in high gear
     and shifting into reverse when traveling forward.
     A2.1.12. Using a vehicle for other than its designed purpose.
