BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                      MOUNTAIN HOME AFB
366TH FIGHTER WING                                                              INSTRUCTION 32-6004
                                                                                     15 OCTOBER 2007
                                                                    Certified Current, 4 OCTOBER 2010
                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                         INSPECTION STANDARDS FOR MILITARY
                                                                      FAMILY HOUSING (MFH)

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available digitally.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 366 CES/CEH                                                                Certified by: 366 CES/CC
                                                                                (Lt Col Timothy S. Wood)
Supersedes MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI32-6004,                                                              Pages: 5
           6 December 2005

This instruction establishes the 366th Civil Engineer Squadron, Housing Facility (366 CES/CEH) stan-
dards, policies and procedures for inspection of exteriors of MFH. Refer to Attachment 1 for the glossary
of references and supporting information. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force (AF) Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will
convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, are disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Dispo-
sition Schedule located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Reference paragraph 1.2., changed (e.g., playgrounds, cul-de-sacs and parking areas) to (e.g., play-
grounds and common areas) and (housing maintenance) to (grounds maintenance). Paragraph 2.4., added
a third and final notice. Added paragraph 4.1. Paragraph 6.2., added "hire someone to correct the dam-
age." Removed "and under positive voice control in open areas outside housing areas" to paragraph 6.3.,
and added "Occupants will be held responsible for injuries or damages caused by their pets. Animals that
cause injuries to a person or other animal may be impounded and placed under quarantine by the base vet-
erinarian. All biting incidences will be forwarded to 366 MSG/CC to determine if the animal should be
removed from base" to the end of paragraph 6.3. Added "Used oil or other fluids will be properly stored
and not maintained in open containers where it can be spilled or accessible to children" to the end of para-
graph 6.7. A bar ( | ) indicates newly revised material.


1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Housing Manager is responsible for overall management.
2                                              MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI32-6004 15 OCTOBER 2007


    1.2. Service of common use areas in base housing (e.g., playgrounds, cul-de-sacs and parking areas)
    is provided by a grounds maintenance contractor IAW their contract.

2. Procedures for Reporting Outside Appearance Discrepancies:
    2.1. A representative from 366 CES/CEH (Family Housing Management) will leave a courtesy notice
    on the occupant's door identifying the discrepancy, and then send an e-mail to occupant's first ser-
    geant, if occupant is a NCO; or to occupant's commander, if occupant is an officer, to inform occupant
    of the discrepancies noted in their area of responsibility (AOR) and to ensure they are corrected.
    2.2. Occupants will be given 1-week to correct discrepancies noted by 366 CES/CEH. Special cir-
    cumstances, such as safety corrections requiring 366 CES support may warrant longer periods, and
    will be annotated in the inspector's e-mail.
    2.3. 366 CES/CEH inspectors will follow-up after the 1-week suspense is up to ensure adequate cor-
    rective action was taken.
    2.4. 366 CES/CEH inspectors will issue a second notice to occupant's first sergeant/commander for
    discrepancies not corrected within the initial 1-week suspense. If the discrepancies continue to go
    uncorrected, 366 CES/CC (Commander), or 366 CES/CD (Deputy Base Civil Engineer) will send a
    third and final notice via e-mail to the occupantl’s first sergeant/commander stating the occupant has
    neglected to correct the discrepancies within the 1-week suspense, and attach copies of the first two
    notices from 366 CES/CEH. Continued neglect on issuance of discrepancies could result in loss of
    quarters, subject to approval by the 366th Mission Support Group Commander (366 MSG/CC).
    2.5. Occupants not adhering to base watering procedures will receive a warning letter from the hous-
    ing manager on the first offense; and a $25.00 administration fee on all subsequent offenses.

3. Policing of Common Use Adjoining Residential Areas. Should differences arise concerning who is
responsible to police common use areas, 366 CES/CEH will convene a meeting with all residents respon-
sible for that disputed area and provide clarification.

4. Inspection Schedule. Inspections throughout the housing area are typically conducted on Tuesday
and Friday, but may be accomplished on other days as necessary.
    4.1. In cases of unkempt or unsanitary quarters, the housing office will notify member’s first sergeant
    or commander of the problem and give them and the member a 30-minute window to meet at the
    housing unit. Prior to inspection, the housing office would notify 366 MSG/CC. Family advocacy will
    be notified if the welfare of children is involved. If unsanitary conditions are the result of failure to
    clean up after pets, the pets could be ordered off base. If conditions are the result of occupant neglect,
    then damages could be assessed and member could be ordered off base.

5. Occupant Responsibilities:
    5.1. A resident’s AOR for unit and yard maintenance is defined as halfway to the nearest facility
    (neighbor’s house), to the center of any street that passes the house (front, back, side). If the house
    borders a common use area or open area, responsibility extends a minimum of 50-feet from the house.
    5.2. Occupants who want to plant a garden or install a shed will require an AF Form 332, Base Civil
    Engineer Work Request. 366 CES/CEH requires the occupants to provide the size and location of the
    garden/shed. Do not plant gardens or install sheds in the desert area or common grounds behind or
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI32-6004 15 OCTOBER 2007                                                                    3


   between quarters. Garden areas will be neat in appearance throughout the growing season, and plowed
   under at the end of the growing season. Garden areas are only allowed in the backyard of units. Occu-
   pants will restore lawn areas used for gardening or shed installation to their original condition, and
   grass will be growing prior to termination of housing.

6. Inspection Requirements:
   6.1. Occupants are not authorized to dispose of debris, such as trash, animal feces, lawn clippings,
   tumbleweeds or other general material behind the quarters, fences or in desert areas. Disposal will
   comply with refuse pick-up (see housing brochure for details). Mulched grass clippings (not clumps)
   should remain on lawns as much as possible. Excess grass clippings, leaves and small tree parts (e.g.,
   leaves, branches and fruit) should be taken to the base compost center for processing into mulch.
   6.2. Occupants are fully responsible for garden plots and pet damages. Exterior items, sprinkler sys-
   tems and areas destroyed by pets will be evaluated and 366 CES/CEH will provide occupants with an
   estimated cost for repairs. Occupants may correct the damage themselves, hire someone to correct the
   damage or reimburse the government for necessary repairs.
   6.3. Pets (maintained outside) must be confined, not secured to trees, bushes, fences, etc. Pet houses
   and runs will comply with standards identified in MHAFBI 31-202, Control of Animals. Animals will
   always be confined if not on leash control in the housing area. Pet owners will clean up after their pets
   in common areas and in the yard of other occupants. Occupants will be held responsible for injuries or
   damages caused by their pets. Animals that cause injuries to a person or other animal may be
   impounded and placed under quarantine by the base veterinarian. All biting incidences will be for-
   warded to 366 MSG/CC to determine if the animal should be removed from base.
   6.4. Garage doors and other exterior doors such as sheds and basement doors must remain closed
   when not in use.
   6.5. General yard appearance should reflect neighborhood pride, (e.g., free of junk, inoperative vehi-
   cles, trash, tumbleweeds, animal feces, excess household items, boxes and disorderly arrays of yard
   furniture, toys and bicycles).
   6.6. Recreation vehicles (RV) (to include snowmobiles, jet skis, ATVs, etc.), boats and trailers will
   not be parked on the street or in driveways, or driven on undesignated areas (newly seeded/sod, desert,
   common areas, etc.). Automobiles will also not be driven on undesignated areas. Authorized parking
   is identified in MHAFBI 31-204, Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, Chapter 4.
   6.7. Do not restore or make extensive repairs to automobiles or RVs in MFH. Minor servicing/repairs
   (e.g., changing or rotating tires and oil changes) is allowed. At no time will vehicles be left unattended
   while on jacks or stands. Used oil or other fluids will be properly stored and not maintained in open
   containers where it can be spilled or accessible to children.
   6.8. Occupants are responsible for keeping sidewalks and driveways free of toys, snow, ice and other
   debris.
   6.9. Occupants are responsible for summer lawn care (e.g., mowing, watering, weed control, remov-
   ing volunteer trees from landscaped areas and bases of existing trees, edging sidewalks, driveways,
   garage entrances and curbs on a regular basis to ensure neatness/cleanliness). Seed or sod bare spots
   in lawns and make every effort to establish a uniform looking lawn. Shrubs near the building should
   be trimmed six inches away from the unit and to a height just below the windowsill. Shrubs should be
4                                            MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI32-6004 15 OCTOBER 2007


    maintained to a maximum height of 5 feet. Occupants are responsible to ensure street curbs and gut-
    ters are clear of growth and debris. Keep areas with bark or rock landscaping free of garbage, weeds
    and debris; and replenish bark or rock landscaping with like item, as needed, to cover weed barrier.
    Occupants will contact housing maintenance to change or modify sprinkler systems.
    6.10. Housing maintenance is responsible for repair and replacement of fencing. Occupant will report
    fencing problems to housing maintenance. Absolutely no items will be mounted, or holes made in
    vinyl fencing and siding.

7. Forms Adopted:
    7.1. AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
    7.2. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                              THOMAS M LAFFEY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 366th Mission Support Group
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI32-6004 15 OCTOBER 2007                                                   5


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
MHAFBI 31-202, Control of Animals
AFI 31-204, Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, and Mountain Home AFB (MHAFB) supplement
AFMAN 37-123 (AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records
Housing Brochure
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
IAW—In Accordance With
MFH—Military Family Housing
MHAFB—Mountain Home Air Force Base
RV—Recreation Vehicle
