BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            MOUNTAIN HOME AFB INSTRUCTION 24-301
366TH FIGHTER WING                                                                    22 AUGUST 2007
                                                                     Certified Current, 3 February 2010
                                                                                          Transportation

                                                                     TRANSPORTATION INCENTIVE
                                                                                PROGRAM (TIP)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the MHAFB Intranet at
                       https://intranet/CS_SCS/SCSP/ind2.htm for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 366 LRS/LGRO                                                              Certified by: 366 LRS/CC
                                                                                (Maj Lawrence C. Hicks)
Supersedes MHAFBI 24-301, 19 November 2003                                                      Pages: 4

Executive Order 13150, Federal Workforce Transportation, requires federal agencies to establish a trans-
portation incentive program in order to reduce active duty military and federal employees’ contribution to
traffic congestion and air pollution and to expand their commuting alternatives. The purpose of the pro-
gram is to encourage commuting by mass transportation and provide financial incentives to members/
employees. The Transportation Incentive Program (TIP) applies equally to all military service members
and civilian employees assigned to Mountain Home AFB, including nonappropriated fund employees.
Members of Guard and Reserve components serving on active duty are also eligible. This instruction pre-
scribes policies and procedures for all individuals taking advantage of TIP. Ensure all records created
(e.g., TIP vouchers) as a result of processes prescribed in AFMAN 37-123 (to be replaced by AFMAN
33-363), Management of Records, are maintained in accordance with this manual, and are disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Numerous changes have
been made, so this instruction must be reviewed in its entirety. Sets limits for medical leave and deploy-
ment policy. Restricted voucher pick-up to the rider only. A bar (|) to the left of the paragraph number
annotates change.


1. Responsibility. Individual riders must meet standards set forth by this instruction. The 366th Logistics
Readiness Squadron (366 LRS), Vehicle Operations Flight (LGRO), will manage the program.

2. Procedures. All riders participating in TIP will comply with the following procedures:
2                                                   MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI24-301 22 AUGUST 2007


    2.1. Individual rider participation will be set at a minimum of 80 percent of each work month, which
    equates to 16 workdays, to and from work. Individuals will be removed from the program if they fail
    to meet the minimum ridership participation without providing a valid excuse.
    2.2. IAW Department of the Air Force TIP policies, transit subsidy is a benefit to cover transportation
    costs actually incurred and it is not designed to be paid as a means of reserving or "holding" vanpool
    seats. Transit subsidy cannot be claimed or used by the rider to preserve a seat, even if the rider is
    away due to official TDY. Rider must cover the cost personally, or will resign from the program.
    2.3. A medical leave policy is in effect for vanpool riders if they, or an immediate family member, has
    a medical situation. Rider's seat will be held for up to 30 days. Rider will inform 366 LRS TIP man-
    ager and service provider of any medical leave, explaining the circumstances, and will also provide an
    estimated length of absence.
    2.4. A military TDY/deployment policy is in effect for vanpool riders if they are TDY/deployed for
    up to 30 days. A seat will be held for the rider. If a rider is TDY/deployed in excess of 30 days, they
    will be removed from the program and must reenroll upon their return. Rider will inform 366 LRS TIP
    manager and service provider of any TDY/deployment in excess of 30 days.
    2.5. Riders will use the service providers to the fullest extent possible. If a rider is on leave, they will
    be excused, but notice must be given to 366 LRS TIP manager and service provider as to the length of
    the leave period.
       2.5.1. Riders will not substitute with driving their own vehicle. Commitment must be made to
       using the service provider. If it becomes known that an individual is driving themselves and not
       using service providers they will be removed from the program.
       2.5.2. Service providers are in no way connected with the Federal Transportation Incentive Pro-
       gram. As such, service is not free. TIP is not an entitlement to Department of Defense employees.
       TIP is offered as a fringe benefit, an incentive to use alternate means of transportation that reduce
       road congestion and environmental impact. The Department of Transportation pays for this ser-
       vice and abuse of it will not be tolerated.

3. TIP Vouchers. TIP vouchers are controlled items and will be issued to each rider at the beginning of
each month. Riders will inform the 366 LRS TIP manager, Comm: (208) 828-2488, of any leave of
absences, (TDYs, deployments, leaves, etc.), so that unneeded vouchers will not be issued. Vouchers are
nonrefundable.
    3.1. Monetary value of each voucher will not exceed the service provider's fare.
    3.2. Monetary incentive is capped by Department of Transportation. In the event a service provider's
    fare exceeds the capped amount, the rider is responsible for that excess amount. Failure to pay this
    out-of-pocket expense will result in removal from the program.
    3.3. Vouchers will be picked up within the first 15 days of each month. Unclaimed vouchers will be
    returned to the Department of Transportation. Failure to pick up vouchers will result in removal from
    the program.
    3.4. Vouchers may be picked up at Operator Records and Licensing Section, Building 1126, between
    the hours of 0700 - 1600. For pick up before/after normal business hours, coordinate with 366 LRS
    TIP manager.
MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI24-301 22 AUGUST 2007                                                                  3


4. Payment to Service Providers. Currently, there are two service providers: Mountain Home Commu-
nity Transit and Ada County Highway District.
   4.1. Mountain Home Community Transit. Pay the driver. In return, rider will receive a monthly
   pass.
   4.2. Ada County Highway District. There are two methods of payment.
       4.2.1. Send check, money order and/or voucher to:
         Ada County Highway District - Commuteride
         5714 Fairview Avenue
         Boise, ID 83706-1169
       4.2.2. IAW Ada County Highway District policies, drivers are authorized to accept payment;
       however, drivers are not responsible for lost or misplaced payment. Riders are ultimately respon-
       sible.

5. Consequences. Failure to meet the standards set forth in this instruction will force immediate removal
from the Transportation Incentive Program.



                                              ANTHONY J. ROCK, Brig Gen (S), USAF
                                              Commander
4                                            MOUNTAINHOMEAFBI24-301 22 AUGUST 2007


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order 13150, Federal Workforce Transportation

Abbreviations and Acronyms
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
TIP—Transportation Incentive Program
