BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          NASIC INSTRUCTION 10-102
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                               29 MARCH 2012

                                                                                         Operations

                                                                               ISSUE MANAGER




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NASIC/GT                                                              Certified by: NASIC/GT
                                                                           (Colonel Sean P. Larkin)
Supersedes:    NASICI 10-102, 2 Dec 2005                                                   Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-1, Mission Directives. It
establishes and describes the position of Issue Manager at the National Air and Space
Intelligence Center (NASIC), including functions, responsibilities, authorities, and the criteria for
establishment of Issue Managers for select intelligence topics. This publication applies to all
NASIC civilian and military personnel assigned to NASIC. This publication does not apply to
the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or Air National Guard (ANG) Units assigned to
NASIC. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field to NASIC Publications Office (NASIC/SCOK),
4180 Watson Way, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-5648, ATTN: Publications/Forms
Managers. Maintain records created as a result of the prescribed processes identified in this
directory in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of
them IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) found on the Air Force Portal link at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been updated to clarify organizational responsibilities and define
organizational processes. This instruction also streamlines overview and responsibilities of the
Issue Managers.
2                                                             NASICI10-102 29 MARCH 2012


1. OVERVIEW:
    1.1. Issue Manager Positions are established at NASIC to oversee critical intelligence issues
    for the entire organization. The creation of individual Issue Manager Positions is a corporate
    decision, staffed through the NASIC Council and approved by the NASIC Commander.
    1.2. Issue Managers are NASIC’s primary representatives and advocates on all matters
    related to their respective intelligence issues. Issue Manager Responsibilities cross all
    NASIC Groups, Directorates, offices, Squadrons, and Divisions where work related to the
    Issue Manager’s intelligence issue is performed.
    1.3. The goals of the Issue Manager are to achieve high levels of integration between various
    elements of NASIC; improve the analytic depth and quality; improve the level of support to
    operational, policy, and acquisition clients; and improve interaction and integration with the
    Intelligence Community.
    1.4. Issue Manager positions may be created for a limited number of major intelligence
    issues that span the breadth of the NASIC organization. These issues should be of high
    priority to both the Air Force and National communities and must be a key intelligence issue
    for NASIC as a whole.
    1.5. An Issue Manager position should not be created for an intelligence issue for which
    there is already an office (e.g., an aircraft Issue Manager position would not be needed if
    NASIC already had an aircraft office). An Issue Manager position would also not be
    warranted for intelligence topics of more limited scope in terms of national importance,
    duration, or amount of NASIC resources dedicated to the issue. In those cases, it may be
    more appropriate to assign a senior analyst to lead an Integrated Production Team (IPT),
    which might be composed of analysts from several offices.
    1.6. Typical areas for creation of Issue Manager positions could include any areas where the
    Intelligence Community has created a Mission Manager or similar community management
    structure. In those cases, the Issue Manager would act as NASIC’s primary interface with
    the Intelligence Community management structure.
    1.7. Issue Managers are full-time positions, requiring persons experienced in the respective
    intelligence issues and experienced in working across NASIC and the Intelligence
    Community. Issue Managers work for the entire organization and represent all of NASIC’s
    interests and to facilitate interaction across the entire NASIC organization. They may be
    administratively assigned at a lower level in the organization.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    2.1. NASIC/CC will approve the creation of individual issue manager positions at NASIC.
    2.2. NASIC Group Commanders and Directors will recommend, to the Commander, critical
    intelligence issues appropriate for the establishment of an Issue Manager.
    2.3. NASIC Council will consider Issue Manager requirements for resources and
    prioritization as Center level requirements, and determine an appropriate resourcing solution.
    2.4. NASIC Chief Scientist’s Group (CSG) will evaluate the need for an individual issue
    manger position and staff the proposal through the NASIC Group Commanders and
NASICI10-102 29 MARCH 2012                                                                       3


  Directors. Any proposal must address projected resource (people, billets, funds, facilities)
  impacts.
  2.5. NASIC/GTOR will keep Issue Managers apprised of all tasking (e.g., formal production
  requirements, ad hoc tasks, and Requests for Information (RFI)) related to the Issue
  Manager’s intelligence topics.
  2.6. NASIC Production Management Group (PMG) will work with Issue Managers to
  ensure that the Center-wide plans for analysis and production incorporate the critical
  intelligence topics assigned to the Issue Managers.
  2.7. NASIC Analysis and Production Groups and Squadrons will keep the Issue Managers
  apprised of ongoing analysis and production related to the critical intelligence topics assigned
  to the Issue Managers. The Groups will inform the Issue Managers of any changes in
  priorities or resources that could potentially impact the analysis and production on the critical
  intelligence topics assigned to the Issue Managers. The Issue Managers will work with the
  Group Technical Directors and Squadron Senior Intelligence Analysts to ensure that analysis
  and production plans incorporate the critical intelligence topics assigned to the Issue
  Managers.
  2.8. NASIC Issue Managers will work across the entire NASIC organization and represent
  the organization, interacting with external organizations, including the Intelligence
  Community, along with key national and operational clients. Issue Managers also serve a
  variety of analytic and management functions for the NASIC organization as it relates to
  their respective intelligence issues.
     2.8.1. ANALYTIC: Issue Managers will serve as the NASIC senior intelligence experts
     for their respective intelligence areas—acting as a single NASIC voice on their respective
     issues, and representing NASIC on key intelligence, national, and theater committees
     related to their specific intelligence areas.
         2.8.1.1. Issue Managers will work to assure quality and consistency in NASIC
         intelligence positions, including arbitrating internal analytic disputes in concert with
         NASIC analytic leadership as required.
         2.8.1.2. Issue Managers will also be responsible for leading the development of
         NASIC’s overall knowledge base related to their respective intelligence issues,
         including the identification of key intelligence questions and gaps, along with
         identifying important collection problems and issues. As part of this effort, Issue
         Managers will identify and recommend new analytic projects to address key
         questions and gaps. They will also initiate, foster, and provide oversight for key
         cross-organizational analytic efforts.
         2.8.1.3. For initiative production, Issue Managers will scope the level of effort with
         Senior Intelligence Analysts, obtain approval from the CSG for the initiative and
         Center-wide level of effort, and then follow the production processes outlined in
         NASICI 14-102, NASIC Intelligence Production.
         2.8.1.4. In all activities, the Issue Managers will work with the existing line
         management structure to ensure proper support for analytic projects.
4                                                         NASICI10-102 29 MARCH 2012


    2.8.2. MANAGEMENT: Issue Managers will oversee NASIC’s overall programs for
    their respective intelligence issues. This includes representing NASIC’s program and
    working to ensure integration with the broader Intelligence Community on their
    respective intelligence issues.
       2.8.2.1. Issue Managers will also provide updates and advice to the NASIC
       commander and senior leadership concerning NASIC’s program (analysis,
       production, and resources) and efforts directed at their respective intelligence issues.
       2.8.2.2. As part of that effort, Issue Managers will maintain awareness of major
       ongoing analysis and production efforts. They will also monitor reportable resources
       (both financial and personnel) that have been earmarked for use specifically for their
       respective intelligence issues.
       2.8.2.3. Issue Managers will identify program gaps and resource shortages and will
       work with XP to advocate for additional resources to improve the program.




                                         KATHLEEN C. SAKURA, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
NASICI10-102 29 MARCH 2012                                                 5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 13 October 2011
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, 21 June 2002
NASIC 14-102, NASIC Intelligence Production, 11 August 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CSG—Chief Scientist's Group
IAW—In Accordance With
IPT—Integrated Production Team
NASIC—National Air & Space Intelligence Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMG—Production Management Group
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
RFI—Requests for Information
