BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                NATIONAL AIR & SPACE INTELLIGENCE
NATIONAL AIR & SPACE INTELLIGENCE                                CENTER INSTRUCTION 90-203
CENTER
                                                                                         20 OCTOBER 2008
                                                                             Certified Current 26 July 2012
                                                                                             Programming

                                                            PROGRAMMING SUPPORT COSTS FOR
                                                                          MISSION GROWTH


                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available on the NASIC website for downloading.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: NASIC/XPX                                             Certified by: NASIC/CV (Col Craig S. Harm)
                                                                                            Pages: 12


This instruction establishes a framework for ensuring sufficient support resources are planned in
conjunction with proposed mission growth and is in place when needed. Maintain records created as a
result of prescribed processes IAW AFMAN 33-263, Management of Records, and dispose of them
IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) as found on the AF Portal at the AF Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) link. Contact supporting records managers as required.

1. GENERAL SUMMARY
   1.1. ADEQUATE RESOURCES. Adequate resources must be provided for incoming missions or
   expansions of existing missions to ensure optimal performance; this must include support functions
   across the Center. Properly programming for support resources will:
       1.1.1. Facilitate better planning and performance within mission areas
       1.1.2. Minimize annual fluctuations in allocation strategies to cover support costs
       1.1.3. Promote uniform levels of support for all mission areas
       1.1.4. Prevent a single mission area from bearing the brunt of NASIC support costs
       1.1.5. Provide a stable resource level for support programs
   1.2. By defining the evaluation process for new missions, we can ensure that all potential missions
   are given the same scrutiny and that adequate support costs are accounted for in the baseline
   estimates. The standards used in this process should also be applied when constructing resource
   estimates for Overguidance and Initiatives.
2. ESTABLISHING SUPPORT RESOURCES
   2.1. Methodology. This explains the assumptions and constraints used.
       2.1.1. Sit-down costs. This is an estimate of the support costs assigned to each additional billet.
       It includes the costs to NASIC to support one additional person.
2                                                                   NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008


       2.1.2. The funding estimate covers a basic support package consisting of standard IT,
       workspace, and security items necessary to bring one person into the NASIC work environment.
       The elements included in the basic package are listed in Attachment 1.
       2.1.3. In addition, there is a “manpower cost” incurred by the Support Directorates in supporting
       each additional person. SC will provide the estimate for IT support manpower. A flat
       percentage billet requirement will be used for Other Support to include Financial Management,
       Plans and Programs, Security, Personnel, Education and Training, Facilities, and Logistics. See
       Attachment 1.
    2.2. Cost Model. The method used to compute the support cost in both funding and billets is
    detailed in Attachment 1. Where shift work is planned, support costs are calculated at a reduced rate
    due to use of existing infrastructure.
    2.3. Mission Unique Support. In addition to basic sit-down costs, some missions will require
    special workspaces, IT equipment and software, and support manpower resources. Groups and
    Directorates must also estimate and include these mission unique support requirements in the Future
    Years Defense Program (FYDP) program build. See Attachment 2, Mission Unique Requirements to
    compute these support costs.
    2.4. Estimates. For programming purposes, funding and billet requirements are estimated across a
    six year period. In this way, requirements can be programmed across the FYDP as required.
    2.5. Resource tails. Resource tails are the costs in the out-years associated with an investment in
    the first year. (i.e. software license renewal costs). The resource tails have been included in the cost
    model to provide adequate support across the FYDP for the Core IT and facilities requirements.
    2.6. Billets. Support manpower resources are calculated on a per billet basis. However, support to
    a single billet would amount to a fraction of a Support billet per year. The Programming Office
    (XPX) will keep a log recording those requirements for fractions of billets.
    2.7. On an annual basis, the NASIC/XPX Program team will review this log to determine the
    number of additional support billet requirements which have accumulated over the year. These
    requirements will be addressed in the next Program build.
    2.8. Manpower Justification. A Manpower Justification document may be required for
    Overguidance and Initiative submissions to the GDIP, POM, CCP, and NGP programs. A standard
    manpower justification for support billet requests is provided in Attachment 3.
    2.9. Full-Time Equivalents (FTE). Mission dollars may be used to purchase FTEs in lieu of
    increasing manpower. IT/facilities/supply support costs for FTEs housed within NASIC should be
    calculated the same way as for billets. The costs should be included in the External Assistance (EA)
    requested to cover the support bills each year at Allocation. However, FTEs housed by the
    contractor will not require additional support as that support should be provided by the contractor.
    2.10. Review Schedule. The methodology and cost estimates must be reviewed and updated on an
    annual basis by each of the Support Directorates. The cost model will be updated and vetted through
    the corporate process each year by 31 March. XPX will be the OPR for these actions.
NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008                                                                          3


3. INCLUSION OF SUPPORT RESOURCES
  3.1. Overguidance / Initiatives. Costs of the mission include support. The funds and billets
  required to ensure adequate support must be included in all estimates for Overguidance and Initiative
  packages. For planning purposes, these requirements are to be considered costs of the mission.
  When Overguidance and Initiatives are funded, the resources received may not be equal to those
  requested. In those cases, the amount of resources set aside for support will be based upon the
  number of billets actually received using the most current approved cost model available. The
  resources will be programmed accordingly.
  3.2. Plus-ups. During the annual Program Build, decisions are sometimes made to internally “plus-
  up” a mission. At this time, existing support resources must be moved along with the other mission
  resources. This will not increase the overall support resources.
  3.3. Mission Transfers with Resources. When a new mission is transferred to NASIC from
  another location, resources are expected to transfer as well. At that time, the support requirements
  for the mission should be calculated and resources identified to provide adequate support to the
  mission.
  3.4. Handling Prior Programming Budget Decisions. Overguidance and Initiatives submitted
  prior to the initial publication date of this document will not be subject to the provisions of this
  instruction. Therefore, mission owners should contact XPX to properly align support resources in
  the program in order to meet their execution year requirements.
  3.5. Core IT support. Billets and funding added to the IT program for core IT support will not be
  used to provide dedicated support, services, or equipment to the specific mission area contributing
  the resources, but will be applied to ensure adequate availability of standard IT across the enterprise
  to all customers. This does not apply to mission unique IT resources.
4. PARTIAL BILLET REQUIREMENTS
  4.1. Log Process. Annually, the Programming office will review the log to determine if enough
  activity has taken place to warrant allocation of mission billets to Support functions. The review
  will be completed each year by 31 March.
  4.2. Review of log. The fractional billets will be totaled by Group/Directorate to determine if any
  whole billet requirements exist within those categories. If so the Directorate will be notified and
  asked to identify the correct number of billets to be moved to support functions.
5. CUTS TO THE PROGRAM
  5.1. Cuts to the existing program. Occasionally, resources for existing programs may be cut in
  part or in total. When this occurs, the requirement for support is decreased or terminated. Thus, the
  related funding and billets may be decreased or terminated as well. However, support resources
  should not be cut from the program unless the corresponding mission billets are cut because this
  would be detrimental to the mission. The exception would be a corporate decision to strategically
  reduce support resources.
     5.1.1. Decrease or termination of support funding. When cuts are identified, the support resource
     cost model must be applied to arrive at an estimate of the funding no longer required to support
     the mission that has been cut.
4                                                                 NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008


       5.1.2. Decrease or termination of support billets. Fractional billets remaining from a cut drill
       will be re-entered into the Programming Log as a credit to that mission, subproject, and
       Directorate.
       5.1.3. Log review. The Programming Office will review the log annually; the review will be
       completed by 31 March. Credited whole billets will be returned to the corporation.The Board
       and Council will determine whether these billets are applied to cuts or distributed back to NASIC
       mission or support areas.
6. SUPPORT BILLET ALLOCATION PROCESS
    6.1. Call for Support Billet Packages. On an annual basis, the NASIC/XPX Program Team will
    determine how many non-IT support billets are available for allocation in the upcoming program
    build. At that time a call for Support Billet requirements will be issued.
       6.1.1. Support Billet requirements packages will follow the format in Attachment4.
       Requirements must be clearly defined and approved and signed by the 2-letter Director.
       Requirements packages tied to missions listed in the Bottom % or other cut drill will not be
       considered.
       6.1.2. Because IT support is calculated separately, SC may not submit IT packages within this
       process for consideration. SC will automatically receive any billets identified for core IT
       support. Billets necessary to support mission unique IT will remain in the mission 2-ltr program
       line but may be matrixed to SC. Resources marked for mission unique IT must be dedicated to
       support of that mission.
    6.2. Support Board Process. Billet requirements packages will be presented to the Support Board.
       6.2.1. The Support Board shall consist of the Directors of the Support directorates, MS, SC, DP,
       SO, FM, and XP, and the Group Commanders. The Board will be chaired by the Vice
       Commander.
       6.2.2. Upon review, the Support Board will rank the packages and determine which
       requirements to recommend receive billets in the upcoming program build.
       6.2.3. The NASIC/XPX Programming Team will brief the Board’s recommendation for billet
       allocation to the Council for approval.
7. TRANSFERRING, NEW, AND EXPANDING MISSIONS
    7.1. New mission. Any area of responsibility granted to NASIC that is not already in the Program
    is new NASIC mission. This includes any new responsibility directed by a tasking authority
    including AF ISR Agency, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Air Force, Department
    of Defense or Congress. It also includes any transfer of mission responsibility from another unit,
    agency, or Federal entity.
    7.2. Expanding mission. Any area of responsibility, already in the Program, that receives an
    increase in scope or responsibility from a tasking authority or transfer from another unit, agency, or
    Federal entity, requiring the addition of resources is expanding NASIC mission.
8. EVALUATION
    8.1. Evaluating opportunities. When NASIC is presented with an opportunity to accept a new or
    expanding mission, an evaluation of resources required must be performed to determine whether or
    not the mission is viable for NASIC.
NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008                                                                           5


  8.2. Evaluating directed mission. When NASIC is directed to assume a new or expanding
  mission, the same evaluation of resources must be performed to determine those actions required by
  NASIC to accommodate the mission.
9. METHOD
  9.1. Evaluation factors. Resources across the spectrum must be evaluated in terms of the new
  mission. These include, but are not limited to: facilities and space, security (including special access
  and safety requirements), power, environmental, legal, communications, connectivity, storage, IT
  services, and training requirements. Funding and manpower availability and time constraints must
  also be considered.
  9.2. Evaluation of resources. To ensure all of these items are addressed, the evaluation should be
  performed with assistance from Mission Support (Facilities and Training), Communications and
  Information (IT, multimedia information, and communications), Judge Advocate General (legal),
  Security, Programming, Manpower, and Financial Management.
10. PROGRAMMING RESOURCES
  10.1. Estimating requirements. When determining the funding and manpower levels required to
  accomplish the mission, adequate support resources must be included. Use the methods described in
  sections 2-7 above to determine the required support resources.




                                            CRAIG S. HARM, Colonel, USAF
                                            Vice Commander
6                                                                   NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008


                                               Attachment 1
    METHODOLOGY: COMPUTING GENERAL SUPPORT RESOURCES REQUIREMENTS

I. Funding. Funding calculations will be handled by XPX within the overguidance/initiative
packages. Calculations will be automated for the convenience of the managers.

A. Definitions. The formula components are defined as follows:

IT hardware and software:

                            3 standard Windows Thick/Thin Clients, mouse, keyboard, monitor,
                            switchbox, MS-Office products (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook)

                            4 year recapitalization cycle on desktop equipment

                            Personal storage (5 Gigabytes) plus per capita share of additional network
                            equipment (fiber, switches), enterprise storage system, enterprise back-up
                            system, peripheral devices (network printers & scanners), phone system
                            (secure and non-secure), operating system level software with varied standard
                            recapitalization cycles

                          Enterprise level software (Solaris operating System,Citrix licenses,
                          Hummingbird software license renewal)

                          Multi-media supplies, help-desk support, network administration, equipment
                          installation and maintenance

                          It does not include mission-specific IT

Consumable IT (Shift Workers): Storage/server space, multi-media and helpdesk support, network
administration, and maintenance


Facilities: Standard workstation including desk, chair, storage space, work area lighting, and
                fit-out for shared space including aisles, meeting space, etc.

           15 year recapitalization cycle on furnishings/work environment

Space: Available work space must be considered whenever plans include billets or in-house contractors.
       Facility space may require a permanent improvement or a leased facility, so this instruction does
       not address costs associated with workspace. Consult MS for course of action choices to secure
       facilities for your requirement. You may be asked to provide input to a MilCon submission or to
       include mission-associated facilities dollars in your over guidance or initiative.


Supply: Access to corporate Supply Store
        Printer ink, toner cartridges, paper
NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008                                                                                7



Training: Per billet share of corporate training dollars
          Access to corporate training programs, events and sponsorships (i.e. Tuition Assistance,
          Long-term, Full-time training)

Security: Annual badging supplies and equipment recap

Travel: TDY will be programmed at a per billet rate, and updated with the cost model. The current
TDY planning budget is $2,000 per billet.

B. Billet Definitions. Support cost per billet is dependent upon the type of billet:

Standard billets are those expected to be filled by Government Civilians or Military working during the
standard duty day (usually 0600-1800).

Shift billets are those expected to be filled by Government Civilians or Military working the entire shift
during non-standard hours and utilizing an established workstation, IT desktop, and software licenses.

FTEs (full-time equivalents) are contractors working full-time in-house.

Shift FTEs (full-time equivalents) are contractors working full-time in-house during non-standard hours
and utilizing an established workstation, IT desktop, and software licenses.

C. Support Formulas

Standard Billet: Support cost / billet = (IT hardware/software + Facilities + Supply + Training +
Travel + Security)

Shift Billet: Support cost / billet = (Consumable IT + Supply + Training + Travel + Security)

FTE: Support Cost / FTE = (Standard Billet Support cost – Training - Travel)

Shift FTE: Support Cost / FTE = (Shift Billet Support Cost – Training - Travel)


II. Manpower

A. Definitions. The manpower formula components are defined as follows:

IT Services: IT Requirements management
             IT acquisition
             Equipment Control Officer
             Software License Management
             Configuration Management
             Information Assurance and Security
             System Test and Integration
             Desktop and Non-Desktop Deployment and Retirement
8                                                                 NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008


            Network Administration and Maintenance
            Customer Support Center
            Video Teleconference Support
            Conference Room support
            Video, Audio, Graphics Support
            Computer Support Administrator

This does not include mission-specific services such as specialized database administration.
The estimate for IT services support is 5.4%.


Other Support: Security
               Resource Management
               Plans and Operations
               Personnel
               Facilities
               Training and Education

The estimate for Other Support services is calculated at 7% of total additional billets the new/expanding
mission will bring, based upon the Command-wide average of 5-8%.
When the cost model is applied, fractional billets will be rounded up from 0.81 or more and rounded
down from 0.80 or less.

B. Manpower Support Formulas

#Support billets needed per billet = (IT services manpower + Other Support services manpower)

The same calculation is applied for shift work.

Other Support services do not apply to in-house FTE contractor; however, the IT services manpower
calculations should be included.

#Support billets needed per in-house FTE contractor = IT services manpower

C. Updates. These formulas will be updated annually by the Program Team with information from each
Support Directorate. Updates will be reviewed by the Support Board.

D. Calculations. The Program Team (XPX) will build these calculations into the Cost Sheet forms for
Overguidance and Initiatives for each program build and new mission evaluation. If you are assessing
requirements outside of an over guidance/initiative drill, please contact the Program Team
(NASIC/XPX) to obtain the current cost figures.
NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008                                                                        9


                                            Attachment 2
                COMPUTING MISSION UNIQUE SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS

Will this mission require additional (above Core IT)/specialized mission unique:

       _____ Computers / peripheral equipment (i.e. CAD printers)

       _____ Software

       _____ Communications and Audio Visual equipment

       _____ Cubicle space (larger than standard _7 x_7.5 )

       _____ Training

       _____ Travel

       _____ Security (physical requirements, access control, etc)

       _____ Special access rooms

       _____ Power requirement upgrades

       _____ Lab equipment

       _____ Cooling capacity

       _____ Database administration

       _____ Database maintenance

       _____ Facility upgrades, leases, or MilCons

       _____ Helpdesk support

       _____ Other _______________________________________________

1. Survey the requirement using the above list. Provide as much detail on “other” requirements as
possible.
2. Prepare an estimate of resources needed to fulfill the above requirements. Include requirements for
five subsequent fiscal years where applicable (i.e. software license renewal).
3. Coordinate the estimate with SC, MS, and SO to ensure all support requirements are included and are
adequately costed.
4. Where unique support manpower is required (i.e. extra security support), ask the applicable Support
Directorate to provide a Manpower Justification detailing the manpower required.
10                                                                  NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008


                                              Attachment 3
            GENERAL SUPPORT REQUIREMENT MANPOWER JUSTIFICATION

Include the manpower support billets in your Overguidance/Initiative Manpower Justification.

Manpower Justifications may be required for all over guidance/initiative packages for GDIP, NGP,
CCP and POM.

When building the Manpower Justification:
In section 4, include the number of Civilian billets from the calculation, provided by XPX and described
in Attachment 1. Do not list an AFSC or grade level.

In section 6, include the following:
The ____ support positions are required to provide management support for the _____ required billets
and funding in this Overguidance/Initiative. Adequate support resources are required to ensure optimal
performance within this mission area.

In section 5, the PEC for the billets will be the same as the rest of your requirement.
NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008                                                                         11


                                             Attachment 4
                    MISSION UNIQUE SUPPORT BILLET REQUIREMENT

1. Group/Directorate:


2. Requirement Title:


3. Description:
Mission Unique Support manpower requirements must also be included in Overguidance or Initiative
Manpower Justification documents. Work with the Support Directorates (SC, MS, SO) to complete the
Justification. You will need to know your requirement by number of Officers, Enlisted, and Civilians,
their AFSCs or Grade levels, and a brief description of their duties.

4. Manpower Requirement: (indicate Officer, Enlisted or Civilian requirement, number of each, AFSC
and/or Grade and brief description of duty – all of this information must be provided)



5. Program or PEC required – Does this require a specific PEC or Program (GDIP, POM, CCP,
NGP)?

6. Justification: (Include estimate of hours required to perform specific duties; must perform X task X
occurrences at X hours each time. Why has the workload increased? Has this been directed from an
authority outside of NASIC?)

7: Impact of not funded: (Include the Groups/Directorates, missions, and customers that will be
affected)

8. POC:

9. Group CC/Director Signature and Date:
12                                                                    NASICI 90-203 20 OCTOBER 2008


                                                Attachment 5
 CALCULATING SUPPORT COSTS AND BILLETS FOR OVER GUIDANCE/INITIATIVES.

Table A5.1. Calculating Support Costs and Billets for Over Guidance/Initiatives.

Updated 17 Oct 08
All Costs expressed in dollars

Training/Facilities/Supplies Costs per billet or per FTE*
                                            Year 1 Year 2       Year 3    Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
Billet                                       12828     2118      2182      2248     2315     2385
Billet (shift worker)                         1328     1368      1410      1452     1495     1541
FTE in-house                                 11828     1088      1121      1155     1189     1226
FTE in-house (shift worker)                    328      338       349       359      370      381


IT Costs per billet or per FTE*
                                              Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
Billet or FTE in-house                         6243     7134     7348      7568     7796     8029

Billet or FTE in-house (Shift Worker)           555     1299      1338     1378     1419     1462
*Applies ONLY to in-house FTEs and billets.

Full Support Cost
                                                Year 1 Year 2 Year 3      Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
Billet                                          19071     9252     9530    9816    10111    10414
Billet (shift worker)                            1883     2667     2748    2830     2914     3003
FTE in-house                                    18071     8222     8469    8723     8985     9255
FTE in-house (shift worker)                       883     1637     1687    1737     1789     1843
Manpower
When requesting billets, add 12.4% total for IT and other support.
    This includes 5.4% for IT Support billets and 7% for Other Support.
This does not apply to FTEs. It does apply to shift workers.
