BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        NASIC INSTRUCTION 36-114
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                                13 JULY 2012

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                                   POSITION MANAGEMENT




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NASIC/DPC                                                           Certified by: NASIC/DP
                                                                                (Mr. Lon Molnar)
Supersedes:    NASICI 36-114, IC-1, 31                                                  Pages: 15
               May 2011


This instruction implements AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities.
This instruction outlines the procedures, policies and responsibilities of each
Group/Directorate/Office within the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) in the
management of their civilian positions. A position management plan is vital to this organization
to ensure the capability of completing its mission at the highest level possible. This publication
applies to all NASIC civilian personnel. This publication does not apply to the Air Force Active
Duty, AF Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) military personnel. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field to the NASIC Publications Office (NASIC/SCOK), 4180 Watson
Way, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-5648 ATTN: Publications/Forms Managers. Maintain
records created as a result of the prescribed processes identified in this directory in accordance
with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) found on the Air Force Portal link at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has undergone a complete rewrite. All grades have been changed to reflect the
transition to the GG grade structure and to ensure continuity across the Center.
1. OBJECTIVES.
2                                                               NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012


    1.1. The effective utilization of our manpower authorizations and personnel is essential to
    sustained mission readiness. It is especially critical in situations of limited resources and
    increasing mission responsibilities. A Position Structure Plan (PSP) aids in defining career
    advancement opportunities for all civilian employees within the legal and policy constraints
    imposed by AF, AF ISR Agency, Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and the servicing
    Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) and financial constraints imposed by NASIC funding
    resources.
    1.2. The active involvement of all levels of management is necessary to maintain a viable
    Position Management Program within NASIC. Every supervisor and manager must assure
    positions under their control are properly and efficiently structured. Deviations from this
    Instruction must be approved by the Commander, Vice Commander or Chief Scientist.
    1.3. Each Group/Directorate/Office in NASIC is required to develop a PSP. Each PSP will
    be reviewed with the CV and CA annually. These reviews ensure there are no mission and/or
    position updates/changes that require corrective action. CV has final approval on any
    proposed changes to the PSP outside of scheduled reviews. The NASIC Civilian Personnel
    Division (DPC) and each Group/Directorate/Office will maintain copies of the final approved
    plans. Any approved updates will be input to the database by DPC and updated excel sheets
    with this information will be sent out to the owning Group/Directorate/Office.
    1.4. A PSP is required to control loss of expertise; promote professional development;
    address shortages or excesses in mission areas; ensure the proper knowledge, skills and
    abilities (KSA‘s) and grade structure for the mission; and establish consistent standards for
    civilian promotion across the center.
2. DEFINITIONS.
    2.1. The following position management definitions will be used by all
    Group/Directorate/Offices. There will be some deviations/changes up or down on proposed
    grades depending on organizational support provided by the position, the scope of
    responsibility, and size of the organizations, etc. These deviations will only be addressed
    during the annual review cycle. The final outcome on those exceptions will be determined
    by the classification guidelines and any/all regulations governing civilian positions.
       2.1.1. Ideal Grade (I) = is a grade that may be above the authorized and advancement is
       warranted because the employee‘s contributions to the mission are significant enough to
       warrant an above grade promotion.
       2.1.2. Required (R) is the full performance level as defined by the career progression
       standard outlined for each series. Employees at this level have successfully completed
       required entry-level training and/or developmental activities and have a full
       understanding of the technical or specialty field. Actions at this level may have impact
       beyond the work unit and, as a result, employees at this level typically collaborate with
       their peers internally and externally.
       2.1.3. Minimum (M) is any level below full performance. Incumbent will require
       training and mentoring as they progress to the full performance level. These employees
       must meet all performance expectations as well as any training etc., to be able to reach
       the full performance grade. Those billets that have a minimum grade of GG-07 may flex
       down (GG-5) or up (GG-9) to corresponding grades in the line of progression for entry
NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012                                                                     3


     level (GG-5/7/9), dependent on the qualifications of the selectee (i.e., superior academic
     achievement, Master‘s Degree, experience). If a determination is made to hire at the GG-
     5 or GG-9 vice the GG-7, a deviation is not required.
         2.1.3.1. Many positions are considered as entry/developmental positions (GG-02
         through GG-12). These will generally be hired at the minimum grade. The employee
         will progress in a single position graduating to full performance after meeting
         performance expectations, completing required training and developmental activities
         as defined by the supervisor for each level. Advancing to the next level is not
         automatic.
         2.1.3.2. Other positions may be at the single grade level. These positions will be set
         at the highest grade necessary to satisfy the mission. This may occur when the duties
         and KSAs for a position will not grow within a mission area. For example, a GG-07
         clearly satisfies the necessary expertise and no advancement beyond that level is
         advantageous to the mission.
             2.1.3.2.1. As part of an incumbent‘s development and career progression, they
             should be advised of where/what their min/max is on their position and ensure
             they understand any further advancement may require a change in positions
             and/or offices.
3. GUIDELINES:
  3.1. Directorate Director: Will generally be I/R/M GG-15. Smaller Directorates and/or
  Staff offices will generally be I/R/M GG-14's. This level is based on supportability of the
  grade by OPM classification guidelines/regulations.
  3.2. Group/Directorate Deputy: Will generally be I/R/M GG-15. Smaller Directorates
  and/or Staff offices will generally be I/R/M GG-14s. This level is based on supportability of
  the grade by OPM classification guidelines/regulations.
  3.3. Squadron/Division Director: Will generally be I/R/M GG-15. Smaller Divisions
  and/or Staff offices will generally be I/R/M GG-14's. This level is based on supportability of
  the grade by OPM classification guidelines/regulations.
  3.4. Squadron/Division Senior Intelligence Analyst (SIA): Will generally be I/R/M GG-
  15's. Smaller Divisions and/or Staff offices will generally be I/R/M GG-14's. This level is
  based on supportability of the grade by OPM classification guidelines/regulations.
  3.5. Flight/Branch Chief: Will generally be I/R/M GG-14's. Smaller Flight/Branch, and/or
  Staff offices will generally be I/R/M GG-13's. This level is based on supportability of the
  grade by OPM classification guidelines/regulations.
  3.6. (supervision code 4): Will only be used when a flight‘s span of control causes
  difficulty for effective supervision. Normally a flight must exceed 50 authorized billets to
  warrant creating section chiefs. The section chiefs would be responsible for approximately
  15-20 personnel. They will be responsible for all personnel actions to include rating, hiring,
  directing, assigning, adjustment to grievances, recommendations for promotion, reward,
  transfer, furlough, layoff, removal, recall, suspension, or discipline for all assigned
  employees. All personnel actions must have final approval from the flight Commander/Chief.
  These positions will generally be I/R/M GG-14.
4                                                                NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012


    3.7. Principal Intelligence Analyst (PIA)/Principal Technical Analyst/Advisor
    (PTA): (Leadership first, technical depth second) National Expert on relatively broad
    technical area, leadership within the greater Intelligence Center (IC) – external focus
    (primarily production areas), provides technical leadership to a group of analysts, advises
    management on project assignment and mentors analysts. Generally provides continuity for
    the flight/branch, and guidance to management on all matters for decision making purposes.
    Also performs quality assurance checks on flight/branch products and services, serves as an
    advocate for the flight/branch‘s mission, and collaborates with the other NASIC PIAs/PTAs
    as needed to effectively accomplish the mission. (The majority of PTA‘s will be found in
    support function areas.) These will generally be I/R/M GG-14's. Smaller Flight/Branch,
    and/or Staff offices will generally be I/R/M GG-13's. This level is based on supportability of
    the grade by OPM classification guidelines/regulations.
    3.8. Lead      Analyst/Engineer/Expert: (Technical        depth    first   and     leadership
    second). National expert on a more narrowly focused area, typically to a greater depth than a
    PIA and more widely recognized as a leader by the community outside NASIC than the
    typical analyst. For production/analytic areas - leadership within the greater IC – external
    focus, membership/leadership on national level committees, mentors/leads analysts in area of
    expertise. For infrastructure/support areas - leadership recognized by outside organizations,
    usually higher headquarters or like organizations, the single point-of-contact for NASIC
    positions on a subject matter, mentors/leads others in area of expertise. These types of
    positions are highly dependent on mission needs. These will generally be I/R/M GG-13‘s
    and when vacated will be reviewed to ensure the mission still supports. If the mission does
    not they will be filled at the M GG-07, R GG-12 and I GG-13. These will be based on
    supportability of the grade by OPM classification guidelines/regulations.
    3.9. Program Manager: These positions have duties of which are to manage or direct, or to
    assist in a line capacity in managing or directing, one or more programs, including
    appropriate supporting service organizations, when the paramount qualification requirements
    of the positions are management and executive knowledge and ability and when the positions
    do not require competence in a specialized subject-matter or functional area. These will
    generally be I/R/M GG-13's.
    3.10. Analysts, usually S&E and Intelligence: Will generally be at the M GG-07, R GG-
    12 and I GG-13.
    3.11. Primary Group/Directorate Resource Advisors: Will generally be I/R/M GG-13's.
    Squadron resource advisors vary, based on scope of responsibilities and as approved by the
    CV in the current PSP.
    3.12. Secretary and Administrative Support Positions: The Commander's Secretary will
    generally be a M GG-08 and I/R GG-09. The Vice Commander‘s and Chief Scientists
    Secretary position will generally be I/R/M GG-08 . Group/Directorate Secretary/Admin
    Assistant will generally be I/R/M GG-07. Squadron/Division Secretary/Admin Assistant will
    generally be M GG-05 and I/R GG-06. Flight/Branch Secretary/Admin Assistant will
    generally be M GG-04 and below and I/R GG-05.
    3.13. All other career field grade levels will be based on OPM and any other applicable
    classification guidelines. Most support organizations will fall into this area.
NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012                                                                       5


  3.14. All vacated positions will be filled at the minimum grade based upon their respective
  position management plans unless exceptions are approved by the Vice Commander and/or
  Chief Scientist.      See Attachment 2 or your DPC representative for guidance
  (samples/checklists).
     3.14.1. When new billets are added to your Unit Manning Document and they were not
     addressed on your approved PSP, they will be added by your DPC representative in
     coordination with the Group/Directorate, and will generally be M G-07, R GG-12 and I
     GG-13 (analyst only), unless you have submitted a change as outlined in Attachment 2,
     requesting CV and/or CA approval.
     3.14.2. Not all manpower changes affecting your PSP need to be reviewed/approved by
     CV/CA. For example, if you are swapping a military and civilian flight CC/chief within
     a squadron there is no need to seek CV/CA approval. Ensure you work these
     moves/changes with DPC (Civ Personnel) and DPM (Manpower).
     3.14.3. Internal NASIC reassignments are acceptable as long as the incumbent qualifies,
     and the Required grade is the same on the losing and the gaining billet. If the Required is
     not the same a request for approval of the reassignment must be submitted. See
     Attachment 2 as a guideline or see your DPC representative for assistance.
     Reassignments outside of NASIC will be addressed on a case-by-case basis.
  3.15. NASIC/CC approval is required before any new position at the GG-15 level can be
  established.
  3.16. Vacant GG-14 or GG-15 positions will be filled by competitive procedures, as outlined
  in 3.16.4 or a management reassignment with approval. Before filling a vacant GG-14 or
  GG-15 position the selecting supervisor must schedule a meeting with CV and/or CA, not to
  receive approval to hire, but to discuss hiring strategies, to include management
  reassignments and how they align with your mission area. Final approval for GG-14
  selections, unless they are a NASIC Liaison Officer (LNO), that are covered in 3.16.1, will
  be at the Group/Directorate level.
     3.16.1. All GG-15, and NASIC LNO selections, regardless of grade, as well as all GG-
     14 and GG-15 promotion requests require NASIC/CC or his/her designee approval before
     they are finalized.
     3.16.2. All LNO returnees to NASIC will normally be addressed by the Rotational
     Assignment Leadership Council (RALC) NASICI 36-110.
     3.16.3. A Performance Memorandum (sample in Attachment 4) will be necessary with
     any proposed promotion package that requires Command Section approval and is highly
     encouraged for use for Group Commander/Director approval for any proposed GG-13
     promotions. GG-13 promotions are at the discretion of the Group CC or Directorate
     Director. Any proposed promotions above the GG-13 level require Command Section
     Review/Approval.
  3.17. Selection panels include the selecting supervisor and two additional individuals. The
  second member from within the hiring 2 Ltr will be appointed by the Group
  Commander/Director and that person will be of equivalent to or higher grade than the grade
  of the position being filled. In all cases, each panel must consist of at least one civilian and
6                                                                 NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012


    one military member. The third member (equivalent or higher to the grade being selected)
    will be from outside the hiring Group/Directorate, will be appointed by DPC. Any variation
    to the hiring panel composition must be approved by the Vice Commander or Chief Scientist.
       3.17.1. Selection panel members will rank candidates, being mindful of Veterans
       preference requirements and considering such factors as education, training, experience,
       appraisals, job-related awards, and any other job related criteria pertinent to the position.
       Panel members will refer to the ‗NASIC Career matrix‘ (Attachment 5) in determining
       required, highly desired, desired and optional attributes. Required and highly desired
       attributes should be part of the threshold criteria. Required, highly desired and desired
       attributes should be reflected in scoring of the applicant. For GG-14/15 positions,
       resumes will be required and made available to panel members. Supervisor will construct
       a set of objective selection criteria, and pre-determined questions as well as associated
       point values/anchors, prior to receiving applications. Please send your questions and
       criteria to your DPC representative for forwarding to base, when required. Questions and
       criteria may need to be pre-approved by the base Civilian Personnel Office.
       3.17.2. Selection panel members will review the records to determine the top candidates.
       All interviewed applicants will be asked the same set of questions whether interview is
       conducted telephonically, by Video Teleconference (VTC), or in person. Although not
       desired, interview questions can be provided to candidates 30 minutes ahead of time. It is
       recommended that when scheduling the interview, you inform the interviewee to arrive
       approximately 30 minutes early to review the approved questions that will be asked. The
       final ranking will be either a composite score of both the records review and the
       interview, or only the interview results; this will be discussed and agreed to during the
       strategy session with either CV or CA. In the event of a tie, selection panel members will
       vote. In person interviews may also be used, when preferred by panel members and
       when no costs are incurred or Temporary Duty (TDY) expenses are approved. At a
       minimum, telephone interviews must be conducted.
           3.17.2.1. Throughout the hiring process all supervisors must adhere to applying
           Veterans Preference rules and regulations as defined on the NASIC Civilian
           Personnel Share Point site under the internal links section. On this site, you can also
           find links to a DoD Interview Guide and a Wright-Patterson AFB, Supervisors Guide
           to Selection Interviews. The links will take you to all of the guides you will need to
           do complete a successful selection.




                                             AARON M. PRUPAS, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012                                                            7


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, 7 Mar 1995
NASICI 36-110, NASIC Rotational Assignment Program and Leadership Council, 12 Aug 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Intelligence Community
KSA—Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
LNO—Liaison Officer
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PIA—Principle Intelligence Analyst
PSP—Position Structure Plan
PTA—Principal Technical Analyst/Advisor
RALC—Rotational Assignment Leadership Council
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SIA—Senior Intelligence Analyst
TDY—Temporary Duty
VTC—Video Teleconference
 8                                                        NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012


                                     Attachment 2
 EXAMPLE MEMORANDUM TO REQUEST FOR CHANGE/UPDATE OF POSITION
                      STRUCTURE PLAN

Figure A2.1. Request for Change/Update of Position Structure Plan.
NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012                                   9


                                   Attachment 3
        EXAMPLE STAFF SUMMARY SHEET TO OBTAIN APPROVAL OF
                       SELECTION/PROMOTION

Figure A3.1. Example Staff Summary Sheet.
 10                                                                NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012


                                          Attachment 4
                  GG-14 OR GG-15 PROMOTION PACKAGE EXAMPLE

Projected Promotion Package Position Number 11271
Encumbered by Super Performer
Proposed Position Expansion of Duties:

Explanation: New duties include those duties and responsibilities now being performed which
are in ―excess of‖ or ―beyond those‖ stated in the assigned Position Description. These are the
new duties that the supervisor believes are clearly and solely identifiable with the present
position or for which there is no other position these duties could have been assigned. The
supervisor should offer convincing proof of assumption of these new duties in this paragraph.
Make sure bullets make it obvious these are new duties.

Example: Expanded duties include:

-Acts as a principal intelligence analyst (PIA) in reviewing branch/flight/flight product drafts
regarding avionics systems/weapons analysis and production. Responsible for technical
accuracy of aircraft systems/weapons/support proliferation analysis within the branch/flight.

-Serves as the national expert within the intelligence community for aircraft proliferation issues.
Participates in national production efforts and working groups and as the Air Force
representative, facilitates Center production in area of expertise.

-Responsible to initiate and facilitate joint analytical efforts with other Center directorates and
externally with the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) and the Weapons Intelligence
Proliferation and Arms Control (WINPAC) for division production. Works with analysts within
both organizations to develop products providing actionable intelligence for policy use.
Manages joint analytical and production efforts integrating data that crosses organizational
missions.

-Responsibility to initiate and facilitate communications between the branch/flight analysts and
policy makers. Develops a conduit for branch/flight analysis to appropriate Office of the
Secretary of Defense (OSD), Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) and Air Force Materiel
Command (AFMC).

Where duties came from:

Explanation: State where the duties originated. Is it a new program or an old program that has
gained visibility? Are they an outgrowth of another program? What is the source of these
duties, and how did they become part of the incumbent‘s duties?

Example:
The Center requires technical oversight at the branch/flight level to assist chiefs/commanders
with the group‘s technical structure, analytical approach, production tasking, collection
requirements, and collaborative efforts.
NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012                                                                           11



-Branch/flight analysis requires a formulated technical structure for analytical approaches
consistent with Center policies. Mr. Performer provides oversight to branch/flight personnel
regarding analytical processes, collection requirements and tool utilization assuring the technical
accuracy of branch/flight/flight analysis.

-Mr. Performer‘s oversight of branch/flight production assures compliance of Center production
processes. Provides guidance to analysts for collaborative efforts resulting in accurate and
comprehensive products satisfying user‘s needs.

-The Center is responsible (via DIAP) to provide national expertise in the area of aircraft
proliferation. Mr. Performer fulfills the role of national expert and participates in national
forums to provide the information and guidance required to users and collaborators in area of
expertise.

-In advancing the Center‘s policy support mission, Mr. Performer now provides guidance
regarding US policy interests in aircraft proliferation topics. He facilitates Center
production/briefing efforts in support of US policymakers by working directly with DIA/ESO
staff.

Future Prospects:

Explanation: State the period of time these new duties should continue and how you made this
assessment. This should be an ―educated‖ prognostication.

Example:
-Aircraft proliferation is an ever increasing threat due to the operations of rogue countries and
terrorist operations throughout the world. Prognostication in such interest will increase in the
foreseeable future.

-Policy makers are showing progressive levels of interest in intelligence products due to the
unstable world environment. Again, this area of interest is expected to accelerate in response to
increasing threat.

Other Positions at the Proposed Grade

Explanation: List here all positions under your supervision that are presently at the same grade
as the new grade proposed for the position being submitted; e.g., if the proposal is for a
promotion to the GG-14 level, list all other GG-14s. Identify what each equal position is doing,
and why they could not have absorbed the new duties and responsibilities being assigned to the
new position. (NOTE: If there are other positions the duties can be assigned to, this data sheet
will not be completed.)

Position Number 11272 - The incumbent of this position is performing the same type of duties as
Mr. Performer, but could not take on any of the duties due to involvement with Red Robin (RR)
and the STEPS program. Although RR is winding down, STEPS is enjoying significant growth.
 12                                                                 NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012


The incumbent represents AF on STEPS and is now TDY approximately 50% of the time. If the
incumbent were to accept higher-level duties, the result would be degradation in both the RR and
STEPS programs.

Position Number 11273 - The incumbent of this position has four programs projected to end later
this year. Although we could have assigned additional duties, it wouldn‘t make sense. First, Mr.
Performer has grown up with this program, and although the incumbent of this slot is an
excellent employee, it would take at least six months to fully transition into the new duties. The
incumbent is being fully utilized wrapping up the programs at the present time.

There are no other GG-14's or above in this office.

EXAMPLE ORGANIZATION CHART

Explanation: List all employees, both military and civilian, including title, series (if applicable),
and grade.

Supervisory Electronics Engineer               GG-0855-14 Mark Oslor
Electronics Engineer                           GG-0855-14 Lisa Monan
Electronics Engineer                           GG-0855-13 Al Timms
Electronics Engineer                           GG-0855-13 Brutus Buckeye
Electronics Engineer                           GG-0855-12 Connie Franks
Electronics Engineer                           GG-0855-12 Dick Norris
Computer Engineer                              GG-0854-12 Ralph King
Intelligence Specialist                        GG-0132-12 Pat Rainey
Intelligence Specialist                        GG-0132-11 Sharon Stone
Intelligence Specialist                        GG-0132-07 Doug McCarthy
Intelligence Specialist                        MSgt       Ron Adkins
Administrative Assistant                       GG-0303-05 Gene Taert

Those packages that cannot be completed as unclassified will be held in DPC for the CPF and if
requested they will review those packages here at NASIC. These packages should be the
exception and not the norm.

To ensure DPC and the CPF remain within the parameters of all security regulations and
directives, the following statement MUST appear, with appropriate signature, as the last item on
the projected package write-up unless the document purposefully contains classified statements:


This Projected Promotion Package has been thoroughly reviewed and contains no classified
information.



__________________________________
Immediate Supervisor Signature and Title
NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012                                                      13


                                      Attachment 5
                          NASIC CAREER PATH MATRIXES

Nasic Career Path matrixes may also be found at:

https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/NASIC/dp/Training/civforcedev/default.aspx



Figure A5.1. Career Path Template.
 14                                       NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012


Figure A5.2. Management Track Template.




Figure A5.3. Technical Track Template.
NASICI36-114 13 JULY 2012                                        15


Figure A5.4. Composite Track Template.




Figure A5.5. Communication & Information Career Path Template.
