BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        NASIC INSTRUCTION 33-108
NATIONAL AIR & SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                                6 JUNE 2013

                                                                                Communications

                                                     NASIC STRATEGIC IT MANAGEMENT




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the E-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: NASIC/SCXE                                                          Certified by: NASIC/SC
                                                                        (Col William Stevenson)
                                                                                         Pages: 9
Supersedes:    NASICI 33-108, 30 August
               2010


The NASIC Communications and Information (SC) Director is also the NASIC Chief
Information Officer (CIO) and is the authority on and responsible for the content and accuracy of
this instruction. This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1,
Cyberspace Support. This instruction establishes guidance to ensure standardized planning,
acquisition, prioritization, implementation, sustainment, and all other aspects of life-cycle
management of Information Technology (IT) at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center
(NASIC). All military, civilian, contractors, visitors, and tenant partners are required to adhere
to the policies and standards in this instruction to ensure effective management and execution of
all IT implemented within the NASIC complex and its annexes. This instruction also applies to
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units and Air National Guard (ANG) Units assigned to
NASIC. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field to NASIC Publications Office (NASIC/SCOK),
4180 Watson Way, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-5648, ATTN: Publications/Forms
Managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)           Records        Disposition         Schedule        (RDS)       located       at
 2                                                                   NASICI33-108 6 JUNE 2013


http://myaf.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or servi

e in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision reflects updates to the roles and responsibilities of NASIC/SC and the Center as a
result of any changes that may have taken place since the last revision. Additional language was
added to require that all Proposed Contractual Documents (PCD) include a statement that reflects
higher headquarter policy and directives regarding IT. Other administrative changes were made
for clarity and consistency such as updating source references as applicable as well as the names
of applicable higher headquarter offices, agencies, and other applicable policies, and directives.
1. IT MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES.
     1.1. With authority delegated by the NASIC Commander, the CIO is the focal point for
     NASIC IT governance and the authority to ensure the following objectives are met.
        1.1.1. NASIC clientele is provided with agile, interoperable, and enterprise compliant IT
        systems that support the Center, the Intelligence Community, and joint service worldwide
        operational arenas.
            1.1.2. Guidance is provided for bringing in new information systems and
            technologies and developing processes to facilitate the acquisition and
            implementation of systems, requirements, and services throughout the Center.
            1.1.3. All new programs, projects, and acquisitions are evaluated for potential
            impacts on the NASIC IT infrastructure and architectures while maintaining all
            NASIC IT under the SC umbrella through a rigorous program and portfolio
            management concept illustrated in Section 3 of this instruction.
     1.2. As delegated by the CIO, the Systems Integration Management Office (SIMO) is the IT
     enterprise architect and leads the Architecture and Engineering Review Panel (AERP) to
     review all IT requirements and acquisitions for impact to the existing NASIC IT enterprise
     architecture. Any proposed deviations from NASIC IT standards shall be addressed at the
     AERP and exceptions or waivers will be adjudicated in accordance with the NASIC
     Corporate Process as defined in NASIC Instruction 90-103, NASIC Council.
        1.2.1. The AERP will maintain the architecture to include current standards that
        maximize efficiencies while enabling future strategies, innovation, and the establishment
        of new standards. While oversight and compliance requirements will be observed, risks
        will also be assessed to ensure mission area innovation will not be inhibited by stagnate
        IT standards.
2. Organization and Leadership Responsibilities.
     2.1. The NASIC IT Council and IT Management Board (ITMB), as established by NASIC
     Instruction 90-103, NASIC Council, will provide strategic guidance regarding the overall
     management of NASIC IT. In accordance with the delegated authorities granted by the
     Commander, the CIO serves as the decision authority and execution arm on all directives
NASICI33-108 6 JUNE 2013                                                                        3


   associated with strategic IT management, acquisition, and modernization initiatives. As
   chaired by the office of the CIO, the ITMB is comprised of senior representatives (i.e.,
   Deputy Commanders/Directors) from each of the production Groups and serves to ensure all
   IT development and deployment activities are consistent with the NASIC strategic intent and
   direction. As such, the ITMB provides decision authority and management oversight for the
   NASIC IT enterprise to ensure all functional requirements are satisfied. The NASIC IT
   Council will address IT related issues that cannot be resolved in other subordinate IT venues
   such as the ITMB and will conduct ad-hoc or out-of-cycle sessions as necessary the
   discretion of the CIO.
      2.1.1. The office of the CIO will provide semi-annual IT State of the Union briefings to
      ensure IT management and investments are planned and executed in accordance with
      Council direction.
3. Program and Portfolio Management.
   3.1. In order to meet NASIC strategic IT objectives, the CIO has aligned NASIC IT
   resources into functional portfolios. Each portfolio is further broken down into manageable
   programs that directly correlate to that portfolio’s major function. Portfolio Management is
   recognized as a “best practice” method for the management of IT resources in a manner that
   provides transparency and accountability as well as a strategic approach to IT investments
   and decisions. (AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio Management and
   IT Investment Review).
   3.2. Portfolio Managers are delegated by the office of the CIO to manage SC’s portfolios
   spanning the core IT functions of the entire enterprise. These portfolio managers are
   responsible for managing the resources for all programs assigned to their respective portfolio,
   making recommendations to leadership for decision making purposes, and meeting on a
   regular basis to discuss and prioritize requirements.
      3.2.1. An additional portfolio has been established to manage the Center’s mission-
      unique IT requirements that are not covered under SC’s core IT resource program. These
      requirements are typically resourced by the mission area and documented in signed
      agreements (i.e., Service Level Agreements) that detail the responsibilities, expectations,
      and associated resources to be provided by the requirements owner and SC.
      3.2.2. Core IT is defined as the Standard IT hardware, equipment, networks, software
      and support services typically used by most every user in the Center enabling them to be
      productive.
      3.2.3. Mission Unique IT is defined as the IT hardware, equipment, networks and
      software typically used by a sub-set of users primarily supporting accomplishment of
      their mission-specific responsibilities.
      3.2.4. To accomplish the intent of this instruction, associated processes have been
      documented. All personnel are also required to adhere to the processes outlined in those
      process documents found on the SC SharePoint site within the Strategic IT Management
      folder.
4. Requirements and Acquisition Management.
 4                                                                  NASICI33-108 6 JUNE 2013


     4.1. Requirements and requests for change arise from a deficiency in an existing operational
     capability, a need for a new capability, or an opportunity to replace or modernize an existing
     system with improved technology. All internal NASIC requesting organizations will provide
     SC IT requirements managers with their functional requirements via the current NASIC
     Communication System Requirements Document (CSRD) process. An SC requirements
     manager will work with the requesting organization, IT engineers, and IT portfolio managers
     as applicable to clarify each requirement, develop a potential technical solution, and keep all
     stakeholders posted on status. Other directives that drive requirements and acquisition
     management processes assist the NASIC CIO as follows.
        4.1.1. All NASIC IT requirements, acquisition packages, contractual documents (Task
        Assignment Guides, Statements Of Work, Other Direct Costs, etc), and agreement
        documents (i.e., MOA, MOU, SLA etc.) are coordinated through and reviewed by SC to
        determine if they contain references to hardware, software, labor related to IT, or have an
        impact to the IT architecture prior to approval by the Plans and Policy Directorate
        (NASIC/XP).
            4.1.1.1. All Task Assignment Guides, Statements Of Work, and Performance Work
            Statements will include the language from Figure 4.1 to ensure the chosen contractor
            follows IT architectural standards established by the CIO. Supporting documentation
            demonstrating certification and training mentioned in Figure 4.1 will be provided
            annually to the SC Information Assurance Branch.

Figure 4.1. Required Contract Statement.




        4.1.1.2. All IT hardware items are required to be delivered to the Courtesy Storage
        Facility (CSF). These items are prohibited from entering NASIC through any other
        means and SC is the approval authority for all deviations to this requirement.
        4.1.2. NASIC’s Development Testing and Integration Capability (DTIC) maintains the
        authority to minimize risk to production networks by testing all hardware and software
        prior to operational implementation. The development aspect of the DTIC may also be
        used to investigate design concepts and evaluate prototypes of hardware and software and
        the established roles and responsibilities in support of the DTIC as a required and integral
        part of NASIC Strategic IT Management requirements, acquisitions, development, and
        advanced program initiatives. The DTIC also informs NASIC requesting organizations of
        incompatibilities and schedule corrective actions.
NASICI33-108 6 JUNE 2013                                                                        5


   4.2. Use USAF and IC IT architectures and standards to develop and build NASIC IT
   architectures and standards which are used to design or modify systems within NASIC or that
   interact with NASIC IT systems.
      4.2.1. Ensure that all IT systems are acquired following DoDD 5000.01, The Defense
      Acquisition System, and are certified by DISA/JITC (JTC3A [JIEO] Circular 9002,
      Requirements Assessment and Interoperability Certification of C4I and Automated
      Information Systems and Equipment).
      4.2.2. Ensure NASIC Requirements & Acquisition Managers provide oversight to all IT
      systems throughout their life cycle by addressing identified requirements and testing
      interoperability in accordance with the following.
          4.2.2.1. DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System
5. Technical Solutions.
   5.1. The development of all technical solutions for IT requirements falls within the purview
   of the Communications Systems Requirements Document (CSRD) process made available
   through the IT Management Plans and Policy office. Using the CSRD and additional
   information from the submitting office’s points of contact, the requirements management and
   systems engineering teams will formulate a recommended overall solution that will provide
   the best value for the customer and will be consistent, compliant, and interoperable within the
   NASIC IT environment and architecture. The solutions will integrate with Wright Patterson
   Air Force Base (WPAFB) (88 Communications Group)(CG)), AF, DoD, and Intelligence
   Community (IC) architectures as applicable to comply with community standards to expedite
   the development of local solutions in accordance with routine requirements. Such routine
   requirements may include procurement of software and/or hardware that is commercially
   available and compatible with other locally used IT resources and requires minimal
   acquisition and maintenance funding. The technical solution identifies the full costs and
   recommended course of action to satisfy the user’s need. Full costs encompass all program
   costs and must include all life-cycle costs, including manpower and training requirements.
   Technical solutions also describe alternatives considered when applicable and include any
   supporting information.
   5.2. Where the technical solution is proposed and funded by organizations outside or
   external to the NASIC Communications and Information Directorate, SC system engineering
   representatives will assist in developing lifecycle costs estimates and other organizational
   impacts including cable plant, recapitalization of core IT assets used, floor space, equipment
   racks, power, etc. These cost estimates will be included in the models provided to the
   NASIC planning and programming and financial management offices. A formal project may
   be initiated to address potential exceptions and other requirements based upon the
   complexity, importance, and resource needs associated with the requirements. This
   determination will be made by the office of the CIO and a project manager will be assigned.
      5.2.1. If the requester modifies the requirements after the technical solution has already
      been provided or approved or the resources have already been allocated, additional
      review actions will be necessary as specified in the IT Requirements process document.
      5.2.2. If the modification results in an increase in the cost or impacts architectural and
      interoperability standards, the requirements management and systems engineering teams
 6                                                                  NASICI33-108 6 JUNE 2013


        will evaluate the impacts and report to the AERP, ITMB, or IT Council. This will result
        in a more detailed evaluation to determine if the originally identified solution is scalable
        or if a new package will be required or resubmitted for a new technical solution and
        reiteration of the approval cycle.
6. System Sustainment and Disposal.
     6.1. SC is responsible for the sustained care and support of NASIC Core IT. When IT is
     considered mission unique, the requesting organization is responsible for all maintenance and
     sustainment as negotiated, agreed to, and resourced accordingly in a Service Level
     Agreement (SLA). Where there is commonality across systems, SC will work with the
     requesting organization to develop a coordinated SLA to provide technical support as
     applicable.
     6.2. The Equipment Control Officer (ECO), as delegated by the CIO, is the focal point for
     NASIC hardware accountability. NASIC groups and directorates will assign IT Equipment
     Custodians (ITECs) who are accountable to the NASIC ECO. The ITEC’s,
     Commanders/Directors, and all permanent and tenant personnel at NASIC will ensure the
     inventory system is used to provide accountability of all computer resources assigned to
     NASIC in accordance with AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset
     Management, and the NASIC IT Hardware Asset Management Process. The official
     inventory system of record for IT equipment is the Air Force Equipment Management
     System – Asset Inventory Management (AFEMS-AIM).
        6.2.1. All AFEMS-AIM IT accountable equipment within NASIC conference and
        training rooms will be accounted for by the ITEC and controlled by the organization
        having primary responsibility for that specific room. Tenant and associate units having
        responsibility for conference or training rooms with non-NASIC government owned IT
        equipment will account for the property using their own processes and procedures.
        Tenant and associate unit owned IT Equipment will not be controlled by the NASIC
        Equipment Control Officer (ECO). NASIC IT Equipment Custodians will exclude tenant,
        and associate unit owned assets during physical inventories. Responsibilities for
        communal and shared VTC/Conference rooms will be provided by the ECO.
        6.2.2. All NASIC owned IT equipment located within communications equipment and
        NASIC data center rooms will be controlled and accounted for by the SC Infrastructure
        Branch. Contractor, tenant, and associate unit owned IT Equipment in these rooms will
        not be controlled by the NASIC Equipment Control Officer (ECO). IT Equipment
        Custodians will exclude contractor, tenant, and associate unit owned assets during
        physical inventories.
        6.2.3. Any equipment at NASIC entrance points will be controlled and accounted for by
        SO.
        6.2.4. All IT equipment located in Conference, Training, Communications Equipment,
        Data Center, and entrance areas will be moved with approval from the applicable ITEC
        and with SC coordination.
        6.2.5. An item is considered excess when it is no longer required due to mission change,
        equipment upgrades, technology changes, obsolescence, etc. The ECO and the Networks
        and Infrastructure Branch offices will assist the ITECs with this process but at a
NASICI33-108 6 JUNE 2013                                                                   7


     minimum, the disposal of excess systems will meet minimal requirements as spelled out
     in AFI33-112.
  6.3. The Software License Manager (SLM), as delegated by the CIO, is the focal point for
  NASIC software accountability to ensure all NASIC software acquisitions and enhancements
  meet security, interoperability, and usability standards before installation on NASIC
  networks and used within the Enterprise Architecture. If a software application is declared
  excess to NASIC needs, the functional owner of the software will notify the SLM who will in
  turn coordinate archival/removal procedures in accordance with AFI 33-114, Software
  Management.




                                          AARON M. PRUPAS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                                            NASICI33-108 6 JUNE 2013


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 January 2011
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio Management and IT Investment
Review, 23 December 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, 9 August 2012
DFARS 252.239-7001, Information Assurance Contractor Training and Certification, January
2008
DoD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program, 19 Dec 2005
DISA/JITC (JTC3A [JIEO] Circular 9002), Requirements Assessment and Interoperability
Certification of C4I and Automated Information Systems and Equipment
DODD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 20 November 2007
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 Dec 2008
NASIC Instruction 90-103, NASIC Council, 17 June 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AERP—Architecture and Engineering Review Panel
AF—Air Force
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management Systems
ANG—Air National Guard
CG—Communications Group
CSRD—Communication System Requirements Document
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CSRD—Communication System Requirements Document
DoD—Department of Defense
NASICI33-108 6 JUNE 2013                           9


DTIC—Development Testing and Integration Center
EC—Equipment Custodian
ECO—Equipment Control Officer
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Intelligence Community
IT—Information Technology
ITMB—Information Technology Management Board
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCD—Proposed Contractual Documents
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SIMO—Systems Integration Management Office
SLA—Service Level Agreement
WPAFB—Wright Patterson Air Force Base
