BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        NASIC INSTRUCTION 63-101
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                                26 MAY 2010

                                                                                      Acquisition

                                                  ADVISORY AND ASSISTANCE SERVICES
                                                       (A&AS) AND SERVICES SUPPORT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: NASIC/XPQ                                                          Certified by: NASIC/XP
                                                                        (Mr. James M. Maxwell)
                                                                                       Pages: 15


This instruction describes the policies, responsibilities, and procedures to be followed in all
A&AS and Service procurement activities of the National Air and Space Intelligence Center
(NASIC). It applies to all A&AS and Service NASIC contract support procurements regardless
of the source of funds. It pertains to all phases of the procurement action to include initiation,
administration, and close-out. It does not apply to Information Technology acquisition processes
as defined in NASICI 33-108 or Facilities acquisition processes as defined in AFI 20 and 32
Series. This instruction will be used in conjunction with overall AF and AFMC guidance,
AFISRA Instruction 64-101, Service Contract Management, and AFISRA Instruction 63-1201,
Multi-Functional Team (MFT) for Performance-Based Services Acquisition. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The
use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

1. POLICY.
   1.1. NASIC is authorized to procure equipment, software, studies, analyses, supplies,
   services, and construction, when not available within organic Center capabilities.
2                                                                  NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010


    1.2. All procurement actions shall be subject to the following provisions [Note:
    Information Technology (IT) acquisition processes are identified in NASICI 33-108,
    Strategic IT Management, and facilities acquisition processes are identified in AFI 20 and 32
    Series]:
       1.2.1. The proposed procurement action must be included in the approved NASIC
       commander's program and encompass the overall corporate strategy.
       1.2.2. The procurement action shall not exceed the available funds specifically allocated
       for the satisfaction of the requirement.
       1.2.3. The proposed procurement action must be in accordance with the Federal
       Acquisition Regulations (FAR).
       1.2.4. All proposed procurement actions dealing with end items of equipment shall be
       coordinated with the Logistics Support Group (NASIC/LG), and all IT equipment items
       with the Communications and Information Directorate (NASIC/SC).
    1.3. NASIC personnel involved in procurement actions shall:
       1.3.1. Abide by the instructions contained in all applicable publications concerning
       procurement standards and practices.
       1.3.2. NASIC personnel shall not make any verbal or written commitment to either
       prospective or current contractors which may be interpreted as obligating the
       Government.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. Groups/Directorates having a proposed Advisory and Assistance Services (A&AS)
    and Services procurement requirement shall:
       2.1.1. Define the need and validate the requirement, determining the requirement for
       acquisition support, identifying an acquisition vehicle and cost, identifying funds, and
       receiving Group/Directorate senior leadership approval.
           2.1.1.1. Evaluate resources to determine if the requirement can be satisfied with
           organic capabilities, either within the office that has the requirement or by any other
           office in NASIC.
       2.1.2. If it is determined that there is no internal capability, prepare a procurement action
       request (see procurement package coordination definition in glossary attachment) and
       related supporting documents.
           2.1.2.1. Provide the Plans and Programs Acquisition Policy Division (NASIC/XPQ)
           written notification of NASIC mission requirement(s) driving the need for a new
           contract. A new contract vehicle may require up to 18 months of planning before it
           will be available.
           2.1.2.2. Provide the Acquisition Policy Division completed solicitation package for
           any delivery order (DO)/task order (TO) (see procurement package coordination
           definition in glossary attachment) or contract action no later than 40 working days
           prior to required contract support.
NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010                                                                     3


     2.1.3. Perform technical, managerial, and cost evaluations of responses to the
     procurement action using technical evaluation memorandum format provided through the
     Acquisition Policy Division’s website.
     2.1.4. Submit all nomination packages, as appropriate, for Contracting Officer
     Representatives (COR) to the NASIC Acquisition Policy Division for recommendation to
     the contracting officer.
     2.1.5. Appoint a task manager (TM) for each task assignment guide (TAG)/DO/TO
     responsible for providing a technical evaluation of contractor performance and
     deliverables to the COR/Client Representative (CR). Qualifications required for
     appointing a TMs are (1) individual must be technically qualified to perform the duties,
     and (2) the Group/Directorate must have the expressed and implied authority to assign
     the individual to perform the assigned duties.
  2.2. NASIC Financial Management Office (NASIC/FM) shall ensure funds availability
  and the propriety use of funds (PoF) is considered when processing commitment documents
  which fund/support the acquisition of a requirement. NASIC Group Resources Offices
  (Resource Advisors) have the duty/responsibility of performing a PoF before the certification
  process.
  2.3. NASIC Logistics Support Group (NASIC/LG) shall coordinate on all facilities and
  furniture contract procurements with the appropriate contracting agency or organization.
  2.4. NASIC Directorate of Communications and Information (NASIC/SC) shall review
  and coordinate on all A&AS and Services packages to ensure any IT cited in the package has
  a valid Command, Control, Communications, Computer and Intelligence Requirement
  Document (CSRD) on file.
  2.5. NASIC Directorate of Security (NASIC/SO) shall:
     2.5.1. Serve as the advisor on all security matters pertaining to procurement actions.
     2.5.2. Coordinate DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification
     Specification.
  2.6. NASIC Plans and Programs Acquisition Policy Division (NASIC/XPQ) shall:
     2.6.1. Provide central policy and oversight for all NASIC procurement actions. This
     shall be accomplished through the use of policy letters, directives, and acquisition
     processes.
     2.6.2. Interpret Federal, DoD and AF acquisition policy; develop and maintain
     standardized procedures and processes for effective acquisition management and contract
     oversight.
     2.6.3. Ensure proposed procurement actions are in compliance with the Federal
     Acquisition Regulations (FAR).
     2.6.4. Serve as the principle NASIC consultant for all matters related to A&AS and
     Services acquisition management and contract oversight.
         2.6.4.1. Ensure a process is in place and satisfactorily functioning within each
         Group/Directorate which allows for adequate evaluation of contractor performance
4                                                             NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010


       with the established and approved quality assurance surveillance plan (QASP) or
       performance plan.
       2.6.4.2. Review all procurement initiation documents to ensure completeness,
       accuracy, consistency, and in conformity with applicable procurement directives and
       public laws.
       2.6.4.3. Coordinate on A&AS and Services procurement packages, and deliver them
       to the appropriate contracting agency, as required.
       2.6.4.4. Identify acquisition vehicles which satisfy requirements.
       2.6.4.5. Ensure the procurement action does not exceed the available funds
       specifically allocated for the satisfaction of the requirement.
       2.6.4.6. Set NASIC standards for COR/CR and TM training, qualifications, and
       performance.
           2.6.4.6.1. Ensure all Group/Directorate nominations (as appropriate) for CORs
           meet NASIC established standards. If COR nominees meet established standards,
           recommend identified COR nominee to the appropriate contracting agency.
           2.6.4.6.2. Perform a quarterly review of A&AS and Services contracting POC
           qualifications to ensure currency with accepted methods of procurement.
    2.6.5. Review and coordinate on all Determinations and Findings (D&F) through
    performing the Service Designated Official function. For all non-DoD D&Fs over $1M,
    the NASIC Acquisition Policy Division is responsible for obtaining the Commander's
    approval or disapproval for the action.
    2.6.6. Develop a corporate approach to acquiring contractor services while providing a
    thorough evaluation of the requirements for external services in order to select the
    appropriate contract vehicle.
       2.6.6.1. Chairs the Multi-Functional Team (MFT) for all new A&AS and Services
       procurement actions at the contract level and for all new acquisition requests as
       deemed appropriate through a case by case basis evaluation.
       2.6.6.2. Establish and/or lead an Acquisition Strategy Panel (ASP) for A&AS and
       Services acquisitions for programs requiring an acquisition strategy plan.
       2.6.6.3. Review and approve all acquisition actions over $25K.
       2.6.6.4. Guide and advise the source selection team through the acquisition process
       to facilitate a successful and timely contract award.
       2.6.6.5. Compose MFT/ASP minutes (MFT/ASP Secretary) and present
       recommendations to the Commander or the XP Director for approval/disapproval.
    2.6.7. Report the status of acquisition activities to NASIC senior management and
    Higher Headquarters (HHQ), as required. Reports will be developed by periodic contract
    reviews and will include metrics on cost, schedule, and performance, as applicable.
    2.6.8. Ensure all funds, accountable materials, equipment, and/or classified documents
    are returned to the Government and the intended disposition of all related security
NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010                                                                     5


       clearances and billets is communicated to the appropriate NASIC security office at
       contract closeout.
3. CONTRACTING OFFICER/CLIENT REPRESENTATIVE AND TASK MANAGER
TRAINING.
   3.1. Appointed CORs/CRs must complete Quality Assurance Phase I and Phase II training
   prior to performing assigned duties. CORs/CRs are also required to complete annual
   acquisition refresher training and be either [Acquisition Professional Development Program]
   Program Management Level I certified or accomplish Plans and Programs’ Acquisition
   Policy Division identified specialized acquisition/contracting courses and have one year of
   acquisition experience. Phase I and Phase II training will identify responsibilities expected
   of CORs/CRs by the Contracting Officer.
   3.2. Appointed TMs are required to complete Quality Assurance Phase I training prior to
   performing assigned duty. In addition, after Group/Directorate appoints a TM, the TM is
   required to receive one-on-one COR/CR instruction detailing roles and responsibilities.
4. OVERVIEW OF THE NASIC A&AS AND SERVICES ACQUISITION
PROCESS. The NASIC A&AS and Services acquisition process is a high-level, multi-step
process to be applied to each procurement action and tailored, as required. The process consists
of four phases: Solicitation, Procurement, Contract Surveillance, and Close Out. Figure 1
illustrates the NASIC A&AS and Services Acquisition Process. [Note: IT acquisition processes
are identified in NASICI 33-108, Strategic IT Management, and facilities acquisition processes
are identified in AFI 20 and 32 Series].

Figure 1. NASIC A&AS and Services Acquisition Process.
 6                                                                 NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010


     4.1. Solicitation Phase. The goal of the Solicitation Phase is to obtain a contractor proposal
     from a valid, funded NASIC requirement. The Solicitation Phase begins when the
     Group/Directorate identifies a need. Once a need is identified, the Group/Directorate will
     validate the need and establish a requirement, determine the need for acquisition support,
     identify funding sources, submit a certified funding document, and develop the appropriate
     documentation package with assistance from the Acquisition Policy Division. The
     requirement documentation package is then formally delivered to the Acquisition Policy
     Division for review, approval, and transmission to a contracting agency. The contracting
     agency, upon receipt then solicits for proposals.
     4.2. Procurement Phase. The goal of the Procurement Phase is to award a contract or
     contract modification based on government review of the contractor proposal. The
     Procurement Phase begins when the Acquisition Policy Division receives the contract
     proposal(s) and forwards it/them to the Group/Directorate for a technical evaluation. During
     the technical evaluation, the Group/Directorate will identify if the proposal(s) submitted
     is/are technically accurate, managerially sound, and priced appropriately. After the technical
     evaluation is complete, the Group/Directorate will deliver the procurement package, with a
     recommendation on which contractor should be awarded the effort, to the Acquisition Policy
     Division for coordination. After review, the Acquisition Policy Division forwards the final
     procurement package to the contracting agency. The contracting agency reviews the
     procurement package and, if in agreement with the technical evaluation/recommendation,
     awards the contract and notifies the Acquisition Policy Division of the contract obligation
     action. The Acquisition Policy Division then notifies the Group/Directorate leadership,
     resource advisor (RA), and TM of contract award.
     4.3. Contract Surveillance. The goal of Contract Surveillance is to monitor contractor
     performance in accordance with the performance plan. The Surveillance Phase begins with
     the award of the contract. During this phase, the COR/CR and the Group/Directorate
     appointed TM monitor the contractors performance (e.g. inspection of services) and the
     COR/CR works with the contracting agency on contract modifications as required (e.g.
     corrective actions).
     4.4. Close Out. The last step in the process is contract/delivery order closeout. This step is
     done in tandem by the Acquisition Policy Division and the NASIC Group or Directorate
     resource office. During this phase, the contractor, under the provisions of the contract,
     submits a DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report after delivery of goods or
     services. At that time, the Acquisition Policy Division initiates de-obligation of any
     remaining funds through the CO or ACO and ensures all accountable materials, equipment,
     and/or classified documents are returned to the Government and the intended disposition of
     all related security clearances and billets is communicated to the appropriate NASIC security
     office at contract closeout.

5. Adopted Forms:

DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report.
DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification.
NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010                                    7




                            D. SCOTT GEORGE, Colonel, USAF
                            Commander
 8                                                             NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 37, Service Contracting
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) Part 237, Service Contracts
Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS) Part 5337, Service
Contracting
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 42, Contract Administration and Audit Services
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support
Corps of Engineers Instruction (CENI) 64-101, Acquisition Requirement Review Checklist
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS)
AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, 7 Dec 06
AFI 63-124, Performance-Based Services Acquisition (PBSA), 1 Aug 05
AFI 63-501, Air Force Acquisition Quality Program, 31 May 94
AFISRAI 63-1201, Multi-Functional Team (MFT) for Performance-Based Services Acquisition,
29 Nov 07
AFISRAI 64-101, Service Contract Management, 14 Jan 08
NASICI 33-108, Strategic IT Management, 13 Mar 09
OUSD/AT&L Memorandum, Acquisition of Services, 31 May 02
SAF/AQ Memorandum, Updated Guidance on Acquisition of Services (24 April 2008), 5 Dec 08
SAF/AQ Memorandum, Guidance Memorandum on Acquisition of Services, 24 Apr 08
SAF/AQ Memorandum, "Guidance Memorandum on Acquisition of Services" the USAF
Management and Oversight of Acquisition of Services Process, 24 Apr 08
AF ISR Agency Memorandum, Service Designation Official (SDO) Authority AFI 63-101,
Chapter 3 (Interim Guidance, 2 Apr 2008), 6 Mar 09
NASIC/CC Memorandum, Delegation of NASIC Service Designation Official Acquisition
Responsibility, 15 Jun 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&AS— Advisory & Assistance Services
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
ADPE— Automatic Data Processing Equipment
ASP— Acquisition Strategy Panel
NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010                                                   9


C4I— Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Intelligence
CAAS— contracted advisory and assistance services
CO— Contracting Officer
COR— Contracting Officer's Representative
CPAR— Contract Performance Assessment Report
CR— Client Representative
CSCS— Contract Security Classification Specification
CSO— communications systems officer
CSRD— Command, Control, Communications, Computer and Intelligence Requirement
Document
DFAS— Defense Finance and Accounting Service
D&F— Determination and Findings
DO— Delivery Order
DoD— Department of Defense
FAR— Federal Acquisition Regulations
FCA— Fund Cite Authorization
GSA— General Service Administration
HHQ— Higher Headquarters
ICAPEA— initial contract award proposal evaluation and analysis
IT— Information Technology
MAJCOM— Major Command
MFT— Multi-Functional Team
MIPR— Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
MOASP— Management and Oversight of the Acquisition of Services Process
NASIC— National Air and Space Intelligence Center
ODC— other direct costs
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
OSM— Office Security Manager
PoF— Proprietary Use of Funds
PO— Project Order
QASP— Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
RA— Resource Advisor
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
 10                                                                NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010


RFP— Request for Proposal
SDO— Service Designation Official
SETA— systems engineering and technical assistance
SSA— Source Selection Authority
SSP— Source Selection Plan
SOO— Statement of Objectives
SOW— Statement of Work
TAG— Task Assignment Guide
TIP— Task Implementation Plan
TM— Task Manager
TMS— technical and management support
TO— Task Order

Terms
Acquisition Strategy Panel (ASP)— A senior management group charged with reviewing and
approving a program’s acquisition strategy to ensure it meets program objectives within
available resources.
Advisory & Assistance Services (A&AS)— Services acquired by contract from non-Federal
sources (i.e., the private sector, foreign governments, state and local governments, tribes) or
through other units within the Federal government to support or improve organizational policy
development, decision making, management and administration; support program and/or project
management and administration; provide management and support services for research and
development activities; provide engineering and technical support services; or improve the
effectiveness of management processes or procedures. These services may take the form of
information, advice, opinions, alternatives, studies, analyses, evaluations, recommendations,
training, and technical support. A&AS consists of three major categories: management and
professional support services; studies, evaluations, and analysis; and engineering and technical
services. Additionally, "general A&AS" activities are contract services that support on-going,
general management and technical activities; "initial contract award proposal evaluation and
analysis" (ICAPEA) activities are contract services that directly support initial source selections
and contract awards activities. A&AS activities shall not be used to perform work of a policy,
decision-making, or managerial nature which is the direct responsibility of agency officials;
bypass or undermine personnel ceilings, pay limitations, or competitive employment procedures;
contract on a preferential basis former Government employees; specifically aid in influencing or
enacting legislation, or obtain professional or technical advice which is readily available within
the agency or another Federal agency. Note: There may be deliverables (e.g., reports, studies,
analyses, etc.) associated with A&AS. The presence or absence of deliverables is, in itself, not
determinative. Also, A&AS has been referred to by a variety of names: contracted advisory and
assistance services, or CAAS; consulting services; systems engineering and technical assistance,
or SETA; and technical and management support, or TMS.
NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010                                                                       11


Automatic Data Processing Equipment (ADPE)— Any equipment or interconnected system
or subsystems of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation,
management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of
data or information by a federal agency, or under contract with a federal agency which requires
the use of such equipment, or requires the performance of a service, or the furnishing of a
product that is performed or produced making significant use of such equipment. Such term
includes computers; ancillary equipment; software, firmware, and similar procedures; services
including support services; and related resources.
Communications and Information Systems Requirement— This statement identifies a
communications and information systems mission shortfall or system need to the
communications systems officer (CSO). A communications and information system requirement
arises when an organization cannot accomplish its current or new mission; can increase
operational efficiency or cut operational costs by using advances in technologies; or can
modernize an existing communications and information system by applying modern technology
to satisfy evolving communications and information systems requirements, improve mission
performance, and reduce current or future operation and support costs.
Command, Control, Communications, Computer and Intelligence Requirement Document
(CSRD)— The document that approves and validates all communications and IT requirements.
There must be a valid requirement document signed before any purchases of C4I resources.
Contracting Officer (CO)— Any person, either by their position or appointment, having the
authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate contracts and make related determinations
and findings.
Contracting Officer's Representative (COR)/Client Representative (CR)— Individuals
designated/delegated to perform quality assessment functions. They serve as on-site technical
managers assessing contractor performance against contract performance standards. Provides
day-to-day management and administrative contract support on the authority of the ASC/PKESI
[COR] or GSA [CR] Contract Officer. Does not provide supervision or instructional assistance
to the contractor personnel nor are empowered to make any commitments or changes, which
affect the contract prices, terms or delivery provisions.
Contract Performance Assessment Report (CPAR)— Annual survey completed by
government contracting POC's which provides performance feedback to the contractor's top
management.
Contract Security Classification Specification (CSCS) DD Form 254— Identifies the
classified material access, processing, and responsibilities associated with the performance of the
contract.
Corrective Action— The performance plan may specify how particular sub-standard contractor
performance may be rectified. In the event of inspection of services not in compliance with the
provisions of the contract, the COR/CR may elevate the issue to the Contracting Officer for
further action.
Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS)— The accounting agency for DoD and is
also responsible for the payment of all DoD contracts.
 12                                                                   NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010


Defining a Requirement— A need is established when any member of the Group determines
there is a requirement for something to be done or acquired (e.g. software, equipment, study,
analysis, and supplies). This need is generally stated in writing using either a letter or a standard
form. At this point in the process, neither the final solution for satisfying the need nor
Group/Directorate senior leadership approval is required.
Delivery Order (DO)— The document obligates the government's funds for a specific
requirement. Used synonymously with contract.
Determination and Findings (D&F)— A special form of written approval by an authorized
official that is required by statute or regulation as a prerequisite to taking certain contract actions.
The “determination” is a conclusion or decision supported by the “findings”. The findings are
statements of fact or rationale essential to support the determination and must cover each
requirement of the applicable statutes or regulations. A D&F for an Economy Act order has
findings that support the determination that an intra- or interagency order is in the best interests
of the government.
Determine Need for Acquisition Support— In-house resources are evaluated to determine if
the requirement can be satisfied internally, either within the office that has the requirement or by
any other office in NASIC. If the requirement can be satisfied internally, then it drops out of the
acquisition process and becomes an internal task. Depending on the requirement, other external
parties outside the normal supervisory chain-of-command may also be required to validate it
(e.g. CSRD, supplies, integrated logistics support).
Documentation and Coordination— The TM within the Group/Directorate develops required
documents with assistance from the Acquisition Policy Division. These include a cover letter
and Task Assignment Guide (TAG). The TM also coordinates the following: security approval
through their Office Security Manager (OSM), SC approval via CSRD for Information
Technology, approval through NASIC/LG if applicable, and initiation of a MFT for sole-source
procurements or for procurements of over $100,000 expense per year.
Economy Act Order (Title 31, U.S.C. Section 1535, FAR Part 17.5)— Authorizes federal
agencies to order goods or services from or through other federal agencies and to pay the actual
costs of those goods or services provided: funds are available, the head of the requiring activity
or unit decides the order is in the best interest of the U.S. Government, the agency or unit asked
to fill the order is able to provide the ordered goods or services, the head of the agency decides
that the ordered goods or services cannot be provided as conveniently or economically by a
commercial enterprise.
Fund Cite Authorization (FCA)— Used by an activity to request authority to cite funds or by
an accounting and finance office to issue authority to cite funds. It provides the receiving
activity a ceiling amount of funds available for obligation to support specific tasks. The
document used for a FCA is the AF Form 616. It allows an Air Force organization to use
another AF organization’s activities fund cite, for a specified amount, time period, and task.
General Service Administration (GSA)— External contracting agency. NASIC uses Region 5
to fulfill GSA-contracted A&AS contract support requirements.
Identify Acquisition Vehicle— Determine how to satisfy the requirement using sources outside
NASIC. Sources could include any form of contract (new or existing); GSA procurement; no-
cost agreements with other government organizations; or agreements with other government
NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010                                                                       13


organizations funded by MIPR, FCA, PO, etc. Total cost for satisfying the need must be
determined. Total cost includes immediate acquisition cost and all follow-on costs such as
power, facilities, maintenance and licenses.
Identify Funds— This is generally done within a Group or Directorate. Funds may be a part of
normal baseline funding or funding authority obtained from other organizations or agencies. If
funds in the proper appropriation are not available, the acquisition process to satisfy the need
stops. It can resume when appropriate funding is available.
Information Technology (IT)— Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of
equipment -that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management,
movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or
information by the DoD component. For the purposes of the preceding sentence, equipment is
used by a DoD component if the equipment is used directly or is used by a contractor under a
contract with the DoD component that (1) requires the use of such equipment; or (2), requires the
use to a significant extent, of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of
a product. The term Information Technology includes computers, ancillary equipment, software,
firmware, and similar procedures, services (including support services) and related resources.
Notwithstanding the above, the term information technology does not include any equipment that
is acquired by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract. (See DoD Directive 8000.1,
Management of DoD Information Resources and Information Technology, February 27, 2002,
with Change 1, March 20, 2002.) A validated CSRD must accompany all requests for IT
resources.
Inspection of Services— The COR/CR is responsible for ensuring that surveillance is
accomplished to determine whether the contractor is meeting contract requirements. The
COR/CR and TM perform surveillance as specified in the performance plan. Inspection results
must be documented; corrective action cannot be justified without sufficient documentation of
failure to meet contract requirements.
Interagency Agreement— A written agreement between an Air Force requiring activity and a
federal assisting agency for the Air Force to purchase specific goods or services under agreed
terms and conditions. The interagency agreement must be signed by the requiring activity
program/project manager with budget authority and bona fide need for the support, services, or
goods procured on the MIPR.
Interagency MIPR— An acquisition in which an Air Force activity obtains supplies/services
from an agency outside the DoD using a DD Form 448 to order and fund the requirement.
Intra-agency MIPR— An acquisition in which an Air Force activity obtains supplies/services
from an agency within DoD using a DD Form 448 to order and fund the requirement.
Management and Oversight of the Acquisition of Services Process (MOASP)— The
document outlining the process the AFPEO/CM and MAJCOM designated officials will use to
provide management and oversight of the acquisition of services in accordance with the FY02
NDAA, Section 801.
Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR)— Used for interdepartmental
purchase of goods and services between the military services and other DoD components. The
goods and services can be provided from in-house resources or from commercial services. They
 14                                                               NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010


can be prepared and accepted as reimbursable or direct cite funds. MIPRs are prepared on the
DD FORM 448 and accepted on the DD FORM 448-2.
Multi-Functional Team (MFT)— A team of stakeholders responsible for a service acquisition.
Includes not only representatives of the technical and procurement communities but also
stakeholders of the service acquisition and the contractors who provide the services. This team
may consist of sub-group(s) responsible for routine contract actions.
NASIC Commander's Program— A corporate plan, approved by the NASIC Commander
which takes into consideration budget year allocations, strategic planning, the President’s
Budget, and any other source the NAIC Commander deems appropriate.
Other Direct Costs (ODC)— Contractor costs, other than labor, incurred in performance of a
contract.
Ozone Depleting Substances Statement— User verification that the contract will not require a
Class I ozone depleting chemical in any item of supply or as part of any service.
Procurement Package Coordination— The TM is responsible for delivering the procurement
package to the Acquisition Policy Division. The package must include the SOW, contractor's
proposal, signed Technical Evaluation, Ozone compliance document, CSRD if applicable, DD
Form 254 checklist, two-letter security review, and funding information from the
Group/Directorate.
Project Order (PO)— An order issued under the authority contained in 41 U.S.C. 23. Project
orders (AF Form 185) are issued by and accepted for performance in a DoD owned and operated
establishment. When placed with, and accepted by, a DoD establishment, the project order serves
to obligate appropriations in the same manner as orders or contracts placed with commercial
enterprises. The activity receiving a project order must be capable of manufacturing the goods or
supplying the services requested on the order and not simply a conduit or middleman for funds
used to procure the goods or services.
Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)— A mandatory document that should be
developed early on as part of the requirements package that initiates the acquisition of services.
Surveillance plans may vary depending on the contract type and tasks to be performed.
Request for Proposal (RFP)— Solicitation document used in negotiated acquisitions to
communicate Government requirements to prospective contractors and to solicit proposals from
them. A proposal received in response to an RFP is an offer than can be accepted by the
Government to create a binding contract, either following negotiations or, when authorized,
without discussion.
Service Designation Official (SDO)— Individual designated in accordance with the provisions
of the FY02 National Defense Authorization Act, Section 2330(a)(2)(A) to exercise
responsibility for the management of the acquisition of services. These responsibilities include
certifying service acquisitions are performance-based during Acquisition Strategy formulation
and approving, in advance, any acquisition that is not performance-based.
Source Selection Authority (SSA)— Government official responsible for making the final
source selection decision and is ultimately responsible for directing the selection process.
Source Selection Plan (SSP)— Document used for initiating and conducting the source
selection. The plan includes a program or project overview and a description of the requirement,
NASICI 63-101 26 May 2010                                                                        15


a description of the source selection organization, the proposed pre-solicitation activities, the
evaluation criteria, and identifies areas, items, and factors to be rated.
Statement of Objectives (SOO)— The SOO identifies the broad, basic, top-level objectives of
the acquisition and is used as a focusing tool for both the Government and offerors. In a
competitive source selection environment a SOO is an integral part of the RFP development
process.
Statement of Work (SOW)— The portion of a contract where all non-specification
requirements for contractor efforts is established and defined either directly or with the use of
specific cited documents. The work statement must accurately reflect the actual Government
requirement, stating adequately what is to be done, without describing how it is to be done. The
SOW must include performance standards that can be used to ensure level of performance and a
common basis for evaluation.
Task Assignment Guide (TAG)— Description of an individual, unique work effort to be
performed under an umbrella contract. Similar to a SOW.
Task Manager (TM)— The individual designated by the Group/Directorate to be the technical
lead for a particular task or project. Provides day-to-day technical support to a contracted effort.
Interfaces with the COR/CR when reviewing contract deliverables. Assists the contractor with
day-to-day technical issues/activities.
Technical Evaluation— The Acquisition Policy Division receives the contract proposal in the
form of a Task Implementation Plan (TIP), and forwards it to the TM. The TM then performs
the technical evaluation of the proposal. This includes ensuring that the proposed contractor
methodology, labor categories, hours, and all other direct costs (ODC) are required and
reasonable. The evaluation shall be documented in writing and signed by the TM.
Validate Need/Establish Requirement— The need is validated by the appropriate individuals
in the Group’s/Directorate’s chain-of-command. Validation means the chain of command agrees
in fact there is a requirement for the item and/or service being requested. At this point in the
process, neither the final solution nor the resources required for satisfying the need is required.
