BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      NASIC INSTRUCTION 35-105
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                        23 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                Public Affairs

                                                    HONORARY COMMANDER PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NASIC/CCX                                                        Certified by: NASIC/CV
                                                                      (Colonel Charles Hogan)
                                                                                      Pages: 5


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 35-1, Public Affairs
Management, and AFI 35-105, Community Relations. This publication establishes policy,
responsibilities and procedures for conducting the Honorary Commander Program (HCP) within
the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC), which is a major program in continuing
to develop the positive relationship between NASIC and key members of the surrounding
community. This publication applies to all NASIC civilian and military personnel. Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units and Air National Guard (ANG) units operationally attached to
NASIC may participate on a voluntary basis with approval of their higher headquarters. This
NASIC publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) listed above for coordination prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the
field to NASIC Publications Office (NASIC/SCOK), 4180 Watson Way, Wright-Patterson AFB,
OH 45433-5648, ATTN: Publications/Forms Managers. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Contact
supporting records managers as required. If information is collected by one or more
organizational components and transmitted to other organizational components for management
purposes, the Information Collection and Reports (ICR) Manager must review for accuracy and
compliance with AFI 33-324, The Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management
Program. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
2                                                         NASICI35-105 23 JANUARY 2014


1. PURPOSE.
    1.1. As a good neighbor, NASIC is committed to promoting and maintaining positive
    relations with our local civilian, civic, and business leaders. The NASIC Commander, Vice
    Commander, Chief Scientist, Command Chief (CC, CV, CA & CCM) and
    Commanders/Directors at the group and squadron level will be included in this program.
    The Honorary Commander Program (HCP) promotes NASIC to the general public through
    the “eyes” of area business people, educators, clergy, manufacturing officials, and city and
    county leadership. Participants will spend time with their “partner” NASIC military or
    civilian “Commander/Director” to observe their duties and the missions/operations (where
    applicable) of the Center. Participant nominations for this program will be accepted from
    members of the Center and/or leadership and presented to the NASIC Commander for
    consideration.
       1.1.1. Though not directly administered by the 88 ABW, the NASIC HCP will work in
       concert with already established base-wide Commander Programs (see 88 ABW PA
       OPERATING INSTRUCTION 35-05) in an effort to de-conflict as well as expand
       perspective nominees. This close coordination and collaboration will ensure NASIC’s
       HCP compliments the 88 ABW Commander’s Program and like-outreach efforts as
       established and participated in by the greater Wright-Patterson Air Force Base tenant
       organizations.
    1.2. The main objectives of the program are:
       1.2.1. Continue to build and maintain a strong bond between NASIC and surrounding
       communities.
       1.2.2. Acquire a support structure/network with key community leaders to foster a better
       understanding of the Center and its mission, as well as promote NASIC as a community
       partner for those who are less familiar with NASIC and its mission/workforce.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. The NASIC Public Affairs Office (NASIC/PA) shall:
       2.1.1. Administer the program within NASIC to support community understanding of the
       missions and responsibilities of the commanders and employees of NASIC. Once
       established the program may reach beyond the community members who deal with the
       Center on a daily basis, i.e., chamber of commerce officers, local mayors and city
       managers, county commissioners, etc.
       2.1.2. Eligible participants include; community leaders, business owners, local
       government employees at the city, county, township and state level; private and public
       school teachers, counselors, superintendents; private and state college or university
       technical school officials; local utility managers and supervisors; manufacturing
       management; local church and civic organization leaders, and others are eligible to
       participate in the program.
           2.1.2.1. Nominations for participation will be accepted from members of the
           Command Staff or other NASIC leadership. The NASIC Commander or his/her
           designee will evaluate and approve/disapprove nominations.
NASICI35-105 23 JANUARY 2014                                                                   3


     2.1.3. The program will match NASIC Command Section Top Four (CC, CV, CA, &
     CCM), and Group, and Squadron Commanders/Directors with equivalent members from
     neighboring communities, if possible. (Example: Mayor of Dayton would be matched
     with the NASIC Commander or Group Commander, etc.)
     2.1.4. To effectively implement the Honorary Commander Program and preclude
     security incidents from occurring, security will be a top priority when or if any
     shadowing occurs inside the SCIF. In addition, personnel must be aware of U//FOUO
     data since such information is not releasable to the public. There are many opportunities
     to leak and/or inadvertently disclose information (classified and sensitive Unclassified) to
     Honorary Commanders if information is not carefully vetted prior to scheduled events,
     meetings, shadowing, etc.
3. GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES.
  3.1. The NASIC/PA Office, in conjunction with the Commander’s Action Group (CAG)
  will administer the program, receive nominations, and present nominations to the
  Commander or his/her designee.
  3.2. Honorary Commanders are selected by the NASIC Commander and placed on the
  Center’s VIP list. Honorary Commanders are invited to participate in quarterly activities and
  base special events, such as change of command ceremonies, golf tournaments and holiday
  parties.
     3.2.1. NASIC Commanders/directors are encouraged to include their honorary
     commander counterparts in their group/squadron activities, such as BBQs, change of
     command ceremonies, holiday parties, etc. In turn, it is encouraged that Honorary
     Commanders would reciprocate by inviting their respective NASIC counterparts to their
     organization’s activities.
  3.3. After their terms as Honorary Commanders expire, a follow-up survey will be mailed to
  the participants. Comments, remarks, and suggestions will be provided to the commander for
  evaluation on improvement of the program.
4. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.
  4.1. Program is managed by the NASIC/PA Office with assistance from the CAG.
     4.1.1. NASIC/PA and CAG will review the program every two years, making
     recommendations for additions/deletions for the NASIC Commander’s final approval.
  4.2. Honorary Commanders can be removed from the program early if there is no activity
  between the Honorary Commander and NASIC counterpart. Honorary Commanders are only
  removed with approval of the NASIC Commander or his/her designee.
  4.3. The normal term for an Honorary Commander is two years. At the expiration of the
  term, NASIC/PA and CAG will solicit new nominations from members of the Center staff or
  other NASIC leadership. The NASIC Commander will have the flexibility to assign
  Honorary Commanders in conjunction with Group or Squadron Command two year
  assignments, or may off-set Honorary Commander pairing in an effort to prevent Group or
  Squadron Change of Commands at the same time of inducting new Honorary Commanders.
4                                                        NASICI35-105 23 JANUARY 2014


    4.4. Former Honorary Commanders are placed indefinitely on a “Former Honorary
    Commanders List” and may be invited selectively to other functions not necessarily related
    to the Honorary Commander Program.
    4.5. The NASIC Commander will have the option to expand the program beyond the scope
    of the parameters outlined in para 2.1.3 if he/she feels such expansion is warranted.
    4.6. Each Honorary Commander will receive an annual DV pass for the extent of the
    participation in the primary program.
       4.6.1. Annual DV passes will be requested by the NASIC/PA and/or CAG offices and
       will be sent to the 88 MSG for coordination/approval. DV passes will grant base access
       to HCP participants who do not otherwise have base access. These passes will be
       approved on an annual basis and will be the responsibility of NASIC to notify the 88
       MSG when participants need to be added and/or removed.




                                           AARON M. PRUPAS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
NASICI35-105 23 JANUARY 2014                                                           5


                                   ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-324, The Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management Program, 6 March
2013
AFI 35-105, Community Relations, 26 January 2010
AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs, 28 September 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms (Examples of acronyms, edit as necessary)
AF—Air Force
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CAG—Commander Action Group
DoD—Department of Defense
HCP—Honorary Commander Program
IAW—In Accordance With
ICR—Information Collection and Reports
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
