BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         NASIC INSTRUCTION 10-106
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                                 14 JULY 2011

                                                                                        Operations

                                                                NASIC STRATEGIC FACILITY
                                                                           MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
               www.e-publishing.af.mil. for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: NASIC/LGX                                                            Certified by: NASIC/LG
                                                                              (Mr. Dale T. Masin)
                                                                                          Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive AFPD 32-10, Installations and
Facilities. It establishes the policy and guidance needed to ensure standardized planning,
prioritization, implementation, sustainment, and life-cycle management of the facilities under the
control of the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC). The Center’s facilities
include office spaces, special purpose spaces and building spaces. The NASIC Director of
Logistics is responsible for the content and accuracy of this instruction. This instruction uses the
NASIC corporate structure IAW NASICI 90-103, NASIC Council, and outlines the purpose,
organization, operational responsibilities and relationships including the NASIC Council, the
NASIC Board, the Facility Working Group (FaWG) and the Reorganization Move Planning
Team (RMPT). This publication applies to all NASIC civilian and military personnel. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units and Air National
Guard (ANG) Units. The publication applies to tenant organizations within NASIC facilities in
accordance with their MOU/MOA. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through NASIC
Publications Office (NASIC/SCOK), 4180 Watson Way, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-
5648, publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)           Records        Disposition        Schedule         (RDS)         located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                               NASICI10-106 14 JULY 2011


1. Facility Management Objectives & Applicability
     1.1. All NASIC personnel (military, civilian, and contractor) and tenant partners are
     required to adhere to the procedures and standards in this instruction to ensure effective
     management of NASIC facilities. The Director of Logistics and his or her organizational
     staff serve as the focal point for NASIC facility management to ensure the strategic
     objectives set forth by NASIC leadership are met.
     1.2. “Mission” in this instruction refers to funding or requirements of all organizations,
     including tenants, to whom this instruction applies with exception to when a specific type of
     organization is called out.
2. Organization and Leadership Responsibilities
     2.1. Facility Management
        2.1.1. The facility management system consists of four levels for the purpose of
        developing alternatives, making recommendations, making decisions, and carrying out
        activities to ensure sound facilities. The four levels are: the Council, the Board, the
        FaWG, and the RMPT.
     2.2. NASIC Council and Board
        2.2.1. The NASIC Council and Board provides strategic guidance regarding the overall
        management of NASIC facilities. The Council addresses major facility-related issues not
        resolved by subordinate facility organizations and renders decisions based on
        recommendations of the Board.
        2.2.2. The Council and Board meetings related to facility management are facilitated by
        support from the Director of Logistics (LG).
        2.2.3. The Council and Board memberships are outlined in NASICI 90-103, NASIC
        Council, and shall meet on a quarterly basis.
        2.2.4. A State of the Facilities briefing will be provided to the Council annually by the
        Director of Logistics to describe the current conditions and capabilities of all NASIC
        facilities, and actions underway or proposed to address issues.
     2.3. Facility Working Group (FaWG)
        2.3.1. The FaWG is responsible for the development and maintenance of the Facility
        Strategic Plan using guidance from the NASIC Corporate Structure. The FaWG will
        develop operational plans based on strategic guidance and will make recommendations to
        the Board concerning the Facility Strategic Plan and major facility issues.
        2.3.2. The FaWG will execute facility projects and allocate physical space consistent
        with the Facility Strategic Plan, Vision and Principles, and Council guidance. Major
        projects or issues not addressed in the Facility Strategic Plan or Council guidance shall
        require Board review and Council approval before FaWG implementation.
        2.3.3. The FaWG produces and prioritizes an annual facility program (comprehensive 1-
        N list) based on input from all sources (mission, IT, furniture, infrastructure, etc.) and
        presents it for approval to the Board and Council. Urgent projects will be considered by
NASICI10-106 14 JULY 2011                                                                     3


     the FaWG on an ad hoc basis and presented by the FaWG chair for approval to CC and
     CV, or, if deemed necessary, to the Board and Council.
     2.3.4. LG, with SC support for IT components of the projects, will produce a
     corresponding annual facility schedule addressing all projects in the program.
     2.3.5. The FaWG provides direction on approved projects and priorities for execution by
     the RMPT. The FaWG provides corporate overview of RMPT activities.
     2.3.6. The FaWG monitors all facility projects. The FaWG chair reports significant
     deviations back to CC and CV, or, if deemed necessary, to the NFB and NFC.
     2.3.7. The FaWG is chaired by the Director of Logistics or assigned delegate.
     2.3.8. The FaWG voting members are: ACG, DAG, GTG and SMG Deputy Group
     Commanders, SC, XP, and DP Directorate Deputy Directors or designated Senior
     Representative in absence of a Deputy, and Staff Office representatives from DS, SO, and
     FM or delegate.
     2.3.9. FaWG at large members represent major tenants (DIA, NGA, NSA, JRIC, AFRC,
     OHANG, 18th IS, etc.) on facility matters related to their respective organizations. A
     FaWG member at large is appointed to represent a certain group or issue and serves and
     votes limited to that issue. Other personnel may be invited on an ad hoc or standing basis
     by the FaWG members as subject matter experts to address specific topics or issues.
     2.3.10. The FaWG Facilitator is the Chief of the Logistics Plans, Programs and
     Integration Division or delegate. The Facilitator is responsible for maintaining the record
     copy of all Council, Board and FaWG activities including meeting agendas, minutes,
     facility program and schedules.
     2.3.11. The FAWG meets every two weeks or as necessary. Minutes will be prepared,
     coordinated and published within 4 working days of the meeting.
  2.4. Reorganization Move Planning Team (RMPT)
     2.4.1. The RMPT coordinates, schedules and executes all facility moves in support of
     new personnel bed downs, office reorganizations, furniture reconfigurations and facility
     construction projects. Only projects approved and funded IAW this instruction may be
     executed by the RMPT. (See section 3.0).
     2.4.2. RMPT execution follows priorities established by the FaWG while considering
     mission need date, contracting schedules, material/supply lead times, security approvals,
     IT labor support and materials, sequencing and funding. Minor projects approved by the
     RMPT (see 3.2 below) will be worked into the schedule and executed without adversely
     impacting FaWG approved projects. No project will be removed or altered without prior
     approval/consent of the requesting organization and its FaWG member or the FaWG.
     2.4.3. The RMPT Chair will update the FaWG at the end of each quarter. The quarterly
     update shall summarize completed and on-going efforts in the past quarter as well as the
     projected activities for the upcoming quarter. Significant conflicts or deviations from
     FaWG or Senior Management expectations will be reported to the FaWG for awareness
     and/or resolution.
 4                                                                 NASICI10-106 14 JULY 2011


        2.4.4. The RMPT is chaired by the Chief of Logistics Operations and Maintenance
        Division, or delegate.
        2.4.5. The RMPT members are appointed unit representatives of each Group, Directorate
        and staff offices as well as subject matter experts from communications, information
        technology, security, and facility operations and engineering.
        2.4.6. The RMPT meets weekly or as necessary.
3. Submitting, Approving, Funding and Scheduling Facility Requirements.
     3.1. Submitting Facility Requirements
        3.1.1. Facility Work Requests for facility requirements are submitted to LGM on
        electronic form AF 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request (available on e-publishing
        and LG organizational web page). All work requests require the FaWG member’s
        coordination.
        3.1.2. LG processes and scopes requirements with the requestor and SC (for allied IT
        requirements) and establishes a preliminary technical solution and cost estimate. A
        Customer Service Requirements Document (CSRD) will be prepared for identified allied
        IT requirements.
        3.1.3. LG will publish annual guidance on cut off dates for submitting work requests and
        funding projects.
     3.2. Facility Project Funding
        3.2.1. Funds for facility projects including furniture come from internal and external
        organizations, the annual LG program, and various programs such as the AF ISR Agency
        and DIA Facility Programs.
           3.2.1.1. Funding for furniture, facility and allied IT requirements for a specific
           mission requirement (such as growth, reorganization, etc.) is the responsibility of the
           requiring mission and will be designated as Mission Funded in the annual facility
           program.
           3.2.1.2. Furniture, facility recapitalization, and infrastructure projects that address the
           overall NASIC mission are the responsibility of LG and will be designated as Core
           Funded. Core allied IT costs will be funded via resources provided by SC to the
           FaWG for oversight and execution. Resources for Core facility, furniture,
           infrastructure and IT requirements are capped at an annual level. Requirements
           above these annual allotments can be submitted as unfunded requirements in the
           appropriate processes.
     3.3. Facility Project Approval
        3.3.1. All projects estimated to have a total IT and facility project cost over $15,000 or
        affecting space utilization of multiple group/directorate-level organizations, will be
        presented to the FaWG for approval and prioritization.
        3.3.2. Mission funded projects with an estimated total IT and facility project cost under
        $15,000 may be approved by the RMPT Chair.
NASICI10-106 14 JULY 2011                                                                5


         3.3.2.1. Core funded projects with an estimated total IT and facility project cost
         under $15,000 may be approved by the RMPT Chair.
         3.3.2.2. LG and SC coordination will assure RMPT approved projects will not
         adversely impact FaWG approved projects.
         3.3.2.3. RMPT-level projects not coordinated on by LG and/or SC may be presented
         to the FaWG for approval and prioritization at the discretion of the FaWG member.
     3.3.3. LG coordinates all projects physically affecting the facility with Base Civil
     Engineering.
  3.4. Facility Project Scheduling
     3.4.1. An Integrated Project Schedule of projects approved and funded will be built by
     LG in coordination with SC for FaWG oversight. The Integrated Project Schedule shall
     be a program/planning-level schedule and will reflect FaWG priorities, acquisition
     strategy, mission need dates and key procurement (commitments and obligations)
     deadlines.
     3.4.2. An execution-level project schedule will be built by the RMPT based on guidance
     provided by the Integrated Project Schedule. The RMPT schedule generally only
     includes funded projects ready to execute.




                                         KATHLEEN C. SAKURA, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 6                                                          NASICI10-106 14 JULY 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, MANAGEMENT OF RECORDS, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 32-10, INSTALLATIONS AND FACILITIES, 4 Mar 2010
NASICI 90-103, NASIC COUNCIL, 17 Jun 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
AF Form 332, Base Civil engineer Work Request, 1 Jan 1991

Abbreviations and Acronyms
18 IS—18th Intel Squadron
ACG—Air & Cyberspace Analysis Group
AF ISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CC—Commander
CSRD—Customer Service Requirements Document
CV—Vice Commander
DAG—Data Exploitation Group
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DP—Directorate of Personnel
DS—Director of Staff
FaWG—Facility Working Group
FM—Directorate of Financial Management
GTG—Global Threat Analysis Group
IT—Information Technology
JRIC—Joint Reserve Intelligence Center
LG—Directorate of Logistics
NASIC—National Air & Space Intelligence Center
NFB—NASIC Facility Board
NFC—NASIC Facility Council
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NASICI10-106 14 JULY 2011                          7


NSA—National Security Agency
OHANG—Ohio Air National Guard
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMPT—Reorganization Move Planning Team
SC—Directorate of Communications and Information
SMG—Space and Missiles Analysis Group
SO—Directorate of Security
XP—Plans and Programs
