BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       NASIC INSTRUCTION 14-102
NATIONAL AIR & SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                           11 AUGUST 2010

                                                                                     Operations

                                                     NASIC INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: NASIC/XPR                                                          Certified by: NASIC/XP
Supersedes: NASICI14-102, 3 August                                                     Pages: 18
            2004; NASICI10-101, 10
            March 2006; NASICI10-103,
            28 July2006


This NASIC Instruction establishes responsibilities, requirements, standards, and operating
procedures for the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) to execute the
Department of Defense (DoD) General Defense Intelligence Program (GDIP) Defense
Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP) production taskings. It implements guidance in AFI 14-
201, Intelligence Production and Applications. This publication applies to all NASIC civilian and
military personnel as well as all Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units and Air National
Guard (ANG) Units assigned to NASIC. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field to NASIC
Publications Office (NASIC/SCOK), 4180 Watson Way, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-
5648 publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual(AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as
required. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                         NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction consolidated three production-related OIs and updated organization name
changes, office symbols, and offices of responsibility. It now incorporates responsibilities,
standards and operating procedures for the NASIC quality assurance process and production
management methodology for finished intelligence production, as well as maintaining the
fundamental task and production management operations described in earlier versions of NASIC
Instruction 14-102. Participating production entity descriptions and missions have been updated
and any realigned responsibilities adjusted accordingly.

       1.      POLICY: ................................................................................................................       2
       2.      SCOPE: ..................................................................................................................      2
       3.      AUTHORITIES: ....................................................................................................              2
       4.      PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT: .......................................................................                                 2
Figure 1.      NASIC Production Management Process. .............................................................                             3
Figure 2.      Nominal Product Coordination and Review Process. ............................................                                  7
       5.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        7
       6.      Metrics. ..................................................................................................................   11
       7.      Production Updates: ...............................................................................................           11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               12

Attachment 2—NASIC CORPORATE PR/PPR PROCESS                                                                                                  16

Attachment 3—ATTRIBUTES OF QUALITY                                                                                                           18


1. POLICY: All NASIC intelligence production organizations will implement the procedures
and standards in this OI to ensure continuity and consistency of production operations and
collection of production data, the effective management of all tasked and initiative-driven
intelligence production, and the quality of these products (e.g., NASIC Analysis Reports
(NARs), Defense Intelligence Reference Documents (DIRDs), System Threat Assessment
Reports (STARs), intelligence briefings, models, databases, etc.). These procedures and
standards constitute the basis for production metric data collection and compliance reporting
during periodic NASIC production reviews as well as higher headquarters inspections.
2. SCOPE: This Instruction applies to all NASIC GDIP intelligence production.
3. AUTHORITIES: DoD DIAP Management Guidance; AFI 14-201 Intelligence Production
and Applications; NASIC Master Plans.
4. PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT: NASIC intelligence production is generated in several
ways: direct response to an explicit customer requirement; internally initiated (within NASIC
assigned production responsibilities) based on implicit customer needs, as intelligence findings
warrant; or to ensure functional areas are adequately covered to prevent surprise. There is the
potential that certain tasks that come to the Center may be sensitive in other ways (e.g., special
NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                 3


access required) and that will necessitate changes to the "normal" (Figure 1) production and
review process.

Figure 1. NASIC Production Management Process.




   4.1. Production Requirement (PR): A PR is a customer request that has been assigned to
   NASIC via the Community On-Line Intelligence System for End Users and Managers
   (COLISEUM). PRs are assigned to NASIC production elements by NASIC's Requirements
   office. AFI 14-201 describes two kinds of PRs: Scheduled (overall suspense longer than 45
   workdays) and Ad Hoc (overall suspense less than 45 workdays).
       4.1.1. Scheduled PR Response: Scheduled PRs are received during normal duty hours
       and are responded to with a Proposed Product Response (PPR) for product(s) that will be
4                                                         NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010


    delivered beyond 45 workdays of task assignment. A PPR is not needed if a product will
    be delivered within 45 workdays. PPRs have an initial suspense to the production
    organization's Group within 30 workdays of task assignment, and the Group- or
    Production Management Group (PMG)-approved version must be provided to the
    Requirements office within 45 workdays. PPRs will use the NASIC template (all
    production templates are available on the internal NASIC homepage
    (http://nasicsps/Pages/Default.aspx) at the ―TAN Requests & Production Templates‖
    tab) for routing through the PPR process (Attachment 2) for PMG approval and may take
    one of three forms: fully satisfied, partially satisfied and resource constrained.
       4.1.1.1. "Fully satisfied": Following discussions with the customer, if NASIC is able
       to fully respond to all elements of the PR, the response will be considered fully
       satisfied. Ensure the PPR summarizes the actions agreed on to satisfy the PR, noting
       any special requirements, for example, funding agreements.
       4.1.1.2. "Partially satisfied": If NASIC is able to satisfy only a portion of the PR, the
       requirement will be considered partially satisfied. The PPR will indicate what
       NASIC is able and unable to satisfy in the requirement. Shortfalls are categorized in
       the PPR, along with any necessary explanation and details. Shortfall categories are
       ―Personnel,‖ ―Funding,‖ ―Data,‖ and/or ―Other‖ (if the shortfall lies outside the prior
       three categories).
       4.1.1.3. "Resource Constrained": If NASIC cannot respond to the requirement, the
       PR will be nominated for a "Resource Constrained" letter. The appropriate
       Production Group will initiate a Resource Constrained staff summary package. The
       package will include a letter requiring the Commander's signature confirming
       NASIC's inability to respond to the PR. The Requirements office will document the
       approved letter and PPR in COLISEUM. The format for the Resource Constrained
       letter is available at the production templates location on the NASIC internal
       webpage.
       4.1.1.4. Changes in PPR Conditions: Sometimes during the production cycle,
       situations arise that warrant a change to the original or current PPR regarding product
       delivery. In such circumstances, the production Group will submit a revised PPR
       and/or a reschedule/cancellation notice (template on NASIC internal homepage)
       describing the situation (e.g., activities beyond the Group's control, higher echelon
       direction, shortfalls in collaborative agency responses, etc.), production schedule
       revisions, and any impacts to the customer. If the product does not involve more than
       one production Group, that Group's Deputy Commander/Director can approve such
       actions. If more than one production Group is involved, concurrence from the
       associated Deputy Commander/Director is required. The production Group will
       provide the approved reschedule/cancellation notice to the Requirements office for
       input into COLISEUM.
       4.1.1.5. NASIC Tasked Collaborative Production: When necessary to complete a
       PPR, a production element will request the Requirements office to "split" a PR for
       sub-tasking in COLISEUM to the appropriate collaborative production center(s). The
       request should include a statement of the required inputs and suspense date(s) for
NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                   5


        documentation in the NASIC corporate data base and COLISEUM. The template for
        splitting a PR is on the NASIC internal webpage.
        4.1.1.6. Revalidated PRs: Scheduled PRs are reviewed by the customer at the 12-
        month point to determine if the requirement is still valid. If valid, the requirement is
        revalidated and reassigned to the Production Center for continued production effort.
        If there is no existing projected production against it, the revalidated PR will be
        reissued to the appropriate production organization for development of a new PPR. If
        there is scheduled production against a revalidated PR the Requirements office will
        create a draft PPR. The appropriate production organization(s) will review the draft
        PPR and take one of the following actions: a) accept the PPR and notify the
        Requirements office to use it as the updated PPR, or b) make modifications and
        updates to the PPR. If a proposed product is added which has not been previously
        approved by the Group or PMG, the modified PPR must be submitted through the
        normal PPR review/approval process.
     4.1.2. Ad Hoc PR/Request: Ad Hoc PRs and informal requests received outside of
     COLISEUM (request for information (RFI)) have a suspense date less than 45 workdays
     from time of assignment, and do not require the generation of a PPR. The response is the
     product itself. Ad Hoc requests may be received during both duty and non-duty hours.
        4.1.2.1. Normal Duty Hour (0600-1700) Procedures: The PR/request may be
        received by the Requirements office, a NASIC production element, or the NASIC
        Operational Alert Center (NOAC).
        4.1.2.2. COLISEUM PR or Direct Request: During normal duty hours, the
        Requirements office will process the PR or requirement, assign a Task Assignment
        Number (TAN), and then assign it to the appropriate production element. The
        production element will review the request and assign the task to a production point
        of contact (POC) for a response. The production element will provide the
        Requirements office with the POC's name, office symbol, and phone number.
        4.1.2.3. Receipt via Other Means: During normal duty hours, the recipient will notify
        the appropriate production manager, line manager, and/or Squadron SIA. The
        Requirements office will be notified via a TAN request template (available at the
        NASIC internal homepage). The Requirements office will assign a TAN and update
        the NASIC corporate data base. Production organizations will ensure appropriate
        quality control procedures are followed prior to release of the formal response to the
        customer and the Requirements office.
        4.1.2.4. Non-duty Hour (1700-0600, weekends/holidays) Procedures: The NOAC
        will receive the RFI and contact personnel as required, including the appropriate line
        manager or SIA who will decide if an analyst should be called in to work the task.
        The Requirements office will assign a TAN at the beginning of the next duty day.
        Normal duty hour procedures are followed through completion of the response.
     4.1.3. Returning a PR: A PR will be returned to the customer by the Requirements office
     via COLISEUM through the customer's Validation Office when the NASIC production
     element shows a history of being unable to obtain the necessary clarification to the
6                                                             NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010


       requirement, unable to contact the customer, or the customer fails to respond either by
       telephone or e-mail to NASIC contact initiatives.
    4.2. Products: Products may be produced based on intelligence discoveries, analytic
    knowledge base development, or in response to a customer request.
       4.2.1. Initiative Production: Initiative production (discovery-or knowledge base-driven)
       occurs when a NASIC production organization determines the impact of analysis merits a
       timely production effort. Once the Squadron SIA approves the analytic effort, the data
       requirements, format, and suspense date(s) are set. The Squadron SIA will also negotiate
       with other Squadron SIAs and/or external organizations as required regarding
       collaboration/contributions.
       4.2.2. Collaborative Tasking: When responding to a tasking or initiating production, the
       lead production element for integrated production (products that require collaboration
       from outside assets) is responsible for determining collaboration needs and engaging with
       other appropriate production offices. In making this determination, the Squadron SIA or
       delegate is expected to take into consideration the analytical expertise of the entire
       Intelligence Community from which to draw on.                 As a result, tasking for
       contributions/collaboration may include not only entities internal to NASIC but also
       external entities such as other Service Intelligence Centers, Joint Intelligence Operation
       Centers (JIOCs), and even Coalition Partner Intelligence Centers (or their equivalent).
       Production in anticipation of customer needs will leverage the entire intelligence
       production community as necessary. A product TAN will be established for the product
       by the prime analyst and made available to all other offices involved in the analysis and
       production (template located at the NASIC internal homepage). The lead production
       office should receive written approval from other offices (as appropriate) providing
       collaboration/contributions, including the offices in the Communications and Information
       Systems Directorate (SC) involved in intelligence production (template available at
       NASIC internal webpage).
       4.2.3. Quality Assurance: The NASIC Quality Assurance Program is based on proven
       principles of intelligence and analysis tradecraft. This program starts with an
       organizational commitment to provide the highest quality intelligence to all customers.
       This quality framework is further defined in terms of specific attributes. Quality will be
       built into products from the start, fundamentally based on the analytic rigor of principal
       and supporting authors, and incorporating Director of National Intelligence (DNI)
       analytic tradecraft standards. Analysts will be trained in and be responsible for
       understanding and anticipating customer requirements; initiating necessary data and
       information collection; assessing evidence and related developments; making logical
       extrapolations from existing intelligence; and developing and documenting needed chains
       of reasoning that support the reasonableness of key judgments. Analysis will include the
       review of all collaborating analytic parties' intelligence inputs and by an appropriate level
       of line management review to further ensure the relevance, clarity, completeness, and
       consistency of the product. Reviews will include all significantly involved parties, both
       inside and outside of NASIC. Figure 2 depicts the nominal coordination and review
       process used within NASIC to create finished intelligence products. The level of
       review/approval required for a particular finished intelligence product depends on a
       number of factors such as scope, visibility, consistency, and organizational boundaries
NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                 7


       (both internal and external to NASIC) being crossed. These levels are subject to change
       on a case-by-case basis due to fluctuations in one or more of the factors mentioned.
       Details on the attributes of quality are contained in Attachment 3.

Figure 2. Nominal Product Coordination and Review Process.




5. Responsibilities.
   5.1. NASIC Commander: The NASIC Commander will:
       5.1.1. Receive NASIC production updates in scheduled ―Center Update‖ meetings that
       include NASIC Council and Squadron Commanders/Directors, and serve as the final
       authority to resolve production-related issues. Form and format are at the Commander's
       discretion.
       5.1.2. Rule on all situations where NASIC responds to a PR with a "resource
       constrained" response due to resource limitations or other factors, and sign out all
8                                                             NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010


       correspondence notifying customers of such responses where NASIC cannot satisfy any
       portion of the requirement.
    5.1.3. Arbitrate production issues between NASIC and other production centers, with input
    from the Chief Scientist's Group (CSG).
    5.2. NASIC Chief Scientist’s Group (CSG): The Chief Scientist and Technical Directors
    of the Groups and Directorates comprise the CSG. The CSG will:
       5.2.1. Conduct strategic planning for special analysis, collection and production
       activities.
       5.2.2. Provide strategic production direction and priorities for the Production
       Management Group and Senior Intelligence Analysts' Forum.
       5.2.3. Identify areas requiring initiative analysis/production.
       5.2.4. Provide oversight/direction to development of analytic tradecraft to include analyst
       training programs.
    5.3. NASIC Production Management Group (PMG): The Vice Director and Group
    Deputy Commanders/Directors, along with other select NASIC representation, comprise the
    PMG. The PMG will:
       5.3.1. Define, implement and oversee NASIC production-related policy and guidance.
       5.3.2. Review and oversee intelligence production spanning the Center to ensure
       opportunities for integration and collaboration across the Intelligence Community and the
       Center are explored, and to ensure timelines are continually met.
       5.3.3. Approve production plans for long-term requirements and ensure they are
       consistent with NASIC Center priorities.
       5.3.4. Oversee the development, collection, and presentation of production-related
       metrics.
       5.3.5. Coordinate among Deputies on production topics of mutual interest.
       5.3.6. Rule on production issues among NASIC production organizations concerning
       unresolved internal collaboration, PR assignment and/or support issues.
    5.4. NASIC Senior Intelligence Analysts' (SIA) Forum: The production Group SIAs and
    production-associated representatives of NASIC/SC comprise the SIA Forum. The SIA
    Forum will:
       5.4.1. Discuss analytic production issues, processes, standards, tasking and efforts for
       either informational purposes or to address and resolve issues.
       5.4.2. Provide analytical, production and resource shortfall-related recommendations to
       the PMG and CSG.
       5.4.3. Recommend discussion and decision topics for the PMG and CSG.
    5.5. Groups: Groups will:
       5.5.1. Accept PRs in conformance with this instruction.
       5.5.2. Create PPRs and produce resultant products using NASIC PPR template.
NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                  9


     5.5.3. Review and recommend approval/disapproval of requests for initiative production.
     5.5.4. Participate in production update meetings bringing production issues to the
     NASIC Commander's attention along with possible solutions.
     5.5.5. Establish internal organization procedures to include the following:
        5.5.5.1. Implement the corporate PR/PPR process in Attachment 2.
        5.5.5.2. Review assigned PRs to ensure the analytical areas assigned are appropriate
        for the organization to produce against, the requirement is complete and fully
        understood, and determine what production can be accomplished to meet the
        suspense.
        5.5.5.3. Notify the Requirements office on receipt of all RFIs or requirements
        received by means other than COLISEUM via the TAN template.
        5.5.5.4. Notify the Requirements office on initiation of other production actions for
        inclusion into the NASIC corporate data base and COLISEUM.
        5.5.5.5. Coordinate with NASIC's Foreign Disclosure Office (FDO) at the beginning
        of any production assignment that calls for the release of a product to a foreign
        country; produce releasable versions of products when possible, especially in support
        of counterterrorism, military operations and exercises.
        5.5.5.6. Determine availability of required information and data, and the nature and
        scope of internal, collaborative, and/or other external assistance; initiate any
        necessary collection requests in accordance with Group collection management
        procedures; document Group internal and external support and collaboration
        agreements.
        5.5.5.7. Ensure customer coordination during the development of the PPR and
        throughout the production cycle; coordinate and document customer acceptance of all
        changes to a product's contents or suspense and pass such information to the
        Requirements office for inclusion into the NASIC corporate data base and
        COLISEUM.
        5.5.5.8. Document limiting factors (including applicable collection requirements)
        that affect the satisfactory accomplishment of production, regardless of type, in the
        PPR.
        5.5.5.9. Incorporate customer-stated priorities to the extent possible into production
        decision/making processes for resource reallocation, funding, and budgetary
        submissions, and deferment of production because of resource constraints. Align
        with and incorporate National Intelligence Priority Framework (NIPF) priorities as
        appropriate.
        5.5.5.10. Ensure corporate procedures are used to respond to and document all
        exercise and/or training production requests.
     5.5.6. Collect customer feedback and factor it into future production as appropriate.
  5.6. Requirements Office: The Requirements office will:
10                                                           NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010


     5.6.1. Function as the official entry point for all formal incoming intelligence production
     taskings.
     5.6.2. Assign incoming tasking to the appropriate production organization(s).
     5.6.3. Maintain all corporate NASIC production management records in the NASIC
     corporate data base and Intelligence Community production management systems (e.g.,
     COLISEUM, National Measurement and Signatures Intelligence Requirements System
     (NMRS)). The Requirements office will also maintain the production-related templates.
     5.6.4. Maintain and disseminate all NASIC corporate-level production-related metrics
     and data to facilitate Center decisions concerning production priorities, resource
     allocation, and internal operations; maintain a production status page on the NASIC Web,
     which includes data on PRs, RFls, PPRs, and products; provide periodic summaries of
     corporate production metrics to NASIC senior management.
     5.6.5. Monitor, record, and report on the status of products/services throughout the
     production process.
     5.6.6. Provide an initial response to a PR requestor within 5 working days of assignment;
     register the PPR or PR response in COLISEUM.
     5.6.7. Create a draft PPR for revalidated PRs if-scheduled production exists.
     5.6.8. Act as the Production Facilitator for the PMG.
  5.7. Special Missions Division, Directorate of Communications and Information: The
  Special Missions Division will disseminate products in the manner and media agreed to by
  the customer in the PPR. Whenever possible, dissemination will be via Intelink, Intelink-S,
  and/or STONE GHOST, utilizing Directorate processes for two-person review and
  certification that the information is eligible to be disseminated on the requested network(s).
  However, accountability for the proper marking and classification of the information rests
  with the product originator. Dissemination to other consumers will be in accordance with
  distribution lists based on Statements of Intelligence Interest (SIIs) recorded in the Joint
  Dissemination System (JDS). Dissemination will also include providing products to the
  Library of National Intelligence (LNI). Products not accessible via Intelink (e.g., due to
  classification restrictions) will be disseminated via CD-ROM, DVD, or other format, with
  hard copy as necessary.
  5.8. Foreign Disclosure Office: Analysts are encouraged to engage with their foreign
  disclosure officer (FDO) early in the development of their analysis to ensure releasability
  issues are addressed as soon as possible to allow expeditious publication or response to a
  customer requirement.
     5.8.1. Mandatory: FDOs will coordinate on all intelligence products and services that
     are uncaveated and require remarking with REL TO caveats; where REL TO markings
     must be changed from their original foreign recipients; and to address the removal of
     dissemination control markings such as NOFORN (NF), ORCON (OC), or other limiting
     caveats.
     5.8.2. Discretionary: In the following circumstances, FDOs need not be consulted nor
     are required to coordinate on a document unless an analyst chooses to do so: analysts
     have properly applied derivative classification markings of REL TO or REL from non-
NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010                                                              11


       NASIC produced intelligence; all paragraphs are marked with NOFORN (NF) and/or
       properly derived REL TO markings; a document is not marked with REL TO or REL
       markings and remains uncaveated and not intended for release to foreign nationals.
       5.8.3. Write for Maximum Utility: The PMG, in consultation with the SIA forum, will
       oversee NASIC compliance with DNI information sharing guidance and emphasize that
       the NOFORN caveat is only applied when proper to do so. NASIC production
       management practices support the DNI’s efforts to ―Write for Maximum Utility.‖
6. Metrics. NASIC will collect and maintain production management metrics to include:
   6.1. Requirements: On-time performance; customer information.
   6.2. PPRs: On-time performance; production shortfalls.
   6.3. Products: On-time performance; product information.
   6.4. Resource allocations.
7. Production Updates: Presentations will be provided for the Commander and senior staff
reflecting production by all NASIC production organizations. Where applicable, production-
related issues requiring Command Section involvement, along with possible solutions, will be
briefed.




                                          KATHLEEN C. SAKURA, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 12                                                      NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Defense Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP) Management Guidance, 15 January 2010
(http://diateams.ne.dodiis.ic.gov/sites/DI/diap/Docs/default.aspx)
AFI 14-201, Intelligence Production and Applications, 1 December 2002 (http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/14/afi14-201/afi14-201.pdf)
AFI 14-201 Air Force ISR Agency Supplement, Intelligence Production and Applications, 29
November 2007 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI14-
201_AFISRASUP_I.pdf)
ICD Number 203, Analytic Standards, 21 June 2007 (Link at:
http://www.intelink.ic.gov/sites/ppr/policyHome/ICD/default.aspx)
ICD Number 205, Analytic Outreach, 16 July 2008 (Link at:
http://www.intelink.ic.gov/sites/ppr/policyHome/ICD/default.aspx)
ICD Number 206, Sourcing Requirements For Disseminated Analytic Products, 17 October 2007
(Link at: http://www.intelink.ic.gov/sites/ppr/policyHome/ICD/default.aspx)
ICD Number 208, Write for Maximum Utility, 17 December 2008 (Link at:
http://www.intelink.ic.gov/sites/ppr/policyHome/ICD/default.aspx)
ICD Number 501, Discovery and Dissemination or Retrieval of Information Within the IC, 21
January 2009 (Link at: http://www.intelink.ic.gov/sites/ppr/policyHome/ICD/default.aspx)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
COLISEUM—Community On-Line Intelligence System for End Users and Managers
CSG—Chief Scientist’s Group
DIAP—Defense Intelligence Analysis Program
DIRD—Defense Intelligence Reference Document
DNI—Director of National Intelligence
DoD—Department of Defense
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
FMER—Foreign Materiel Exploitation Report
JDS—Joint Dissemination System
JIOC—Joint Intelligence Operations Center
LNI—Library of National Intelligence
MASINT—Measurement and Signatures Intelligence
NAB—NASIC Analytic Bulletin
NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                     13


NAR—NASIC Analysis Report
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
NIPF—National Intelligence Priorities Framework
NMRS—National MASINT Requirements System
NOAC—NASIC Operational Alert Center
OI—Operating Instruction
PIA—Principle Intelligence Analyst
PMG—Production Management Group
POC—Point of Contact
PPR—Proposed Product Response
PR—Production Requirement
RFI—Request for Information
SIA—Senior Intelligence Analyst
SIC—Supporting Intelligence Center
SII—Statement of Intelligence Interest
STAR—System Threat Assessment Report
TAN—Task Assignment Number

Terms
Ad Hoc Requirements—Requirements that will be responded to within 45 workdays of
assignment date.
Customer—An actual requestor and end user of a specific intelligence product.
Collaborative Production Responsibilities—Under collaborative production, the production
center assigned primary responsibility for a given PR may subtask other production centers for
work in a primary analytical area assigned to that production center. Collaborative production is
also referred to as contributing production.
Community On-Line Intelligence System for End Users and Managers (COLISEUM)—An
on-line, automated capability for the preparation, submission, validation, and assignment of
production requirements; also covers the subsequent management of products during production
and dissemination. The Requirements office is the NASIC OPR for COLISEUM and has
read/write access. Other NASIC production organizations within SCIFs have read-only access.
Consumer—A user of intelligence products who is not the original requestor.
Crisis—An incident or situation involving a threat to the United States, its territories, citizens,
military forces, and possessions or vital interests that develops rapidly and creates conditions of
such diplomatic, economic, political, or military importance that commitment of US military
forces and resources is contemplated to achieve national objectives. (Joint Pub 1-02)
 14                                                           NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010


Defense Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP)—A DoD-wide construct for the GDIP-funded
intelligence analysis and production community. DIAP identifies the analytic responsibilities of
participating intelligence centers.
Feedback—Customer and/or consumer evaluation of an intelligence product or service received.
Intelligence-Driven Production—Intelligence-driven production (also known as initiative or
anticipatory production) occurs when a NASIC production organization determines that the
potential impact of intelligence analysis merits a one-time, timely production effort. Should
customer interest warrant additional analysis or significant production, a validated requirement
for production of this type would be required.
Intelligence Production—The integration, evaluation, analysis, and interpretation of
information from a single or multiple sources into finished intelligence for known and/or
anticipated military and related national security customer requirements. Intelligence production
encompasses a broad range of activities, both scheduled and unscheduled, that occur during
peacetime, contingencies, crisis, and war.
Primary Analysis and Production Responsibilities—Analysis and production responsibilities
for the DIAP analytic areas assigned to a production center in the DIAP Management Guidance.
These assignments are the basis for assigning validated PRs to specific production centers by the
appropriate Supporting Intelligence Center (SIC).
Proposed Product Response (PPR)—A tendered contract between NASIC and a customer for
the production of intelligence against a PR that will require more than 45 workdays from date of
assignment to produce the finished product(s).
Production Manager—An individual, at a level to be determined by each NASIC production
organization, who serves as the single focal point for all production issues within that production
organization. Assigns PRs to analysts for production, and has the authority to negotiate and
request modification of splitting of PRs.
Production Organization—Intelligence producing major subdivisions within NASIC. Such
subdivisions could be a Group, Squadron, or Flight.
Production Requirement (PR)—An RFI that has been validated and assigned via COLISEUM
to a production center by a SIC. A PR serves as the official documentation of a customer’s
intelligence requirement.
Request for Information (RFI)—Any incoming customer request for intelligence information,
regardless of the source, format and media used to convey the request, and regardless of the type
or immediacy of response required. An RFI becomes a PR only when validated by the
appropriate COLISEUM SIC.
Resource-Constrained PPR—A PPR that informs the customer that NASIC is unable to
respond to the PR. Such PPRs require the Commander’s signature.
Revalidation—The process whereby the customer annually reviews their active requirements in
COLISEUM to ensure they remain valid. The SIC reassigns revalidated PRs to the responsible
production center for continued analysis and production.
Scheduled Production—Production that will be completed and delivered more than 45
workdays from assignment.
NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010                                                                     15


Split PR—A PR that is sent to more than one production center to satisfy customer needs. Split
PRs are issued under two specific situations: 1) Multiple Requirements PR – A PR that is
satisfied by two or more production centers independently without the need for a lead center to
integrate the various responses into a single response. Each independent PR split constitutes a
requirement for specific products and/or services and is assigned by the SIC via COLISEUM to
two or more appropriate production centers. 2) Collaborative PRs – PRs that are requirements
for specific products assigned by a lead production center to one or more collaborative or
contributing production centers via COLISEUM. NASIC acceptance of a collaborative PR
normally results in providing the lead production center with new intelligence, a new or updated
product, or a new or updated service tailored for use by the lead center in responding to the
original PR. NASIC, when acting as a lead production center, may also issue one or more
collaborative PR splits to meet a production tasking.
Task Assignment Number (TAN)—A NASIC internal production management accounting
number assigned to individual production-related tasks, products or services. The TAN is
assigned by the Requirements office.
Validation—The process for the COLISEUM SIC to review incoming RFIs for correct form and
content; determine if the requirement is for intelligence, and to assign the requirement as a PR to
the appropriate intelligence production center(s).
 16                                                        NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010


                                        Attachment 2
                         NASIC CORPORATE PR/PPR PROCESS

A2.1. PR Receipt and Initial Review
OPR: Requirements Office
Confirm proper validation, IFC and production center assignment
Return to Supporting Intelligence Center or lead production center if required
Enter data into NASIC corporate database and assign Task Assignment Number (TAN)

A2.2. PR Assignment Review and Tasking
OPR: Requirements Office
Contact customer as required
Determine internal NASIC assignment
Identify appropriate production organization
Assign to appropriate organization via the production manager
A2.3. Production Manager
Review OPR: Production Managers
Confirm proper assignment
Transfer to appropriate production POC and notify Requirements Office of assignment, or
Return to Requirements Office for reassignment
A2.4. Production POC/Author Actions
OPR: Tasked POC/SIA/Ops Officer/PIA/Author
Contact customer, advise of receipt, and provide primary author contact info
Identify and obtain internal NASIC support
Identify develop collaborative production support requirements (if split by NASIC)
Identify other external and/or contractor support
Identify and initiate collection requirements if required
Obtain foreign releasability guidance as required from NASIC Foreign Disclosure Office
Coordinate dissemination support with Special Missions Division
Identify final product(s), delivery dates and other customer-driven issues
Document results - Prepare product summary(ies)
A2.5. PPR Preparation
OPR: Tasked Production POC
Based on the outcome to the above actions, complete PPR negotiations with customer
Complete PPR and product summary(ies)
Forward PMG-approved PPR and product summary(ies) to Requirements Office using internal
organization procedures
A2.6. PPR Transmittal
OPR: Requirements Office
Complete PPR check and, if required, return PPR to Group production manager for correction
Transmit PPR via COLISEUM
Update NASIC corporate database
NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010   17
 18                                                           NASICI14-102 11 AUGUST 2010


                                          Attachment 3
                                ATTRIBUTES OF QUALITY

A3.1. Attributes of Quality: The NASIC quality assurance process involves a number of
quality attributes that need to be infused and assessed at different stages in the production cycle
to ensure product quality. NASIC complies with the ODNI Analytic Standards, as defined by
ICD 203, Analytic Standards, and uses those standards to evaluate its tradecraft and products.
NASIC supplements the ODNI standards with the following local quality attributes:
Innovativeness, Form/Format/Media, and Security.
A3.2. Innovativeness: Innovativeness (giving the customer a better product than requested, and
anticipating their needs and wants "above and beyond the call of duty") is difficult to assign to a
single production level in the organization. All levels are responsible for identifying innovative
ways to satisfy customer requirements. Typically, analysts and branch level supervisors may
have the best understanding of what specific customers would want out of a product, but
individuals at a higher level may have greater exposure to a wider variety of innovative
Intelligence Community products that they can draw on to make recommendations to the Flight-
level persons creating our products. Negotiation between Flight/Squadron personnel is required
to achieve the optimal mix in NASIC products.
A3.3. Form/Format/Media: Form, format, and media involve ensuring the proper product
format(s) are used, ensuring that similar products use consistent formats to avoid confusion in
going from one product ofthat type to the next. Format includes selecting the best way to present
text, numerical data, and visuals (figures, photographs, videos, etc.) to meet customer needs.
A3.4. Security: Security is a crucial quality attribute since NASIC is entrusted with protecting
sensitive information in almost all of its products. Proper classification and marking of a product
and all of its subsections, and marking material at the lowest possible classification, require
significant attention to detail to avoid over classifying or under classifying the information.
