BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          NASIC INSTRUCTION 14-202
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                            26 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                        Intelligence

                                                     NASIC ANALYTIC LEADERSHIP ROLES
                                                                AND RESPONSIBILITIES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NASIC/AC-TD                                                           Certified by: NASIC/AC
                                                                                          (Col Cole)
                                                                                            Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures. This publication
outlines the roles and responsibilities for National Air & Space Intelligence Center (NASIC)
analytic leadership. This publication supports NASICI 36-114, Position Management, and
NASICI14-102, NASIC Intelligence Production. This publication draws upon DIA/DI
Instructions (DI#2, 14 Jun 2010), DI Leadership Roles and Responsibilities, as a benchmark for
leadership to ensure the highest quality of defense intelligence analytic output. This publication
applies to all NASIC civilian and military personnel as well as all Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) Units and Air National Guard (ANG) Units assigned to NASIC. It defines key analytic
leadership positions, specifies assigned duties, and de-conflicts roles and responsibilities of those
leaders in NASIC units. The objective of this instruction is to optimize NASIC analytic
processes/operations by defining key leadership positions, specifying assigned duties, and
deconflicting roles and responsibilities of those leaders in NASIC units. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
units through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Maintain records created as a
result of the prescribed processes identified in this directory in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Disposition
Schedule        (RDS)       found      on       the      Air      Force      Portal      link      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required.
2                                                           NASICI14-202 26 OCTOBER 2012




1. OVERVIEW.
    1.1. NASIC analytic leaders are non-supervisory positions which primarily focus on the
    analytic mission. The analytic leadership complements the chain of command leadership who
    are responsible for the overall mission, personnel, activities and infrastructure. The term
    “NASIC Analytic Leadership” is not intended to establish a separate career track, chain of
    command, or new set of processes within NASIC.
    1.2. This instruction defines roles and responsibilities of each member of the analytic
    leadership. The purpose is to create a common basis (core of individuals) to manage
    intelligence production processes and coordinate tasks across squadrons and groups.
    Frequent communication and teamwork between the chain of command and analytic
    leadership is expected and required for mission success. Three levels of analytic leadership
    have been identified which roughly correspond to analytic leadership of similar strategic
    intelligence and S&T organizations, respectively, within DIA and AFMC. They are the
    Principal Intelligence Analyst (PIA), Senior Intelligence Analyst (SIA), and Technical
    Director (TD). Two additional key supporting positions are identified for their significant
    interaction in the analytic production process and are discussed in this instruction: the
    Director of Operations (DO) and the Program Analyst.
    1.3. The instruction recognizes that diversity of disciplines and missions among squadrons
    may drive unique roles/manning requirements. Generally, NASIC squadrons will follow the
    standard organizational format outlined in this instruction, with proposed variations requiring
    NASIC/CV review, as established in the Position Structure Plan review process.
2. ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. The Technical Director (TD) serves as the group-level analytic leader and technical
    advisor on behalf of the group commander/director. Core duties are:
       2.1.1. Represents Group, Center, and USAF in USAF, IC and International boards and
       forums.
       2.1.2. Oversees/coordinates Group/Center input on National Intelligence Estimates
       (NIEs), National Intelligence Priority Framework (NIPF) reviews, and other major IC
       analytic efforts.
       2.1.3. Acts as senior authority on substantive content for Defense Intelligence Digest
       (DID) submissions in their area of expertise.
       2.1.4. Serves as a DID Senior Reviewer.
       2.1.5. Participates in NASIC Chief Scientist Group (CSG), Civilian Policy Board (CPB)
       and other boards as required.
       2.1.6. Develops policies, plans, resource allocations, and operating programs to satisfy
       national, DoD, USAF, and AF ISR Agency programs.
       2.1.7. Anticipates strategic changes in environment and intelligence demand.
       2.1.8. Establishes and strengthens a network of peers and contacts to support Center
       strategic outreach and enhance cooperation and collaboration.
NASICI14-202 26 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 3


     2.1.9. Advocates and conducts strategic planning for special collection and analysts to
     solve key intelligence challenges.
     2.1.10. Advises senior leadership as to programs, personnel development, projects and
     strategic planning.
     2.1.11. Teaches, coaches, and mentors SIAs, PIAs, and analysts.
     2.1.12. Leads Group level development of analytic tradecraft and assures the highest
     possible analytic rigor and compliance with ICDs.
     2.1.13. Assures a quality analysis and production program.
     2.1.14. Assists the NASIC Chief Scientist as needed.
     2.1.15. Champions a balance between original discovery and production.
  2.2. The Senior Intelligence Analyst (SIA) serves as the analytic leader for the squadron
  and a technical/analytic advisor to the squadron commander/director. Core duties are:
     2.2.1. Represents NASIC on assigned mission of the squadron/division.
     2.2.2. Reviews squadron analytic products for quality and assures proper classification of
     contents.
         2.2.2.1. Generally approves new analytic assessments/judgments.
         2.2.2.2. Assures the highest possible analytic rigor.
         2.2.2.3. Leads squadron identification and implementation of analytic tradecraft best
         practices and assures compliance with analytic tradecraft standards and ICDs.
     2.2.3. Teaches, coaches, mentors PIAs and analysts within unit.
     2.2.4. Interacts with consumers, stakeholders and IC peers & partners.
     2.2.5. Advises squadron commander/director on analytical requirements, performance,
     projects and strategic planning.
     2.2.6. Advises DO and PIAs on production management: strategic priorities, production
     responsibilities, timelines, and task assignment and negotiation .
     2.2.7. Assists the Group Technical Director.
     2.2.8. Champions a balance between discovery and responsive production.
     2.2.9. Accepts leadership roles in the Center, USAF and IC to include analytic teams,
     working groups, panels and similar bodies.
  2.3. The Principal Intelligence Analyst (PIA) serves as an analytic team leader within the
  flight. Core duties are:
     2.3.1. Primary Subject Matter Expert (SME) for assigned mission/analytic assessments.
     2.3.2. Reviews all team/flight analytic products for quality and security compliance.
     Assures the highest possible analytic rigor.
     2.3.3. Teaches, coaches and mentors other analysts.
4                                                            NASICI14-202 26 OCTOBER 2012


       2.3.4. Manages production of assigned analysts; assists Flight Chief in ensuring timely
       completion of the flight’s assigned intelligence production requirements.
       2.3.5. Advises Flight Chief, DO and SIA on intelligence tradecraft implementation,
       production requirements, analyst performance and project status within the flight or team.
       2.3.6. Performs analysis and production.
       2.3.7. Assures cross-functional collaboration.
       2.3.8. Guides flight execution of analytic and production processes.
       2.3.9. Assists squadron’s SIA in assessing analytic health of squadron.
       2.3.10. Champions discovery and analysis investment.
       2.3.11. Accepts leadership roles in Center and IC for analysis, analytic tradecraft,
       training, development and similar topics.
    2.4. The Director of Operations (DO) serves as the squadron’s manager of mission
    operations. Core duties are:
       2.4.1. Serves as a deputy to Squadron Commander/Director for continuity.
       2.4.2. Plans and directs operations; receives, assigns, negotiates, levies and monitors
       intelligence production tasks, initiative projects and associated production (may delegate
       status monitoring to Program Analyst). Coordinates with the SIA, other Squadron DOs
       and SIAs, Flight Chiefs and PIAs, suppliers and customers as required.
       2.4.3. Identifies and monitors analytic resource allocation in coordination with flight
       chiefs and PIAs.
       2.4.4. Tracks and documents all modifications to production priorities and resource
       allocation.
       2.4.5. Implements internal squadron training program.
       2.4.6. Advises Squadron Commander/Director             on   mission    workload,   resource
       requirements, contractual matters, strategic plans.
       2.4.7. Advises Squadron Commander/Director and SIA on shortfalls and gaps in analytic
       production and concerns as to prioritization.
    2.5. The Program Analyst provides squadron-level management and program analysis. If
    no program analyst is assigned to a squadron, the squadron determines how best to assign the
    various duties to the DO, SIA, or other personnel. Core duties are:
       2.5.1. Tracks squadron production tasks, agreements, status and milestones.
       2.5.2. Provides periodic reports to support decision making of flight and squadron
       leadership.
       2.5.3. Coaches flights on production management process.
       2.5.4. Documents status of formal Production Requests (PRs).
       2.5.5. Develops squadron metrics.
       2.5.6. Provides awareness of database/web pages currency.
NASICI14-202 26 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   5


  2.6. Analytic Quality. All elements of the leadership team share responsibility for analytic
  quality. Technical Directors provide group-level oversight of analytic and production
  processes, review products for senior-level customers, contribute insight and feedback from
  engagement with senior customers and analysts across the IC, and ensure appropriate
  collaboration and coordination among NASIC offices and other IC agencies. SIAs establish
  basic guidelines for squadron implementation of quality analytic tradecraft; monitor analysis
  and production at the macro level to identify issues and trends in quality; serve, unless
  otherwise designated, as primary approval authority for intelligence product release; and
  ensure that products meet squadron, NASIC and IC standards. PIAs, drawing upon
  guidelines set by their squadron’s SIA, have principal responsibility for the substantive
  content of analytic products. Flight and Branch Chiefs and the chain of command assign
  tasks and work, set expectations for individuals, provide training and professional
  development for the workforce, and evaluate and recognize individual and team
  performance.
  2.7. Analytic Priorities. Setting analytic priorities is a complex problem involving multiple
  inputs. Flight/Branch Chiefs assign work and tasks to members and determine the Flight’s
  available capacity for additional workload. SIAs, PIAs, and DOs must have a continuous
  dialog on priorities of day to day tasks. TDs, SIAs and DOs have a responsibility to work
  across organizational boundaries to establish coherent analytic priorities for NASIC and the
  IC as a whole. They must work to integrate and synchronize transnational and functional
  analytic priorities with the overall analytic strategy. In addition, the TD through interaction
  with senior officials will provide feedback on priority concerns from the senior customer’s
  perspective. The SIA is responsible for providing major input to flight chiefs and PIAs on
  analytic priorities in context of new intelligence data, changing threat picture, and analytic
  and customer needs. The DO is responsible for providing major input to flight chiefs and
  PIAs on analytic priorities in context of the annual outlook and weekly management of
  assigned formal and informal products. The PIA’s deep subject matter expertise will identify
  critical and emerging issues requiring priority investment of analytic effort. That feedback to
  the DO, SIA and Squadron Commander/Director serves to aid leadership in obtaining
  additional resources, reallocating resources, and building the interagency coordination
  required to engage new issues. Within NASIC, Flight Chiefs and PIAs at the flight level
  (and Squadron Commanders/Directors and SIAs at the squadron level) are ultimately
  responsible for setting daily/weekly analytic production priorities, balancing limited
  resources against multiple standing requirements, ad hoc requests, and initiative analytic
  projects. Strategic prioritization for the Center is decided by the NASIC Council.
  2.8. Setting Analytic Positions. NASIC will employ a process of deliberate review process
  by analytic leaders when establishing the Center’s analytic position on key issues; the
  process will include, at a minimum, key SMEs, PIAs and SIA(s) involvement, with
  Technical Directors and NASIC Chief Scientist integrated as necessary. The position must
  be based on thorough review of intelligence reporting and application of rigorous analytic
  methods with inputs from all subject-relevant analysts, PIAs, and analytic elements. TDs and
  SIAs must solicit participation and establish a collaborative process for deliberation and
  decision on the final analytic position. Where appropriate, they must ensure dissenting or
  alternative analyses are presented alongside the mainstream position. Once the process
  produces an analytic position, TDs and SIAs must ensure the position is understood and
6                                                         NASICI14-202 26 OCTOBER 2012


    properly articulated through the analytic workforce so that position will be conveyed
    consistently throughout all related production, until changed through a similar deliberate
    review process. In the event TDs cannot reach consensus on a particular analytic issue, the
    issue will be referred to the NASIC Chief Scientist for adjudication.
3. STANDARD UNIT COMPOSITION.
    3.1. The standard unit composition for analytic leadership at NASIC is a Technical Director
    in groups/directorates, a Senior Intelligence Analyst as well as a military (O-4) Director of
    Operations in squadrons, and one or more Principal Intelligence Analysts in flights, as
    determined by the scope of the flight’s analytical mission and number of analysts. Squadrons
    may establish program analyst positions as required. A civilian may fill the DO position on a
    case by case basis, with approval of the NASIC/CV through NASIC’s established review
    process for the squadron Position Structure Plan (PSP).




                                            AARON M. PRUPAS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
NASICI14-202 26 OCTOBER 2012                                         7


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DI #2, DI Leadership Roles and Responsibilities, 14 Jun 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CPB—Civilian Policy Board
CSG—Chief Scientist Group
CV—Vice Commander
DI—Directorate for Analysis Instruction
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DO—Director of Operations
DoD—Department of Defense
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Intelligence Community
ICD—Intelligence Community Directive
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
NIE—National Intelligence Estimates
NIPF—National Intelligence Priority Framework
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PIA—Principal Intelligence Analyst
PR—Production Requirement
PSP—Position Structure Plan
 8                                 NASICI14-202 26 OCTOBER 2012


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SIA—Senior Intelligence Analyst
SME—Subject Matter Expert
TD—Technical Director
