BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        NASIC INSTRUCTION 33-103
NATIONAL AIR & SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                              2 MARCH 2012

                                                                Communications & Information

                                                 NATIONAL AIR & SPACE INTELLIGENCE
                                                  CENTER BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NASIC/SCXS                                                        Certified by: NASIC/SCX
                                                                            (Gregory J. O’Brien)
                                                                                       Pages: 11


This NASIC instruction implements AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, AFI 33-
200, Information Assurance (IA) Management and AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging. This
instruction adds organizational guidance and procedures for using and managing organizational
mailboxes, a highly structured environment for using electronic communications e-mail in mass,
as well as guidance and procedures for using cellular communications, a mobile messaging tool.
This instruction applies to all NASIC civilian and military personnel as well as all Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) Units and Air National Guard (ANG) Units assigned to NASIC.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field to NASIC Publications Office (NASIC/SCOK), 4180 Watson Way,
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-5648 (ATTN: Publications/Forms Managers). Maintain
records created as a result of the prescribed processes identified in this directory in accordance
with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them in IAW the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) found on the Air Force Portal link at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The title of this instruction changed from NASIC Electronic Organization Mailbox Policy to
NASIC Business Communications. This publication updates the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) from NASIC/SCOK to NASIC/SCXS. This revised instruction also
 2                                                                NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012


updates the use and management of NASIC corporate e-mail distribution lists and establishes
responsibilities and procedures for requesting, purchasing, configuring and using government-
purchased mobile messaging devices (e.g. Blackberry devices).
1. OVERVIEW.
     1.1. When used properly, the distribution of e-mail through official organizational mailboxes
     will improve NASIC communications effectiveness and efficiency by enabling
     organizational leaders and their trained delegates and sponsors to control the flow of
     information and related work. Personnel sending communications through official boxes
     have greater assurance that e-mails will be read and acted upon promptly and appropriately
     by the receiving organization. Use of organizational e-mail boxes will reduce the numbers
     and length of e-mails. Shared access to organizational e-mail accounts will enable efficient
     filing, retrieving, and appropriate retention of record copies according to established records
     management practices.
     1.2. Mobile messaging devices (e.g. Blackberry) provide great versatility for keeping in
     touch with the organization but the capability comes with a price. By their very design, as is
     the case with most wireless electronic devices, their use poses a greater security risk—
     specifically, greater opportunity for intercept and exploitation—than wired devices. Great
     care must be exercised when using and maintaining these devices.
     1.3. For this instruction, digital certificates, also known as public & private key certificates,
     are software-based items that use Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) technologies to
     electronically sign and encrypt e-mail. These software-based certificates (heretofore,
     referred to as “Soft Certificates”), unlike hardware-based smart cards or tokens (e.g.
     Common Access Cards (CAC)), are stored on the computer. Because the use of them is to
     add “trust and security”, it is very important to adhere to all provisions for their use and
     control. Improper use or control would warrant reporting the event, incident or
     mismanagement as a security incident.
2. ORGANIZATIONAL MAILBOXES (ORG BOXES).
     2.1. Organizational e-mail accounts mailboxes (or Org Boxes) will be used for official
     taskings, requests for information, organizational appointments, notices regarding recurring
     staff meetings, organizational invitations, announcements, bulletins and notices.
     2.2. IAW AFI 33-119, all Org Boxes on the NIPRNet system that receive For Official Use
     Only (FOUO), Privacy Act information (PA), Personally Identifiable Information (PII),
     contract data, export controlled technical data, Operations Security (OPSEC), information
     specified for encryption by data owners pertaining to individual areas of responsibility or
     individually identifiable health, payroll, finance, logistics, and foreign government
     information must have the ability to encrypt/decrypt e-mail.
        2.2.1. Sending e-mail that contains the type of information described in Sec 2.2 to
        organizational mailboxes that do not have Soft Certificates and the ability to
        encrypt/decrypt the e-mail is strictly prohibited.
        2.2.2. “For Official Use Only (FOUO)” is information that has not been given a security
        classification pursuant to the criteria of an Executive Order, but could cause foreseeable
        harm if disclosed to unauthorized personnel. It must be protected at the need-to-know.
NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012                                                                       3


     Additional information concerning protection of For Official Use Only information can
     be found in DoD Regulation 5400.7/AF Sup1, Freedom of Information Act Program.
     2.2.3. The NASIC Critical Information Lists provide generalized lists of organizational
     information that should be considered FOUO and therefore encrypted when sent via e-
     mail.
  2.3. To support encryption requirements, all two and three letter Org Boxes will be issued
  Soft Certificate.
  2.4. Waivers and exceptions must be approved by the NASIC Director of Staff (DS).
  2.5. Special Interest Org Boxes will not require encryption capability unless they will
  receive/send FOUO information. A Special Interest Org Box box is maintained by groups or
  persons that are not mission-related (e.g. Angel Tree and Summerfest). Establishment of
  Special Interest Org Boxes must be approved by the NASIC DS.
  2.6. Calendar invites (created within organizational mailboxes) do not have the capability to
  be encrypted. Therefore, invites cannot be sent via e-mail if they contain FOUO information.
  This includes subject line, body of the message, and attachments.
3. ORGANIZATIONAL MAILBOX (ORG BOX) RESPONSIBILITIES.
  3.1. Group Commanders and Directors will appoint a sponsor for all Group/Directorate
  organizational mailboxes that require encryption/decryption capability. The sponsor’s
  appointment letter will be forwarded to the NASIC Information Assurance (IA) Branch
  (SCXS). (See sample appointment letter in Attachment 2)
  3.2. Group Commanders, Directors and Squadron/Division Chiefs are the owners of their
  specific Org Box. As such, they direct and oversee all aspects of their assigned Org Boxes, to
  include:
     3.2.1. Monitor and maintain practices and procedures for daily use and shared access of
     assigned Org Boxes. Org Boxes will be regularly monitored from beginning to end of
     each shift of duty.
     3.2.2. Designate records custodians to maintain the contents of Org Boxes according to
     established records management procedures.
     3.2.3. Determine who is authorized to read, edit, or delete e-mails sent to the Org Box.
     3.2.4. Request removal of an Org Box when no longer needed.
         3.2.4.1. Org Box removal process will consist of:
             3.2.4.1.1. Removal request letter submitted to the NASIC IA Branch (SCXS)
             with concurrence from the Functional Area Records Manager (FARM). (See
             sample Org Box removal request letter in Attachment 3)
  3.3. Information Assurance Branch (SCXS) will:
     3.3.1. Maintain a current list of sponsors and their organizational mailbox.
     3.3.2. Provide training, education and oversight.
     3.3.3. Annually, conduct an inspection of the use of organizational boxes to ensure
     sponsors are adhering to the secure operations/control requirements.
 4                                                               NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012


     3.4. Organizational Mailbox Sponsors will:
        3.4.1. Be the focal point for Org Boxes,
        3.4.2. Maintain the list of authorized users that have access to the organizational mailbox
        (i.e can receive/review/forward encrypted e-mail).
        3.4.3. Attend program management and operational security training
     3.5. Records Managers will:
        3.5.1. Move official e-mail records to the official records repository (e.g.
        NASIC//O:drive) for proper retention IAW the office file plan and AFMAN 33-363,
        Management of Records.
        3.5.2. Move e-mails to the Records Center Libraries for further action and collaboration.
        3.5.3. Certify disposition of all e-mails prior to closure of an Org Box.
        3.5.4. Monitor Org Box for proper use and protection of FOUO information.
     3.6. The Client Services Branch (SCOS), known as Communications Focal Point (CFP)
     will:
        3.6.1. Create and delete organizational mailboxes.
        3.6.2. Add and remove individual access and permissions to organizational mailboxes.
     3.7. Signature Elements: All e-mails sent from an organizational mailbox will contain a
     signature element. The following format will be used for e-mail signature elements:
Figure 3.7. E-mail Signature Element.




4. SHARED DISTRIBUTION LISTS.
     4.1. Organizational mailbox owners will review all e-mail destined for multiple
     organizational boxes. The CFP will own and manage NASIC e-mail distribution lists,
     including accomplishing full coordination to ensure currency and accuracy. Lists are as
     follows:
NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012                                                                        5


Table 4.1. NASIC Distribution Lists.
NASIC All =     All NASIC personnel
NASIC A =       All 2-Ltr Organization boxes
NASIC B =       All 3-Ltr Organization boxes
NASIC C =       All 4 Ltr Organization boxes
   4.2. All NASIC distribution lists may be used by 2-Ltr Organizational account holders and
   designees. In addition, subordinate distribution lists may be used by parallel level
   organizations (e.g., any org on Distro List B can use “B” plus “C” but not A). Action
   officers who wish to use lists above their authority (for example: NASIC All) must forward
   proposed e-mails through their chain of command to an authorized office. No external
   personnel may be listed in the distribution lists.
   4.3. As the mission dictates, some personnel may be granted authority to use distribution
   lists above their current level (e.g. a 3-Ltr with NASIC All capability). Use of distribution
   lists under these circumstances is restricted to For Official Use only. Official Use is directly
   related to mission accomplishment and includes emergency communications (for example:
   network system downtimes, building construction status, fire alarm tests, etc.).
5. MOBILE MESSAGING.
   5.1. All corporate-sponsored mobile messaging devices (e.g. Blackberry) must be approved
   by the NASIC Commander.
   5.2. All devices are considered IT equipment and must be procured using the SC
   requirements process using the SC Computer Systems Requirements Document (CSRD)
   process.
      5.2.1. Groups/Directorates must coordinate with their approving authority and Resource
      Advisor (RA) to obtain additional devices. Sustainment costs will be the responsibility of
      the Group/Directorate.
   5.3. SC will fund/manage the costs (for services rendered) and is the POC between the
   vendor and NASIC. SC will also manage and fund basic core devices and services. All non-
   core devices and services will be funded by the Groups/Directorates.
      5.3.1. Core services consist of Continental US (CONUS) email, web service, mobile to
      mobile, and 300 anytime minutes.
      5.3.2. Non-core services consist of (but are not limited to) international services which
      allows email and web service. International service is an additional cost plus any
      additional minute charged for phone calls.
      5.3.3. SC RA will coordinate funding of mission phones and additional services with
      mission RAs during budget planning.
   5.4. SC will establish the standard configuration and is the only authorized POC to change
   the configuration. Users will not have access to the device configuration settings.
      5.4.1. All devices will be configured for unclassified phone and data use in CONUS.
          5.4.1.1. Maintenance of all devices will be managed by and carried out by SC.
6                                                             NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012


       5.4.2. Configuration changes, such as adding international capabilities, will be submitted
       to SC using the CSRD system. The CSRD process will allow NASIC to document
       configuration changes. Customer’s organization will be required to fund the additional
       service for at least one full month of use.
       5.4.3. SC will contact and coordinate any maintenance actions with the vendor as
       needed.
    5.5. Devices are authorized to process unclassified information only. Any security incidents
    must be immediately reported to NASIC Security Officer (SOO).
    5.6. If viruses or malware are discovered on the device, the owner/user must immediately
    report this event to the CFP in accordance with NASICVA 33-104, Reporting Computer
    Viruses. Treat all information concerning the infection at a minimum of CONFIDENTIAL
    and use secure means to contact the CFP (e.g. make a personal visit, send an e-mail on
    SIPRNET, and call on a STE phone).
    5.7. Customers are responsible for keeping the device secured (meaning within your control
    or possession at all times). Signing the hand receipt for the equipment is acceptance and
    acknowledgement that the customer is familiar with the information contained in this
    document, and the corresponding AFIs; AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management, AFI 10-
    712, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP) and AFI 33-119, Air
    Force Messaging.
    5.8. All personnel are highly discouraged from bringing their government-owned cellular
    device into the SCIF. However, if brought into the SCIF, individuals are responsible for
    following security procedures outlined in NASICI 31-106, Portable Electronic Devices
    (PEDS), which governs the operational and security requirements when bringing a cellular
    device inside the SCIF.




                                            KATHLEEN C. SAKURA, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012                                                              7


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-712, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP), 8 June 2011
AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management, 22 November 2011
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging, 2 September 2008
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 15 October 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 13 October 2011
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, 3 August 2011
DoD Regulation 5400.7/AF Sup1, DOD Freedom of Information Act Program, 24 June 2002
NASICI 31-106, Portable Electronic Devices (PEDS), 11 August 2010
Visual Aids
NASICVA 33-104, Reporting Computer Viruses, 30 November 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Terms and Abbreviations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AF I—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
ANG—Air National Guard
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CAC—Common Access Cards
CFP—Communications Focal Point
CONUS—Continental United States
CSRD—Computer Systems Requirements Document
DS—Director of Staff
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
FOUO—For Official Use Only
IA—Information Assurance
IAW—In Accordance With
NASIC—National Air & Space Intelligence Center
 8                                                        NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012


NIPRNet—Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
PA—Privacy Act
PEDS—Portable Electronic Devices
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
PKI—Public Key Infrastructure
POC—Point of Contact
RA—Resource Advisor
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SCIF—Secret Compartmented Information Facility
NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012                                   9


                                      Attachment 2
                              SPONSOR MEMORANDUM

Figure A2.1. Designation of Soft Certificate PKI Sponsor.
10   NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012
NASICI33-103 2 MARCH 2012                               11


                                    Attachment 3
                    ORGANIZATIONAL MAIL BOX REMOVAL

Figure A3.1. Organizational Mail Box Removal Request.
