BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         NASIC INSTRUCTION 91-1
NATIONAL AIR & SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                                                         5 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                          Safety

                                                 NASIC MISHAP PREVENTION PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NASIC/SE                                                           Certified by: NASIC/DS
                                                                          (Mr. John W. Shaver)
Supersedes:   NASICI 91-1, 29 September                                                 Pages: 7
              2010


This instruction establishes mishap prevention program requirements, assigns responsibilities for
program elements, and provides procedures for reporting and investigating US Air Force
mishaps. It Implements safety programs consistent with Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s (OSHA) Code of Federal Regulations, AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap
Prevention Program, Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-2, Safety Programs. This
instruction incorporates the principal requirements of Public Law 91-596 and Executive Order
12196, Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force guidance into a single document. This
instruction applies to all National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) civilian and
military personnel. This publication does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
Units or Air National Guard (ANG) Units. This NASIC publication may be supplemented at any
level, but all supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) listed
above for coordination prior to certification and approval. The purpose of the NASIC Safety
Program is to create an environment that places the highest value on the welfare of the
individual, to instill a sense of ownership and to embrace excellence in all aspects of
performance to ensure the safest working environment possible. Provisions of this instruction
apply to all NASIC activities and establish the basis for all Center Occupational and
Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health programs. Commanders, Unit Safety
Representatives (USR) and supervisors will be thoroughly familiar with their responsibilities and
effectively implement them. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form
847s from the field to NASIC Publications Office (NASIC/SCOK), 4180 Watson Way, Wright-
Patterson AFB, OH 45433-5648, ATTN: Publications/Forms Managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force
 2                                                            NASICI91-1 5 FEBRUARY 2014


Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Contact
supporting records managers as required. If information is collected by one or more
organizational components and transmitted to other organizational components for management
purposes, the Information Collection and Reports (ICR) Manager must review for accuracy and
compliance with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program.
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This updated
instruction eliminates redundant safety program requirements already included in Air Force
Instructions and clarifies NASIC safety program requirements and procedures. Unit safety
program management binder requirements is updated to reflect changes in AFI 91-202, The Air
Force Mishap Prevention Program, and mandates use of the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
Health Record.
1. COMMANDERS, DIRECTORS AND FUNCTIONAL MANAGERS WILL:
     1.1. Ensure newly appointed Unit Safety Representatives (USR) have a minimum of one-
     year retainability as the USR and they attend USR training within 30 days of appointment.
     USR appointment letters will include the following information: first and last name, military
     rank or civilian equivalent, office symbol, date appointed, building/room number and duty
     phone (black phone).
     1.2. Appoint replacement USRs whenever both the primary and alternate USRs are
     unavailable due to leave, TDY, deployments, etc.
     1.3. Conduct and document a monthly review of the unit safety program with the USR. This
     review should include, as a minimum, a review of high interest safety issues and concerns,
     mishap experience and trends, results of safety spot inspections and status of corrective
     actions for open Risk Assessment Codes (RAC).
     1.4. Review the USR Self-Inspection report to ensure proper corrective actions for identified
     findings and hazards. Documentation will be accomplished using a standard Staff Summary
     Sheet format and filed with the Annual USR Self-Inspection report.
     1.5. Ensure requests for local purchase equipment items are routed through USR, prior to
     purchase, to ensure proposed equipment meets Air Force safety standards. NASIC/SE will
     assess organization’s process for reviewing local purchase requests in accordance with AFI
     91-202, 8.3.7.
        1.5.1. Equipment is defined as any type of industrial equipment such as power tools,
        electrical appliances, low speed utility vehicles or other items that may pose a hazard.
        Excluded from this broad definition is furniture and daily use items such as office
        supplies.
     1.6. Invite NASIC/SE to all safety, fire and health related inspections conducted by outside
     agencies.
NASICI91-1 5 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                     3


  1.7. Use the AF Form 55, Employee Health and Safety Record, for documenting safety, fire
  and health training for military and civilian employees. Both Trainer and trainee signatures
  are required on the AF Form 55 for training verification.
2. UNIT SAFETY REPRESENTATIVES (USR) WILL:
  2.1. Maintain the unit safety program management book in accordance with the minimum
  mandatory items listed in Attachment 2. USRs may add to this list as needed to properly
  manage the unit safety program; however, items will not be deleted from the list.
  2.2. Conduct a bi-annual self-inspection of the Group/Directorate’s safety program and all
  areas of responsibility using applicable MICT Self Inspection checklist.
     2.2.1. The self-inspection shall be conducted between five and seven months following
     the previous NASIC/SE annual safety inspection and program assessment. This will
     allow the USR to validate corrective actions from the previous annual safety inspection
     and provide sufficient time to correct newly identified hazards prior to upcoming
     NASIC/SE annual safety inspection.
     2.2.2. Each finding in the USR Self Inspection report will include the specific
     discrepancy, reference, root cause, recommendation, follow up actions (if applicable) and
     corrective actions.
  2.3. Track all open hazards/deficiencies identified during safety inspections and provide
  NASIC/SE a status report on corrective actions every 30 days.
  2.4. Conduct and document a minimum of one monthly safety briefing covering safety
  topic(s) pertinent to the work center. As a minimum, briefing documentation will include:
  the date of the briefing, name of briefer, office symbol, topic of briefing and summary of
  information provided (a copy of the material briefed attached to the briefing roster meets this
  requirement), and roster of personnel briefed.
3. LOGISTICS DIRECTORATE WILL:
  3.1. Ensure AF Forms 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, are coordinated with
  NASIC/SE prior to submittal to ensure requested work meets applicable safety standards and
  the NASIC/SE has situational awareness of requested projects. Work orders for routine, non-
  safety related facility maintenance is exempt from this requirement.
  3.2. Provide escort safety training. Individuals conducting facility escort duty will be
  briefed to comply with safety requirements by LGM prior to escorting. Escort safety training
  will include the following information:
     3.2.1. Hazards of the areas where escorting duties will take place.
     3.2.2. Type of work contractors will be performing.
     3.2.3. Type of clothing and/or protective equipment required for escort duties.
     NASIC/LGM and NASIC/SE determine the minimum level of personal protective
     equipment required for escorting in contractor work areas. NASIC personnel performing
     escort duties must comply with required protective equipment standards.
     3.2.4. Actions to take if an unsafe act or work condition is observed that could result in
     injury or damage to NASIC personnel or property. Unless there is imminent danger, Air
4                                                            NASICI91-1 5 FEBRUARY 2014


       Force personnel (other than a contracting officer) should avoid reporting safety violations
       directly to the contractor. If the hazard presents an imminent danger, the supervisor or
       individual responsible for the operation must take immediate action to correct the
       situation
4. MISHAP INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTING PROGRAM:
    4.1. The AFISRA Form 68, Ground Safety Report, will be used to report all mishaps to
    NASIC/SE.
       4.2. The supervisors of individuals involved in a mishap are responsible for initiating the
       AFISRA Form 68, Ground Safety Report, and ensuring coordination through the Unit
       Safety Representative, commander/director and NASIC/SE.
       4.3. The AFISRA Form 68, Ground Safety Report, must be completed and submitted to
       NASIC/SE within 5 duty days of the mishap. Completing the AFISRA Form 68, Ground
       Safety Report, electronically and routing via e-mail is the preferred method for reporting
       mishaps.
    4.4. Commanders/directors, supervisors and USRs will ensure NASIC/SE is notified
    telephonically for all mishaps requiring serious medical treatment and/or hospitalization.
    After hours mishap reporting can be accomplished via the NCC.
    4.5. NASIC Mishap Reporting Procedures: The following mishap reporting procedures are
    general procedures and may be supplemented by subordinate units as needed.
       4.5.1. Secure the scene, contact emergency services via 911 or 937-257-9111 from a cell
       phone and provide first aid as needed.
       4.5.2. If the mishap occurred within the NASIC main facility, send an escort to meet
       emergency personnel if 911 was called. Refer to Chapter 13 of NASICI 10-108,
       Emergency Action Plan, for additional information concerning entry of emergency
       personnel into the Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF).
       4.5.3. The mishap individual must notify their supervisor of the mishap as soon as
       possible following the mishap or emergency treatment.
       4.6. The supervisor of the mishap individual initiates the AFISRA Form 68, Ground
       Safety Report, and ensures coordination in accordance with this instruction.
5. NASIC MOTORCYCLE SAFETY PROGRAM:
    5.1. NASIC/SE will serve as the Unit Motorcycle Coordinators (UMC) for NASIC.
    Commanders/directors may appoint UMCs for their organizations when needed.




                                            AARON M. PRUPAS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
NASICI91-1 5 FEBRUARY 2014                                                             5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-324, The Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management Program, 6 March
2013
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFI 91-204_AFISRASUP1, Safety Investigations and Reports, 15 September 2011
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 12 September 2013
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 24 July 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
NASICI 10-108, Emergency Action Plan, 3 November 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 4391, High-Risk Activities Worksheet
AF Form 4392, Pre-Departure Safety Briefing
AFISRA Form 68, Ground Safety Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
DoD—Department of Defense
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
NCC—NASIC Control Center
 6                                                   NASICI91-1 5 FEBRUARY 2014


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SCIF—Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility
UMC—Unit Motorcycle Coordinator
USR—Unit Safety Representative
NASICI91-1 5 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                  7


                                           Attachment 2
                        SAFETY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT BOOK

Tab A: Commander/director’s review of the unit safety program

Tab B: Unit Safety Representative appointment letter and training letters
       USR appointment letter
       USR training letter
       Risk Management training certificate

Tab C: Unit Locator
Note: This is a listing or map of all areas of responsibility within the unit

Tab D: Inspections
      Annual self-inspection report with commander/director signature
      Spot inspection log
      Open safety findings log with status and estimated completion date for each finding

Tab E: Monthly safety briefing documentation and rosters

Tab F: Job safety training
       Job safety training lesson plan
       Individual AF Forms 55, Employee Safety and Health Record

Tab G: High-Risk Activities – Optional Program, AFI 91-202, 1.5.21.9.
       AF Forms 4391, High-Risk Activities Worksheet

Tab H: Pre-Departure Safety Briefings - Optional Program, AFI 91-202, 1.5.21.12.
       AF Forms 4392, Pre-Departure Safety Briefings

Tab I: Miscellaneous safety correspondence and briefing material
