BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE
NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE                                  STATION INSTRUCTION 33-201
STATION
                                                                               30 APRIL 2010
                                                                Certified Current 16 June 2014
                                                             Communications and Information

                                                          PROTECTION/USE OF SECURE
                                                       TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 914 CS/SCBS                                                       Certified by: 914 CS/SC
                                                                       (LtCol David P. Jaacks)
                                                                                       Pages: 5


This publication implements AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance Program and AFI 33-201,
Volume 9, Operational Instruction for Secure Voice Devices. This instruction provides guidance
regarding the use and protection of secure telephone devices. It applies to all members assigned
to Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station (NFARS). Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 directly to 914 CS/SCB at
Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with the Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of in accordance with the Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-61a/afrims.afrims/ .

1. Responsibilities: Each Secure Telecommunications Device user will ensure that the
procedures outlined in this instruction are adhered to at all times.
2. Procedures:
   2.1. Use the Secure Telecommunications Device in the unkeyed mode/logged off mode to
   place unsecured, unclassified calls. Remove the Fortezza Card or Personal Identification
   Number (PIN) to log off the terminal.
   2.2. When the terminal is in the keyed mode (Card/PIN in the device), it must be afforded
   protection commensurate with the level of clearance authorized and may only be used by
   authorized personnel. When unauthorized personnel are in the area, the keyed device must
   be under the operational control and within the view of at least one known, appropriately
   cleared, and authorized person.
 2                                              NIAGARAFALLSARSI33-201 30 APRIL 2010


     2.3. Secure telecommunications devices not operational 24 hours a day will have the
     Card/PIN removed no later than the close of business. The Card must be listed as an item on
     the end of day security checklist (Standard Form (SF) Form 701 or suitable alternate). The
     Card will be stored in a GSA approved security container, if kept in the same room as the
     Secure Telecommunications Device. Only authorized Secure Telecommunications Device
     users will have access to the container. When the Card is stored in another room, it will be
     kept in a GSA approved security container. If a security container is not available, store the
     Card in a locked cabinet, desk, etc. The adequacy of storage alternatives is determined on a
     case-by-case basis, by the unit security manager within each using organization. PINs will
     never be written down outside of the COMSEC Manager’s Vault.
     2.4. Strict attention must be paid to the authentication display to ensure the classification
     level of the conversation does not exceed the highest clearance classification displayed.
     Recommend users scroll the distant end to ensure the distant end key is current and not
     expired.
     2.5. Before discussing classified information on the Secure Telecommunications Device, the
     person making the classified call must ensure all personnel in the area are cleared and those
     remaining have a need to know.
     2.6. Users should pay close attention to the authentication information displayed in the
     terminal during each secure call. When two terminals communicate in the secure mode, each
     terminal automatically displays the authentication information of the distant terminal. The
     information displayed indicates the organization reached, the approved level of the call, and
     when there is foreign access of the terminal, but does not authenticate the person using the
     terminal. Therefore, users must use judgment in determining need-to-know when
     communicating classified information.
     2.7. Report a lost Card or device to the base COMSEC manager, immediately. You will be
     instructed by the COMSEC manager on what actions to take.
     2.8. Ensure the equipment custodian has all Secure Telecommunications Device assigned to
     the section listed on the CA/CRL.
     2.9. If any problems are experienced with the Secure Telecommunications Device, call the
     COMSEC Manager’s Office (SCBS).
3. Emergency Action Procedures: In the event of fire, natural disaster, or covert threat, the
Card will be removed from the Secure Telecommunications Device and locked up, or kept in the
personal possession of an authorized individual. PIN activated units will be logged off prior to
departure.
4. Training: Each user agency shall ensure all personnel with access to a secure
telecommunications device will be trained annually in accordance with AFI 33-201, Volume 9.
This responsibility falls to the Secure Voice Responsible Officer (SVRO) or COMSEC
Responsible Officer (CRO) in each agency possessing Secure Telecommunications Devices.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI33-201 30 APRIL 2010                                      3


5. Adopted Form:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SF-701, Activity Security Checklist




                                        ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Colonel,
                                        USAFRCommander
 4                                             NIAGARAFALLSARSI33-201 30 APRIL 2010


                                          Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND OTHER INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-2, Information Protection, 19 Apr 2007
AFI 33-201 Volume 9, Operational Instruction for Secure Voice Devices, 13 March 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCA—Air Force Command Authority
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AW—Airlift Wing
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing
COMSEC—Communication Security
CRO—COMSEC Responsible Officer
GSA—General Services Administration
NFARS—Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station
PIN—Personal Identification Number
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SF—Standard Form
SVRO—Secure Voice Responsible Officer

Terms
Adopted Form—A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to their functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-letter
offices).
Certifying Official—A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certifies the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Office of Primary Responsibility—The originating office for a publication; the author of the
publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Publication—An officially produced, published, and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation, and or information.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI33-201 30 APRIL 2010                                                         5


Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)—The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARAA) approval authority.
Records Management—The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and any other managerial activity related to records creation, records maintenance and use, and
records disposition for the sake of achieving adequate and proper documentation of the policies
and transactions of the Federal government and effective economical management of agency
operations.
