BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE
NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE                                    STATION INSTRUCTION 21-101
STATION
                                                                                    18 MAY 2010
                                                                     Certified Current 8 June 2012
                                                                                MAINTENANCE

                                                                         AIRCRAFT DE-ICING



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 914 AMXS/MXAA                                                     Certified by: 914 MXG/CC
Supersedes: 914 AWI 21-101,                                           (Lt Col Kelvin D. McElroy)
            23 June 2004                                                                  Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance and TO
42C-1-2, Anti-Icing, De-Icing and Defrosting of Parked Aircraft. It specifies procedures to
control and eliminate glycol run off to storm drains by confining de-icing/anti-icing operations to
defined areas, permitting proper disposal of the glycol. Additionally, it defines procedures that
will minimize the need for de-icing, such as mechanical snow removal, solar de-icing and ice
avoidance through hangaring. It applies to the 914 AW, the Base Operating Services (BOS)
contractor and 107 ARW operations. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847 directly to the 914 AMXS/MXAA,
Niagara Falls ARS, NY. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https:/www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates changes to local procedures for de-icing. Paragraphs 1.2.1, 1.3 and
2.4 reflect the operations of a combined 914th and 107th Air Wing Maintenance Operations
Center (MOC) and Aircraft Maintenance section. Paragraphs 2.4.1 and 2.4.2 reflect a change of
responsibility from the 107th CEV to the 914th CEV due to the change of ownership of the
parking ramp to the 914th AW. Due to the applicability of this instruction to both the 914th and
107th it is being revised as a Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station Instruction. This document must
be completely reviewed.
 2                                               NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-101 18 MAY 2010


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. The 914 AW and 107 AW operations will make the best management decision to fly, or
     weather cancel, based on weather, runway condition reading (RCR), personnel availability,
     and hangar space and mission requirements. Decision-makers will take into account 914 AW
     Commander’s guidance to minimize the amount of de-icing fluid used due to environmental
     considerations
     1.2. The combined 914/107th MOC will:
        1.2.1. Coordinate with their respective Operations Groups to prioritize the flying
        schedule daily. The decision to de-ice will be based on the best management decision, as
        outlined in paragraph
        1.2.2. Maintain a log book reflecting de-icing location, amount of propylene glycol used,
        amount of water used and a monthly usage report will be forwarded to 914 CEV.
        1.2.3. At the end of each workday, forecast potential de-icing needs overnight and prior
        to the start of the next business day, based on the flying schedule and anticipated
        conditions.
     1.3. The 914/107th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron will:
        1.3.1. Perform de-icing/anti-icing operations on the three dedicated pads, whenever
        possible. If de-icing on a parking spot, notify the MOC when and where de-icing will
        take place and stop up the storm drains.
        1.3.2. Ensure checklists and emergency procedures are in place for lift station failure and
        fluids that migrate off the de-icing pad.
2. Pad De-Icing Procedures. This is the primary de-icing method. Personnel will use only the
minimum amount of fluid necessary.
     2.1. Spots 1-2-3, on the west ramp, are the designated de-icing pads.
     2.2. The pads must be plowed or swept clean of snow, before de-icing begins.
     2.3. The entire aircraft must be as clean as possible of snow and ice before going on the de-
     icing pad.
     2.4. The valve keys are located in the Expeditor (HERC 3) Truck. The storm drain has two
     butterfly valves; the storm drain (valve marked in YELLOW) is closed during de-icing
     process. The de-ice drain valve will be opened during de-icing (valve marked in WHITE).
     Using the appropriate handles close the storm drain valve (WHITE handle) and open the
     deice valve (YELLOW handle) to begin de-icing process.
        2.4.1. De-icing Season: Notify the 914 MSG/CEV for approval prior to directing the
        discharge to the sanitary sewer system. Close the storm system valves and dedicate the
        de-icing pad discharge to the sanitary system during the de-icing season. Leave
        discharge dedicated to the sanitary system until the end of de-icing season and until all
        de-icing contaminated snow has drained into the de-icing pad.
        2.4.2. Non De-icing Season: Notify the 914 MSG/CEV for approval prior to directing
        the discharge to the storm sewer system. Switch discharge back to storm system and
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-101 18 MAY 2010                                                                3


       close the valve to the sanitary system after deicing season is over and all residual material
       has discharged to the sanitary system.
   2.5. Closely monitor the de-icing pit and lift station pump warning light (yellow), located on
   the light post by spot one. If fluid is backing up into the pit or the light illuminates that
   indicates the de-ice fluid holding tank is full (or power was interrupted), stop de-icing
   immediately. If a power interruption was the cause, reset the switch located on the light pole
   in the tank control box (turn power switch to reset and then on). Any other malfunctions,
   notify the MOC, who in turn will contact 914 MSG/CEV.
   2.6. Report the amount of propylene glycol and water used to the MOC.
3. Off Pad De-Icing Procedures. This is not the primary method of de/anti-icing and should be
used only where absolutely necessary to meet essential mission requirements. OG/CC is the
approval authority. Personnel will:
   3.1. Notify 914 MSG/CEV when a decision is made for off pad de-icing operations, report
   aircraft parking location, unit and type of aircraft, amount of fluid used and recovered, to
   include method of fluid recovery. If 914 MSG/CEV is not available (i.e. after normal duty
   hours or weekends), immediately contact 914 MSG/CEV the next scheduled workday and
   provide the necessary information. Follow up phone notifications with monthly reports.
   3.2. Stop up the storm drains and contain the de/anti-icing runoff with booms, blankets, or
   pigs.
   3.3. Clear the entire aircraft of snow and ice, through mechanical means, before beginning to
   de-ice.
   3.4. Ensure the de-icing spot is clear of snow before beginning operations.
   3.5. Park the aircraft in an area where the runoff can be contained and not contaminate the
   soil, or the storm drains. Do not de-ice on the Fox row ramp.
   3.6. Depending on the amount of fluid run off, waste will be vacuumed and discharged into
   the sanitary system or absorbed with the “blue” absorbent material, sealed in a plastic bag
   and moved to the waste collection point for disposal. Inspect the area during and after de-
   icing, to prevent run off from going into the storm drain or surrounding soil.
   3.7. Report the amount of propylene glycol and water used and collected to the MOC.

4. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Col, USAFR
                                             Commander, 914 Airlift Wing
 4                                            NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-101 18 MAY 2010


                                       Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
TO 42C-1-2, Anti-Icing, De-Icing and Defrosting of Parked Aircraft, 1 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
AW—Airlift Wing
BOS—Base Operating Services
CEV—Civil Engineering Environmental
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MSG—Mission Support Group
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
NFARS—Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RCR—Runway Condition Reading
TO—Technical Order
