BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE STATION
NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE                                       INSTRUCTION 21-107
STATION
                                                                        19 NOVEMBER 2009
                                                Incorporating Change 1, 29 NOVEMBER 2011
                                                          Certified Current 19 November 2013
                                                                                Maintenance

                                                  DROPPED OBJECT PREVENTION (DOP)
                                                          AND REPORTING PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 914 MXG/MXQ                                                    Certified by: 914 MXG/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col Sharon Johnson)
Supersedes:   914th AWI 21-107,                                                        Pages: 7
              27 July 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Managing Aerospace
Equipment Maintenance, and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, and
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Sup 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management, AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 914th 107th Associate Maintenance
Group Operating Instruction (MXOI) 21-106, Aircraft Impoundment, and Technical Order (TO)
00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and
Procedures. It provides guidance and procedures for the Dropped Object Prevention and
Reporting Program (DOP). It applies to all 914th/107th Airlift Wing personnel to ensure dropped
objects are reported and identified. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 directly to the OPR at the 914
MXG/MXQ at Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station, NY. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records     Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)     located    at   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 2                                         NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-107 19 NOVEMBER 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds the Wing and Operations Group Commanders to Maintenance
Operations Center (MOC) notification procedures. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised
material
1. Definition. A dropped object is any aircraft component, cowling, door, panel, part, surface or
other aircraft part lost or inadvertently released during aircrew operations from the beginning of
engine start through flight to engine shutdown at recovery.
2. Responsibilities. The Quality Assurance Office (MXQ) is the Wing Dropped Object Monitor
and the investigating office for the Dropped Object Program. MXQ will immediately investigate
reports of aircraft parts or objects that have dropped from an aircraft in an effort to identify the
cause. When a material or design deficiency is the cause MXQ will submit a Deficiency Report
(DR). Dropped object incidents will be loaded in the MXQ Tracking and Trend Analysis
(QANTTAS) database and be included in the MXQ monthly summaries.
     2.1. It is the responsibility of all personnel to report objects that have fallen from an aircraft.
     2.2. Aircrew and/or maintenance personnel who observe or discover that an object has been
     dropped from an aircraft will make appropriate entries in the Aircraft Form 781,
     Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, immediately upon landing/recovery and will
     immediately notify the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) and Quality Assurance (QA).
     2.3. Initial report of a dropped object to MAJCOM and Numbered Air Force (NAF)
     (AFRC/A4M & 22nd A4M) will be made by QA either by telephone or e-mail message. QA
     will complete and forward the formal written report within 3 duty days after the occurrence.
     2.4. An impoundment may be warranted when an item has been dropped from an aircraft.
     Refer to 914th /107th Associate Maintenance Group Operating Instruction (MXOI) 21-106,
     Aircraft Impoundment, for specific procedures.
3. Prevention Procedures.
     3.1. Maintenance personnel will ensure the Aircraft 781 A/H Forms are documented prior to
     removal and/or installation of aircraft components per TO 00-20-1, command supplements,
     and unit instructions.
     3.2. Aircrew and maintenance personnel must ensure aircraft parts and equipment fit
     properly. Check serviceability of the hardware, i.e., nut plates or attaching devices.
     Maintenance personnel will ensure all panels, doors, and cowlings are fastened upon
     completion of task.
     3.3. Special attention must be given to last-minute maintenance actions.
     3.4. Flight Engineers will pay particular attention to panels and exterior mounted equipment
     during the dash 1 inspections and following red ball maintenance.
     3.5. Dropped object prevention inspections will be accomplished in accordance with (IAW)
     Local LWC-914AW-10-1, Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Inspection Flight Deck
     Foreign Object (FO) Check, before the first flight of the day or prior to flight after
     completion of repairs, routine maintenance or servicing. Document the AFTO Form 781A,
     Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, using a “Red X” symbol.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-107 19 NOVEMBER 2009                                                          3


4. Reporting Procedures.
   4.1. Maintenance Reporting Procedures. Maintenance personnel who observe or discover
   that an object has been dropped from an aircraft will notify squadron supervision.
       4.1.1. Squadron supervision will immediately notify the MOC, and Command Post of
       the dropped object.
       4.1.2. MOC will immediately notify the 914 and 107 MXG/CC or designated
       representative, QA, Wing Safety Office, Airfield Management, 914 and 107 Wing and
       Operations Group Commanders and the last location the aircraft departed from. A
       thorough search of the runway and taxiways will be accomplished as applicable.
       4.1.3. The squadron DOP monitor/assigned squadron investigator will debrief flight
       crews to obtain all pertinent information.
       4.1.4. Off-station/TDY aircraft will immediately report all dropped objects to Home
       Station Command Post, MOC, as well as squadron supervision at deployed location to
       facilitate dropped object investigation/reporting.
       4.1.5. QA will report to AFRC/A4M, 22AF/A4M Weapon System Manager, and 914th
       Wing Safety Office immediately by telephone or e-mail when it occurs.
       4.1.6. QA will submit a formal report must be sent to AFRC/A4M and 22AF/A4M no
       later than three duty days after the incident using the Dropped Object Report format from
       QANTTAS.
   4.2. Command Post/Aircrew Reporting Procedures. The Command Post will report all
   dropped objects in accordance with AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting. Command Post
   reports will be prepared and a report submitted (when required).
       4.2.1. Due to the time sensitive nature of reporting, Command Post will immediately
       notify MOC of dropped objects reported by flight crews.
       4.2.2. Off-station/TDY aircrew will notify the controlling agency as soon as practical;
       include details of routing, altitude, weather etc. Notify maintenance at the first military
       station transitioned.
   4.3. Safety Reporting Procedures. The 914/107 AW Safety Offices will submit a report
   (when required).
5. Training Requirements. Squadron commanders will ensure maintenance personnel are
trained properly within their area of responsibility and knowledgeable of command and unit
requirements to prevent in-flight occurrence. Ensure maintenance personnel are made aware of
all the training material available for review located in the Maintenance Group Training Office
(MXOT) and training is documented in the Maintenance Information System (MIS). Ensure
individuals are trained and understand the importance of proper documentation of the Aircraft
781 Forms.
6. Transient Aircraft Requirements. MXQ will be responsible to investigate a dropped object
from a transient aircraft. They will then provide the home station with sufficient data to generate
a Dropped Object Report.
 4                                 NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-107 19 NOVEMBER 2009


7. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document.




                                        ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Colonel, USAFR
                                        Commander
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-107 19 NOVEMBER 2009                                                     5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 15 October 2008
AFI 21-101, and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Sup 1, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management, 29 June 2006
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and
Procedures,

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
DR—Deficiency Report
DOP—Dropped Object Prevention and Reporting Program
FO—Foreign Object
NAF—Numbered Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
MIS—Maintenance Information System
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MXOI—Maintenance Group Operating Instruction
MXOT—Maintenance Group Training Office
MXQ—Quality Assurance Office
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QA—Quality Assurance
QANTTAS—MXQ Tracking and Trend Analysis
TO—Technical Order

Terms
Adopted Form— A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
 6                                      NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-107 19 NOVEMBER 2009


Approval Authority— Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication— Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
Certifying Official— A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certified the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Directive Publication— Publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety,
security, or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air
force personnel must comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the
following statement: “COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY.”
Distribution— Defines the type of accessibility for each publication; to whom the publication
may be released.
e-Publishing— Central website for accessing, viewing, downloading, and printing electronic
products; physical products may be ordered from the e-Publishing website. Information on
product development and links to other agency publications are also provided on the e-
Publishing website (www.e-publishing.af.mil), which will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing
on AF Link).
Mandatory Coordination— Required review by selected offices prior to publication.
Mandatory coordinators review draft publications for specific functional and/or legal purposes.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)— The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Publication— An officially produced, published, and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation, and or information. Includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)— The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
Records Management— The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and any other managerial activity related to records creation, records maintenance and use, and
records disposition for the sake of achieving adequate and proper documentation of the policies
and transactions of the Federal Government and effective economical management of agency
operations.
Records Maintenance and Use— Any activity involving the location, storage, retrieval, or
handling of records kept at office file locations by or for the Air Force.
Records Professional— An individual trained and proficient in performing record management
responsibilities. This category includes personnel designated as Records Custodian (RC),
Functional Area Record Manager (FARM), Chief of Office of Record (COR), Base Record
Manager (BRM), and MAJCOM Record Manager.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-107 19 NOVEMBER 2009                                                    7


Repository— The AFDPO repository is the central servers on which the aggregation of e-
Publishing product files are filed and maintained. The files are maintained in a directory
structure that is arranged by publishing organization.
Revised Publication— A publication that supersedes or changes a previous edition, related
publications or portions of related publications in a given category.
Technical/functional Coordination— Review of draft publications by technical/functional
experts prior to publication. The list of technical/functional coordinators changes with each
publication, based on the contents and applicability of the publication.
