BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE STATION
NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE                                        INSTRUCTION 21-109
STATION
                                                                          17 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                     CRASHED, DAMAGED, OR DISABLED
                                                         AIRCRAFT RECOVERY (CDDAR)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on thee-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions for the release of this publication.
OPR: 914 MXS/MXMT                                                    Certified by: 914 MXG/CC
                                                                                (Lt Col Bayone)
Supersedes:   NIAGARAFALLSARSI                                                         Pages: 10
              21-109,26 August 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) Supplement 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, and
Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station (NFARS) Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2.
This instruction establishes individual responsibilities, restrictions and documentation
requirements for responsibilities and procedures necessary for Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled
Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) in the NFARS area of responsibility (AOR) to include all unit
equipped and transient aircraft. Squadron commanders and maintenance supervisors are
responsible for executing the group’s CDDAR program in accordance with (IAW) this
instruction. All agencies involved with recovery operations will ensure compliance with this
instruction to ensure a cooperative, coordinated response to CDDAR situations. Maintenance
Group supervisors will monitor the CDDAR program and assist squadrons as necessary. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Information Management Tool (IMT) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change for Publication; route AF Form’s 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                      NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-109 17 DECEMBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Paragraph 2 has been extensively rewritten to incorporate procedures previously defined in a
local operating instruction and should be reviewed in its entirety. Attachment 2, CDDAR Team
Chief Daily Checklist, has been added.
1. General: The CDDAR Team must be prepared to rapidly deploy crash recovery equipment
and personnel as deemed necessary by Headquarters, Air Force Reserve Command (HQ
AFRC/A4MY). Primary considerations of the CDDAR team are to open the runway for
operational use, to prevent secondary damage to disabled/incident aircraft and to preserve
evidence for accident/mishap investigation IAW NFARS Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan 10-2, AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program and 91-204,
Safety Investigations and Reports.
2. Procedures and Responsibilities:
     2.1. The Incident Commander (IC) as determined by the NFARS Comprehensive
     Emergency Management Plan 10-2 is the person in charge at the incident until all emergency
     response actions are completed. Transfer of command to recovery organizations to include
     the CDDAR Team Chief takes place when hazard mitigation is complete. The Emergency
     Operations Center (EOC) under the EOC Director develops a recovery plan, which is
     approved by the Installation Commander before it is implemented. The EOC Director
     assures expedient, cooperative responses to CDDAR situations by MXG, personnel, fire
     protection and other essential agencies.
        2.1.1. All base organizations involved in crash recovery must be familiar with NFARS
        Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2. The responsibilities of each
        essential base organization for CDDAR response are as follows:
     2.2. Maintenance Operations Center (MOC).
        2.2.1. The MOC will immediately establish and maintain communications to act as the
        Aircraft Maintenance focal point for receipt and transfer of all in-flight or ground
        emergency information within the Niagara Falls ARS and surrounding area. In addition,
        MOC shall contact all applicable agencies to respond as expeditiously as possible.
        Notification will include type of aircraft, location, amount of fuel and/or explosives on
        board, and known extent of aircraft damage. Direct all personnel to stay clear of the
        recovery site unless assistance requested by the incident commander.
        2.2.2. The MOC will maintain a copy of the recovery team personnel contact listing.
        Listing will be provided by CDDAR team chief semi-annually. When notified of a
        crashed, damaged or disabled aircraft, the MOC will initiate checklist MOC-E005,
        aircraft mishap/accident checklist.
     2.3. Production Superintendent. The Production Superintendent will:
        2.3.1. Initiate impoundment procedures when directed IAW Maintenance Group
        Operating Instruction (MXGOI) 21-106, Aircraft Impoundment.
        2.3.2. Direct ground movement of home station or transient aircraft that the EOC directs
        to be moved to facilitate CDDAR operations.
        2.3.3. Assist the CDDAR team chief as needed during recovery operations.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-109 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                        3


     2.3.4. Ensure a tow team is available to the CDDAR team for any assistance necessary to
     aid in the recovery operation. When directed will contact Logistics Readiness Squadron,
     Fuels Management Flight (LGSF) through the EOC, to impound any fuel trucks used
     during ground refueling operations with a mishap aircraft at home station.
  2.4. CDDAR Team Chief. The CDDAR Team Chief will:
     2.4.1. Identify team members and specific positions (located in CDDAR Team Chief
     Continuity Binder, Tab 5, located in the Aero Repair TO cabinet). Team members must
     be at least a 5-level with the exception of the team chief who must be a 7-level. Ensure
     initial training is provided and conduct recovery training exercises on an annual basis to
     maintain proficiency. Document all training in the qualification status system (GO81)
     and Training Business Area (TBA) and serve as the certifying official for all CDDAR
     tasks.
     2.4.2. Maintain an up-to-date point of contact listing for all team members. List will
     include contact numbers during duty and non-duty hours. CDDAR team listing will also
     identify CDDAR team positions, AFSC, and any special qualifications. The listing will
     be updated semi-annually and a current copy will be provided to the MOC. The CDDAR
     team chiefs contact information will be listed on the base emergency recall and
     mobilization rosters for contact after normal duty hours.
     2.4.3. Establish and maintain CDDAR capability and procedures. Direct and coordinate
     CDDAR operations as instructed by the EOC through the EOC director. The EOC will
     contact the CDDAR Team Chief when the incident area is safe for recovery operations to
     begin. Review and start checklists located in Tab 8 of Team Chief Continuity Binder.
     Evaluate aircraft damage and prepare for recovery operations.
     2.4.4. Conduct an annual briefing with all the agencies involved in the CDDAR process.
     This briefing will outline everyone’s responsibilities for their respective area. A tabletop
     exercise will also be conducted in order to check validity of telephone numbers, exercise
     checklists, as well as personnel capabilities. There will also be a discussion on possible
     responses to a variety of different scenarios.
     2.4.5. Ensure the CDDAR equipment is maintained and prepared to respond, and
     prepared to rapidly deploy crash recovery equipment and personnel for aircraft as
     directed by HQ AFRC/LGRC in order to perform recovery operations.
     2.4.6. Direct and coordinate CDDAR operations as instructed by the IC or EOC. The IC
     or EOC will contact the CDDAR Team Chief when incident area is safe for recovery
     operations to begin. Review and start the Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft
     Recovery Team Chief Checklist. Evaluate the aircraft damage and prepare for recovery
     operations.
     2.4.7. Ensure complete safety briefings are given daily, detailing hazards to personnel
     and equipment. Maintain continuous communications with MXG/CC and MOC to keep
     them informed of recovery operation status, to include CDDAR team limitations.
     Document the locally devised CDDAR daily occurrence log to maintain a record of the
     incident. (See attachment 1).
  2.5. Other Base Agencies:
4                                     NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-109 17 DECEMBER 2012


       2.5.1. 914th Civil Engineering Fire, Emergency Services will: Assume IC duties at Fire,
       HAZ-MAT and weapons of mass destruction (WMD) on base accident/incident sites per
       NFARS Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2 and AFI 10-2501, Air Force
       Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations. The IC is the only
       point of contact (POC) at the accident/incident site. When the area is safe and secured,
       the IC responsibilities will be turned over to the CDDAR Team Chief. Fire, Emergency
       Services responsibilities are outlined in the NFARS Comprehensive Emergency
       Management Plan 10-2.
       2.5.2. 914th Security Forces Squadron (SFS) will: Report and coordinate with the IC to
       implement responsibilities as outlined in the NFARS Comprehensive Emergency
       Management Plan 10-2, to control the vicinity of the mishap site.
       2.5.3. Civil Engineering Environmental (CEV) and Base Bio-Environmental Engineering
       (BEE) will advise the EOC and IC of hazardous material handling procedures. The
       HAZMAT response team will mitigate release of HAZMAT materials (NOTE The
       HAZMAT Response Team is a function of the fire department (CEF) and not CEV.) and
       Civil Engineering Environmental (CEV) will ensure all hazardous materials are managed
       in accordance with the NFARS Hazardous Materials Emergency Planning and Response
       (HAZMAT) Plan.
       2.5.4. The base BEE will advise the EOC Director and IC on the type(s) of personal
       protective equipment (PPE) required to perform recovery of an aircraft containing
       composite/hazardous materials from a comprehensive listing of PPE reviewed and
       certified biennially for CDDAR operations. In consultation with the CDDAR team chief,
       they will provide annual briefings to the CDDAR of their responsibilities, duties,
       appropriate PPE usage and types that may be required to eliminate possible health
       hazards. BEE will be available during crash recovery operations to provide exposure
       monitoring of personnel involved in CDDAR and clean-up operations; to include
       respirator fit testing, heavy metal testing or other necessary evaluations.
       2.5.5. The 914th Safety office in coordination with 107th Safety office will: Advise EOC
       Director of safety hazards and concerns to ensure safe aircraft recovery operations.
       Provide CDDAR Team Chiefs with assistance and guidance in obtaining resources as
       needed to rectify unsafe conditions. Preserve and document evidence IAW 914 AW or
       NFARS Mishap Response Plan. In consultation with 914 AW/CC and applicable
       memorandum of understandings MOUs coordinate for the assembly of the interim safety
       board (ISB). Transfer responsibility for mishap investigation to the ISB when appointed
       and on- scene. After first responders have recovered survivors and rendered the mishap
       site safe the ISB or safety investigation board (SIB) president will notify CDDAR team
       chiefs when he/she releases the site for further cleanup and recovery. Advise the IC and
       EOC Director of safety hazards and concerns to ensure safe aircraft recovery operations;
       provide CDDAR team chiefs with assistance and guidance in obtaining resources as
       needed to rectify unsafe conditions.
    2.6. The 914th Vehicle Operations section (LGTM) will stand by to provide heavy
    equipment as directed by the EOC. In the event of an off-base accident/incident, Vehicle
    Management may be requested through the EOC to provide transport of the CDDAR team
    and equipment to the site.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-109 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                          5


   2.7. The Base Fuels Office will stand by to provide de-fueling vehicle(s) as directed by the
   IC.
   2.8. The Munitions Section will coordinate with the EOC to coordinate EOD support from
   regional EOD team concerning collection and disposal of all explosive ordinances per
   NFARS Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2. Contact Electronic Counter
   Measure section (MXS/MXMVE) to assist with Flare/Chaff handling.
3. Transient Aircraft Responsibilities:
   3.1. CDDAR equipment on station is limited to assigned home station airframe. 914
   MXG/CC will ensure additional special equipment and unique requirements for transient
   aircraft is obtained from applicable sources as required.
   3.2. CDDAR team chief will contact owning organization to obtain necessary expertise and
   guidance from appropriate sources. All team members will be briefed on special
   requirements/health and safety concerns associated with transient aircraft recovery.
   3.3. All base organizations will provide assistance with transient aircraft (including civilian
   aircraft) recovery operations as directed.
4. Safety Considerations:
   4.1. All base organizations must be aware of any safety concerns present during crash
   recovery procedures.
   4.2. All organizations MUST communicate and coordinate activities through the EOC
   during recovery operations.
   4.3. Note: Operational Risk Management (ORM) practices will be utilized and are
   paramount in all decision-making.
   4.4. Prior to any recovery actions ensure any hazards, including toxic materials, munitions
   and radioactive materials are eliminated, and the aircraft and egress/ejection systems are
   made safe for recovery activities and investigation team members. All base organizations
   should be familiar with safety/health hazards associated with any unique
   characteristics/hazards/materials for assigned aircraft (e.g. F-16 EPU hydrazine, C-130
   ballast depleted uranium, aircraft composite materials, etc.) and document training.
   4.5. Incidents involving aircraft made up of a composite structure may cause serious injury
   or death to those in contact with it. Transient aircraft home bases and BEE must be contacted
   to determine composite material risks and requirements for personal protective equipment
   (PPE).
   4.6. The crash site will only be disturbed to the extent necessary to eliminate a situation that
   is detrimental to the aircraft, support equipment or personnel. The area will be maintained in
   an undisturbed state until the aircraft is released to maintenance by the Incident Commander.
   Once recovery actions begin, only personnel designated by the CDDAR team supervisor will
   enter the recovery area.
6                                     NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-109 17 DECEMBER 2012


    4.7. Always obtain necessary clearance for maintenance vehicles to cross active runways or
    taxiways to reach the recovery site if required.



                                           ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-109 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 03
AFI 21-101, AFRC SUP 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 3 Feb 07
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 August 1998
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 January 2007
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2, 1 June 2008
Maintenance Group Operating Instruction (MXGOI) 21-106, Aircraft Impoundment, 25 Sep
2012
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—AF Specialty Code
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ARS—Air Reserve Station
BEE—Base Bio-Environmental Engineering
CDDAR—Crash Damaged/ Disabled Aircraft Recovery
CEF—Fire Department
CEV—Civil Engineering Environmental
EM—Emergency Management
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Incident Commander
IMT—Information Management Tool
ISB—Interim Safety Board
 8                                  NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-109 17 DECEMBER 2012


HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
MAJCOM—Major Command
NFARS—Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MXGOI—Maintenance Group Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
POC—Point of Contact
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SIB—Safety Investigation Board
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
TBA—Training Business Area
WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-109 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                           9


                                             Attachment 2
                         CDDAR TEAM CHIEF DAILY CHECKLIST

A2.1. CDDAR Team Chief Daily Checklist.

Figure A2.1. CDDAR Team Chief Daily Checklist.

                   CDDAR Team Chief Daily Checklist
                                         Daily Shift Briefings
                                                                                   Date/Initial

Daily shift check in/briefing with IC.

Daily shift check in/briefing with Bio/Environmental.

Daily shift check in/briefing with Fire Chief.

Daily shift check in/briefing with Safety.

Perform daily briefing with CDDAR team.
                      Daily Team Chief Crash Site Shift Survey
                                                                   Date/Initial   Observations

Check for/report obvious visual hazards.
Check for/report leaking/puddle fluids.

Check for/report signs of smoke/fire.

Check for/report inhibiting weather conditions.

Check for/report signs of hazardous wild life in recovery area.
             Daily Team Chief Crash Site Equipment Shift Survey
                                                                   Date/Initial   Yes / No / N/A
Is CDDAR recovery equipment accounted for, daily/shift
inventories signed?
Is there, or have preparations been made to set rest work
schedules?

Do individuals have adequate PPE to perform recovery operations?
Is there, or have preparations been made to provide toilets,
sanitation, rest/break area?
Is there, or have preparations been made to provide adequate
food/water?
10                                            NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-109 17 DECEMBER 2012


Is there, or have preparations been made to provide heat, air
conditioning and shelter from weather?
Is there, or have preparations been made to provide medical
assistance, eye wash station, fire extinguishers, first aid kit, etc.?
