Administrative Changes to NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001, INSTALLATION HAZMAT MANAGEMENT
PROGRAM (IHMP), 28 February 2011

OPR: 914 MSG/CEV

References to Supersedes: 914 AWI 32-7001, 1 May 2006 should be changed to Supersedes: 914AWI32-
7001, 29 February 2008.

13 May 2011
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE STATION
NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE                                      INSTRUCTION 32-7001
STATION
                                                                          28 FEBRUARY 2011
                                                             Certified Current, 29 January 2013
                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                INSTALLATION HAZMAT MANAGEMENT
                                                                 PROGRAM (IHMP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 914 MSG/CEV                                                     Certified by: 914 MSG/CE
Supersedes: 914AWI32-7001,                                                      (Mr. P. Battista)
            1 May 2006                                                                 Pages: 12


This instruction establishes policy and procedures to be used to reduce and prevent pollution by
controlling the acquisition, use, handling, and disposition of installation hazardous materials
(HAZMAT). It implements (AFI) 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program and (AFI) 32-7086,
Hazardous Materials Management. This instruction applies to all units assigned or attached to
the 914th Airlift Wing (AW), 107th Airlift Wing (AW), Base Operating Services (BOS)
contractor, and tenant units who acquire or possess hazardous materials. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the form
directly to the 914 MSG/CEV, at Niagara Falls ARS, NY. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363 Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision generally updates policies and procedures to the installation HAZMAT
management program and the operation of the HAZMAT pharmacy. Due to the applicability of
this instruction to the 914AW and the 107AW and tenant units on base, this document is being
revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. Concept of Operations: The Installation HAZMAT Management Program (IHMP) will
serve as the installation focal point for hazardous material management. The IHMP staff will
combine many of the traditional functions of the Bio-Environmental Services (BES), the Civil
 2                                     NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011


Engineering-Environmental (CEV), Contracting (LGC), Safety (SE), Communications (SC), and
Supply to accomplish its goals. To partially standardize the operation of the IHMP with the
organizational structure implemented within the active duty Air Force, the 914th AW will align
this function under the Mission Support Group Commander. The IHMP team will be the sole
contact point for all customers within the 914 AW (Host), the 107 AW(Tenant), the BOS
contractor (914 AW), and the State (107th ANG) , and all tenant units who store/use HAZMART
controlled hazardous materials on this installation.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The IHMP staff (LGS, BES, SE and CEV) from the 914 AW and 107 AW will:
        2.1.1. Approve authorizations through the use of a (Air Force Approved tracking system
        Approval List) which will be maintained as a master list of HAZMART managed
        HAZMATs approved for that shop, authorizing minimum use quantities.
        2.1.2. Input to and extract from, the Air Force Approved tracking system, the
        information required to formulate Air Force, State (107th ANG), Local and Federal
        reporting criteria. In addition it will also provide usage data from this Program and the
        M15 (Hazardous Material Report)
        2.1.3. Determine what hazardous materials will/won’t be IHMP managed assets and
        assist customers with Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS) waiver requests and monitor
        usage levels of ODSs to insure base allowances and authorizations are not exceeded.
        2.1.4. Recommend less hazardous substitute items, with respect to health, safety, and
        environmental concerns. Assist the customer in requesting minimum quantities, unit of
        issues, and like items available in the HAZMART, used by other customers on the
        installation. Assess and know all recycling, reclamation, and reuse of HAZMART/ODS
        and what capabilities exist on the installation to include the direction of excess or used
        Supplies of HAZMAT to those capabilities.
        2.1.5. Review part 1 and complete part 2 of the AF Forms 3952 (Chemical Hazardous
        Material Authorization Request), coordinate, input to and approve for all customers on
        the installation.
     2.2. Base Operating Service (BOS) Contractor/LGS HAZMART function will:
        2.2.1. Appoint in writing a central point of contact for the HAZMART operation, and
        physically man this operation at the HAZMART warehouse site during normal duty
        hours of work. In addition, support the HAZMART on the 914 AW Unit Training
        Assemblies (UTA)s, 107 AW UTAs, and all other tenant UTAs.
        2.2.2. Process customer requests, both in the SBSS supply accounts and Air Force
        approved tracking system, deliver, store, and turn in process all HAZMAT managed by
        the HAZMART for both the 914 AW and 107 AW supply accounts to include the shelf
        life, chemical, and petroleum management of free issue stock.
        2.2.3. Input to and extract from, the Air Force approved tracking system the information
        required to formulate Air Force, State (107th ANG), Local and Federal reporting criteria.
        In addition insure the receipt of current and proper MSDS data before entering into the
        Air Force approved tracking system. It will also provide usage data from this program
        and the M15 (Hazardous Material Report).
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011                                                       3


     2.2.4. Process customer requests in the Air Force approved tracking system, store, turn
     in, process all HAZMAT managed by the HAZMART for the BOS contractor, 914 AW,
     State (107th ANG), and NAF (Non Appropriated Funds) organizations to include shelf
     life, chemical, and petroleum management. Assets for these organizations will be stored
     separately from SBSS and free issue assets in the HAZMART.
     2.2.5. Create a free issue area within the HAZMART for items returned with less than
     the full basis of issue, maintaining a log for these free issue assets through the Air Force
     Approved tracking system.
     2.2.6. Assist the customer in requesting minimum quantities, unit of issues, and like
     items available in the HAZMART, used by other customers on the installation.
     2.2.7. Ensure that all HAZMART managed materials brought on to this installation are
     labeled with a bar-code and storage identification labels before issue to insure proper
     shop segregation of material. Also ensure that the applicable data is entered into the Air
     Force approved tracking system prior to issue to the customer or no later than two
     workdays after receipt (GPC, Form 9, and any other non-SBSS purchase).
     2.2.8. Establish and utilize a manual or automated control program in the event that the
     Air Force approved tracking system is not operational.
     2.2.9. Establish and utilize a follow-up program to reconcile all HAZMART managed
     materials issued for authorized extended periods (non-shop stock) every 30 days.
     2.2.10. Ensure all HAZMART managed material containers are turned in to the
     HAZMART warehouse for free issue stock or applicable storage location if serviceable
     material remains in the container. Ensure that customers place all empty returned
     containers into the provided recycling receptacles. In addition, physically verify that
     original barcodes are on all containers turned in, prior to input into the Air Force
     approved tracking system.
     2.2.11. Establish a customer training plan for HAZMART customers.
     2.2.12. IAW AFI 32-7086, Chapter 4, ensure that the HAZMART tracks class 1 ODS
     requisitions and ensure that the installation does not exceed its annual Supply
     Accountable Office (SAO) approved Class 1 ODS allocation.
     2.2.13. Manage weapon system class 1 ODS according to SAO approval, and ensure
     Class 1 ODS are used only according to formal T.O. documents.
     2.2.14. Identify all excess weapon system halons and class 1 ODS refrigerants to the
     MAJCOM and ensures they are reallocated or turned in to the DLA reserve according to
     established procedures.
  2.3. Base Supply (Both the 914 AW and 107 AW and all tenant organizations) will:
     2.3.1. Perform all required inventories and shelf life inspections on all HAZMART
     controlled assets stored in the HAZMART.
     2.3.2. Receive all HAZMART controlled item record assets and notify HAZMART
     personnel of receipt for ultimate delivery and storage.
4                                      NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011


       2.3.3. Upon receipt of damaged hazardous materials, follow the present practices of
       containment, refusal, Report of Discrepancy (ROD) action and/or disposal.
       2.3.4. Tenant organizations will provide emergency mission essential support for
       HAZMART managed materials on ANG UTAs. All requests must be validated by the
       Chief of Supply.
       2.3.5. Maintain the provided HAZMART storage area in accordance with all Air Force,
       Local, State (107th ANG), and Federal requirements.
    2.4. The BOS Contractor (914 AW), the State (107th ANG), and NAF (Non-Appropriated
    Fund) functions in addition to 2.6 will:
       2.4.1. Obtain prior approval and authorization through the use of the IHMP authorization
       process and MSDS’s from the IHMP, BES, SE, and CEV if required, for the
       requisition/purchase of all HAZMAT. Requests for authorization of hazardous materials
       will be submitted on the AF Forms 3952 (Chemical Hazardous Material
       Authorization Request). Request will State (107th ANG) if authorization is one – time
       (i.e work order, self help), or Bench Stock (materials used on a recurring basis that may
       be stored in work area). Bench Stock authorization quantities shall be based on yearly
       usage.
       2.4.2. Notify the HAZMART when HAZMART controlled HAZMATs are ordered and
       received for ultimate labeling and input into the Air Force approved tracking system prior
       to use or storage. Ensure that Quantity ordered/ received plus quantities on hand in both
       the shop and the HAZMART do not exceed 90 days requirement
       2.4.3. Store all HAZMART controlled HAZMATs, to include operational supplies and
       shop residue, in the HAZMART unless authorized by the IHMP for shop storage.
    2.5. Base Contracting Host and Tenant Organizations will:
       2.5.1. Purchase minimum quantities of HAZMAT authorized local purchase if requested.
       2.5.2. Ensure approved waivers are submitted with requests for items containing ozone
       depleting substances (ODSs).
       2.5.3. Require all contracts for HAZMAT purchases to include required MSDSs,
       identify, and report HAZMAT usage to the IHMP.
       2.5.4. Ensure that all HAZMART managed HAZMATs requested have prior
       approval/review from the IHMP before ordering.
       2.5.5. Insure that off site contractors operating on the installation are briefed during the
       pre-performance conference on the installation’s HAZMAT procedures and that they are
       instructed to provide through the HAZMART for material tracking and usage data
       according to this instruction.
    2.6. The Customer will:
       2.6.1. Obtain the approval of the IHMP staff through the Air Force approved tracking
       system, prior to requesting HAZMAT materials (any material that may present a physical
       or health hazard and is used in an industrial process) Requests for authorization of
       hazardous materials will be submitted on the AF Forms 3952 (Chemical Hazardous
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011                                                    5


     Material Authorization Request). Request will State (107th ANG) if authorization is one
     – time (i.e work order, self help), or Bench Stock (materials used on a recurring basis
     that may be stored in work area).
     2.6.2. Coordinate with the BES on training requirements for the handling and use of
     HAZMAT.
     2.6.3. Insure that all HAZMART managed hazardous materials in their possession are
     properly labeled with OSHA required labeling, and bar coded.
     2.6.4. Maintain all current applicable MSDS’s for hazardous material stored and/or in
     use in their shops.
     2.6.5. Request ODS waivers with the assistance of the IHMP staff when required.
     2.6.6. Return HAZMART controlled partial containers to the HAZMART in a timely
     manner, or arrange for pickup.
     2.6.7. Ensure the physical return of all empty hazmat containers to the HAZMART for
     proper disposal/ recycling unless exempt, i. e. 55-gallon drums, and aircraft hydraulic
     or lube oil. In addition, ensure all empty containers are both properly drained,
     hardened, cleaned, etc. and the barcodes are physically verified by HAZMART
     warehouse personnel prior to placement into the recycling receptacles. Also see section
     4.8.1 for deployed material. Any further exemptions will be addressed through policy
     letters or base directives.
     2.6.8. Follow the local GPC (Government Purchase Card) procedures, by obtaining the
     locally developed authorization letter utilized to coordinate with the IHMP staff before
     purchasing HAZMAT with this card.
  2.7. The 914 MSG/CEV section of the IHMP will:
     2.7.1. Manage the disposal, collection, and recycling programs for all Wing hazardous
     material/waste. Ensure compliance through periodic inspection of shop areas and the
     HAZMART area. Provide advice and guidance to tenant organizations as requested
     regarding their collection, disposal, and recycling programs. Provide periodic courtesy
     inspections of tenant shop areas.
     2.7.2. Be responsible for emergency planning and community right-to-know tracking,
     analysis, and reporting.
     2.7.3. IAW AFI 32-7086, acts as the lead function for the HAZMAT Management
     Program team.
     2.7.4. IAW AFI 32-7086, manages the Air Force approved tracking system.
     2.7.5. Act as the lead for the oversight and coordination of the ODS Management
     Program.
     2.7.6. Ensure that off site contractors are monitored for compliance, with regards to the
     use and reporting requirements of hazardous materials on the installation according to
     this instruction.
 6                                     NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011


       2.7.7. Provide recycling containers to be located at the base HAZMART and any other
       designated location (s). These containers should be secured with keys provided to the LG,
       SG, and CE pharmacy members.
3. Procedures:
     3.1. The 914 AW and Tenant HAZMART customers will adhere to the following
     procedures:
       3.1.1. All Hazardous Material and Ozone Depleting Chemicals managed by the
       HAZMART in the SBSS system will be physically processed through the respective Base
       Supply (914 AW and Tenant) Receiving Section and be delivered to the HAZMART for
       storage or further distribution. The LGS BOS function will store and segregate the
       materials IAW AFJMAN 23-209, the MSDS’s, BES and Base Fire Department
       recommendation. All containers of hazardous materials will be bar coded and input into
       the Air Force approved tracking system by HAZMART personnel.
       3.1.2. Prior to requesting a HAZMART managed material customers will ensure that
       proper coordination and approval has been accomplished with the IHMP staff, through
       the Air Force approved tracking system... Upon approval, the IHMP staff will be notified
       of the request through the Air Force approved tracking system or HAZMART desk. It is
       at this time that the HAZMART must be informed of the customer’s account (914AW or
       107AW). The request will first be filled by HAZMART personnel from the free-issue
       stock if available. These free-issue stocks are joint 914th and tenant co-assets.
       3.1.3. When materials are not available in the free-issue stock, the LGS BOS
       HAZMART personnel will input the request with a Transaction Identification Code
       (TRIC) of ISU through the respective SBSS terminal/s using a unique shop code to
       identify the item as a Pharmacy managed asset. This input will then generate an issue,
       partial issue and remaining backorder (DUO), 286 Reject, or a management notice (kill
       notice) of unavailability in the respective segregated 914AW or 107AW item record
       stock locations. Dependent upon the exception coding of the material further action will
       be taken compliant with the requirements of that specific coding, to requisition (SPR) that
       material.
       3.1.4. If the material is issued, BOS/LGS personnel will deliver the property in the same
       time frames established in AFMAN 23-110, Vol. II Part Two. The customer may
       physically pick up materials at any time. Customers must insure that proper planning and
       time is allotted with respect to their respective tasks or jobs in order to properly forecast
       upcoming hazardous material needs.
       3.1.5. Except for bench stock materials, the customer will have five working days to
       return the container empty, used, or unused to the HAZMART unless the container is
       being disposed of, destroyed, etc. At this time the HAZMART will be notified of the bar
       code serial number on the container in question. The BOS/ LGS will maintain an
       automated program to track outstanding materials in the customer’s possession requiring
       return. The HAZMART will notify these customers after the five days have elapsed to
       return the containers immediately. Only legible bar coded containers will be accepted by
       the HAZMART (see 4.1).
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011                                                       7


     3.1.6. The LGS BOS will maintain a list of locations and buildings where pick up points
     are located. Material pick up’s and returns will be accomplished within two working days
     of notification by the customer.
     3.1.7. All recyclable materials managed by the HAZMART will be recycled by the
     HAZMART if possible. Containers returned that are to be disposed of as hazardous waste
     will be stored in a transitory holding area and the CEV (IHMP) representative will be
     notified for packaging, processing and ultimate disposal. In addition, if a determination
     regarding proper disposal of an empty container(s) cannot be made, notify the CEV or
     SGPB office for assistance.
  3.2. The BOS Contractor, Federal, the State (107th ANG), and NAF (Non-Appropriated
  Fund) functions will adhere to the following procedures:
     3.2.1. The purchase/requisition of all HAZMAT materials must be approved by the
     IHMP staff through the Air Force approved tracking system prior to ordering. In this
     respect the IHMP staff will be able to track and allow only materials that meet the
     allowable requirements of the installation threshold criteria, to be purchased and brought
     on the installation.
     3.2.2. Any hazardous materials that these customers wish to retain in their sections, as
     bench stock will only be approved if requested on the remarks section of the AF Form
     3952. Authorizations for Bench Stock Material will be based on one year usage.
        3.2.2.1. On hand quantities of bench stock material for these customers shall not
        exceed 90 days requirement. This includes both material in the shop and
        material located in the HAZMART Pharmacy.
     3.2.3. The HAZMART will provide containment storage locations for the use of these
     customers. All HAZMART managed materials will be properly stored and segregated
     IAW AFOSH, OSHA, and Air Force compliance standards.
     3.2.4. Once the materials have been purchased locally or received otherwise,
     immediately upon entering this installation they will proceed to the HAZMART for bar
     coding and storage labeling of the containers and input of the data required on these
     materials into the Air Force approved tracking system. As the materials are now being
     tracked, the HAZMART must then be notified of any location changes of the material
     (within shops, etc.). When the work order or job is completed, personnel from the
     contractor or State (107th ANG) will return the used/partial containers back into their
     containment cell in the HAZMART or properly dispose of as a hazardous waste with
     CEV after clearing the bar coded container with the HAZMART. Only legible bar coded
     containers will be accepted by the HAZMART.
     3.2.5. When residue stock in the containment cells is required by the contractor or State
     (107th ANG) the HAZMART will be notified via telephone, e-mail, person to person,
     etc. that entry into the HAZMART warehouse is requested to pick up materials.
     HAZMART personnel will make every attempt to accommodate and make available the
     time if possible for this request. Materials requisitioned by the contractor or State (107th
     ANG) through the Base Supply system (MSN’s- Material Stock Numbers) will be
     received by the respective Base Supply, delivered to the HAZMART then picked up at
     the HAZMART when bar coding and data input is accomplished. These materials, when
 8                                       NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011


        residue is left, will be put in the possession of the installation free-issue containment cell.
        Because these materials are government purchased items and the main users are the
        contractor and the State (107th ANG) these materials will be issued to these customers
        from the free issue stock maintained for the 914th and 107th and other tenants if required.
4. Special Procedures will be handled as follows:
     4.1. Missing or illegible containers:
        4.1.1. If containers of material are illegible due to the bar-coding label being damaged or
        destroyed the shops will make every effort to identify which bar coded serial numbered
        item the material is. These containers will not be put into the pick-up points or returned
        physically to the HAZMART until they are identified. Contact the HAZMART and
        through a research process using the software tracking program and/or process of
        elimination this item will be re-identified with its original tracking label. Missing
        containers will be handled in the same manner, except that the reason, barcode number,
        and disposition of the material and container must be provided to the HAZMART for
        tracking purposes.
     4.2. Local Purchase walks through and Issues:
        4.2.1. When a HAZMART managed Hazardous Material is required and must be
        purchased locally, the customers will submit the request through the HAZMART desk.
        HAZMART personnel will ensure that coordination through the IHMP staff is
        accomplished for approval. Once approved for purchase, the customer may make the
        purchase using the Government GPC card when within cardholder’s authorized purchase
        limits.
     4.2.2. For customer local purchase walkthroughs the HAZMART must instruct the customer
     to bring the material immediately to the HAZMART once the purchase has been made for
     barcoding and tracking upon entering the installation.
     4.3. Lateral Shipments:
        4.3.1. When a shipment, (SHP, FTX, A5J, etc.) document is generated by the machine or
        manually for a HAZMART managed material, the respective Base Supply will contact
        the HAZMART and notify them of the material stock number and quantity required.
        After accomplishing this contact the delivery person will make arrangements to pick up
        the property for transferring to the transportation section for ultimate shipment or
        disposal.
     4.4. The five day return criteria have elapsed and additional time is needed to utilize the
     material:
        4.4.1. In the event that a hazardous material is required for longer than the five day
        criteria, the customer will notify the HAZMART and request an extension or reissue of
        that property to their account before the 5 days have elapsed. All valid and justified
        criteria requests will be approved by the IHMP staff.
     4.5. Using the unique shop code for HAZMART managed materials:
        4.5.1. In order to properly and readily identify a HAZMART managed hazardous
        material all organizations must be distinguished by their own HAZMART shop code. To
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011                                                       9


     accomplish this task, IHMP personnel will establish all customer accounts with a second
     position shop code character of X. All customers calling in or preparing ordering
     documentation will use the first position of their present shop code with the HAZMART
     identifier of X in the second position. For example, Flight Line Maintenance is FL and
     the HAZMART shop code would be FX. If there are conflicting first position characters
     within the same organization code a new HAZMART shop code will be established.
  4.6. After hours/off duty operation and support services for the 914 AW and 107AW:
     4.6.1. If material is required during off duty hours, the BOS contractor shall respond to
     requests as directed by the ACO (Administrative Contracting Officer). The afterhours
     notification designation policy letter will be on hand and available. Notification of BOS
     personnel will be IAW this letter.
  4.7. After hours/off duty operation and support for BOS Contractor and Tenant personnel:
     4.7.1. If the material required is in the respective containment bin, a recall roster is in
     effect to procure the needed materials. If a material is required that is not available in
     their respective containment cells for emergency jobs, the material can be purchased
     locally and used on the affected task. The next working day as soon as possible the BES
     (IHMP) must be notified and the material must be brought to the HAZMART for bar
     coding and tracking action.
  4.8. Deployment Contingencies:
     4.8.1. When a pre-planned deployment is forecast and known, the requesting customer
     will notify in writing, unless a mobility shop is set up in the program, the quantity, type,
     and time required for that hazardous material. The containers for these materials should
     be returned to the HAZMART within 5 workdays from re-deployment if possible. If the
     containers could not be brought back to this Installation, the HAZMART must be notified
     of what disposition the materials undertook, and the barcoded serial numbers of the
     materials in question. For emergency deployments the HAZMART will attempt to
     provide the customer with any and all materials requested as soon as possible but the
     same criteria needs to be accomplished while on and after the deployment.
  4.9. Host Tenant Organizations:
     4.9.1. If any HAZMART managed materials are brought onto the installation by any
     tenant, the IHMP staff must be notified immediately.
  4.10. GPC (Government Purchase Card) Procedures:
     4.10.1. When a HAZMART managed Hazardous Material is required and is not
     available in the free issue area or through normal SBSS avenues, the customer will fill
     out and request from the HMP an appropriate GPC authorization request and have the
     proper HAZMART coordination signatures obtained on it. Once approved, the customer
     may purchase the material, and upon entering the installation bring the material to the
     HAZMART for bar coding and database input. As on all material requests, an
     authorization request through the Air Force approved tracking system is required in order
     to load the proper authorization record into the HAZMART tracking system.
  4.11. Off site Contractors performing installation projects:
 10                                   NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011


      4.11.1. The contractor shall provide MSDSs to the appropriate base functions prior to
      bringing hazardous materials on base. The respective (107th, and tenant) CE and LGC
      functions will monitor the contractor materials utilized on base projects. Upon
      completion of the project, the contractor will provide a detailed list of materials by type
      and quantity to CE or LGC, and the BOS/LGS IHMP personnel will input the provided
      usage data into the Air Force approved tracking system.

5. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3952, Chemical Hazardous Material Authorization Request




                                           ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Colonel
                                           Commander
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011                                11


                                      Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program, 12 May 1994
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 Nov 2004
AFMAN 23-110, Air Force Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFMAN 23-209, Storage and Handling of Hazardous Material, 13 Jan 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Office of Safety and Health
AW—Airlift Wing
BES—Bio Environmental Services
BOS—Base Operating Services
CEV—Civil Engineering Environmental
DUO—Due Out
GPC—Government Procurement Card
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
Host—Primary organization on base
IHMP—Installation Hazardous Materials Management Program
IAW—In Accordance With
ISU—Issue
LG—Logistics
LGC—Contracting Office
M15—Hazardous Material Report
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSN—Material Stock Number
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NFARS—Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station
 12                                  NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-7001 28 FEBRUARY 2011


NFARSI—Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station Instruction
ODS—Ozone Depleting Substance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROD—Record of Discrepancy
SAO—Supply Accountable Officer
SBSS—Standard Base Supply System
SC—Communications
SE—Safety Office
SG—Ground Safety
State (107th ANG)—New York State (107th ANG)
SPR—Specific Coding to Requisition
Tenant—Organization which require support from the host organization
TRIC—Transaction Identification Code
TO—Technical Order
UTA—Unit training Assembly
