BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE STATION
NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE                                        INSTRUCTION 21-104
STATION
                                                                                28 JULY 2009
                                                   Incorporating Change 1, 5 NOVEMBER 2013
                                                        Certified Current, 5 NOVEMBER 2013
                                                                                 Maintenance

                                                      AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY
                                                                     PROGRAM (ASIP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions for the release of this publication.

OPR: 914AW/MXMF                                                       Certified by: 914 MXG/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col. Sharon Johnson)
Supersedes:    914AWI 21-104,                                                            Pages: 6
               2 February 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. This instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 63-1001,
Aircraft Structural Integrity Program, AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management, and T.O. 1C-130-101, Implementation of C-130 Series Aircraft Usage Report.
This instruction establishes procedures necessary for complying with the ASIP requirements. It
provides guidance and procedures on monitoring actual aircraft usage and for documenting crack
and corrosion findings, to obtain data for updating inspection and maintenance technical orders,
is in place and that the program is properly monitored. It applies to all members assigned to
Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station (NFARS). Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847 directly to the 914 AW/MXMF,
Niagara Falls ARS, NY. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcssaf61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds paragraph 1.5 regarding ASIP procedures while deployed.
Paragraph 2.4 was rewritten to remove the requirement to document on an AF Form 797.
Paragraph 2.5 was rewritten to add information regarding to JSTs to the first sentence.
 2                                                 NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-104 28 JULY 2009


1. Maintenance Reporting Requirements:
     1.1. All maintenance actions that require reporting will be identified in the specific work
     cards, Technical Orders (TOs), Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs). For example:
     1C-130A-6, 1C-130A-6WC-15, [Isochronal Inspection (ISO) work cards], 1C-130A-36, 1C-
     130A-3.
     1.2. All ASIP inspections listed in the applicable TOs are required to be reported in
     Inspection Corrosion and Repair Reporting (ICARR).
     1.3. In addition to inspections, if a defect is found that requires a repair against the following
     systems, 11XXX primary structure and skin and 13XXX landing gear, the repair action must
     also be reported in ICARR in accordance with T.O. 1C-130A-23, Systems Peculiar
     Corrosion Control, Chapter 1 of Section IX.
     1.4. All ASIP and ICARR data shall be accomplished within 10 days of the completion of
     the inspection , repair or upon return from temporary duty location where there is no access
     to transmitting to Automated Inspection, Repair Corrosion, & Tracking (AIRCAT).
     1.5. All ASIP inspections accomplished while deployed will have results emailed back to
     applicable work center for input into the ICARR program.
2. Responsibilities
     2.1. The Maintenance Project Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO) will reside in the
     Fabrication Flight Office and will insure accurate and timely inspection and reporting in
     accordance with the applicable Technical Orders mentioned above.
     2.2. The Maintenance Project NCO will recommend appointments of the ASIP monitors to
     the MXG/CC from the applicable workcenters (Aircraft Structural Maintenance, Non-
     Destructive Inspection, and Inspection Section).
     2.3. The Maintenance Project NCO will work with the Client Support Administrator (CSA)
     to assure the most current software is downloaded for the ASIP program.
     2.4. Individual users of the applicable AIRCAT segments [ICARR or Usage Data Input
     (UDI)] will receive cascade training from individuals qualified to make inputs into the
     system. Training for monitors will consist of On-the-Job Training (OJT).
     2.5. The Periodic Inspection Dock Supervisor responsibilities will include establishing JSTs
     with required ASIP inspections; ensure all ASIP inspections are complied with prior to
     closing out the periodic inspection, review and coordinate all ASIP inspections with the Non
     Destructive Inspection and Aircraft Structural Maintenance Supervisor and review the
     periodic inspection work cards for the latest revision and accuracy.
     2.6. Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF), Plans, Scheduling and Documentation (PS&D)
     responsibilities are to ensure that ASIP special inspections are properly loaded in the
     appropriate Maintenance Information System (MIS), and notify the major command
     (MAJCOM) in the event a special ASIP inspection has not been loaded into the MIS.
     2.7. Quality Assurance will monitor the ASIP program with quarterly inspections as
     identified in the Maintenance Standardization Evaluation Program (MSEP).
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-104 28 JULY 2009                                                           3


   2.8. All depot-level assistance requests developed in accordance with Technical Order (TO)
   00-25-107 will be routed through the Quality Assurance office for coordination prior to being
   entered into the Automated Inspection, Repair, Corrosion and Aircraft Tracking (AIRCAT)
   system.
3. Operations Usage Reporting Requirements.
   3.1. T.O. 1C-130-101 is the governing technical order that describes the flight information
   that is required to be reported. This data is used to satisfy the individual aircraft usage
   tracking requirements of AFI 63-1001. In accordance with paragraph 3.b, each flight is then
   uploaded using the UDI system to the AIRCAT database.
   3.2. Data will be entered into the AIRCAT database using the UDI software after the
   completion of the mission.
   3.3. The project NCO will ensure the aircraft usage is reported in a timely manner IAW 1C-
   130-101 pg 2, Para 3 and review reporting rates to ensure that a minimum of 90% of the
   usage information is reported.
   3.4. The project NCO will reside in the flight engineer office.
4. Adopted Forms: AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            WALTER O. GORDON, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
 4                                            NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-104 28 JULY 2009


                                        Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 29 June 2006
AFI 63-1001, Aircraft Structural Integrity Program , 18 April 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
T.O. 1C-130-101, Implementation of C-130 Series Aircraft Usage Report,15 April 2003
T.O. 1C-130A-23, Systems Peculiar Corrosion Control, 15 February 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AIRCAT—Automated Inspection, Repair, Corrosion, & Tracking
ASIP—Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
CSA—Client Support Administrator
IAW—In Accordance With
ICARR—Inspection Corrosion and Repair Reporting
MAJCOM—Major Command
MIS—Maintenance Information System
MOF—Maintenance Operations Flight
MSEP—Maintenance Standardization Evaluation Program
NFARS—Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
OJT—On-the Job Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PS&D—Plans, Scheduling and Documentation
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TO—Technical Orders
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Orders
UDI—Usage Data Input
NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-104 28 JULY 2009                                                               5


Terms
Adopted Form—A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
Certifying Official—A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certified the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Directive Publication—Publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety,
security, or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air
force personnel must comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the
following statement: “COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY.”
Distribution— Defines the type of accessibility for each publication; to whom the publication
may be released.
e—Publishing– Central website for accessing, viewing, downloading, and printing electronic
products; physical products may be ordered from the e-Publishing website. Information on
product development and links to other agency publications are also provided on the e-
Publishing website (www.e-publishing.af.mil), which will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing
on AF Link).
Functional Principal—Senior leader, generally at the two-level, who serves as the approving
official for publications.
Implementing Publication—A publication that creates processed and sets standards to
accomplish a goal, often by adding organization-specific material to a publication issued by a
higher headquarters.
Mandatory Coordination—Required review by selected offices prior to publication.
Mandatory coordinators review draft publications for specific functional and/or legal purposes.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)— The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Publications/form Manager— One who supervises and manages the local publications and/or
the forms programs. Is the primary focal point for publication and distribution issues.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)— The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
Records Management— The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and any other managerial activity related to records creation, records maintenance and use, and
records disposition for the sake of achieving adequate and proper documentation of the policies
 6                                           NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-104 28 JULY 2009


and transactions of the Federal Government and effective economical management of agency
operations.
Records Maintenance and Use— Any activity involving the location, storage, retrieval, or
handling of records kept at office file locations by or for the Air Force.
Records Professional— An individual trained and proficient in performing record management
responsibilities. This category includes personnel designated as Records Custodian (RC),
Functional Area Record Manager (FARM), Chief of Office of Record (COR), Base Record
Manager (BRM), and MAJCOM Record Manager.
Revised Publication— A publication that supersedes or changes a previous edition, related
publications or portions of related publications in a given category.
Technical/functional Coordination— Review of draft publications by technical/functional
experts prior to publication. The list of technical/functional coordinators changes with each
publication, based on the contents and applicability of the publication.
