BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           NIAGARAFALLS AIR RESERVE STATION
NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE                                         INSTRUCTION 32-2001
STATION
                                                                                  22 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                  Civil Engineering

                                                                 FIRE PROTECTION AND FIRE
                                                                              PREVENTION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 914 MSG/CEFT                                          Certified by: 914 MSG/CE (Pat Battista)
                                                                                       Pages: 14
Supersedes:    914AWI32-2001,
               15 February 2005


This instruction outlines procedures for an effective Fire Protection and Prevention program to
prevent loss of life, property damage and related intangible losses. It implements Air Force
Instruction 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program. The Fire
Protection and Fire Prevention program establishes organizational and individual responsibilities
and effects all areas, facilities, and activities at the Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station. It applies
to all units assigned or attached to the 914th AW, including tenant units, visitors, contractors,
concessionaries, and the Base Operating Services (BOS) contractor. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363 Management of Records and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/ Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route the form directly to the 914 MSG/CEFT at Niagara Falls ARS, NY.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Due to the applicability of this instruction to all personnel at the 914 Airlift Wing and 107 th Air
National Guard, units assigned or attached to should review it in its entirety.
1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. The Installation Commander (914 AW/CC) is responsible for Fire Protection at the
   Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station.
 2                                          NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011


     1.2. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) is the Base Fire Marshall and is responsible to the
     installation commander for the effective and efficient execution of the installation’s fire
     protection program. The fire marshal provides the Chief, Fire Emergency Services with the
     necessary support to ensure the highest possible priority and funding of fire protection and
     prevention initiatives to accomplish mission support.
     1.3. The Chief, Fire Emergency Services (CEF) is responsible to the Base Fire Marshall for
     determining the resources required for the installation’s overall fire protection program. The
     Chief, Fire Emergency Services will establish and implement an effective fire protection and
     prevention program, including hazardous materials, mutual aid, emergency medical care,
     confined space rescue, and emergency response programs. This authority extends over all
     tenants and contractors on base.
     1.4. Unit commanders, division chiefs, facility managers, supervisors, and their subordinates
     at all levels are responsible for and must ensure that sound Fire Prevention procedures are
     established and practiced in each activity under their jurisdiction.
2. Installation Fire Protection and Prevention program:
     2.1. Unit commanders will execute comprehensive installation fire protection and fire
     prevention programs.
        2.1.1. CEF with the help of the Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention develops, manages,
        and implements Fire Protection and Fire Prevention programs. CEF ensures that:
        2.1.2. All facilities are inspected at least annually to identify and eliminate potential fire
        hazards and that fire prevention measures are enforced.
        2.1.3. Emergency services notification number “911” is properly displayed on all base
        operated phones, and the Cell Phone emergency services number “236-2117” is given to
        all base employees to be added to the employee’s cell phone memory. Fire Protection and
        Fire Prevention program elements (Attachment 1-Attachment 9) are made available to
        all unit commanders, division chiefs, facility managers, supervisors, tenants, and
        concessionaries.
     2.2. Unit commanders, division chiefs, facility managers, and supervisors will develop
     operating instructions Operating Guides/Standard Operating Procedures (OG’s/SOP’s) to
     follow when fire is discovered. OG’s/SOP’s should cover the fire protection and prevention
     elements outlined in the attachments of this instruction as well as operations unique to the
     functional area.
        2.2.1. Operating guides must be coordinated through the base fire prevention office
        (CEFT) and reviewed annually, or upon change in functional operations or process.
3. Exceptions to this Instruction.
     3.1. Exceptions will not be made to this instruction without approval of the installation
     commander or his/her representative.

                                               ALLEN L. SWARTZMILLER, Col, USAFR
                                               Commander, 914 Airlift Wing
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011                                             3


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
IAW AFOSH Standard 91-5, Welding, Cutting and Brazing, 1 May 1997
AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard, 07 Jul 2004
AFI32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
NFPA10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2010
NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, 2008
OSHA 1910, Occupational Safety and Health Standards, 1970
OSHA1910.157 , Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 7 Nov 2002
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 592, Welding, Cutting & Brazing Permit
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
APU—Auxiliary Power Units
AW—Air Wing
BCE—Base Civil Engineer (Fire Marshall)
BOS—Base Operating Services
CC—Commander
CE—Civil Engineering
CEF—Chief, Fire Emergency Services
CEFT—Base Fire Prevention Office
IAW—In Accordance With
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheets
OG—Operating Guide
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1070
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SOP—Standard Operating Procedure
 4                           NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011


UL—Underwriters Laboratory
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011                                                            5


                                          Attachment 2
                                     FIRE PREVENTION

A2.1. Functional managers and facility managers are responsible for monthly inspections of
their organizations to ensure compliance with this instruction, to eliminate fire hazards and
correct deficiencies. This includes:
   A2.1.1. Ensuring that:
       A2.1.1.1. All work areas are left in a fire safe condition at the end of each day.
       A2.1.1.2. All non-essential electric machines and equipment are shut off when not in
       use.
       A2.1.1.3. There will be no storage in any attic, crawl space, stairwell, exit, exit enclosure
       or boiler/mechanical rooms.
       A2.1.1.4. Flammable and combustible products are stored in an approved flammable
       storage locker or cabinet and are compatible with other items stored in the cabinet.
       A2.1.1.5. All waste materials are kept in non-combustible containers and emptied daily.
       Office recycle containers will be emptied daily.
       A2.1.1.6. Hazardous waste materials are disposed of in accordance with current
       hazardous waste handling and disposal procedures.
       A2.1.1.7. Mechanical rooms are not utilized for any storage purpose.
       A2.1.1.8. An electrical permit is required for any non-government electrical appliance. It
       will need to be inspected by the base civil engineer electrician and by the fire protection
       section before being utilized. Examples: space heaters, coffee pots, microwaves, toasters,
       refrigerators.
       A2.1.1.9. Authorized smoking areas are kept free of trash and combustible material and
       that smoking materials are extinguished and disposed of in approved containers.
       A2.1.1.10. Any operation or process that requires an open flame, heat producing, spark
       producing will be IAW AFOSH Standard 91-5 Welding, Cutting and Brazing and
       coordinated through the fire prevention office and or Operations section and an AF Form
       592 Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit will be issued. This includes outdoor
       recreational cooking.
A2.2. Inspect electrical equipment and appliances monthly for worn or defective cords.
A2.3. Accompanying or delegating an alternate to accompany the fire inspector during fire
prevention visits and to ensure that all areas are accessible to the fire inspector.
A2.4. Monthly visual inspection of all fire extinguishers, (date and initial white tag, yellow tag
is for annual fire department inspection), extinguisher cabinets, emergency lights, exit sign
lights, pull stations, sprinkler systems and extinguishing systems, for signs of damage,
tampering, or use. Report deficiencies to the fire prevention section and CE service call desk.
   A2.4.1. The monthly extinguisher inspection tag is signed off.
 6                                     NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011


A2.5. Appropriate action is taken against anyone who carelessly or willfully violates fire
prevention policies, or by negligence causes fire loss to government property.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011                                                                7


                                           Attachment 3
                                          LIFE SAFETY

A3.1. Unit commanders, division chiefs, facility managers, and supervisors are responsible for
ensuring that all life safety devices and features within areas of their jurisdiction are operational.
A3.2. Functional managers and facility managers will ensure that all:
   A3.2.1. Hallways, stairwells, or any other path of egress is not obstructed in any manner.
   A3.2.2. Exits and exit ways are clear of trash, debris, and obstructions (blue bins, trashcans,
   de-icing drums, shovels etc.), including ice and snow, for a distance of ten (10) feet from the
   exit.
   A3.2.3. Exits signs in their activity are electrically illuminated and operational at all times.
   A3.2.4. Doors which are identified as exits are kept unlocked and not chained while
   occupants are in the facility.
   A3.2.5. Doors which are identified as fire doors, which are designed to stop the spread of
   flame and smoke, remain closed at all times and not held open by any device except as
   designed.
       A3.2.5.1. Designed devices are not tampered with.
   A3.2.6. Making sure fire protection features and devices are operational, unobstructed, and
   undamaged. These include: heat and smoke detectors, manual pull stations, portable fire
   extinguishers, sprinkler systems, extinguishing systems, emergency lighting, door panic
   hardware, fire and smoke doors and fire alarm control panels.
   A3.2.7. Making sure handicap devices are in working order.
 8                                          NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011


                                           Attachment 4
                                FIRE PREVENTION TRAINING

A4.1. Unit commanders, division chiefs, and supervisors will:
     A4.1.1. Annually conduct fire safety and prevention briefings to their subordinates at all
     levels and annotate this training on the Air Force form 55, Employee Safety and Health
     Record or electronic equivalent.
     A4.1.2. Ensure that all personnel are observing fire regulations.
     A4.1.3. Provide training in compliance with provisions in Air Force Occupational Safety and
     Health (AFOSH) standard 91-501, Safety, 91-301, Safety and Health and Department of
     Labor Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standard 1910.157, Portable Fire
     Extinguishers, NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers.
     A4.1.4. Ensure a fire/evacuation assembly point is designated and that all employees are
     briefed. The assembly point should be far enough away from the building to protect the
     people and not hinder fire-fighting operations. The assembly point should not be near
     dumpster, flammable storage lockers that could conceal secondary explosives. Assembly
     point should be posted on common bulletin boards.
A4.2. All newly assigned personnel will be briefed in Fire Prevention safety within thirty days
of their assignment by Fire Prevention personnel and immediate supervisor.
     A4.2.1. Briefing topics shall include, building evacuation/shelter-in-place procedures,
     assembly point, fire-reporting procedures using on-base phones, cell and pay phones
     emergency numbers, exit locations, fire extinguisher locations, fire alarm pull station
     locations, safe flammable and combustible storage, and housekeeping practices.
A4.3. Annual fire safety and extinguisher familiarization training will be conducted by the
supervisor or the fire prevention section of the fire department as requested.
A4.4. Request for hands-on flight line fire extinguisher training for flight line personnel, or any
other section, should be coordinated through the fire prevention office.
A4.5. Building fire/evacuation drills are conducted at the discretion of the fire prevention office
or as requested by the unit authority.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011                                                          9


                                         Attachment 5
            FIRE PREVENTION IN HANGARS, SHOPS, AND FLIGHT LINE

A5.1. Flight chiefs, shop foreman, and supervisors are responsible for fire safety within their
workplace.
A5.2. Aircraft stands, motorized equipment, electrical equipment and other material will not be
stored in such a manner as to block exits, interfere with fire protection systems, equipment, or
block accessibility or visibility of fire extinguishers or pull stations.
A5.3. Aircraft will not be fueled/de-fueled, or ground fuel transferred, while inside the hangar,
or within fifty feet of the hangar without special written permission from fire prevention office
and coordinating agencies. Hangars designed for this type of operation are exempt
A5.4. Aircraft will not be serviced with oxygen while inside hangars, or within fifty feet of
hangars.
   A5.4.1. At least one (1) flight line fire extinguisher (150 lb wheeled) must be easily
   accessible during any refuel/de-fuel or oxygen servicing operation.
A5.5. Aircraft engines, aircraft APU’s or ground power units will not be operated inside hangars
under any circumstances.
A5.6. Batteries should be disconnected and aircraft grounded at all times while inside the
hangar.
A5.7. No open flame, spark-producing device, exposed filament heater, or any equipment
capable of igniting vapors or gases are permitted within fifty feet of the hangar.
   A5.7.1. Use of blow torches, soldering irons, and other equipment in which an open flame
   must be used, will be IAW AFOSH Standard 91-5 Welding, Cutting and Brazing and
   restricted to isolated places where there is air circulation, and where no explosive vapors are
   present. An Air Force form 592, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit, must be obtained
   from the fire prevention office prior to beginning any open flame operation.
A5.8. Only approved Class 1, Division 1, portable battery operated inspection lights will be used
in aircraft fuel cell hangars.
A5.9. Flammable or combustible materials and liquids required to perform maintenance, shall be
stored in approved containers, labeled and stored with compatible like items and marked as to the
contents. The labeled containers shall be housed within approved flammable storage cabinets or
lockers. A current Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) should be made available upon request.
   A5.9.1. Quantities of flammable and combustible liquids stored in cabinets shall be in
   accordance with National Fire Codes, Air Force Occupational and Health (AFOSH)
   standards, and Codes of Federal Regulations.
   A5.9.2. Flammable liquid storage cabinets shall be kept closed at all times, when not being
   accessed.
A5.10. Inspections will be made daily prior to closing shops and hangars to ensure a fire safe
condition is maintained.
 10                                       NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011


A5.11. Flight line fire extinguishers will be located along the ramp, spaced between the aircraft
IAW: TO 00-25-172 and far enough away to prevent damage to the aircraft or extinguisher by
prop wash, jet blast, or inclement weather.
   A5.11.1. Flight line extinguishers are accountable, maintained by the fire prevention section,
   and monthly checked and recorded by the maintenance sections. Damaged, used, or
   inoperable extinguishers shall be removed from service and immediately reported to the fire
   department for required maintenance or repair.
   A5.11.2. Flight line extinguishers which are to be deployed with the aircraft must be signed
   for on an Air Force Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, from the fire prevention section.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011                                                           11


                                          Attachment 6
                MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE FIRE PREVENTION

A6.1. Supervisors, foremen and workers are responsible for fire safety within their workplace.
A6.2. Special activities necessary to perform vehicle maintenance operations, such as painting,
welding or other hazardous operations, will be performed in places designated for that purpose.
A6.3. Flame producing devices are prohibited in the garages, except in specifically designated
locations.
A6.4. Oily rags and waste will not be left on floors, workbenches, desks, etc.
A6.5. Oil, fuel, or other products spilled, will be cleaned up immediately and disposed of
properly.
A6.6. Exhaust recovery system will be in operation while “engine-run” maintenance is
performed.
A6.7. Equipment having gasoline tanks mounted over the engines will not be refueled within
fifty feet of the building and only after a “cool down” period is observed.
   A6.7.1. Should fuel overflow during refueling operations, engines will not be started until
   fuel has been cleaned up and sufficient time passed for evaporation of fumes.
   A6.7.2. During refueling operations and starting of engines after refueling, a fire
   extinguisher will be held “at the ready” in the event of fire.
   A6.7.3. Trucks, trailers, and other special vehicles containing small auxiliary gasoline
   powered units will be equipped with suitable fire extinguishers.
   A6.7.4. Engines used as power generators inside trailers or closed spaces will be refueled
   with extreme care to prevent spillage and ignition from electrical sources or hot exhaust.
A6.8. All electrical devices and fixtures will be kept in good working condition at all times.
   A6.8.1. All defective equipment will be repaired by authorized technicians or tradesmen.
   A6.8.2. Metal parts of all electrical machines will be grounded to a low resistance ground.
A6.9. Flammable/combustible liquids will be stored in approved containers and housed in
approved cabinets or lockers in quantities specified by the National Fire Protection Association,
Code of Federal Regulations, Air Force directives, or local established policies.
A6.10. Hazardous waste will be stored in approved accumulation points, away from ignition
sources, until disposed of or re-cycled according to regulations, policies, or directives.
 12                                       NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011


                                         Attachment 7
   FIRE PREVENTION IN PUBLIC ASSEMBLY, RECREATION AND BILLETING
                             BUILDINGS

A7.1. Managers of public assembly and recreation facilities are responsible for fire safety
compliance within their jurisdiction. This responsibility extends over contractors and
concessionaries.
A7.2. Managers must establish and maintain a certification system ensuring employees are
trained in their fire prevention responsibilities within their work environment.
   A7.2.1. This system includes yearly training of employees and immediate indoctrination of
   newly hired employees.
A7.3. Managers or alternates will conduct fire inspections of facilities at closing time in
accordance with a Fire Prevention approved, Manager directed checklist.
A7.4. Managers, where restaurant cooking is performed, will establish and enforce procedures
to ensure grease filters and exposed surfaces of kitchen hoods are thoroughly cleaned at least
once a day.
   A7.4.1. Fire Prevention will arrange for semi-annual cleaning and inspection of duct
   systems, and fat fryers, by certified contractors. Documentation will be kept by Fire
   Prevention.
   A7.4.2. Cooking is not permitted under range hoods without grease filters installed and
   exhaust fans operational.
   A7.4.3. Metal covers must be pre-positioned for each fryer for immediate use in case of fire.
A7.5. Open flames (IE: candles) designed to enhance atmospheres, are prohibited, unless written
permission is obtained from Fire Prevention.
A7.6. Billeting managers will ensure fire protection features in lodging and individual rooms are
fully operational, prior to assigning rooms for occupancy.
   A7.6.1. Emergency evacuation plans should be available for each occupant’s familiarization.
   A7.6.2. Emergency telephone numbers should be visibly accessible.
A7.7. Smoking in base buildings is prohibited.
   A7.7.1. Smoking materials, in outside smoking areas, will be placed in approved receptacles.
A7.8. Space heaters, hot plates, woks, fondue/crock pots, or other cooking devices are strictly
prohibited.
A7.9. Open flame of any type is not permitted in billeting rooms.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011                                                           13


                                          Attachment 8
           FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY IN FUEL DISPENSING AREAS

A8.1. Turn off your vehicle engine while refueling. Disable or turn off any auxiliary sources of
ignition.
A8.2. Do not smoke, light matches or lighters while refueling at the pump or when using
gasoline.
A8.3. Use only the refueling latch provided on the gasoline dispenser nozzle; - never jam
anything in to the refueling latch on the nozzle to keep it open.
A8.4. Do not re-enter your vehicle during refueling, due to static electricity build-up.
A8.5. n the event of a static-caused fire, leave the nozzle in the fill pipe, back away from vehicle
and activate the EMERGENCY STOP BUTTON and notify Emergency Services.
A8.6. Do not over-fill or top-off your vehicle tank, which can cause gasoline spillage.
A8.7. Avoid prolonged breathing of gasoline vapors.
A8.8. When dispensing fuel into a container, use approved containers placed on the ground to
avoid static electricity ignition of vapors. Never fill containers while inside a vehicle trunk, or
bed of a pickup truck
A8.9. Store gasoline in approved containers as required by federal or state authorities. Never
store gasoline in glass or any other unapproved containers.
A8.10. When filling containers, manually control the nozzle throughout the filling process. Fill
portable container slowly to decrease chance of static electricity buildup and minimize spilling.
A8.11. Fill portable containers no more than 95 percent full to allow for heat expansion.
A8.12. If gasoline spills on the container, make sure it has evaporated before you place the
container inside vehicle. Report any ground spills to your emergency services.
A8.13. Never siphon gasoline for any reason. Gasoline can be harmful or fatal if swallowed. If
someone swallows gasoline, do not induce vomiting, contact Fire Emergency Services.
A8.14. Keep gasoline away from eyes and skin; it may cause irritation. Remove gasoline-soaked
clothing immediately.
A8.15. Use gasoline as a motor fuel only. Never use gasoline to wash your hands or as a cleaner.
A8.16. Do not use cell phones or portable radios while refueling.
 14                                       NIAGARAFALLSARSI32-2001 22 AUGUST 2011


                                         Attachment 9
       MISCELLANEOUS FIRE PREVENTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

A9.1. Unit commanders, division chiefs, facility managers, supervisors, and subordinates at all
levels are responsible for complying with fire prevention policies and procedures covered in
these attachments.
A9.2. Holiday and Public Gathering procedures:
   A9.2.1. Natural Christmas trees will not be displayed, unless it is of a “potted plant” type
   tree. “Potted plant” Christmas trees in base facilities will be secured, kept well watered, kept
   away from ignition sources and placed not to block means of egress or block exits.
   A9.2.2. Artificial Christmas trees must be chemically treated or be inherently flame
   retardant.
   A9.2.3. Electrical devices of any type are prohibited on metallic Christmas trees.
   A9.2.4. Straw and Hay decorations are prohibited.
A9.3. Holiday lighting devices and extension cords will be inspected for serviceability before
use and will be of the types tested and listed by Underwriters Laboratories (UL).
   A9.3.1. Overloaded circuits must be avoided. Civil engineering electricians will determine
   adequacy of the circuits, requested through the service call desk.
A9.4. Facilities where social events are planned, managers will consult fire prevention prior to
displaying unusual arrangements or decorations. Decorations will be non-flammable fire
retardant type.
A9.5. Overcrowding during gatherings is prohibited. Occupancy capacity will not be exceeded.
A9.6. The use of charcoal grills is discouraged by the Fire Chief; 20-lb propane units are
preferred. If long term use in one location is desired, a permanent natural gas unit may be
installed.
   A9.6.1. Disposal of charcoal ashes in dumpsters is strictly prohibited. Any ashes must be
   extinguished with water if left unattended.
   A9.6.2. When any type of grill is used; fire prevention must be contacted for issuance of AF
   Form 592, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit. Acquisition of a fire extinguisher is also
   required.
   A9.6.3. Storage of propane tanks in facilities or mechanical-boiler rooms is prohibited.
   Outside storage is required. Cylinders of one (1) Lb capacity or less may be stored in
   approved containers (Flammable Storage Lockers).
