BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE
NIAGARA FALLS AIR RESERVE                                  STATION INSTRUCTION 91-206
STATION
                                                                         22 OCTOBER 2010
                                                         Certified Current, 3 January 2013
                                                                                     Safety

                                                            BLANK AMMO AND EXERCISE
                                                                 MUNITIONS HANDLING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 914 AW/SEW                                                      Certified by: 914 SFS/CC
Supersedes: 914AWI91-206, 30 Jan 2008                                  (Col. James A. Lawson)
                                                                                     Pages: 14


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-2 Law Enforcement and
(AFI) 31-207, Arming and use of Force by air force Personnel . It provides guidance and
establishes positive, standardized procedures and responsibilities for the, inspection, issue,
control, and utilization of blank ammunitions during 914/107 Airlift Wing field exercises. Refer
to AFMAN 91-201, AFRC SUP 1 Explosive Safety Standards, 11A series Technical Orders, and
914th AWI 24-201, Ground Transportation of Explosives. It applies to all Niagara Falls Air
Reserve Station personnel responsible for munitions handling and participation in exercises
involving blank and live ammunition. A copy of this instruction will be available for use during
all operations and at the explosives licensed facility. Refer any recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 914AW/SEW at
Niagara Falls ARS, NY 14304. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has had minor revisions and must be reviewed. Changes include additional
information in paragraph’s 1,2,2.4, 8,12, and A2.6 was deleted and renumbered with reference
changes as a result of the new release of AFMAN 91-201 and the AFRC supplement to this
regulation.
 2                                          NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010


1. General. To ensure the safe use of munitions during training, strict adherence to this
instruction is required. Safety principles outlined are also applicable to off-base evaluation/
training sites when not in conflict with host base regulations. 914th and 107th AW members will
coordinate with host base safety personnel to ensure local safety regulations are being followed.
All personnel who handle, function, and/or transport explosives addressed in this instruction
must receive Weapons Safety training. Personnel performing operations outlined in this
instruction must complete and forward an explosives risk assessment to Wing Safety prior to
each exercise.
2. Responsibilities: It is the responsibility of each squadron commander or member designated
by the Wing commander to ensure that live munitions are not introduced into an exercise in
accordance with AFMAN 91-201, Para 7.25 Note: The munitions function that issues blank
ammunition will perform a 100% visual inspection of said assets to ensure no live rounds are
present.
     2.1. 914th AW Safety office validates weapons safety training is provided to appointed
     personnel; validates facilities, equipment, and work areas are complying with weapons safety
     standards.
     2.2. Supervisors must know safety standards that apply to their functional area, monitor for
     hazards, train personnel on weapons safety standards, report mishaps, and enforce the use of
     protective equipment.
     2.3. All assigned personnel are responsible for complying with explosive safety standards,
     Instructions, and T.O.s; identifying hazards, using protective equipment, and reporting injury
     or impaired health conditions to supervisor.
     2.4. 914th and 107th SFS/CA or Combat Arms weapons trained personnel designated by the
     Commander will: Note: Personnel with a current Air Force Form 522, USAF Ground
     Weapons Training Data, on the weapon system in question are considered Combat Arms
     weapons trained personnel.
        2.4.1. Prior to issuing blank ammunition to users, visually inspect all blank munitions
        utilized by the 914th prior to use in any/all field exercises.
        2.4.2. Supervise the loading of all magazines and ensure only a designated disinterested
        official will certify only blanks are loaded.
        2.4.3. Ensure that all magazines containing blank munitions are properly accounted for
        and stored during exercises when not in use. The storage area will be maintained in such
        a way as to ensure that no live munitions will be allowed to mix with blank. If needed
        munitions will be placed in a metal container and marked ―Blank Ammo‖ on the outside
        of the container.
        2.4.4. Ensure that lot integrity is not lost; ammunition that has lost lot integrity is
        unserviceable.
     2.4.5. Notify appropriate agencies prior to the start of the exercise. (i.e.; Safety, Fire Dept,
     Command Post, Security Forces, airfield Management, Flight Chief).
        2.4.6. The Exercise Team Chief will prepare a plan and risk assessment approved by the
        Wing Commander for training and exercises involving explosives as outlined in AFMAN
        91-201.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010                                                3


       2.4.7. Misfire procedures will be in accordance with CATMS/SFS guidance and
       instructions.
       2.4.8. Expended brass turn-in procedures will be in accordance with the Munitions
       Accountable Systems Officer (MASO) guidance and requirements.
3. Explosives limits, including the hazard class/division and compatibility group of the
explosives involved.

Table 3.1. Munitions Involved.

   TYPE              QTY         HAZCLASS       COMP
1. Ctg         10000                1.4           S
5.56MM
blank
M200
2. Ctg         7500                 1.4           S
7.62MM
blank
M82 linked
3. Ctg         7500                 1.4           S
5.56MM
blank
SAW linked
4. Fze Grn     200                  1.4           S
Hand
Prac M228
5. Grn Hand    16                   1.4           G
Smoke
Green M18
6. Grenade     16                   1.4           G
Hand
Smoke Red
M18
7. Grn Hand    16                   1.4           G
Smoke
Yellow M18
8. Grenade     32                   1.4           G
Hand
Practice
 4                                         NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010


     TYPE             QTY         HAZCLASS            COMP
9. Mine       4                       NONE
Antipersonnel
XM68 Inrt
10. Simulator    50                     1.3              G
Explosive
11. Flare        64                     1.3              G
Surface trip
M49A1
12. Simulator    50                     1.3              G
Hand
Grenade
M116A1
13. Sig Illum    72                     1.3              G
Grnd
White Star
M127A1
     3.1. Minimum quantity required to complete the assigned exercise objective.
     3.2. Comply with Explosives storage limits on the current AF Form 2047, Explosives
     Facility License. (Explosives will only be stored for duration of the exercise).
     3.3. At no time will the explosives, passengers, and other cargo exceed the recommended
     gross vehicle weight (GVW) of the transport vehicle.
4. Personnel limits, including workers and others:
     4.1. Supervisors: 1
     4.2. Workers:    20
     4.3. Casuals:     2
5. Exact locations of operations: Various Combat Readiness Training Centers and other
remotely located Resource Protection Training Areas identified on the risk assessment.
6. Safety requirements, to include special equipment requirements:
     6.1. Two 2A: 10BC fire extinguishers mounted on the explosives transport vehicle.
     6.2. First aid kit (NSN 6545-00-116-1410 or suitable substitute).
     6.3. Radios (as required).
     6.4. Wheel chocks.
     6.5. Leather gloves when handling or moving munitions containers.
     6.6. Wooden dunnage for separation of munitions containers in stacks.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010                                                          5


  6.7. Hand tools for opening/closing munitions containers.
  6.8. Cargo tie-down straps.
  6.9. Applicable Operating Instructions.
  6.10. Eye protection (as required).
  6.11. Hearing protection (as required).
  6.12. Fire fighting/chemical protective equipment at locations where munitions are used or
  stored.
  6.13. Munitions residue containers.
  6.14. Appropriate Fire/Chemical Hazard Symbols will be posted when munitions are stored
  in Licensed location, Fire/Chemical Hazard symbol decals must be affixed to
  noncombustible material cut to the same distinct shape as the decal.
  6.15. Safety toe shoes.
  6.16. Only trained personnel (On the weapon system in question) will supervise the issue of
  all blank ammunition.
  6.17. Blank ammunition will not be fired from any weapon that does not have a blank
  adapter installed.
  6.18. Standard weapon safety procedures will be observed at all times.
  6.19. Blank 5.56mm (M-16) will not be fired at personnel any closer than 30 feet, TO:
  11w3-5-5-1 .M-249 SAW no closer than 30 feet, TO: 11W3-5-5-51. M-60 MG no closer
  than 40 feet TO: 11W1-12- 8-53.
  6.20. After the completion of any exercise scenario using blank ammo, the person in charge,
  will ensure all weapons are cleared/empty prior to leaving the exercise area:
     6.20.1. All cartridge cases and links will be collected and turned-in as munitions residue
     immediately after the scenario.
         6.20.1.1. Residue must be separated by type and caliber and physically segregated
         from live ammo.
     6.20.2. Loading/Unloading of weapons will be performed at approved clearing barrel
     areas.
  6.21. Blank firing adapters will NEVER be covered or camouflaged in any way and will
  only be hand tightened.
  6.22. When in field conditions where no clearing barrel is present, clear all weapons by
  pointing them in a safe direction i.e., toward the ground, in such a way as to contain (capture)
  any and all projectiles that may be propelled from the weapon from striking people/buildings.
  WARNING: Personnel armed with live ammunition for resource protection purposes will
  not take part in training exercises! All personnel involved will conduct a complete check of
  ammo pouches, equipment, magazines and ammo before and after each exercise scenario.
  (Use buddy system)
 6                                        NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010



7. Step by step procedures for doing the task:
     7.1. Training area will be cleared of all munitions residue; duds/misfires/damaged rounds
     will be accounted for. Residues and brass from blank ammunition will be reasonably
     searched for and turned in by the end of the exercise event.
        7.1.1. Operational sequence will be based upon the munitions exercise being conducted.
        See Attachment 1 for additional specific munitions safety requirements.
        7.1.2. Issue of Blank Ammunition:
        7.1.3. Requests for training ammo will be made to the 914 MXS/MXMW No Later Than
        (NLT) the Friday 2 weeks prior to the date munitions are needed. Personnel authorized to
        make munitions requests and receipts for munitions are listed on AF Form 68, Munitions
        Authorization Record, signed by the commander. Only trained personnel will issue
        munitions in accordance with paragraph 6.1.10. Note: Training ammo requests MUST
        be made:
HOMESTATION - 2 weeks prior to training start date
CONUS – 60 days prior to training start date
OCONUS – 90 days prior to training start date
        7.1.4. Training ammo will be temporarily stored within licensed location only for the
        duration of the exercise. AF Form 2047 will be posted within licensed location.
        7.1.5. Training ammo will be issued to unit personnel at deployed location. Note: Do not
        store more than 999 rounds of HC/D 1.4 small arms ammunition in any building without
        an approved explosives facility license. Training ammo will be issued on an AF Form
        1297. The form will be filled out with type of munitions, quantity of munitions issued;
        Lot Number of the munitions, and rank & name of individual ammo is issued to.
        Ammunition will remain in packaging. Unused ammunition and reusable containers i.e.
        wire bound wooded boxes, clips/cartons will be returned.
        7.1.6. Training ammo that is not used at the termination of the exercise will be returned
        to point of issue. Munitions will be inventoried by each individual, and returned to
        storage configuration. Individuals will annotate why they are short of any rounds if
        numbers do not match, on which the munitions were signed out, indicating the quantity
        expended. The quantity returned will be added to the inventory log. The AF Form 1297
        will then be filed and maintained by unit personnel. Note: Lot Integrity MUST not be
        lost.
8. Designate responsibilities for controlling ammunition in the training environment, to
include separation of training and weapons courier ammunition. Munitions will remain in
the outer and inner packaging until issued by Unit personnel. Munitions not used in the training
environment will be returned to their original packing material before storage in licensed
location. Empty reusable containers; i.e. wire bound wooden boxes ammo clips/cartons are to be
returned. Personnel armed with live ammunition for courier/resource protection purposes will not
take part in training exercises. Armorer’s will be responsible for controlling ammunition in the
training environment. All personnel involved will conduct a complete check of ammo pouches,
NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010                                                         7


equipment, magazines and ammo before and after each exercise scenario to ensure live
ammunition is not introduced into the training environment.
9. Step-by-step instructions for issuing, turn-in, and controlling ammunition. Only
qualified unit personnel and/or appointed munitions couriers will issue munitions to users
utilizing an AF Form 1297. The AF 1297 will be filled out with type of munitions, quantity of
munitions issued; Lot Number of the munitions, and name and rank of individual ammo has been
issued to. A general purpose or computer-generated log will be kept when munitions have been
issued.
10. Exact location of use to include method of employment. Various Combat Readiness
Training Centers and other remotely located Resource Protection training areas identified on the
risk assessment. The Exact location will be determined prior to exercise start date. Method of
employment will be in accordance with this instruction, its attachments, and all applicable
technical data.
11. Perform and document inventories of ammunition to include a reconciliation of assets
at the start of training, change of shifts, and end of day, All out of balance conditions shall
cause the training to be terminated. Armors/Unit munitions couriers will perform and
document inventories of both live and blank ammunition to include a reconciliation of assets at
the start of training change of shifts, and end of day. All out of balance conditions shall cause
the exercise operation to be terminated until out of balance condition is resolved.
12. Identify the process of loading, unloading, and marking magazines to include
certification and separation of live and blank ammunition. Munitions will be securely stored
in a safe location for the duration of the exercise. Ensure blank and live ammo are stored in
separate storage containers (Ammo Cans) and clearly marked. When stored in the same facility,
ensure live and blank ammo are not stored side by side. Armorer’s are responsible for the
process of loading and unloading and will identify magazines loaded with training ammunition
(blanks) and clearly mark with blue tape. Return all unused munitions back to storage location
at the end of the day or after the exercise.
13. Controlling explosive residue process. Expended munitions residue will be retrieved after
each event and turned-in at the point of issue. Residue will be inspected, separated by type and
caliber, handled and stored separately from live ammunition.
14. Reconciliation and certification of expenditures process. Training munitions that are not
used will be returned to the storage location. 914th and 107th AW personnel will sign the back
of the AF Form 1297 on which the munitions were signed out, indicating the quantity expended.
The quantity returned will be added to the inventory log. The AF 1297 will then be filed and
maintained by the unit munitions couriers.
15. Prior to start or termination of training, check all ammunition pouches, rucksacks,
mobility bags and magazines for live ammunition, Brief personnel regarding their
responsibilities from a safety and accountability standpoint. All personnel will perform a
physical inspection for live ammunition.
16. Only trained and qualified individuals will be allowed to issue
ammunition. Qualification requirements will be detailed in the instruction. Personnel that have
a current AF Form 522 with ―Live Fire‖ identified will be qualified to issue ammunition.
 8                                        NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010



17. Actions to be taken during an emergency or when abnormal conditions are noted:
     17.1. The safety official designated by the exercise Commander will have a cellular Phone
     or radio to enable him to contact emergency personnel in case of an accident. The safety
     official will maintain a list of emergency numbers and/or call signs to contact from the
     exercise area in case of any accidents. they will unsure that the Security Forces Commander,
     Flight Chief, Medical personnel and Ground safety are notified of any accidents that occurs
     and write any reports that needs to be completed.
     17.2. Fires involving explosives:
        17.2.1. Sound the alarm to personnel within the work area. Have one person notify the
        Fire Department via the telephone, If not able to use phone, use radio.
        17.2.2. Do not attempt to fight a fire involving explosives once munitions become
        engulfed in flames, evacuate and contact exercise location fire department, All personnel
        will be evacuated to the appropriate munitions fire fighting withdrawal distance below.
        All evidence will be preserved for investigation.
        17.2.3. In the event of an abnormal condition the operation shall be terminated and the
        supervisor notified. The supervisor will determine appropriate course of action.
           HAZARD CLASS/DIVISION                    WITHDRAWAL DISTANCE
           1.2                                         2500 FEET
           1.3                                          600 FEET
           1.4                                          300 FEET
           Note: The absence of a safety requirement in this instruction or technical order does
           not necessarily indicate that no safeguards are needed. Prompt action will be taken to
           control hazards.

18. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 522, USAF Ground Weapons Training Data
AF Form 2047, Explosives Facility License
AF Form 68, Munitions Authorization
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt




                                             ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER., Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010                                                         9


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
T.O. 11W3-5-5-1, Operator's, Maintenance, Repair and Replacement Parts Manual, Rifle,
5.56mm, M16 and M16A1, Bipod Assembly M3, and Launcher Grenade 40-MM XM148
T.O. 11W3-5-5-51, Operator's Manual, Machinegun, 5.56mm M249, 1 Jul 1991
T.O. 11W3-5-5-52, Organizational and Direct Support Maintenance Manual (Including Repair
Partsand Special Tools List), Machinegun, 5.56mm M249 W, 14 Dec 1990
AFMAN 91-201_AFRCSup1, Explosive Safety Standards, 17 Nov 2008
914AWI 24-201, Ground Transport of Explosives, 17 Sep 1999

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AW—Air Wing
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
GVM— Gross Vehicle Weight
MASO—Munitions Accountable Systems Officer
NLT—No later Than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
T.O.—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Accountable Forms— Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Adopted Form— A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Air Force—wide – Includes Headquarters Air Force (HAF: Secretariat and Air Staff),
MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, centers, bases, and below.
Approval Authority— Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
 10                                        NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010


Authentication— Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
Certifying Official— A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certified the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Critical Comment— A comment made during the coordination process that addresses area(s) of
such major deficiency as to preclude final approval. Critical comments result in a
―nonconcurrence‖ and must be resolved by the OPR prior to publication.
Directive Publication— Publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety,
security, or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air
force personnel must comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the
following statement: ―COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY.‖
Distribution— Defines the type of accessibility for each publication; to whom the publication
may be released.
Document Automation Production Service (DAPS)— A ―Fee-for-Service‖ organization
that provides document automation products, bulk printing, and distribution services.
e—Publishing – Central website for accessing, viewing, downloading, and printing electronic
products; physical products may be ordered from the e-Publishing website. Information on
product development and links to other agency publications are also provided on the e-
Publishing website (www.e-publishing.af.mil), which will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing
on AF Link).
Form— A tool used for the collection, recording, and/or extraction of information whereby a
predetermined set of data fields have been established and defined to meet a definitive Air Force
purpose or objective. Official Air Force form types are defined in Section 3B.
Functional Principal— Senior leader, generally at the two-level, who serves as the approving
official for publications.
Guidance and Procedures— Specific instructions that implement policy; establish a process to
complete a task, project, or execute a program.
Headquarters Air Force (HAF)— The HAF is comprised of both Secretariat and Air Staff
offices.
Implementing Publication— A publication that creates processed and sets standards to
accomplish a goal, often by adding organization-specific material to a publication issued by a
higher headquarters.
Information Management Tool(IMT)— See Form. Previously, IMTs and forms were used
synonymously; the IMT designator is being phased out in order to simplify publishing terms.
The IMT designator will continue to appear until all publications and forms bearing that
reference are updated.
Lead Agency— The organization that controls or directs the course of a task, event, or process.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010                                                          11


Mandatory Coordination— Required review by selected offices prior to publication.
Mandatory coordinators review draft publications for specific functional and/or legal purposes.
Nondirective Publication— Nondirective publications are informational and suggest guidance
that you can modify to fit the circumstances. Complying with publications in this category is
expected, but not mandatory. Air Force personnel use these publications as reference aids,
―how-to‖ guides, or as sources of official information.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)— The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Point of Contact (POC)— The individual designated by the OPR to meet all OPR
responsibilities. POC and OPR are often used interchangeably, but the organization of primary
responsibility retains ultimate responsibility.
Policy— Corporate-level direction-making and actions throughout the Air Force. Policy
translates the ideas, goals or principles into actionable and concrete plans, goals, or objectives.
Prescribed Form— A form designed to support the implementation of requirements in a
directive Air Force publication. Use and purpose of a prescribed form must be contained in the
publication it supports (also known as the prescribing publication).
Product Announcement— An electronically-generated message from AFDPO used to inform
customers of product changes in the Air Force e-Publishing Program.
Product Index (formally Master Catalog)— A comprehensive central database index of all Air
Force publishing products.
Publication— An officially produced, published, and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation, and or information. Includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
Publications/form Manager— One who supervises and manages the local publications and/or
the forms programs. Is the primary focal point for publication and distribution issues.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)— The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
Records Management— The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and any other managerial activity related to records creation, records maintenance and use, and
records disposition for the sake of achieving adequate and proper documentation of the policies
and transactions of the Federal Government and effective economical management of agency
operations.
Records Maintenance and Use— Any activity involving the location, storage, retrieval, or
handling of records kept at office file locations by or for the Air Force.
Records Professional— An individual trained and proficient in performing record management
responsibilities. This category includes personnel designated as Records Custodian (RC),
Functional Area Record Manager (FARM), Chief of Office of Record (COR), Base Record
Manager (BRM), and MAJCOM Record Manager.
 12                                      NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010


Repository— The AFDPO repository is the central servers on which the aggregation of e-
Publishing product files are filed and maintained. The files are maintained in a directory
structure that is arranged by publishing organization.
Revised Publication— A publication that supersedes or changes a previous edition, related
publications or portions of related publications in a given category.
Standards— Established norms.
Safeguarded Forms— These forms are not releasable outside DOD because they could be put
to unauthorized or fraudulent use. Safeguarded forms are maintained in a locked storage facility
and issued only to authorized requestors.
Substantive Comments— Comments made during the coordination process that address
possibly unnecessary, incorrect, misleading, confusing, or inconsistent portions of the
publication or form.
Technical/functional Coordination— Review of draft publications by technical/functional
experts prior to publication. The list of technical/functional coordinators changes with each
publication, based on the contents and applicability of the publication.
NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010                                                          13


                                          Attachment 2
                    TRAINING MUNITIONS SAFETY PRECAUTIONS

A2.1. Combat Arms or CA trained personnel will supervise the issue of all blank ammunition.
A2.2. Blank ammunition will not be fired from any weapon that does not have a blank adapter
installed.
A2.3. Standard weapon safety procedures will be observed at all times.
A2.4. Blank 5.56mm (M16) will not be fired at personnel any closer than 30 feet, TO: 11W3-5-
5-1). M-249 SAW No closer than 30 feet, TO: 11W3-5-5-51. M-60 MG No closer than 40 feet
TO: 11W1-12-8-52
A2.5. After the completion of any exercise scenario using blank ammo, the person in charge,
will ensure all weapons are cleared/empty prior to leaving the exercise area: All cartridge cases
and links will be collected and turned-in as munitions residue. Loading/Unloading of weapons
will be performed at approved clearing barrel areas.
A2.6. Blank firing adapters will NEVER be covered or camouflaged in any way and will only
be hand tightened.
A2.7. When in field conditions where no clearing barrel is present, clear all weapons by pointing
them in a safe direction i.e., toward the ground, in such a way as to contain (capture) any and all
projectiles that may be propelled from the weapon from striking people/buildings.
A2.8. Simulators and Smoke Producing Munitions. See paragraph 11.11(AFMAN 91-201) for
licensing requirements. The following applies to the use of these devices during exercises and
training:
A2.9. Only USAF stock-listed items are authorized for use. Other military services will use DoD
approved items only, when using USAF ranges or facilities.
   A2.9.1. Only trained personnel can prepare and activate these devices. Qualified personnel
   will provide training on an annual basis to personnel whose duties require them to initiate
   training simulators. The qualified personnel providing training will be determined locally but
   may be from EOD, munitions, or weapons safety. These qualified trainers must have had at
   least four hours of classroom instruction, passed a written test and be qualified to handle,
   maintain and inspect these items. It is the responsibility of the user organization to request
   training and maintain training records. Higher headquarters evaluation teams using these
   devices must present proof of training to the base safety office, prior to use.
   A2.9.2. (AFRC) AFRC qualified personnel are those individuals who are trained and
   certified by EOD to provide simulator and smoke producing munitions training to other base
   personnel. As a minimum, training will be both academic and practical. Academic training
   includes item description and associated hazards; safety and handling precautions; technical
   data warnings/cautions; pre-use/ post-use inspection criteria; misfire, DUD, and munitions
   residue disposition procedures. Practical training will not commence prior to successful
   completion of the academic portion.
   A2.9.3. Minimum Distances.
 14                                       NIAGARAFALLSARSI91-206 22 OCTOBER 2010


   A2.9.4. Personnel or vehicle: Maintain a minimum of 125 feet separation. Personnel who
   initiate these munitions may be closer than 125 feet, but they should be as close to 125 feet as
   possible and have their back to the munitions.
   A2.9.5. Smoke from grenades and pots is sometimes toxic in high concentrations. Contact
   Environmental Management and the Fire Department prior to use. These items, along with
   generators and flares present a fire hazard. Remove combustible materials before
   functioning. Consider winds and fire hazards such as dry grass or fire bans. Consider using a
   barrier to control spread of heat during functioning of grenades and smoke pots.
   A2.9.6. Ground burst or hand grenade simulators present a blast hazard. Exercise caution
   around people, facilities and equipment. Free the area of combustible material within a ten
   feet radius. Monitor for proper functioning and disposal of residue. Notify EOD or other
   qualified personnel when munitions malfunction. The on-scene commander will determine
   minimum withdrawal distance for malfunctioned ground burst or hand grenade simulators for
   the given situation. This distance will never be less than the minimum distances given in
   paragraph 2.24.2 (AFMAN 91-201) or applicable item TOs, whichever is greater.
A2.10. . Only qualified personnel are able to prepare and activate simulators and smoke
producing munitions. Personnel will receive annual training to use these types of assets.
WARNING: PERSONNEL ARMED WITH LIVE AMMUNITION FOR RESOURCE
PROTECTION PURPOSES WILL NOT TAKE PART IN TRAINING EXERCISES!
All personal involved will conduct a complete check of ammo pouches, equipment, magazines
and ammo before and after each exercise scenario. (Use buddy system)
