BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS
OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS                                COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 90-115
COMPLEX
                                                                             16 APRIL 2014

                                                                        Special Management

                                                            PREVENTIVE ACTION SYSTEM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available digitally on the e-Publishing web site
               at: https://www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OC-ALC/QAB                                                    Certified by: OC-ALC/QA
                                                                           (Mr. Dan McCabe)
Supersedes:   OC-ALCI90-115,                                                        Pages: 14
              10 November 2013


This instruction implements the Preventive Action System. This instruction applies to all
Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex (OC-ALC) organizations under AS9110 Certification
which excludes 76th Software Maintenance Group (76th SMXG) under its own certification and
does not include Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s
from the field through publications/forms managers. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This publication may
be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction contains minor administrative changes.
1. Preventive Action Procedures.
    1.1. Overview: Preventive Actions (PAs) are actions taken to eliminate a potential non-
    conformity or other undesirable situation. Actions taken to prevent injury of personnel,
2                                                                OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014


    damage to equipment, potential bottle necks in processes, or even missing targets/goals are a
    few examples of PAs (e.g., installing trailing edge padding, changing oil, buying second
    piece of equipment, rapid improvement event). This instruction gives guidance how OC-
    ALC organizations are to eliminate the causes of potential non-conformities in order to
    prevent their occurrence.
       1.1.1. Potential Nonconformities: Potential non-conformities are determined through
       various means, such as; Voluntary Protection Programs (VPP), new product review, work
       scope and pre-production planning teams, cross tell of findings but in particular through
       the programs listed in Table 1.1. Preventive Action Matrix. Identification is the initial
       step in the process. It is important to clearly define the potential non-conformity to aid in
       evaluating need for action.
       1.1.2. Evaluating Need for Action to include Action Based on Human Factors: The
       need to prevent occurrence of potential nonconformities should be evaluated by specifics
       of the Table individual programs listed in Table 1.1. through risk assessment and should
       consider human factors (e.g., lack of communication, complacency, lack of knowledge,
       distraction, lack of teamwork, fatigue, lack of resources, pressure, lack of assertiveness,
       stress, lack of awareness, norms, etc.). A preventive action shall be initiated whenever a
       condition warrants an investigation of an identified potential nonconformity. In the event
       a PA finding or classification is disputed, the subject PA shall be referred through
       management level until resolution is achieved.
 Table 1. Preventive Action Matrix
Preventive Action Matrix
Preventive                                Verification of                   Methods of
               To Prevent   Guidance                         Records                         Program Management
Action                                    Effectiveness                     Reporting
                                                             Continuous
              Possible                                                      VSAs and
                            AFMCI 90-                        Process                         Weapon system
AFSO21/       Disruptions                                                   RIEs Briefed
                            104,          Sustainment        Improvement                     program management at
Process       due to                                                        at Project
                            AFSO21        Tracking           Management                      various levels (CC,
Improvement   Process                                                       Champion
                            Playbook                         Tool                            complex, and group)
              Changes                                                       Level
                                                             (CPIMT)
                            AFI 21-101_   Standard
OC-ALC        Process/                                                      OC-ALC/QA OC-ALC Quality
                            AFMCSUP_      Monthly/           Local file
Quality       Procedure                                                     file plans Assurance Office (OC-
                            OC-           Quarterly          plans
Assurance     Failures                                                                 ALC/QA)
                            ALCSUP        Indicators
                                                                            Assessments
                                                                            will be
                                                                            briefed to the
                                                             Records
Operational                               Supervise and                     first level of
              Prevent and  AFI 90-802                        maintained                      OC-ALC/SE
Risk                                      Review IAW                        management
              Reduce Risks                                   within each                     (Complex Safety Office)
Management                                AFMCI 90-803                      above the
                                                             organization
                                                                            risk
                                                                            acceptance
                                                                            level
                                          Internal Audits,
                                          Equipment                         Monthly          OC-ALC & 76th
Equipment
              Equipment     AFMCI 21-     Profile Data,                     Equipment        Maintenance Support
Preventive                                                   FEMWEB
              Failures      127           Number of                         Health           Group (76 MXSG)
Maintenance
                                          Manufacturing                     Briefing
                                          Hours
       1.1.3. Determination and Implementation of Action: Determination of what action is
       needed will be based on analysis of potential nonconformity and what would effectively
       eliminate the potential nonconformance. The decision to implement action will take into
       consideration cost of implementation, the severity of the potential nonconformity, and the
       likelihood it will occur.
       1.1.4. Records of Results of Action Taken: Records of result of action taken will be
       IAW specific program guidance and AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records. At a
       minimum the record should include potential nonconformance, action taken to prevent
       nonconformance, name and organization of who took action and date action was taken.
       1.1.5. Verification of Effectiveness: Effectiveness of actions taken outside a specific
       preventive action program shall be verified between 6 to 12 months after action is
       implemented. Effectiveness of actions to prevent occurrence within an established
       program shall be IAW the program’s guidance.
2. Programs Compliance to AS9110B Preventive Action Clause 8.5.3.
   2.1. AFSO21 Compliance with AS9110B Preventive Action Clause 8.5.3. AFSO21
   represents an Air Force model for Continuous Process Improvement (CPI) using various
   methodologies depending on needs of the situation or problem under review. Methodologies
   include Lean, Six Sigma, Theory of Constraints, Problem Solving, and Business Process
   Reengineering. Use of the term “AFSO21 initiatives” within the AFMCI 90-104,
   Implementing AFSO21 Initiatives, encompasses all CPI, problem solving, improvement, and
   change activities conducted across AFMC. An AFSO21 initiative must first have data to
   validate the problem and when the problem is validated, the initiative must focus on the
   identification and elimination of waste, constraints and variation that will result in a positive
   effect cost savings, reduction of cycle time, required resources and improve performance
   and/or product quality. Documented AFSO21 procedures providing the means for
   compliance with the AS9110B clause 8.5.3., a-f are identified below:
       2.1.1. Procedure specified to determine potential nonconformities and their causes
       (a.):
2.1.1.1. Reference AFMCI 90-104, para 6.5.1. The Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC)
AFSO21 Office serves as focal point for all AFSO21 initiatives conducted across the AFSC and
for managing the AFSC portfolio of initiatives. Individual organizations and process owners,
however, are responsible for identifying improvement opportunities, developing those
opportunities into specific improvement initiatives, executing those initiatives, and following up
in a spirit of continuous process improvement.
2.1.1.2. Reference AFMCI 90-104, para 6.5.2.2. Identification and elimination of waste,
constraints and variation on a daily basis in every task and/or process is the responsibility of each
individual in the Complex. Problems essentially equate to improvement opportunities. Secretary
of the Air Force Smart Operations (SAF/SO) implemented a proven, systematic problem-solving
model which serves as the foundation for all Lean, Six Sigma, Theory of Constraints, or other
CPI initiatives within the Air Force. The model is based on a concept known as the OODA
(Observe, Orient, Decide, Act) Loop. The OODA Loop Details are provided in AFSO21
Playbook Volume B, Section one:
OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014                                                                   5


2.1.1.2.1. Observe: Step 1 – Clarify & Validate the Problem.
              2.1.1.2.2. Step 2 – Break Down the Problem / Identify Performance Gaps.
              2.1.1.2.3. Orient: Step 3 – Set Improvement Targets.
              2.1.1.2.4. Step 4 – Determine Root Causes.
              2.1.1.2.5. Decide: Step 5 – Develop Countermeasures.
              2.1.1.2.6. Act: Step 6 – See Countermeasures Through
              2.1.1.2.7. Step 7 – Confirm Results & Process.
              2.1.1.2.8. Step 8 – Standardize Successful Processes.
       2.1.2. Procedure specified to evaluate the need for action to prevent occurrence of
       nonconformities (b. ): There are lean tools to assist in deciding which problems should
       be tackled. These tools are defined in detail in the ASFO21 playbook. They are Strategic
       Alignment and Deployment (SA&D), Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats
       (SWOT) Analysis, Voice of the Customer (VOC), and Value Stream Mapping
       (VSM)/Voice of the Process (VOP), and Go and See. Regardless of the lean tool used,
       data must be used and resulting analysis must validate the need to initiate a CPI event.
       2.1.3. Process specified to determine and implement action needed (c. ):
          2.1.3.1. Reference AFSO21 Playbook Volume B, Section 1. 4: Determine Root
          Causes – There are six tools that can assist the airman in determining the “true” root
          cause. The tools are the 5 Whys, Brain Storming, Pareto Analysis, Affinity
          Diagrams, Fish Bone Diagrams, and Control Charts.
          2.1.3.2. Reference AFSO21 Playbook Volume B, Section 1. 5:                 Develop
          Countermeasures – Guiding Principles when Developing the Countermeasures:
          Whenever possible use AFSO21 Standard Action Plan, Time Line, and Report Out
          templates available in the AFSO21 Playbook. Select the most practical and effective
          countermeasures – use the “Keep it Simple” principle. Create a clear and detailed
          action plan; MOST importantly, build consensus with others by involving all
          stakeholders appropriately. It is imperative that the countermeasure developed is
          based off the true root cause and not a symptom and that the countermeasure will
          error proof the process being worked and prevent recurrence in the future.
          2.1.3.3. Reference AFSO21 Playbook Volume B, Section 1. 6:             See
          Countermeasures Through - There are three key questions the AF leader must
          answer before taking action:
              2.1.3.3.1. Which improvement philosophy best fits my situation? (Lean, Theory
              of Constraints, Six Sigma, Business Process Reengineering).
              2.1.3.3.2. What is the best setting for implementing my solution? (Just Do it,
              Rapid Improvement Event (RIE), Improvement Project). The largest factor in
              determining most appropriate setting is scope of effort required.
              2.1.3.3.3. What process improvement tools are most appropriate? There are
              dozens of tools from which an experienced practitioner can choose. Eight of the
              most universally applicable tools are as follows: sort, straighten, shine,
 6                                                             OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014


              standardize, sustain, safety (6-S) & visual management; standard work; cell
              design; variation reduction; error proofing; quick changeover; total productive
              maintenance (TPM); RIE. Tools should be selected based on how well they
              address the root cause(s) identified in Step Four, “Determine Root Cause(s).”
       2.1.4. Process specified to documentation of records of results of action taken (d. ):
       Reference AFMCI 90-104, para 7.1.4 - CPI-MT Content Organization. Projects are
       organized in CPI-MT under a work tree (a hierarchical structure, much like the Windows
       file system). The root directory, “AFSO21 Projects,” contains two branches: “AF Key
       Processes” and “AF Organization Type & Location.” AFMC is one of the branches
       under “AF Organization Type & Location” and is further decomposed into branches for
       each major installation. HQ AFMC/A8T will create branches for additional installations
       as necessary and, under installations, branches for major organizational elements.
       2.1.5. Process specified to review the effectiveness of the preventive action taken
       (e. ): Reference AFSO21 Playbook Volume B, Section 1.7: Confirm Results and
       Process – Step Seven: Closely mirrors the data collection portion of Step Two
       “Breakdown the Problem and Identify Performance gaps.” Ideally the key process
       indicators and metrics identified in Step Two of the OODA will be all that is needed here.
       The project(s) should be monitored for: performance relative to the baseline developed
       in Steps One and Two; performance relative to B-SMART targets established in Step
       Three; performance relative to where we thought we would be at this stage of the solution
       implementation; If we are not meeting targets by deadlines, do we need to return to Step
       Four determine root cause(s)?
       2.1.6. Process specified to evaluate the need for action based on human factors to
       prevent occurrence of nonconformities (f. ): Reference AFSO21 Playbook Volume
       B, Section 1.4: Determine Root Causes – Inherent in any valid, comprehensive root
       cause analysis, human factors are appropriately considered. Standard analysis tools such
       as Failure Mode Effects Analysis (FEMA) and Cause and Effect diagrams (i.e., fishbone
       or Ishikawa diagrams) provide a systematic means to consider all human factors that may
       contribute to nonconformity.
2.2. OC-ALC Quality Assurance (QA) Compliance with AS9110 Clause 8.5.3. (Preventive
Action): The QA organization shall determine action(s) to eliminate the causes of potential
nonconformities in order to prevent their occurrence. Preventive actions shall be appropriate to
the effects of the potential problems. Documented QA procedures that provide the means for
compliance with the AS9110 Clause 8.5.3. items a-f are identified below:
       2.2.1. Procedure specified to determine potential nonconformities and their causes
       (a): Maintenance quality and equipment reliability is the responsibility of all
       maintenance personnel. The combined efforts of QA personnel, maintenance leaders and
       technicians are necessary to ensure high quality maintenance production and equipment
       reliability. The OC-ALC Quality Assurance program evaluates the quality of
       maintenance accomplished and performs necessary functions to manage the
       Complex/Group’s Maintenance Standardization Evaluation Program (MSEP). The
       MSEP provides an objective sampling of the quality of equipment, the proficiency of
       maintenance personnel, and the compliance of Lead Command and Unit MSEP focus
       areas, programs and processes. The evaluation and analysis of deficiencies and problem
OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014                                                                    7


      areas are key functions of QA that highlight and identify underlying causes of poor
      quality in the maintenance production effort before impacts to the customer occur. These
      efforts are validated based on the requirements of the MSEP and shall be recorded using
      a Lead Command-approved QA database.
      2.2.2. Procedure specified to evaluate the need for action to prevent occurrence of
      nonconformities (b): Quarterly MSEP reviews are designed to evaluate the need for
      actions and ensure adequate numbers of inspections are scheduled to prevent product
      non-conformities and safety issues from occurring.
   2.2.3. Process specified to determine and implement action needed (c): Complex
   Quality Assurance organizations design Quality Assurance Surveillance Plans (QASP) as the
   instrument to determine and implement the plans outlined in the MSEP.
      2.2.4. Process specified to document (records) results of action taken (d): Quality
      assessment data will be documented based on the type of inspection tool utilized.
          2.2.4.1. The Corrective Action Tracking System (CATS) collects AS9110 auditing
          data. Records of non-conformity are recorded on OC-ALC Form IMT 531,
          Corrective Action Request. This data is indexed, filed, and stored in CATS.
          2.2.4.2. The Quality Information Management standard System (QIMSS) database
          collects inspection data from Management, Special and Routine inspections, Quality
          Verification Inspections and Personal Evaluations, as well as isolated violations
          occurrences. Records of conformity and non-conformity are recorded on AFMC
          Form 343, Quality Assurance Assessment. This data is indexed, filed, and stored in
          QIMSS.
      2.2.5. Process specified to review the effectiveness of the preventive action taken
      (e): Data analysis will be performed on all findings (OC-ALC Form 531; AFMC Form
      343) on a recurring basis (monthly, quarterly, and annually) to evaluate trends and
      systemic issues across the OC-ALC and ensure preventive actions are effective.
      2.2.6. Process specified to evaluate the need for action based on human factors to
      prevent occurrence of nonconformities (f): Employee Bill of Rights. To ensure
      nonconformities do not occur, OC-ALC personnel shall be empowered to take
      responsible actions that contribute to safety, quality, and productivity. To make this
      happen, the following employee rights are guaranteed without threat or fear of reprisal:
      The RIGHT to challenge business as usual, the RIGHT to be heard, the RIGHT to expect
      commitment to quality, the RIGHT to place quality before production, and the RIGHT to
      feel genuine pride in OC-ALC products and services. The RIGHT to notify chain of
      command of any conditions that compromise the ability to produce a safe and quality
      built product during the performance of assigned duties.
   2.3. The Organizational Risk Management (ORM) Program Compliance with
   AS9110B Preventive Action Clause 8.5.3. Reference AFPAM 90-803, Risk Management
   (RM) Guidelines and Tools:           Risk Management is a decision-making process to
   systematically evaluate possible courses of action, identify risks and benefits, and determine
   the best course of action for any given situation. AFPAM 90-803 is the process guide for the
   USAF RM program. It provides the definitions, guidelines, procedures and tools for the
   integration and execution of RM. RM enables commanders, functional managers,
8                                                                 OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014


    supervisors and individuals to maximize operational capabilities while limiting all
    dimensions of risk by applying a simple, systematic process appropriate for all personnel and
    functions both on and off-duty. Effective risk management begins at the top with
    commander support and is the responsibility of every person within the chain of command.
    RM is not limited to issues of safety and should be applied to all operations and activities.
    The benefits of ORM include maximizing capabilities while minimizing all associated risks
    in every area of operations. Documented RM procedures that provide the means for
    compliance with the AS9110 Clause 8.5.3. items a-f are identified below:
       2.3.1. Procedure specified to determine potential nonconformities and their causes
       (a): Reference AFPAM 90-803 – Step 1 Identify Hazards - Hazard identification is
       the foundation of the entire ORM process. Obviously if a hazard is not identified it
       cannot be controlled. The effort expended in identifying hazards will have a multiplier
       effect on the impact of the total ORM process. Hazard identification is a three step
       process requiring mission/task analysis, identifying hazards associated with each step of
       the process, and root causes for each. Many tools exist to perform these steps including
       Preliminary Hazard Analysis, Operations Analysis, Logic Diagram and Change Analysis.
       2.3.2. Procedure specified to evaluate the need for action to prevent occurrence of
       nonconformities (b): Reference AFPAM 90-803, – Step 2 Assess Risk - Risk
       assessment is the process which associates “hazards” with “risks”. When we know the
       various impacts a hazard may have on our mission and an estimate of how likely it is to
       occur we can now call the hazard a risk. The second aspect of risk assessment is the
       ranking of risks into a priority order. The number one risk is the one with the greatest
       potential impact on the command mission. The last risk is the least risky issue that still
       may deserve some attention and possible risk control action. Risk assessment is
       accomplished by determining the number of persons/facilities/mission elements exposed
       to the identified hazard, the severity of the impact to people/property/mission and the
       probability of a negative event. These factors are combined into a single designating risk
       assessment in one of the following categories; extremely high, high, medium or low.
       2.3.3. Process specified to determine and implement action needed (c):
           2.3.3.1. Reference AFPAM 90-803, – Step 3 Analyze Control Measures –
           Analyzing the possible control measures is done through a three step process.
           Starting with the highest risks identified all potential control options are identified for
           each hazard. Then each control option is evaluated to determine the effect it will
           have on the hazard. Finally all control options are prioritized to provide direction as
           to actions to be taken.
           2.3.3.2. Reference AFPAM 90-803, – Step 4 Make Control Decisions - Making
           control decisions, involves two major dimensions. The first is the selection of the risk
           controls to actually use from among those developed in the analyze controls step.
           The second is the decision whether or not to accept the residual risk present in a
           mission or project after applying all practical risk controls. The decision maker
           selects the control options after being briefed on all the possible controls. It is not an
           ad hoc decision, but rather is a logical, sequenced part of the risk management
           process. Decisions are made with awareness of hazards and how important hazard
           control is to mission success or failure (cost versus benefit). Control decisions must
OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014                                                                     9


         be made at the appropriate level. The decision maker must be in a position to obtain
         the resources needed to implement the risk controls he or she approves. Usually, the
         earlier in the life of the process that control is implemented, the cheaper it is. When
         making control decisions, it is important to keep in mind the law of diminishing
         returns. There is a point at which it is no longer cost effective to continue applying
         control measures for the small amount of additional return in terms of reduced risk.
         2.3.3.3. Reference AFPAM 90-803, – Step 5 Implement Risk Controls - Once the
         risk control decision is made, assets must be made available to implement the specific
         controls. Part of implementing control measures is informing the personnel in the
         system of the risk management process results and subsequent decisions. If there is a
         disagreement, then the decision makers should provide a rational explanation.
         Careful documentation of each step in the risk management process facilitates risk
         communication and the rational processes behind risk management decisions.
      2.3.4. Process specified to document (records) results of action taken (d): Reference
      AFPAM 90-803, 5: When a decision is made to assume risk, the factors involved in this
      decision should be recorded. Documentation of RM assessments includes the hazards
      identified, the initial risk index associated with each hazard, mitigating measures for each
      hazard, the residual risk index associated with each hazard, implementation methods for
      all mitigating measures and measurement methods to ensure mitigating methods are
      maintained and adequate. All documented assessments shall include appropriate risk
      assessment level signature.
      2.3.5. Process specified to review the effectiveness of the preventive action taken
      (e): Reference AFPAM 90-803, – Step 6 Supervise and Review - Supervising and
      review involves the determination of the effectiveness of risk controls throughout the
      operation. This step involves three aspects. The first is monitoring the effectiveness of
      risk controls. The second is determining the need for further assessment of either all or a
      portion of the operation due to an unanticipated change as an example. The last is the
      need to capture lessons-learned, both positive and negative, so that they may be a part of
      future activities of the same or similar type.
      2.3.6. Process specified to evaluate the need for action based on human factors to
      prevent occurrence of nonconformities (f): Reference AFPAM 90-803, para 11.3.1
      Man is the area of greatest variability and thus the majority of risks of the four basic
      cause factors (man, media, machine, and management). Below are human factors listed
      to consider in the AFI 90-201, Special Management guidelines.
         2.3.6.1. Selection: Right person psychologically/physically, trained in event
         proficiency, procedural guidance, and habit pattern.
         2.3.6.2. Performance: Awareness, perceptions, task saturation, distraction,
         channelized attention, stress, peer pressure, confidence, insight, adaptive skills,
         pressure/workload and fatigue (physical, motivational, sleep deprivation, circadian
         rhythm).
         2.3.6.3. Personal Factors: Expectancies, job satisfaction, values, families/friends,
         command/control, discipline (internal and external), perceived pressure (over tasking)
         and communication skills.
10                                                          OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014


  2.4. The Preventive Maintenance Program Compliance with AS9110 Preventive Action
  Clause 8.5.3: Reference AFMCI 21-127, Depot Maintenance Plant Management. Work
  performed by the 76th Maintenance Support Group (76 MXSG) falls into the following
  general categories: Repair, Project Work, Direct Product, Preventive and Predictive
  Maintenance which is the area of focus for preventive action. Preventive and Predictive
  Maintenance is work planned and performed to protect the capability of equipment by
  removing the cause of failure and making adjustments for normal wear before failure occurs.
  This work is performed on a predetermined time schedule. Documented Preventive and
  Predictive Maintenance procedures providing means for compliance with AS9110B, Clause
  8.5.3. items a-f are identified below:
     2.4.1. Procedure specified to determine potential non-conformities and their causes
     (a): Reference AFMCI 21-127, Chapter 2 - The 76 MXSG, with the aid of the
     production groups, determines which equipment to be included in the preventive
     maintenance (PM) and predictive maintenance (PDM) programs managed by industrial
     services. Equipment such as numerically-controlled machine tools, lathes, milling
     machines, boring machines, surface grinders, breathing air systems, hoists test stands,
     etc., must be capable of producing to specific tolerances, normally requires specific PM
     or PDM, in addition to operator maintenance (OM).
     2.4.2. Procedure specified to evaluate the need for action to prevent occurrence of
     nonconformities (b): Reference AFMCI 21-127, Section 2. Maintenance Program
     Criteria. Criteria is applied to determine if equipment will be included in the
     maintenance management PM or PDM program (e.g., Equipment creating an unsafe or
     hazardous environment if failure occurred, due to lack of PM or PDM, will be included;
     Equipment subject to breakdown repairs that are expensive compared to PM or PDM will
     be included). Refer to AFMCI 21-127, section 2 for specific guidance.
     2.4.3. Process specified to determine and implement action needed (c): Reference
     AFMCI 21-127, Section 2. The 76 MXSG equipment specialists prepare PM
     instructions. Maintenance technical orders, manufacturer’s recommendations, and
     judgment/historical data are used to determine action and implementation needed.
     Implementation is initiated through work control documents generated by Facilities and
     Equipment Maintenance (FEM) system.
     2.4.4. Process specified to document (records) results of action taken (d): Reference
     AFMCI 21-127, Section 2 and OC-ALCI 21-203, Equipment Maintenance/Inspection
     and Documentation, Chapter 3 - The FEM system is an approved AF Computerized
     Maintenance Management System (CMMS). The system is used to track Depot
     Industrial Plant Equipment (DIPE) records and maintenance history accomplished by the
     76th Maintenance Support Squadron (76 MXSS) or contractor on DIPE. For non-DIPE
     and on condition maintenance (OCM), FEM can also be used to document corrective
     maintenance work orders.
     2.4.5. Process specified to review the effectiveness of the preventive action taken
     (e): Reference OC-ALCI 21-203, Section 2. Besides being a PA predictive
     maintenance work is used as review of effectiveness of PM PAs. PDM work is a
     diagnostic process of using electrical and mechanical testing and diagnostic devices to
     predict when a piece of equipment is deviating from its normal operating parameters. It
OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014                                                                     11


      is also designed to protect equipment capability and investment by removing causes of
      failure and making adjustment to compensate for normal wear before failure or an unsafe
      condition occurs. The PDM team will provide necessary trending data and analytical
      reports to management and initiate a work order in the FEM system. Another measure of
      effectiveness of the PM actions taken is determined by the availability of equipment
      through the next scheduled PM. The preventive maintenance schedule is adjusted as
      required.
      2.4.6. Process specified to evaluate the need for action based on human factors to
      prevent occurrence of nonconformities (f): Preventive Maintenance program should
      evaluate the need for action based on human factors through assessing possible safety
      hazards, operator capabilities, and evaluate safety features, such as; guard rails, fail safe
      shut offs, and mistake proofing features.
3. Records. Records shall be maintained and must be controlled as required per AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records and shall be retained IAW applicable AFRIMS table and rule.




                                            DONALD E. KIRKLAND
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 12                                                          OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management,26 July 2010
AFI 21-101_AFMCSUP 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 April 2012
AFI 21-101_OC-ALCSUP I, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 22 November
2013
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 2 August 2013
AFI 90-802, Risk Management, 11 Feb 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM 90-803, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools, 14 Dec 2000
AFMCI 21-127, Depot Maintenance Plant Management, 23 Jun 2005
AFMCI 90-104, Implementing AFSO21 Initiatives, 29 Sep 2008
AFMCI 90-902, Operational Risk Management, 10 Dec 2007
OC-ALCI 90-120, Internal Audit System, 20 Nov 2013
OC-ALCI 21-127, Facility Standards and Procedures, 12 July 2012
OC-ALCI 21-203, Equipment Maintenance/Inspection and Documentation, 12 Jul 2012
OC-ALCI 90-420, Corrective Action Tracking System, 5 May 2013
OC-ALCMAN 90-107, OC-ALC Quality Manual, 29 Oct 2013
AS9110B, Quality Maintenance Systems-Aerospace-Requirements for Maintenance
Organizations, April 2012
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AFMC Form 343, Quality Assurance Assessment
OC-ALC Form 531, Corrective Action Request

Abbreviations and Acronyms
6-S—Sort, Straighten, Shine, Standardize, Sustain, Safety
72ABW/SE—72d Air Base Wing Safety Office
76 MXSG—76th Maintenance Support Group
76 MXSS—76th Maintenance Support Squadron
76 SMXG—76th Software Maintenance Group
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014                                 13


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Sustainment Center
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations
CATS—Corrective Action Tracking System
CMMS—Computerized Maintenance Management System
CPI—Continuous Process Improvement
DIPE—Depot Industrial Plant Equipment
FEM—Facilities and Equipment Maintenance
FMEA—Failure Mode Effects Analysis
IAW—In Accordance With
MSEP—Maintenance Standardization Evaluation Program
OC—ALC – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex
OC—ALCI – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex Instruction
OODA—Observe, Orient, Decide, Act
OM—Operator Maintenance
OCM—On Condition Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PA—Preventive Action
PDM—Predictive Maintenance
PM—Preventive Maintenance
QA—Quality Assurance
QASP—Quality Assurance Surveillance Plans
QIMSS—Quality Information Management standard System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIE—Rapid Improvement Events
RM—Risk Management
SA&D—Strategic Alignment and Deployment
 14                                                               OC-ALCI90-115 16 April 2014


SAF/SO—Secretary of the Air Force Smart Operations
SWOT—Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats
TPM—Total Production Maintenance
VOC—Voice of the Customer
VOP—Voice of the Process
VSM—Value Stream Mapping
VPP—Voluntary Protection Programs

Terms
Adequate Response— A response to preventive action request will include, as a minimum, a
root cause analysis of the potential non-conformity. In addition, if the potential non-conformity
is discovered, then a PA plan including milestones and estimated completion dates will be
included. Any other type of answer will be considered inadequate.
B—SMART – B -Balanced, S-Specific, M-Measured, A-Attainable, R-Relevant, T-Timely
Human Factors:—Recognition that personnel performing tasks are affected by physical fitness,
physiological characteristics, personality, stress, fatigue, distraction, communication and attitude.
Management Review— A senior management (wing/directorate and command level) meeting
intended to review the overall effectiveness of the quality management system with regard to the
stated quality objectives.
Nonconformity— Non-fulfillment of a requirement
Preventive Action— Action to eliminate the cause of a potential nonconformity or other
undesirable potential situation (before they occur).
Preventive Action Plan— An established plan of action identified by the audited area and its
management to correct potential nonconformity found.
Preventive Action Analysis— The analysis of preventive action data, which precludes a
preventive action request, conducted to discover potential sources of nonconformance.
Root Cause— The basic reason(s) for an undesirable situation or problem that if eliminated or
corrected, will prevent nonconformity from reoccurring.
