BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS
OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS                                      COMPLEX MANUAL 90-107
COMPLEX
                                                                                      15 MAY 2014

                                                                              Special Management

                                                                   OC-ALC QUALITY MANUAL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available digitally on the e-publishing web site
               at: https://www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication


OPR: OC-ALC/QAB                                                          Certified by: OC-ALC/QA
                                                                                 (Mr. Dan McCabe)
                                                                                          Pages: 24
Supersedes:    OC-ALCMAN 90-107,
               5 May 2013


This manual addresses the requirements of the following standards: International Organization
for Standardization (ISO) 9001:2008, Quality Maintenance Systems – Requirements, Society of
Automotive Engineers (SAE) Aerospace Standard (AS) AS9110B, Quality Maintenance Systems
– Aerospace – Requirements for Aviation Maintenance Organizations. This manual applies to
all Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex (OC-ALC) excluding 76th Software Maintenance
Group (76 SMXG). The manual does not include Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air
National Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, which may be obtained from the AF ePublications
web site. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This manual is available in
electronic media only. It may be obtained from the AF e-publishing web site. It is the
responsibility of the user to ensure they are working with the most current version.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Minor formatting and administrative changes only.
 2                                                                                    OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


        1.      Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    2
Figure 1.       OC-ALC Quality and Safety Policy ......................................................................                      3
        2.      References. .............................................................................................................    3
        3.      Resources, Terms, Acronyms and Their Definitions. ............................................                               3
        4.      Quality Management System. ................................................................................                  3
        5.      Management Responsibility. ..................................................................................                5
        6.      Resource Management. ..........................................................................................              8
        7.      Product Realization. ...............................................................................................        10
        8.      Measurement, Analysis and Improvement. ...........................................................                          14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              17

Attachment 2—OC-ALCVA 90-107, ORGANIZATION PROCESS FLOW                                                                                     24


1. Introduction.
     1.1. General. This manual describes the Quality Management System utilized by OC-ALC
     to consistently provide conforming product, meet statutory and regulatory requirements and
     enhance customer satisfaction.
     1.2. QMS Scope. OC-ALC depot organizations accomplishing overhaul/repair/modification
     of military aircraft, aircraft components, and aerospace engines for the Department of
     Defense (DoD) weapon systems and support activities.
     1.3. Application. Limitations to scope of certification and exclusions to the standard are as
     follows:
        1.3.1. Limitation to Certification Scope: 76 SMXG is excluded due to holding its own
        ISO software certification complying with requirements of ISO 9001:2008 and is carried
        out the TickIT certification program.
     1.3.2. Exclusions to AS9110B:
             1.3.2.1. The Complex does not have Cognizant Engineering Authority. It resides in
             the Life Cycle Management Center (LCMC), which is not part of the Complex.
             Exclude clause 7.3. (Design and Development)
             1.3.2.2. The OC-ALC has neither responsibility nor authority to select, approve, or
             reapprove suppliers. These activities are conducted by various AF organizations
             outside of the OC-ALC control, which include but are not limited to the contracting
             directorate and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). Therefore only
             paragraph 7.4.1.c. applies with exclusion to the remainder of clause 7.4.1. This
             exclusion does not affect the organization’s ability or responsibility to provide
             products meeting customer and/or regulatory requirements.
     1.4. OC-ALC Quality and Safety Policy. Figure 1.4. OC-ALC Quality and Safety Policy
     provides a point of reference for the Complex missions, goals and objectives.
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                               3


Figure 1. OC-ALC Quality and Safety Policy

            OC-ALC Quality and Safety Policy

  One Team, One Mission…Committed Excellence through
    standard processes continuously improving safety,
       quality, and production to deliver and sustain
                airpower…anytime…anyplace


2. References. Required and related publications supporting corresponding ISO clauses are
identified on a Documentation Matrix (DM) available on the Complex Quality Office (OC-
ALC/QA) enterprise information management (EIM) site. This matrix clearly shows the
corresponding relationship between the AS9110B clauses and the supporting documentation.
3. Resources, Terms, Acronyms and Their Definitions. Definitions given in AS9110B apply.
For additional terms, acronyms and definitions refer to Attachment 1.
4. Quality Management System.
   4.1. General Requirements. OC-ALC has established, documented, and implemented the
   QMS which is represented by this manual and continually improves its effectiveness IAW
   the requirements of AS9110B. For Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) part 145
   workload performed in the OC-ALC, refer to the OC-ALC Repair Station Manuals.
   Questions concerning FAA part 145 workload should be addressed to the OC-ALC Repair
   Station Accountable Manager located in OC-ALC/QA. For a visual depiction of the
   interrelated processes at OC-ALC see OC-ALC Visual Aid (OC-ALCVA) 90-107,
   Organization Process Flow, Attachment 2.
      4.1.1. OC-ALC Facilities. OC-ALC operates its production, maintenance, engineering,
      and support facilities at Tinker Air Force Base (TAFB), Oklahoma. The complex has
      identified its enterprise processes and determined their sequence and interaction. The
      complex ensures the availability of resources and information necessary to support the
      operation and monitoring of these processes. Analysis of the monitoring and measuring
      of results will drive necessary actions to achieve planned results and continual
      improvement.
      4.1.2. Organizational Processes. The OC-ALC Enterprise Process owners are 76th
      Aircraft Maintenance Group (76 AMXG), 76th Commodities Maintenance Group (76
      CMXG), 76th Propulsion Maintenance Group (76 PMXG), 76th Maintenance Support
      Group (76 MXSG), Business Operations (OB), Financial Management (FM), Director of
      Staff (DS), Safety (SE), Technical Director Engineering (EN), and Quality Assurance
      (QA). Management is responsible for identifying their business processes and knowing
      how they sequence and interact with other associated QMS processes. Also, individual
      process owners are responsible for knowing how their processes sequence and interact
      with other related processes. It is recommended that process owners utilize process
      mapping as a means to demonstrate process identification and interaction.
      4.1.3. Outsourced Processes. Where OC-ALC chooses to out-source processes that
      affect product conformity with requirements, it shall ensure control over them. These
4                                                       OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


       controls shall be identified within the QMS. The requirements are governed by Federal
       Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Defense Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS),
       Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS), DoD directives
       (DoDDs), and AF 63- and 64-series.
    4.2. Documentation Requirements.
       4.2.1. General. This OC-ALC Quality Manual contains the Quality and Safety Policy
       and the scope of the Complex’s QMS. The manual identifies the OC-ALC Quality and
       Safety objectives, references documented procedures, and records required by OC-ALC
       and AS9110B.
          4.2.1.1. OC-ALC ensures personnel have access to QMS documentation and are
          aware of relevant procedures.
          4.2.1.2. QMS documentation includes any requirements imposed by applicable
          regulatory Authorities. IAW contract or regulatory requirements, OC-ALC shall
          coordinate document changes with customers and/or authorities. Customer and/or
          regulatory authority representatives shall have access to all QMS documentation.
       4.2.2. OC-ALCMAN 90-107, Quality Manual (QM). OC-ALCMAN 90-107 is
       established and managed by OC-ALC/QAB. This manual is maintained as an official
       publication and is available on AF e-publishing.
       4.2.3. Official Documents. All OC-ALC documentation is reviewed, approved and
       maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Publications and Forms Management (publishing
       website). For work governed by the OC-ALC Repair Station Manuals, the accountable
       manager is responsible for making/approving changes and forwarding the revisions to the
       FAA/Flight Standards District Office (FSDO) for review and acceptance. The revisions
       will be implemented immediately. This ensures documents are current, available, and
       removed when invalid or obsolete.
          4.2.3.1. Work Control Documents (WCDs). WCDs are maintained IAW AFI21-
          101_AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP and local organizational instructions. WCDs are
          initiated, controlled, and maintained by the Inventory Tracking System (ITS) or
          through the Programmed Depot Maintenance Scheduling System (PDMSS).
          4.2.3.2. Maintenance, Revision, Change, or Supplementation of Technical Orders
          (TOs) and Process Orders (POs). The documented procedure for changing technical
          data is located in and accomplished IAW TO 00-5-1, Air Force Technical Order
          System and TO 00-5-3, Air Force Technical Order Life Cycle Management (TO
          viewing library - internal) and POs IAW AFI21-101_AFMCISUP, Aircraft and
          Equipment Maintenance Management.
          4.2.3.3. Availability and Distribution of Documentation.          Documents and
          Information Management Tools (IMTs) or forms used to support activities of the
          QMS shall be controlled. Availability of documentation is generally obtained from
          AF, AFMC, AFSC and OC-ALC EIM sites. When obtained, the documentation is
          considered official and represents the most recent version. Printed copies may be
          made for user reference. IAW TO 00-5-1 and IAW AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_OC-
          ALCSUP. Printed copies may only be used after verifying their currency. Document
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                                   5


          OPRs and Publications/Forms managers are responsible for ensuring the latest
          version is posted to appropriate web site. Documents referenced in this manual (e.g.,
          AF, AFMC, AFSC, Tinker and OC-ALC) are available on the AF e-publishing web
          site link: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/. Organizational Publications/Forms
          Managers are responsible for maintaining current organizational publications and
          forms.
          4.2.3.4. Web Content. OC-ALC and AF Portal web site’s content is considered
          controlled documentation. Web content shall be managed to ensure currency and
          accuracy IAW AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use and TINKERAFBI
          33-129, Communications and Information Web Management.
          4.2.3.5. Master List/Index. A master list/index of documentation shall be maintained
          at each organizational level where documents and or forms are generated (e.g., unit,
          section, branch, division, and complex). It will indicate the document/form number,
          title, OPR, release date, and last review date. It will be available electronically on
          each organization’s web page or other media accessible to its personnel. It shall be
          updated as revisions or cancellations to documents are made or new documents
          published.
          4.2.3.6. Information Management Tools (IMTs) or Forms. AFMAN 33-363
          establishes the policy for developing and managing IMTs/forms. IMT forms are
          available              on            Tinker              Homepage              Link:
          https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/tafbforms/Docs/HTM/electronicIMTs.htm.
          Documents referenced in this manual (e.g., AF, AFTO, DD, AFMC, and OC-ALC)
          are available on the e-publishing web site link: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
      4.2.4. Control of Records. Completed IMTs are considered records. Records are
      maintained to demonstrate conformance to QMS requirements and shall be managed
      IAW AFMAN 33-363 and AFI 33-322, Records Management Program.
          4.2.4.1. Retention of Records. Electronic and hardcopy records are retained IAW
          their governing directives and guidance available in AFRIMS database.
          4.2.4.2. Supplier Records. Records generated by government contracts shall be IAW
          FAR,4.805, Storage, Handling, and Disposal of Contract Files, FAR web site and
          AFRIMS database is located at e-publishing web site. Subject records shall be
          available for review and audit.
5. Management Responsibility.
   5.1. Management Commitment. OC-ALC is set up as a multi-level/tiered organization.
   Complex, Group, and Squadron organization commanders/directors are responsible for their
   respective organizations. They report to the next level up with the Commander, Vice
   Director and/or Deputy Commander of Maintenance having overall authority. Together they
   comprise the Complex’s top management. Management supports the QMS by providing the
   resources for its development and implementation. Top management is instrumental in the
   development and communication of the quality/safety policy and the establishment of OC-
   ALC’s goals and objectives. Management conducts reviews of the QMS.
6                                                        OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


    5.2. Customer Focus. Top management ensures customer needs, expectations, and
    requirements are determined and fulfilled with the aim of enhancing customer satisfaction.
    This is accomplished by communicating the importance of meeting customer, statutory and
    regulatory requirements throughout the complex. Customer requirement metrics are
    reviewed and communicated to the customer during management/performance production
    meetings.
    5.3. Quality Policy. The OC-ALC Quality and Safety Policy (Figure 1.4.) applies to all
    civilian employees and military personnel. This statement embodies the very essence of our
    support to our customers; establishes the framework for setting and reviewing the complex
    quality and safety objectives; and provides a commitment to improve the QMS.
       5.3.1. Communication.     The quality/safety policy is communicated across the
       organization via banners, email, bulletins, and other forms of communication. All
       employees are expected to understand this policy and how it applies to them and their
       work. The policy is reviewed annually and documented in the employees AF Form 971,
       Supervisor’s Employee Brief, folder.
       5.3.2. Review. The quality/safety policy is reviewed for suitability and adequacy as
       directed by top management.
    5.4. Planning.
       5.4.1. Quality Objectives. OC-ALC has set its quality objectives to meet customer
       contractual requirements (delivery schedules, product quality) and strive to accomplish
       continuous process improvement (CPI).
       5.4.2. QMS Planning. Top management ensures planning of the QMS is carried out in
       order to meet requirements of AS9110B, AF regulations, and complex quality objectives.
       The integrity of the QMS is monitored through management review. When changes are
       made or should changes to the system be planned, management is responsible for
       ensuring risk assessments are accomplished and necessary resources allocated to maintain
       the integrity of the QMS. Top management, may establish requirements for groups
       relating to QMS planning within their respective organizations. As a minimum, group
       top management shall:
           5.4.2.1. Appoint organizational approval authority (OAA) as contact point/facilitator
           for validation of identified QMS deficiencies and changes. OAA duties are as stated
           in OCALCI 90-420, Corrective Action Tracking System (CATS) and OC-ALCI 90-
           120, Internal Audit System.
           5.4.2.2. Ensure quality planning, to include Risk Management (RM), is accomplished
           as appropriate to their organization given changes to the Complex QMS.
       5.4.3. Complex Safety Objectives:
           5.4.3.1. Product Safety: Achieve safe products through conformance to applicable
           technical data and prescribed publications. The objectives are measured by the
           quality assurance surveillance plan (QASP), routine inspections (RIs), management
           inspections (MIs), special inspections (SIs) quality verification inspections (QVIs),
           personnel evaluation (PEs), and trend analysis based on quality deficiency reports
           (QDRs).
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                                        7


         5.4.3.2. Personnel Safety: Ensure a safe and healthy work environment through
         adherence to Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) and Air Force
         Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) standards. The objectives are measured by
         various processes including, but not limited to: Total Incident Case Rate (TICR),
         Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (DART), and personnel safety.
  5.5. Responsibility, Authority, and Communication.
     5.5.1. Responsibility and Authority. The QMS regulations, instructions, and process
     documents define the responsibilities and authorities for the Complex enterprise
     processes (para 4.1.2.). Direct lines of authority are reflected in OC-ALC organization
     chart located on the OC-ALC website.
         5.5.1.1. Accountable Executive Manager. The Complex Commander appoints by
         letter the Accountable Executive Manager who has the authority to ensure all ordered
         maintenance can be financed, the necessary resources obtained, and all ordered
         maintenance completed IAW all organization, customer and relevant authority
         requirements (appointee located on OC-ALC website).
         5.5.1.2. Maintenance Manager. The Complex Commander appoints by letter the
         Maintenance Manager who has responsibility for assuring all maintenance required is
         carried out IAW OC-ALC, customer and relevant authority requirements.
     5.5.2. Management Representative. The Complex Commander appoints by letter the
     management representative for the Complex as defined in AS9110B (Appointee located
     on OC-ALC web site). The management representative ensures processes comprising the
     QMS are established and maintained; performance and improvement needs are reported
     to top management during the management reviews; and acts as the OPR for the review
     and maintenance of this manual. As revisions to the AS are first introduced, the
     management representative will ensure an action plan is implemented to update the QMS
     and the quality manual.
         5.5.2.1. Authority. The management representative has the organizational freedom
         to resolve matters pertaining to quality and promotes awareness of customer
         requirements throughout the organization.
     5.5.3. Internal Communication. Top management ensures communication channels are
     established within the organization and communication takes place regarding the
     effectiveness of the QMS by conducting management reviews, communicating customer
     requirements, measuring QMS effectiveness, and publicizing accomplishments.
  5.6. Management Review (MR).
     5.6.1. General.     Management Review The MR is a multi-level/tiered process
     incorporating reviews held at the Complex, Group, and Squadron levels. Each
     organization is responsible for their portion of the Complex objectives and reporting to
     their commander/director the health of each. Records of these reviews will be maintained
     at the respective multi-level/tier relevant to the tier (e.g., e-mails, briefing charts, sign-in
     sheets, etc.).
     5.6.2. Review Input. The review includes, but is not limited to, results of audits
     occurring since the last review, customer and other external feedback, data and
 8                                                          OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


        information regarding the performance of processes and the conformance of products,
        status of any preventive and corrective actions, follow-up actions from earlier
        management reviews, planned changes that could affect the QMS, recommendations for
        improvement, product safety, achievement, adequacy, and effectiveness of the personnel
        training programs and changes to authority requirements that could impact the
        organization.
            5.6.2.1. Level of Briefing. All open Corrective Action Requests (CARs) shall be
            briefed at the level to which the finding was issued (i.e., complex, group, or squadron.
            CARs identified during external/internal complex-level audits will be included in the
            QA’s quarterly MR. These CARs are to be considered open action items until closed
            and subject briefings shall include the Corrective Action Plan (CAP), to include
            milestones if implementation period is over 180 days and implementation progress to
            date.
            5.6.2.2. Corrective Action Status. Open CARs issued at the group level and below
            will be briefed monthly to management at the level the CAR was issued. Complex-
            level and below MR briefings will include, at a minimum, the planned completion
            date, current status, and if implementation period is over 180 days, include CAP with
            milestones and mitigation actions taken during implementation of CAP.
        5.6.3. Review Output. The results of management reviews include decisions and actions
        related to improvement of the QMS effectiveness and its processes, improvement of
        product related to customer requirements, and resource needs.
     5.7. Safety Policy. The Complex Quality/Safety policy (Figure 1.4.) is appropriate to the
     purpose of the OC-ALC. It fosters compliance with a commitment to continuously improve,
     is measurable and communicated throughout the organization by means of banners, internet,
     newspaper, etc., and is reviewed on a regular basis.
6. Resource Management.
     6.1. Provision of Resources. OC-ALC determines and provides resources needed to
     implement and improve QMS effectiveness and to ensure customer satisfaction by meeting
     customer requirements. Tools, tech data, facilities, materials, and qualified personnel are
     continually assessed to ensure safe completion of maintenance activities.
     6.2. Human Resources.
        6.2.1. General. Competency of all personnel performing work affecting product quality
        at OC-ALC is evaluated on the basis of applicable education, training, experience and
        demonstrated skills. Persons requiring authority certification shall meet and maintain
        applicable eligibility requirements. Non-certified personnel, who are performing
        maintenance operations are closely supervised and the work is approved by certified
        personnel.
        6.2.2. Competence, Awareness and Training. Quality civilian training and development
        programs are essential in maximizing the efficiency of civilian employees in the
        performance of their jobs.
            6.2.2.1. Basic policies for identifying and conducting civilian training and education
            to ensure organizational, occupational, and individual performance requirements can
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                                     9


         be found in AFI36-401, Employee Training and Development, AFI36-
         2232_AFMCSUP, Maintenance Training and AFI36-2232_AFMCSUP_OC-
         ALCSUP, Maintenance Training. To ensure employees are able to adequately
         perform the responsible duties defined in their job descriptions, supervisors will
         identify tasks to be performed, required training and maintain records of individual
         competencies.
         6.2.2.2. Specific guidelines governing the minimum requirements and the
         standardized criteria for maintenance training related to product can be found in
         AFI21-101_AFMCSUP and AFI36-2232_AFMCSUP. For training requirements
         dealing with FAA repair station workload, refer to the OC-ALC Repair Station
         Training Manual (OC-ALC/QA EIM site). The organization maintains records of
         education, training, skills, experience and certification as appropriate to job
         requirements. Employees are made aware of the relevance and importance of their
         activities and how they contribute to achieving the complex quality goals and
         objectives through the use of plasma screens, shop media, shop meetings, etc. Job
         duties and responsibilities along with the knowledge, skills and abilities required are
         outlined in detailed job descriptions specific to individual jobs on AF Form 1003, Air
         Force Core Personnel Document
         6.2.2.3. Semi-annual and annual performance reviews are conducted for all OC-ALC
         personnel and are maintained in their AF Form 971.
         6.2.2.4. Human Factors. OC-ALC recognizes personnel performing maintenance
         tasks are affected by certain human factors such as physical fitness, physiological
         characteristics, personality, stress, fatigue, distraction, communication, and attitude.
         The 72d Medical Group, under the 72d Air Base Wing (72 ABW), provides personnel
         services at the occupational medicine facility and a health and wellness Center, which
         addresses some human factors (72 AMDS web site). Elements of human factors are
         continually evaluated and training provided. Examples of training include human
         factors computer based training, job safety training (JST), wingman program
         (including wingman boldface), quarterly safety briefings, bio-environmental surveys,
         hazard communication (HAZCOM) program and recurring training requirements
         (RTR). Elements are tailored to each work center based on workplace hazards and
         weapon system engineering requirements. Supervisors must be able to provide
         evidence of applicable training elements in their area. AFI 91-203, Consolidated
         Occupational Safety Instruction and Activities, along with general and weapon
         specific TOs incorporate human factors notes and warnings.
  6.3. Infrastructure. OC-ALC determines, provides and maintains the infrastructure needed
  to achieve conformity to product requirements. Acquiring and maintaining infrastructure,
  which includes facilities and equipment, provides the foundation for complex operations.
  Acquisition and maintenance of facilities primarily comes under the purview of 72 ABW/CE,
  which oversees all real property requirements. This includes: buildings, workspace
  utilization, associated utilities, and supporting services. Equipment assets facilities planning
  associated with product realization is under the purview of the OC-ALC. The Plant
  Management organization tracks and maintains plant and industrial equipment assets used in
  support of product realization. Facility and equipment maintenance is a combination of
 10                                                      OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


   contractor/in house activity. When work is performed away from OC-ALC it is incumbent
   on the customer to provide suitable facilities where the work will be accomplished.
   6.4. Work Environment and Safety. Work environment is the set of conditions under which
   work is performed. OC-ALC strives to maintain a work environment that is safe and
   contributes to the productivity of the workforce while achieving product requirements. This
   includes appropriate controls on temperature, humidity, lighting, cleanliness, protections
   from electrostatic discharge, noise, etc. Other factors addressed are tool control, foreign
   object/dropped object damage control, aerospace ground equipment usage, special tooling/
   fixtures, fuels storage/handling, ergonomics, protective equipment, safety guidelines and
   non-destructive inspection areas. Complex will determine and implement the appropriate
   work environment to support operations, management and administration activities.
7. Product Realization.
   7.1. Planning of Product Realization. OC-ALC plans and develops product processes and
   the associated documentation which facilitates product realization. Each organization is
   responsible for providing evidence of the effectiveness of their processes. This is
   accomplished by providing evidence (records) resources are planned for concerning the
   realization of product, as well as the process and product itself meeting quality/safety goals
   and objectives and customer requirements that have been established AFI21-
   101_AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP, AFMCI 21-156, Operational Workloading, Planning and
   Scheduling Control, AFMCI 21-129, Depot Maintenance Management, Depot Repair
   Enhancement Process (DREP), and AFMCI 21-133, Depot Maintenance Management for
   Aircraft Repair.
      7.1.1. Project Management. This is accomplished by the respective System Program
      Office in support from the Maintenance Complex.
      7.1.2. Risk Management. All organizations within the complex perform their piece of
      product realization planning are required to use the guidance found in the Air Force Risk
      Management (RM) program, Air Force Policy Directive 91-2, Safety Programs and AFI
      90-802, Risk Management. Risks are identified and addressed at each appropriate level
      through self assessment programs, management meetings, production meetings, Quality
      Assurance Surveillance Plans (QASPs), routine internal and external audit briefings, and
      management review. Note: Product risk is managed by the customer using safety
      guidance found in Mil Std 882D Standard Practice for System Safety (IHS site), AFMCI
      63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
      Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE).
      7.1.3. Configuration Management (CM). CM is accomplished by adhering to customer
      requirements through implementation of project directives, statements of work, technical
      data/guidance, which are owned and controlled by LCMC. The complex uses WCDs and
      applicable information systems, e.g., Comprehensive Engine Management Systems
      (CEMS), Reliability and Maintainability Information System (REMIS), to support CM.
      7.1.4. Control of Work Transfers. OC-ALC uses the guidance found in AFI 63-101/20-
      101, Integrated Life Cycle Management for the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) process,
      AFMCI 21-156, to transfer work internally and externally. Instructions are located on
      AF e-Publishing web site.
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                                  11


  7.2. Customer-Related Processes.
     7.2.1. Determination of Requirements Related to Product. Requirements and any
     associated risks (e.g., new technology, short delivery time scale) are reviewed with the
     customer to ensure needs, expectations, cost/price, schedule, and other parameters that
     impact product quality, customer acceptance, customer satisfaction and risks are mutually
     understood and achievable. Requirements related to the product are supplied by the
     customer through project directives, work specifications, memorandum of
     agreements/understandings Requirements not identified by the customer but necessary
     for specified or intended use will be addressed, where known. Determination of
     applicable statutory and regulatory requirements will be addressed (reference FAR Part
     44, maintenance contracts include the scope of work, delivery requirements and
     requirements regarding subcontracting of work).
         7.2.1.1. Partnering. OC-ALC partnership workload with non-government entities
         will have authorizations and responsibilities listed in the associated Partnership and
         Implementation Agreements (PA & IA). For agreements with other government
         entities, the authorizations and responsibilities will be listed in the Depot
         Maintenance Inter-service Agreement (DMISA), Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)
         or Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
     7.2.2. Review of Requirements Related to Product. The pre-production planning team
     (PPPT) accomplishes the product requirements review. The review includes the
     following: statement of work, planned workload processes, risk management,
     contracting, purchasing, scheduling, inventory management, and/or control functions,
     correspondence, customer requirements, contractual requirements, delivery requirements,
     workload negotiations, including pre-quotation activities (i.e., rough order of magnitudes,
     etc.),and other functions as required. Guidance for this planning process is AFMCI 21-
     156, which includes records.
     7.2.3. Customer Communication. System Program Office (SPOs) are the focal point of
     communications between the Complex and MAJCOMs. Communication between the
     production planning team (PPT) and the SPOs handles/resolves any product information,
     enquiries, contracts, order handling, including amendments. (Communication is via work
     specification review, routine production/planning meetings).         Customer feedback
     (negative) shall be entered into the Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS) IAW TO
     00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution.
  7.3. Design and Development (D&D). See Paragraph 1.3.1. for exclusion.
  7.4. Purchasing. The directorate of Contracting is responsible for ensuring compliance with
  statutory and regulatory requirements (e.g., DDFARS, and AFFARS[all FARSite web site]),
  implementing procurement and contracting policy and directives, and for exercising
  applicable fiscal and administrative controls over the entire procurement function which is
  outside OC-ALC’s area of authority/responsibility.
     7.4.1. Purchasing Process. See Paragraph 1.3.2.2. for exclusion information. The
     Complex shall comply with requirements of TO 00-35D-54, when receiving
     parts/material from suppliers which do not meet specified requirements.
12                                                      OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


     7.4.2. Purchasing Information. The complex ensures requisitions adequately describe
     the products to be procured prior to request. This typically includes the nomenclature,
     part number and/or stock number.
     7.4.3. Verification of Purchased Product.
     7.4.3.1. OC-ALC, through the various supply documents (e.g., DD Form 1348-1A,
     Issue/Receive Document, supply status tags, certificate of conformance (CoC), etc.),
     verifies product received meets order requirements. This may include inspections, tests,
     review and verification of part numbers, kit numbers and national stock numbers of the
     product received. Supply documents are retained to support recall process if required.
         7.4.3.2. There are currently no provisions/authority for the complex to conduct onsite
         verification at the supplier’s premises.        The customer or the customer’s
         representative, DCMA, has the right to verify the conformance at the suppliers
         premises or on the complex premises. 7.4.3.3. Verification and approval of the
         supplier’s product by a customer does not absolve the Complex of responsibility to
         provide acceptable product, does not preclude subsequent rejection by the customer.
         Complex has the responsibility to provide an acceptable product regardless of
         customer supplier verification and approval process.
  7.5. Production and Service Provision.
     7.5.1. Control of Production and Service Provision. The complex controls for
     production and service provisions is through adhering to customer requirements, AF
     publications, WCDs/instruction, router, and technical data. In addition, adhering to
     applicable FAA regulations on FAA Part 145 repair station workload. (ref. the
     appropriate OC-ALC Repair station manual). Non-critical processes (those not directly
     affecting the quality of the product) may require documentation, and as applicable, may
     be adequately covered by training and the employee’s ability to adequately demonstrate
     proficiency. All written procedures must comply with OSHA, EPA, Safety, and
     Occupational Health requirements (whichever is more stringent). OC-ALC is compliant
     with the Foreign Object Damage (FOD) and Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Programs
     which are managed IAW AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
     Management.
         7.5.1.1. Maintenance Process Verification. New maintenance processes shall be
         documented and qualified by the process engineer with the approval of the cognizant
         engineering authority.
     7.5.1.2.    Control of Maintenance Process Changes. Complex process changes are
     controlled by the AFMC Form 202, Nonconforming Technical Assistance Request and
     Reply Process, AFTO 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply
     Process, process orders, production planning teams, and CPI IAW the following
     guidance: AFMCMAN 21-1, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System
     Procedures, TO 00-5-Series, AFI21-101_AFMCSUP, Aircraft and Equipment
     Maintenance Management, and AFMCI 90-104, Implementing AFSO21 Initiatives.
     Product conformity is evaluated throughout the recommended change process to confirm
     desired effect has been achieved, without adverse effects to product conformity.
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                                 13


        7.5.1.3. Control of Maintenance Equipment, Tools and Programs. All maintenance
        equipment shall be managed IAW TO 00-20-14, AF Metrology and Calibration
        Program (AFMETCAL web site), OC-ALCI 21-112, Tool and Equipment
        Management (to become a supplement) and OCALCI 21-203, Equipment
        Maintenance/ Inspection and documentation. Tooling will be managed IAW AFI21-
        101_AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP. Software programs are controlled IAW Process
        Orders (POs) from each organization (e.g., 76 CMXG PO 05-02, 76 PMXG PO 99-
        001).
     7.5.1.4. Post Delivery Support. When discrepancies are discovered post delivery, they
     will be entered in the Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS) and investigated IAW
     TO 00-35D-54. Any post-delivery repairs authorized/performed at OC-ALC or off site,
     will be IAW available Technical Data to AFI21-101_AFMCSUP and/or SPO approval.
     7.5.2. Validation of Processes for Production and Service Provision. OC-ALC validates
     all processes for production where the resulting output cannot be verified by subsequent
     monitoring or measurement. Such processes are considered to be “special”. The OC-
     ALC Technical Director, along with the group engineering authorities, are responsible for
     identifying all maintenance processes considered to be special and they are listed in IAW
     AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP. Special Processes are supported by process
     orders. Process orders are initially validated, reviewed every two (2) years, and
     revalidated as necessary due to events which could affect the process. Records of special
     processes validation and revalidation shall be maintained (paragraph 4.2.4.).
     7.5.3. Identification and Traceability.
        7.5.3.1. Material transactions at OC-ALC are performed IAW guidance in AFI 23-
        101Air Force Material Management. AF and customer property is tagged or labeled
        to indicate identity, condition, status, configuration and other pertinent information.
        Material transactions between depot supply and the complex are accomplished and
        tracked by the G402A - Exchangeable Production System (EPS), G004L - Job Order
        Production Master System (JOPM), and D035K Wholesale and Retail Receiving and
        Shipping System (WRRS). Material within the complex is tracked by G337
        Inventory Tracking System (ITS), Aircraft Parts Tracking System (APTS) and Total
        Component Management (TCM) by use of a unique inventory tracking number.
        7.5.3.2. Identification of parts/material used during depot maintenance processes is
        controlled by elements of configuration management through utilization of technical
        data, work control documents, routers, supply documents, and AF data bases (e.g.,
        REMIS, CEMS,).
     7.5.4. Customer Property. OC-ALC ensures products and intellectual property furnished
     by customers are verified, identified, stored, protected and maintained properly IAW
     guidance in the IAW AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP, and AFMCI 21-130, Depot
     Maintenance Material Control. Customer property that is lost, damaged or found to be
     unsuitable for use shall be recorded and the customer notified of their property’s status.
     7.5.5. Preservation of Product. OC-ALC preserves the product and constituent parts
     during processing and delivery, which includes handling, packaging, shelf life, storage,
 14                                                       OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


      and preservation IAW general and weapon system specific Tech Data, AF publications,
      Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and OSHA directives.
   7.6. Control of Monitoring and Measuring Devices. Where monitoring and measuring
   devices are required to maintain valid results, subject equipment shall be calibrated and
   traceable IAW AFI 21-113, Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL)
   Management and TO 00-20-14, AF Metrology and Calibration Program (AFMETCAL web
   site).
8. Measurement, Analysis and Improvement.
   8.1. General. Organizations will plan and implement monitoring, measurement, analysis and
   improvement processes. This is accomplished through a combination of planning elements,
   WCDs, process orders, surveillance, analysis, and feedback programs. These activities shall:
   Ensure compliance to product requirements, ensure conformity to the QMS and continuously
   improve processes.
   8.2. Monitoring and Measurement.
      8.2.1. Customer Satisfaction. The complex analyzes and measures customer satisfaction
      in relation to product conformity, customer feedback positive/negative, and corrective
      action requests is accomplished from information provided by JDRS, which is the
      official avenue of communication from the user to our customers (Life Cycle
      Management Center (LCMC) and Supply Chain Management Wing (SCMW) IAW TO
      00-35D-54. Internal and external communication pertaining to on-time delivery
      performance and other business related analysis is addressed through various levels of
      management reviews. Electronic AFMC Form 77, Request for Quality Assistance (RQA)
      is also used to resolve internal and external customer satisfaction issues.
      8.2.2. Internal Audit. The QMS shall be audited at planned intervals IAW OC-ALCI 90-
      120 The OC-ALC/QAB audits maintenance programs (e.g., tools, WCDs, safety,
      training, etc.) and functions of staff offices (e.g., planning, engineering, training, etc.).
      OC-ALC group quality perform audit and inspections of product realization (e.g., process
      audits, (MIs), QVIs), (SIs), (PEs) IAW AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP. These
      audits determine if the QMS is working effectively and are IAW AS9110B, OC-ALC,
      and higher headquarter requirements. Results of previous audits along with statistical
      analysis and importance of area is taken into consideration when developing audit
      schedule/plan. Frequency of OC-ALC audits shall be reflected in a yearly audit schedule
      made available on OC-ALC/QA EIM web site. The Complex/Group Quality audits will
      be identified on their quarterly QASP. The OC-ALC/QA’s program audit yearly by the
      Complex ISO/AS Registrar.
      8.2.3. Monitoring and Measurement of Processes. OC-ALC shall develop and utilize
      suitable methods to evaluate the QMS processes’ ability to achieve planned results.
      Corrective action shall be taken to ensure conformity, safety and reliability of product,
      where processes are found to be nonconforming corrections shall be made to include
      action to prevent recurrence, reference and the OC-ALCI90-420 and IAW AFI21-
      101_AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP and QIMSS database.
      8.2.4. Monitoring and Measurement of Product. Product characteristics, including key
      characteristics, shall be monitored and measured at appropriate stages to ensure
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                                  15


     quality/conformity. Defects identified during planned maintenance, which is outside
     contract scope, shall be processed IAW customer and Authority requirements. Records
     management includes incoming records, product realization records, and required records
     for the customer as end item products. The complex accomplishes these requirements by
     adherence to comprehensive utilization of work control processes recorded on
     appropriate documents (e.g., PPT documentation, WCDs, AFMC Form 202s, AFMC
     Form 206, AFMC Form 343s, test results, audit reports, supply documents, etc.) which
     includes review of these processes and documents. Records shall be maintained as
     evidence of conformity, which will identify person(s) authorizing product release,
     reference IAW AFI21-101_ AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP.
  8.3. Control of Nonconforming Product. Governing directives have been developed to
  ensure nonconforming product is prevented from inadvertent use or delivery. Control
  provides for identification, documentation, evaluation, segregation, disposition and
  notification of areas affected. Controls, responsibilities and authorities for dealing with
  nonconforming product have been procedurally defined in AFMCMAN 21-1, Air Force
  Material Command Technical Order System Procedures, Chapter 5, Engineering Disposition
  for Nonconforming Technical Problems Beyond Published Authority, and TINKERAFBI21-
  99, Processing of AFMC Form 202. Nonconforming product shall be dealt with by the
  organization in one of the following ways while developing records (e.g., MDR, SDR,
  PQDR, AFMC Form 202s, MRB, etc.) as appropriate, take action to eliminate nonconformity
  through rework; request approval for use from cognizant engineering authority; release, or
  acceptance under concession (repair) if authorized by the customer; or take action to preclude
  original intended use or application (scrap, re-grade); or seek disposition instructions. When
  nonconforming product is corrected, it shall be subject to re-inspection. The nature of the
  nonconformity and subsequent action shall be recorded along with the disposition
  instructions. Appropriate action (evaluation for recall) shall be taken and recorded when
  nonconformity is discovered after product delivery. Nonconformance findings and
  improvement opportunities shall be reported to management in the area of responsibility.
  Findings of major significance may be immediately reported to senior management.
  Nonconforming product will be segregated from conforming product IAW AFMCI 21-130,
  Depot Maintenance Material Control and pertinent local instructions.
  8.4. Analysis of Data. Organizational decisions are based on information obtained by
  analysis of data. Sources of this data include, but are not limited to, the following areas:
  customer satisfaction indicators both internal and external, QMS indicators, process/product
  results and human factors events. Analysis techniques are based on their applicability to the
  data set being analyzed and range from the most basic, such as Pareto charts and flowcharts,
  to more sophisticated applications, such as statistical process controls. Results of the data
  analysis will determine appropriate corrective and preventive actions, resulting in CPI.
  8.5. Improvement. Senior management continually improves the effectiveness of QMS
  through preventive action initiatives, response to customer complaints, and the management
  review process. Corrective, preventive and improvement opportunities are reported at the
  level affected. Findings of major significance affecting the QMS may be immediately
  reported to senior management. Actions and any associated metric analyses shall be reported
  to applicable management.
16                                                      OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


     8.5.1. Continual Improvement. Continual improvement processes are used to ensure
     long-term viability of the QMS in supporting accomplishment of complex mission, goals
     and objectives.         Various techniques are employed based on individual
     group/squadron/flight requirements and results. Methodology includes but is not limited
     to Lean, Six Sigma, AFSO21 Projects, 8 Step Problem Solving, Innovative Development
     through Employee Awareness (IDEA) program, process audits/evaluation,
     benchmarking.
     8.5.2. Corrective Action (CA). OC-ALC takes appropriate and timely action to
     eliminate the cause of nonconformities in order to prevent recurrence.
        8.5.2.1. Audit Findings. As it pertains to the Complex’s internal audit program
        (paragraph 8.2.2.), per OCALCI 90-420. All findings associated with the Complex’s
        internal and external audit activity are documented and corrective action accomplish
        within the CATS utilizing an OC-ALC Form 531, Corrective Action Request (CAR),
        and OC-ALC Form 531-1, Root Cause Analysis (RCA) Worksheet.
        8.5.2.2. Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan Findings. As it pertains to product and
        product processes related nonconformities, corrective action is accomplished. All
        findings associated with product processes are documented and corrective action
        IAW AFI21-101_ AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP and accomplished within the QIMSS
        database utilizing an AFMC Form 343, Quality Assurance Assessment.
        8.5.2.3. Unit Self-Assessment Program.         This program enables OC-ALC
        organizations to identify and assure compliance with higher regulatory and statutory
        requirements. It is administered IAW AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System
        and IAW AFI21-101_ AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP). Documentation of findings and
        corrective action is maintained in the ALEXSYS/MICT database. Additional
        information may be obtained from the Self-Assessment Program EIM site.
        8.5.2.4. Supplier-Related Findings. Non-conforming parts received from supply will
        be reported IAW TO 00-35D-54 and non-conforming material will be reported IAW
        the applicable 23-series supply directives.
        8.5.2.5. Human Factors. When it is determined human factors were a cause of a
        nonconformance, flow down of the corrective action shall be accomplished to RCA
        IAW OCALCI 90-420.
     8.5.3. Preventive Action. Preventive Actions (PAs) are taken to eliminate a potential
     nonconformities.      Actions taken to prevent injury of personnel, damage to
     equipment/parts, potential bottle necks in processes, or even missing targets/goals are a
     few examples of preventive actions. (e.g., installing trailing edge padding, changing oil,
     buying second piece of equipment, rapid improvement event). OC-ALCI 90-115,
     Preventative Action System documents the procedures OC-ALC uses to identify and
     resolve potential non-conformities.




                                      DONALD E. KIRKLAND, Brigadier General, USAF
                                      Commander
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                               17


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI4151.21, Public-Private Partnerships for Depot-Level Maintenance, 25 April 2007
AFI21-101_IC-1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 16 August 2011
AFI21-101_AFMCISUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 April 2012
AFI21-101_AFMCISUP_76MXW_IC-5, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 20
April 2012
AFI21-113, Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL) Management, 23 March 2011
AFI21-113_IC-1, Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL) Management, 31 August
2011
AFI33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI33-129_IC-3, Web Management and Internet Use, 12 September 2009
AFI33-322, Records Management Program, 4 June 2012
AFI33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
AFI36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 June 2002
AFI36-2232_AFMCSUP, Maintenance Training, 13 December 2010
AFI63-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 March 2013
AFI90-201, The Air Force Inspection system, 2 August 2013
AFI90-802, Risk Management, 11 February 2013
AFMAN23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFMAN23-110_IC-11, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2012
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM90-803, Risk Management Guide and Tools, 11 February 2013
AFMCI21-130, Depot Maintenance Material Control, 15 November 2007
AFMCI21-133_Cert C, Depot Maintenance Management for Aircraft Repair, 27 June 2011
AFMCI21-156, Operational Workloading, Planning, and Scheduling Control, 25 August 2004
AFMCI63-501, AFMC Quality Assurance, 14 December 2001
AFMCI63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 14 October 2009
AFMCI63-1201_IC-3, Implementing Operational Safety Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E)
and Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 26 July 2012
AFMCI90-104, Implementing AFSO21 Initiatives, 29 September 2008
 18                                                     OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


AFMCI90-104_Cert C, Implementing AFSO21 Initiatives, 16 November 2011
AFMCMAN21-1, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures, 15
January 2005
AFMCMAN21-1_IC-2, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures, 14
November 2011
OC-ALCI21-112, Tool and Equipment Management, 8 January 2010
OC-ALCI21-203, Equipment Maintenance/Inspection and Documentation, 12 July2012
OC-ALCI90-120, Internal Audit System, 22 September 2009
OC-ALCI90-115, Preventative Action System 21 November 2013
OC-ALCI90-420, Corrective Action Tracking System, 20 November 2013
TINKERAFBI33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 29 July 2009
TINKERAFBI33-129_Cert C, Web Management and Internet Use, 17 July 2011
ANSI/ISO/ASQ Q9000-2005, Quality Management Systems-Fundamentals and Vocabulary, 16
May 2006
ANSI/ISO/ASQ 9001:2008, Quality Management Systems – Requirements, 14 November 2010
ISO 10007, Quality Management Systems–Guidelines for Configuration Management, 20 June
2003
MIL-HDBK 61A, Configuration Management Guidance, 7 February 2001
MIL-STD-882D, Standard Practice for Safety System, 10 February 2000
SAE AS9110B, Quality Maintenance Systems - Aerospace - Requirements for Maintenance
Organizations, April 2012
TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System, 15 January 2013
TO 00-5-3, Technical Manual Acquisition Procedures 1 August 2009
TO 00-20-14, AF Metrology and Calibration Program, 30 October 2007
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 November 2011
Adopted Forms
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue/Receive Document
AFTO 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply
AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief (available thru base supply)
AF Form 1003, Air Force Core Personnel Document (available thru base supply)
AFMC Form 202, Nonconforming Technical Assistance Request and Reply
AFMC Form 206, Temporary Work Request
AFMC Form 343, Quality Assurance Assessment
AFMC Form 77, Request for Quality Assurance (RQA)
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                  19


OC-ALC Form 531, Corrective Action Request
OC-ALC Form 531-1, Root Cause Analysis (RCA) Worksheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFFAR—Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFRIMS—RDS —Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule
ANSI—American National Standard Institute
APTS—Aircraft Parts Tracking System
CATS—Corrective Action Tracking System - database
Cert C—Certified Current
CC—Commander
CM—Configuration Management
D&D—Design and Development
DFAR—Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
DoD—Department of Defense
D035K—Wholesale and Retail Receiving and Shipping System (WRRS) – database
DR—Deficiency Report
DSOR—Depot Source of Repair
ETIMS—Enhanced Technical Information Management System
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
G402—Exchangeable Production System (EPS) - database
G004L—Job Order Production Master System (JOPM) - database
G337—Inventory Tracking System (ITS) - database
IAW—In Accordance With
IDEA—Innovative Development through Employee Awareness
 20                                                       OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


IMT—Information Management Tool
ISO—International Organization for Standardization
ITS—Inventory Tracking System
LCMC—Life Cycle Management Center
MR—Management Review
OAA—Organizational Approving Authority
OC—ALC — Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex
OC—ALC/CC — Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex Commander
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PO—Process Order
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
PR—Purchase Request
QA—Quality Assurance
QIMSS—Quality Information Management Standard System – database
QM—Quality Manual
QMS—Quality Management System
QP—Quality Policy
RM—Risk Management
SAE—Society of Automotive Engineers
SCMW—Supply Chain Management Wing
TAFBI—Tinker Air Force Base Instruction
TAFBM—Tinker Air Force Base Manual
TCM—Total Component Management - database

Terms
Audit— A planned/unplanned examination of a function carried out either by determining
conformance to procedures in process or by critical analysis of the product or service that is the
results of the process.
Authority— The national aviation authority having jurisdiction over the manufacturer, aircraft
owner and operator, maintenance organization; the Authority could be civil or military.
Business Process— A collection of related, structured activities or tasks that produce a specific
service or product for a particular customer or customers can also be refered to as a Production
Process.
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                                       21


Calibration— A comparison between items of equipment, one of which is a measurement
standard of known accuracy, to detect, correlate, adjust, and report any variation in the accuracy
of the other items.
Complex Management Representative— A member of management appointed by the
commander and chartered with the responsibility of ensuring that the quality system is
established, implemented, and maintained and assuring the timely reporting on the system
through a Complex-level MR.
Continual Improvement— A continuous search for methods to improve the QMS. Also, it is
procedures in use to prevent nonconforming product occurrence.
Corrective Action—: The process of identifying a problem, assigning responsibility,
determining the root cause, developing a plan to correct the problem and taking action to
eliminate the root cause so as to prevent recurrence. The intent is to eliminate the cause of the
nonconformity in order to prevent recurrence.
Document— Any paper or electronic media used to contain or store information (i.e. policies,
procedures, drawings, technical orders, process orders, work control documents, work
instructions, etc.) as evidence of a documented quality system.
Human Factors— Recognition that personnel performing tasks are affected by physical fitness,
physiological characteristics, personality, stress, fatigue, distraction, communication and attitude.
Inspection— An activity such as measuring, examining, testing, or gauging one or more
characteristics of an entity, and comparing the results with specified requirements in order to
establish whether conformity is achieved for each measurable characteristic.
Instructions— Provide essential procedural guidance to implement Air Force policy in the field.
Instructions direct action, ensure compliance, or provide detailed procedures for standard actions
across the Air Force.
ISO Standards— The International Organization for Standardization’s documented agreements
containing technical specifications or other precise criteria to be used consistently as rules,
guidelines, or definitions of characteristics to ensure that materials, products, processes, and
services are fit for their purpose.
Key Characteristics— The features of a material, process, or part whose variation has a
significant influence on product fit, performance, service life, or manufacturability.
Maintenance— The overhaul, repair, inspection, replacement, modification or defect
rectification of an aircraft or an aircraft component that is performed after completion of
manufacturing and initial airworthiness certification by the applicable Authority.
Management Review— A senior management (Complex/Group/Squadron level) meeting
intended to review the overall effectiveness of the quality management system with regard to
stated quality goals and objectives.
Nonconformance— The non-fulfillment of a specified requirement associated with the product
or service provided. Any condition which renders a product unusable, indicating that it does not
meet specifications and/or other technical requirements.
 22                                                       OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


Nonconforming Product— A product that does not meet manufacturing specifications, design
composition or other contract requirements. The term nonconforming product includes product
returned by customer, damaged or worn product and counterfeit and/or suspected unapproved
parts.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)— An organization assigned as the central point of
contact for a program, project, directive, form, etc.
Official Web Sites— The source of publications and forms is the key to determining whether it
is a current, official version. Documents located on organizational websites are considered
official documents and are reviewed and updated IAW AFI 33-360. Complex Quality Records
generated by the QM are found on the Complex EIM site.
Operating Instruction— Assigns responsibilities, directs actions, and prescribes procedures
within a wing/directorate, complex, division, branch, section, or unit. If a policy affects two or
more wing/directorates it must be published as a base-level instruction.
Partnering— A cooperative arrangement between an organic depot-level maintenance activity
and one or more private sector entities to perform DoD or Defense-related work and/or to utilize
DoD depot facilities and equipment (reference DoDI 4151.21).
Preventive Action— Action taken to identify and eliminate the causes of potential
nonconformities (before they occur) or other undesirable potential situation.
Process: A set of inter—related resources and activities which transform inputs into outputs.
Process Owner— The person responsible for a process and its output. They speak for or
represent the process in the organization.
Process Mapping— The activity of creating a flowchart adequate to portray a work process
showing its inputs, tasks, and activities, in sequence, a graphic representation of a process.
Product—: The result of activities or processes. A product may include service, hardware,
processed materials, software, or a combination thereof.
Quality Management System— The QMS is a web of interconnected processes. Each process
uses resources to turn inputs into outputs. All of these processes are interconnected by means of
many input-output relationships. Every process generates at least one output, and this output
becomes an input for another process. These input-output relationships glue all of these
processes together and make them into a system.
Quality Plan— A document setting out the specific quality practices, resources, and activities
relevant to a particular product, process, service, contract, or project.
Quality System— Organizational structure, procedures, processes, and resources needed to
implement quality management.
Record— Records are all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable materials, or
other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by
an agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with the
transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its
legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures,
operations, or other activities of the government or because of the informational value of data in
them. Library and museum material made or acquired and preserved solely for reference or
OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014                                                                     23


exhibition purposes, extra copies of documents preserved only for convenience of reference and
stocks of publications and of processed documents are not included. (Title 44 U.S.C., Public
Printing and Documents, Chapter 33, Disposal of Records, Section 3301, Definition of records).
(Reference AFI 33-322, paragraph 2). Records provide documented evidence of conformance to
specified requirements and the effective operation of the QMS.
Registrar— A company that conducts quality system assessments to ISO management system
requirements.
Release Certificate— A document certifying that the activities performed, and the results
achieved, conforms to established organization, Authority, and contract requirements.
Root Cause Analysis Worksheet— An OC-ALC Form 531-1, Root Cause Analysis (RCA)
Worksheet, used in conjunction with OC-ALC Form 531, Corrective Action Request, to assist in
performing an analysis as to the root cause of a nonconformity.
Statistical Technique— A mathematical method dealing with the collection, analysis,
interpretation, and presentation of quantitative data.
Technical Data— Data that is necessary to ensure that the aircraft or aircraft component can be
maintained in a condition such that serviceability and airworthiness of the aircraft and related
operational and emergency equipment, is assured. This data includes maintenance programs,
airworthiness directives, service bulletins, major repairs/modifications, operator maintenance
manuals, drawings, engineering orders, component maintenance manuals, technical orders, etc.
Verification— Confirmation; proof by evidence; check for accuracy.
Work Instruction— A document that presents a detailed description of how tasks or processes
are to be performed or conducted to ensure the procedures of the organization are achievable.
This could be technical data, standard operating instruction, or other written official publication
outlining how tasks or processes are to be performed.
 24                                              OC-ALCMAN90-107 15 MAY 2014


                                  Attachment 2
              OC-ALCVA 90-107, ORGANIZATION PROCESS FLOW

Figure A2.1. OC-ALCVA 90-107, Organization Process Flow
