BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS
OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS                                COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 90-120
COMPLEX
                                                                              29 APRIL 2014

                                                                         Special Management

                                                               INTERNAL AUDIT SYSTEM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OC-ALC/QAB                                                     Certified by: OC-ALC/QA
                                                                            (Mr. Dan McCabe)
Supersedes:   OC-ALCI 90-120,                                                         Pages: 9
              20 November 2013


The purpose of this instruction is to provide the framework for conducting effective internal
audits and support to external audits at the Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex (OC-ALC).
Additional applicable guidance and procedures are found in OC-ALC Manual (OC-ALCMAN)
90-107, OC-ALC Quality Manual, Chapters 1 and 8, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) AFI 21-
101_AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management. Instruction
applies to OC-ALC organizations under Aerospace Standard (AS) 9110 certification which
excludes 76th Software Maintenance Group (76 SMXG) under its own certification and does not
include Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) through publications/forms managers. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www/my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction contains minor administrative changes.
1. Scope and General Responsibilities: The entire Complex is under AS 9110 Certification
with the exception of 76 SMXG.
1.1. The OC-ALC Quality Office (OC-ALC/QA) and OC-ALC Quality Audit Section (OC-
ALC/QAB), audits processes of organizations within the scope of the aerospace standard
 2                                                               OC-ALCI90-120 29 April 2014


certification to requirements contained in the applicable aerospace standard as stated in OC-
ALCMAN 90-107, their own internal guidance and higher guidance. All clauses within the
applicable standard will be audited within the complex utilizing a process approach. The
complex audit activity will be tracked using a clause tracker to ensure all aerospace standard
clauses are evaluated at least once within a three year certification period. Group clauses will be
tracked on the complex clause tracker using data from group audit reports. Audit activity, either
scheduled or unscheduled, is linked to the applicable aerospace standard requirements including
organizations’ internal or higher guidance.
1.2. Organizational Approving Authorities (OAAs) shall coordinate and facilitate planned and
unplanned audits within their respective organizations. They provide Complex Quality with
points of contact, to assist with providing times and locations for interviews along with
accomplishing requirements of OC-ALCI 90-420, Corrective Action Tracking System (CATS)
2. Internal Audit Process (Attachment 2)
     2.1. Audit Schedule: The OC-ALC/QAB office shall develop and maintain an annual audit
     schedule and track audit activity for compliance with applicable aerospace standard and OC-
     ALCMAN 90-107 requirements. Audit frequency may change as needed due to customer
     requests and/or trend analysis. Complex Quality annual audit schedules are arranged by
     fiscal year (FY) and posted to the Complex Quality Enterprise Information Management
     (EIM) site 20 working days before each FY. Group production/process audits will be
     identified in their individual quarterly quality assurance surveillance plans. Frequency of
     group audits will be determined by requirements identified in AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_OC-
     ALCSUP. Group quality audits will consist of inspections of product realization, e.g.,
     process audits, management inspections (MIs), quality verification inspections (QVIs),
     special inspections (SIs), personnel evaluation (PEs), and other production related processes
     or operations that relate directly to output or through-put of customer requirements as
     required by management. When feasible, notify organizations of unscheduled audit intent
     before beginning the audit. Unscheduled audits may be initiated based on customer requests
     and/or complaints, management requests, significant changes in organizational structure and
     policies/procedures that could adversely affect the quality system.
     2.2. Audit Planning: Planning should be based on process significance or risk to include:
     The objective and scope of the audit, processes to be audited and organizations impacted
     (Attachment 2). Establish audit in Corrective Action Tracking System (CATS) once scope
     is determined. Review current local and higher level instructions, standards, customer
     requests, management review action items, procedures, policy letter and web pages pertinent
     to the areas being evaluated. A review of the last two audit reports for the area being
     evaluated shall be completed. Officially notify organizations of the audit intent at least five
     days prior to start of each scheduled audit. The notification shall include the lead auditor’s
     name and phone number, the processes and organizations to be audited, the dates of the audit,
     and any necessary instructions to OAA. Track progress toward completion of planned audit
     activity on an annual fiscal year basis for compliance to applicable aerospace standard
     requirements as well as any other AF and regulatory requirements. Develop, when needed,
     audit interview checklist questions unique to the area being audited.
     2.3. Team Formation: Select the audit team and team lead. Request subject matter experts
     (SMEs) for specific areas where the lead auditor determines assistance is needed regarding
OC-ALCI90-120 29 April 2014                                                                   3


   the process(es) being audited. If auditing an area where an audit team member is currently
   assigned, at least one audit team member shall be from outside the audit area.
   2.4. Audit Process: Conduct the audit in-brief, and out-brief, as required, with the senior
   leadership of the organization/area being evaluated (Attachment 2). Ensure objective
   evidence has been documented for noted compliance to clauses observed during process
   audit.
   2.5. Audit Findings: Determine whether processes conform to requirements. Debrief each
   auditee with feedback related to areas of excellence and/or concern upon completion of audit
   activity in that area.
      2.5.1. Categorize all findings as either, minor, major and/or observation. Enter
      documented audit findings into CATS under the established audit number. OC-ALC 90-
      420, Corrective Action Tracking System (CATS), describes this process in detail and
      provides specific instructions for processing OC-ALC Form 531, Corrective Action
      Request; and OC-ALC Form 531-1, Root Cause Analysis Worksheet, (used in
      conjunction with OC-ALC Form 531). Air Force Material Command (AFMC) Form
      343, Quality Assurance Assessment, may be used if more appropriate for the type of issue
      to be resolved or if the problem is not considered an audit issue. Review all audit
      findings to ensure complete descriptions of the discrepancies are documented. Once all
      Corrective Action Requests (CARs) are entered into CATS, a CAR notification letter
      must be sent to the audited organization, via email, within 10 working days from end of
      audit. Thus announcing CARs have been posted for review and Root Cause
      Analysis/Corrective Action Plan development must be completed. Update clause tracker
      to reflect audited clauses whether conforming or nonconforming to include, requirements
      addressed, reviewed and evaluated as part of the audit. AFMC Form 343 findings will be
      handled IAW guidance identified in AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_OC-ALCSUP.
   2.6. Audit Report: Consolidate audit material, prepare audit report and publish signed report
   to the organizational Quality EIM site.
      2.6.1. Review the audit report to ensure it is complete, concise and unambiguous. The
      report will include the following: Scope, purpose, time frame, organization audited, team
      members, reference sources, processes audited and audit findings (positive and negative,
      as     applicable).         The    report    should     also    include     improvement
      opportunities/recommendations and discrepancies beyond scope of organization, where
      applicable. Ensure conformities, nonconformities and/or observations are factual and
      traceable to the standard or governing directives. Audit reports will incorporate
      documentation reviewed and associated aerospace standard clause linkage for
      conformities and nonconformities. Forward the audit report to the appropriate
      management representative for signature.
      2.6.2. Distribute the signed audit report to the assessed organization’s workflow
      account(s) within 15 working days from the end of audit. All other organizations will
      receive the report for cross-tell purposes and report will be posted on the appropriate
      Quality EIM site.
 4                                                               OC-ALCI90-120 29 April 2014


Figure 1. Audit Activity and Suspense Date Criteria




     2.7. Metrics: Complex Quality Analysis Section (OC-ALC/QAY) shall trend OC-ALC
     internal and external audit results. Metric reviews are utilized to measure conformity of
     product, conformity to the Quality Management System (QMS), and/or to assess customer
     satisfaction.
3. Support of External Audits (Attachment 2) This information is to identify responsibilities
to ensure successful preparation for registrar surveillance audits in support of the current AS.
     3.1. The OC-ALC/QA Office shall
        3.1.1. Provide organizations the registrar’s template within five working days of receipt.
        3.1.2. Finalize the audit plan based on external auditor’s process selection and inform
        owning organizations of selected processes. Consideration will be given to mission
        requirements of organizations where areas or processes selected may impact the overall
        success of the mission.
        3.1.3. Provide aerospace standard familiarization briefing to organizational QAs prior to
        the external audit covering necessary information and what to expect from the external
        auditors, for briefing within their organizations.
        3.1.4. Provide for completion, the external surveillance audit prep checklist to
        organizational QAs.
     3.2. Groups/Squadrons/Elements/Offices shall:
        3.2.1. Review clause selections to prepare for possible process considerations.
        3.2.2. The OAA shall provide the name and contact information of process owners and
        alternates to Complex Quality once organization is informed of the processes selected by
        external auditor for review.
        3.2.3. Ensure process owners know their processes, including inputs, outputs and
        applicable governing directives.
        3.2.4. Complete and execute the external surveillance audit prep checklist in applicable
        organizations.
4. Training: Selected auditors shall be impartial, objective, and have demonstrated ability to
apply knowledge and skills to conduct an audit. Selected SMEs may be used to supplement the
audit in conjunction with trained auditors. Organizations with their own internal audit program
training criteria are subject to approval by Complex Quality.
OC-ALCI90-120 29 April 2014                                                                    5


   4.1. Auditor: Minimum training completion for internal auditors consists of on-the-job-
   training (OJT) and recommended, but optional, formal three day internal or higher-level
   auditor course. Auditor OJT will include participating as an auditor for at least three audits
   witnessed by a lead auditor (trainer). After OJT is completed, the quality office supervisor
   will certify qualification of the auditor trainee to perform internal audits. Documentation of
   training completion shall be maintained in either the employee’s personnel or training record.
   Previous auditing experience may be evaluated and waiver granted by supervisor with
   justification if auditor is deemed competent to audit.
   4.2. Lead Auditor: Minimum training for lead auditor consists of completing the internal
   auditor training and completion of lead auditor OJT. Optional recommended training is
   completion of formal lead auditor training. Auditor OJT will include participating as a lead
   auditor for three audits witnessed by a lead auditor (trainer). After OJT is completed, the
   quality office supervisor will certify qualification of the lead auditor trainee to perform
   internal audits. Documentation of training completion shall be maintained in either
   employee’s personnel or training record. Previous auditing experience may be evaluated and
   waiver granted by supervisor with justification if auditor is deemed proficient.
   4.3. Additional Training Resources: ISO 9001: 2008, Quality Management Systems-
   Requirements for Maintenance Organizations, May 2012 American National Standard
   (ANS) ISO 9004: 2009, Quality Management Systems – Guidelines for Performance
   Improvements, October 2009, ISO 19011:2011, Guidelines for Quality and/or Environmental
   Management Systems Auditing, November 2011
5. Records. The following records are generated by this instruction: Annual audit schedules,
notification letters, audit report, and training. All records resulting from an audit shall be
electronic and must be controlled IAW AFM 33-363, Management of Records and shall be
retained IAW applicable AFRIMS table and rule, T65-31 R 03.00. A three year retention period
shall be used for audit reports. Informal documentation or documents considered to be objective
evidence may be retained as supporting documentation for reference only.




                                            DONALD E. KIRKLAND
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                                        OC-ALCI90-120 29 April 2014


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101_AFMCSUP 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 April 2012
AFI 21-101_OC-ALCSUP I, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, April 2014
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMCI 63-501, AFMC Quality Assurance, 14 December 2001
OC-ALCI 90-420, Corrective Action Tracking System (CATS), 5 May 2013
OC-ALCMAN 90-107, OC-ALC Quality Manual, 29 Oct 2013
AS9110B, Quality Maintenance Systems-Aerospace-Requirements for Maintenance
Organizations, April 2012
ISO 9001:2008, Quality Management Systems-Requirements for Maintenance Organizations,
May 2012
ANS ISO 9004: 2009, Quality Management Systems – Guidelines for Performance
Improvements, October 2009
ISO 19011: 2011, Guidelines for Quality and/or Environmental Management Systems Auditing
November 2011
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AFMC Form 343, Quality Assurance Assessment
OC-ALC Form 531, Corrective Action Request
OC-ALC Form 531-1, Root Cause Analysis Worksheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
76 SMXG—76th Software Maintenance Group
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFMCI—Air Force Material Command Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AS—Aerospace Standard
OC-ALCI90-120 29 April 2014                                                                     7


CARs—Corrective Action Requests
CATS—Corrective Action Tracking System
EIM—Enterprise Information Management
FY—Fiscal Year
IAW—In Accordance With
MIs—Management Inspections
OAAs—Organizational Approving Authorities
OC—ALC – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex
OC—ALC/QA – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex Quality Assurance Office
OC—ALC/QAB – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex Quality Auditing Office
OC—ALC/QAY – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex Quality Analysis Office
OC—ALCMAN – OC-ALC Quality Manual
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OJT—On the Job Training
PEs—Personnel Evaluation
QVIs—Quality Verification Inspections
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
R—Rule
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SIs—Special Inspections
T—Table

Terms
Definitions of aerospace terms found herein can be located in the American National
Standard ISO 9000:2005, Quality Management Systems— Fundamentals and Vocabulary.
Audit Finding— A conclusion of importance based upon observation(s).
Clause Tracker— A spread sheet utilized to track main aerospace standard clauses during the
most current certification period.
Corrective Action— The process of identifying a problem, assigning responsibility, determining
the root cause, develop a plan to correct the problem and take action to eliminate the root cause
so as to prevent recurrence. The intent is to eliminate the cause of the nonconformity in order to
prevent recurrence.
Corrective Action Request (CAR) Form, OC—ALC Form 531 - Form designed to capture,
document, and resolve nonconformities or problems identified during scheduled or unscheduled
quality audits.
 8                                                             OC-ALCI90-120 29 April 2014


Corrective Action Tracking System (CATS)— A network hosted database that provides
authorized complex personnel direct access for the input and editing of CARs and RCA
worksheet data generated from internal or external audits. It is the only authorized database for
documenting and tracking CARs and their associated RCA.
External Audit, Complex—level - A scheduled review of conformance to an aerospace/ISO
standard that is conducted by the complex registrar, usually annually.
Internal Audit, Complex—level - A scheduled review of conformance to aerospace standard. It
is planned and implemented by the Complex Quality Office and/or Group Quality, independent
from the complex aerospace registrar’s oversight.
Internal Audit, Group—level - A scheduled review of conformance to aerospace standards. It
is intra-organizationally planned and implemented by a group and its corresponding quality
office or focal point. Groups shall perform internal audits. They shall develop a supplement
instruction for their internal audit processes if they choose a direction that differs from the
complex goals defined in this instruction.
Lead Auditor, Complex or Group— Person designated within an organization as having the
authority to assess, and/or approve CARs, RCAs, and CAPs. Individual who has responsibility
for all phases of an audit and has authority to make final decisions regarding the conduct of an
audit and any observations/findings. They are considered second level approval for internal
CARs written within their organization.
Organizational Approving Authority (OAA)— Group/Staff Office OAAs are first level
approving authority for internal and external CARs/CAPs. Complex OAAs are second level
approving authority for external CARs.
Process Approach— It is a set of interrelated or interacting processes, with regard to both
effectiveness and efficiency, which transforms input into output. The appropriate Quality
Management System (QMS) requirements are tied to the processes. Requirements may tie to
many processes and some may tie to one. Emphasis on the process approach transforms the
QMS into a business model instead of a compliance model.
Quality Management System (QMS)— A management system which conforms to
requirements under The American National Standard Institute/International Organization for
Standardization/American Society for Quality (ANSI/ISO/ASQ) 9001-2008/AS9110, Quality
Management Systems—Requirement.
Root Cause Analysis (RCA) Work Sheet, OC—ALC Form 531-1 - Form used to document
RCA using the natural progression of defining the problem, identifying the immediate cause of
the problem, identifying all the intermediate causes, identifying the root cause, and identifying
actions to prevent recurrence.
OC-ALCI90-120 29 April 2014                             9


                                    Attachment 2
                  INTERNAL/EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS MAP

Figure A2.1. Internal/External Audit Process Map
