BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS
OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS                                COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 91-11
COMPLEX
                                                                               20 MARCH 2014

                                                                                          Safety

                                                                      INCIDENT/MISHAP
                                                                 REPORTING PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OC-ALC/SE                                                        Certified by: OC-ALC/SE
                                                                                 (Kevin McCoy)
Supersedes:   76 MXWOI 91-11,                                                           Pages: 6
              3 January 2010


This instruction establishes reporting procedures and outlines responsibilities for Oklahoma City
Air Logistics Complex (OC-ALC) personnel when notifying management, safety and other
responsible agencies of incidents and mishaps which occur within OC-ALC.                    Refer
recommended changes and questions about this published document to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records         Disposition       Schedule        (RDS)          located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. Due to
AFMC directed re-organization, the 76th Maintenance Wing (76 MXW) was re-designated as
the Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex (OC-ALC), updated current procedural changes and
obsolete local forms 76MXW Form 101A, Incident/Mishap Report, Jan 06 and 76MXW Form
101B, Incident/Mishap Report (Electronic), Jan 06.
1. Scope. This document establishes standardized safety reporting (via the online reporting
system) procedures for all OC-ALC supervisors in order to immediately report incidents and
mishaps involving OC-ALC personnel, property or resources. The guidance within this OC-
ALC instruction is considered to be the minimum amount of information required for immediate
 2                                                                OC-ALCI91-11 20 March 2014


reporting purposes. In addition, OC-ALC organizations are responsible for developing
additional specific detailed reporting and response procedures in accordance with applicable
regulations for the specific type of incident or mishap that has occurred. These specific details
may be included in the shops Job Safety Training Outline or another method deemed acceptable.
2. Incidents and Mishaps.
     2.1. Incident. An incident is a situation, which under slightly different circumstances, could
     have resulted in a mishap (employee injury/illness or property damage). Incidents are of
     interest to the Complex if the event impacts OC-ALC operations, equipment or personnel.
     All incidents must be investigated to determine the underlying causes and identify failures of
     safety and health systems. The incident examples listed below are provided as a guide in
     determining what will be reported.
        2.1.1. Emergency conditions, such as; utility failures or natural phenomena, which will
        disrupt operations.
        2.1.2. Incidents of command interest, such as; personnel altercations, driving/working
        under the influence of alcohol or drugs or other serious behavioral offenses while on
        duty.
        2.1.3. Incidents involving OC-ALC personnel during temporary duty periods.
        2.1.4. Near-misses.
            2.1.4.1. Example: An employee trips over an extension cord that lies across the floor
            but avoids a fall by grabbing the corner of a desk.
            2.1.4.2. Example: Instead of using a ladder, an employee puts a box on top of a
            drum, loses balance and stumbles to the ground. Although the employee is shaken,
            there is no injury.
     2.2. Mishap. Mishaps are unplanned events that result in an occupational illness or injury,
     property damage or damage to the natural environment. The mishaps listed below are
     provided as a guide to determine those mishap types that will be brought to the attention of
     the OC-ALC Commander and other responsible organizations via the electronic incident
     reporting system.
        2.2.1. Any on-duty fatalities or injuries/illnesses resulting in a civilian employee/military
        member being referred for medical treatment or transported off base for medical
        treatment. Any off-duty fatality or serious injury/illness resulting in quarters restrictions
        for military members.
        2.2.2. Events such as Government Motor Vehicle (GMV) accidents or damage to
        equipment, real property, or aircraft components must be reported as a mishap.
        2.2.3. Privately Owned Vehicle (POV) accidents and damage to property such as GMV
        vehicles, equipment, or real property that are considered normal wear and tear should not
        be reported as mishaps. Additionally, equipment and facility failures that do not result in
        damage to aircraft or equipment and are not the result of a natural disaster should not be
        reported as mishaps. These events should be reported using the standard procedure for
        the owning organization. Supervisors are encouraged to consult their group safety
        representatives with any questions regarding mishap reporting.
OC-ALCI91-11 20 March 2014                                                                       3


      2.2.4. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) and Dropped Object (DO) Mishaps. Following
      aircraft engine operation, if FOD is discovered, this damage is considered a mishap and
      shall be reported. A DO is any aircraft part, component, surface or other item lost during
      aircrew operations, unless intentionally jettisoned between engine start and engine shut
      down. All DO events shall be reported as a mishap.
      2.2.5. Environmental/Bioenvironmental Mishaps. Typical environmental mishaps that
      occur are fuel spills, oil spills and chemical spills, which are all required to be reported.
      An example of a bioenvironmental mishap is an unintentional hazardous dust release.
      2.2.6. Fires. All fires shall be reported.
3. Roles and Responsibilities for Reporting Incidents and Mishaps.
   3.1. Employees.
      3.1.1. Immediately take action to prevent further or additional injury to personnel.
      3.1.2. Call 911 if emergency personnel are necessary.
      3.1.3. Report all incidents/mishaps to their supervisor immediately, regardless of
      severity.
   3.2. Supervisors.
      3.2.1. Accomplish the actions outlined in Attachment 2.
   3.3. 76 AMXG Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) (76 AMXG/OBO)
      3.3.1. Accomplish the actions outlined in Attachment 3, if necessary.
   3.4. Group Planning Offices.
      3.4.1. For all property damage mishaps (excluding vehicle mishaps), the respective
      planning/financial organization will provide a property damage cost estimate to OC-
      ALC/SE after notification of the mishap, based on reporting requirements found in AFI
      91-204, Safety Investigations and Report, (refer to Table 6.2. and paragraph 1.11 for
      details).




                                         DONALD E. KIRKLAND, Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Commander
 4                                                          OC-ALCI91-11 20 March 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-204 AFMC SUP 1, Safety Investigations and Reports, 18 August 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
76 AMXG—76 Aircraft Maintenance Group
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
DO—Dropped Object
EM—Environmental Management
EMS—Emergency Medical Services
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
OC—ALC - Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex
OC—ALCI – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex Instruction
OC—ALC/SE - Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex/Safety Office
POC—Point of Contact
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
SE—Safety Office
OC-ALCI91-11 20 March 2014                                                                    5


                                        Attachment 2
          SUPERVISOR’S INCIDENT/MISHAP REPORTING PROCEDURES

A2.1. Supervisor’s Incident/Mishap Reporting Procedures
   A2.1.1. Incident Mishap Reporting Process. Accomplish in order.
      A2.1.1.1. Immediately take action to prevent further or additional injury to personnel.
      Stop all work on or in the affected area.
   A2.1.2. Call 911 to notify emergency response personnel, if necessary. If phone is not
   available, use a radio to contact 76 AMXG MOC and ask them to call 911.
   A2.1.3. Prepare an incident/mishap report using the online mishap reporting system at
   https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/amocc/net20/incrpt_net20/Incidents.aspx or on the OC-
   ALC’s main AF Portal page. NOTE: In the rare event the network is down, please notify
   your group safety office and try resubmitting the online report at a later time.
   A2.1.4. Verbally notify the next level in your chain of command to facilitate notification to
   the highest levels in your group.
   A2.1.5. Notify designated POC for cost estimate and provide them a copy of the
   incident/mishap report for property damage mishaps.
6                                                             OC-ALCI91-11 20 March 2014


                                         Attachment 3
    AMXG MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS CENTER (MOC) INCIDENT/ MISHAP
                    REPORTING PROCEDURES

A3.1. 76 AMXG Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) Incident/ Mishap Reporting
Procedures
    A3.1.1. Accomplish in order.
       A3.1.1.1. Immediately call 911, if emergency response personnel are necessary and have
       not already been contacted.
    A3.1.2. As soon as possible, call the appropriate group safety office, the base command post
    and, if necessary, EM. Provide all information available at this time.
       A3.1.2.1. During day shift duty hours, call appropriate group safety office if an
       electronic incident report has not been accomplished (all SE personnel receive electronic
       incident reports); the Command Post, 739-2171; and, if necessary, EM, 734-4111.
       A3.1.2.2. During swing shift, contact the on-duty swing shift safety person, 417-2619,
       and the Base Command Post, 739-2171.
       A3.1.2.3. If an actual event occurs that warrants immediate notification to group and
       squadron commanders, (mishaps, property damage, FOD/DO, etc.) during the non-duty
       hours (hours other than day and swing shift), weekends, and holidays, contact the on-call
       safety person (refer to the MOC copy of the safety on-call roster) and the Base Command
       Post, 739-2171. Note: Direct person to person telecommunication with standby
       personnel must be accomplished. Leaving a message on voice mail or an answering
       machine does not constitute notification. If standby personnel cannot be reached and
       directly notified, call (in order) the management personnel on the on-call roster.
    A3.1.3. Call the appropriate group and squadron commanders, if incident/mishap warrants
    their immediate notification.
