BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS
OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS                                COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 32-8
COMPLEX
                                                                                 3 JULY 2014

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                           EQUIPMENT O&M ASBESTOS
                                                           MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available digitally on e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: 776 MXSS/MXDEB                                                Certified by: 76 MXSG/DD
                                                                              (Mr. David Goss)
Supersedes:   OC-ALCOI 32-8,                                                          Pages: 9
              5 April 2012


This instruction establishes Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex (OC-ALC) policies for
providing protection against asbestos hazards which may be encountered in equipment in the
workplace and addresses responsibilities for sampling, testing, labeling, operations and
maintenance (O&M) removal, disposition, and recordkeeping. This instruction supplements
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) construction standards contained in 29
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 1926, Safety and Health Regulations for Construction,
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire
Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Standards, Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 48-155, Occupational
and Environmental Health Exposure Controls, AFI 32-1052, Facility Asbestos Management and
the Tinker Air Force Base (AFB), Asbestos Management Plan, February 2011. This instruction
identifies OC-ALC specific requirements associated with equipment that may have asbestos-
containing materials (ACM). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command, then through the OC-ALC publications/forms managers. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed IAW the Air
Force        Records         Disposition         Schedule          (RDS)         located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Each group within OC-ALC will
ensure compliance with this instruction within the scope of their respective organizations.
 2                                                                 OC-ALCI32-8 3 JULY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been updated to reflect administrative changes of 576 MXSS/MXDEB to
776 MXSS/MXDEB nomenclatures.
1. General Information. It is the goal of the OC-ALC to provide a safe and healthful
environment for all its employees. In the industrial shop work setting, safety is a primary
concern. Supervisors will ensure this instruction is understood and complied with by all
employees. This instruction primarily addresses ACM and presumed asbestos containing
material (PACM) that could potentially be found in various pieces of equipment and facility
components. PACM is to be treated the same as ACM.
     1.1. Equipment Containing Asbestos. ACM in pieces of equipment at Tinker AFB does not
     pose an inherent hazard. ACM is only hazardous when disturbed or damaged to the extent
     that it could cause the material to break up into individual fibers and become dispersed into
     the breathing environment. However, there is a presumption that all damaged ACM is
     hazardous because of its potential to release airborne asbestos fibers. As a result, all
     damaged ACM must be eliminated either by maintenance personnel, if the ACM is non-
     friable, or by contractor personnel if the ACM is friable.
     1.2. Asbestos Removal. ACM must be removed when it poses a threat to release airborne
     asbestos fibers and it cannot be managed in place (i.e., cannot be reliably maintained,
     isolated, or encapsulated). When budgetary considerations permit, complete removal of
     ACM is desirable.
     1.3. Asbestos Managed in Place. A decision to manage asbestos in place will be based on
     the degree of health risk to equipment operators, equipment maintenance personnel, facility
     occupants, use of equipment, and cost effectiveness. Existing ACM should be removed from
     equipment and replaced with a suitable substitute material at opportune times during repairs.
     ACM must not be allowed to deteriorate, become damaged, or be disturbed by workers or
     occupants unless precautions have been taken to prevent exposure to airborne asbestos fibers.
     Contact the by 72d Aerospace Medicine Squadron (72 AMDS) Bioenvironmental
     Engineering Flight (BEF) (72 AMDS/SGPB), 734-7844 for guidance on required
     precautions.
     1.4. OC-ALC Visual Aid (VA) 32-8, Asbestos Operational Checklist. OC-ALC VA 32-8,
     will be posted in all areas where asbestos is present (Attachment 2, Figure A2.1.).
2. Roles And Responsibilities.
     2.1. OC-ALC Group Commanders will:
        2.1.1. Ensure initial and annual awareness training is provided to all personnel that may
        come in contact with ACM. Training shall be documented in employees training records.
        2.1.2. Contact the base asbestos program manager in the 72d Air Base Wing, Civil
        Engineering Directorate, Environmental Compliance Office (72 ABW/CEIE) for
        guidance in determining potential contact with ACM.
        2.1.3. Coordinate sampling and testing with 72 ABW/CEIE for planned activities that
        may disturb PACM, prior to initiating actions. A courtesy copy of the test analysis shall
        be provided to the Environmental and Occupational Health Flight (776 MXSS/MXDEB).
OC-ALCI32-8 3 JULY 2014                                                                     3


     2.1.4. Ensure equipment and associated piping which is verified to contain ACM/PACM,
     and determined not to be real property, is properly labeled IAW 29 CFR
     1926.1101(k)(8)(iii). See Attachment 3, Figure A3.1 for a list of equipment that has been
     identified with ACM. Note: In building 3001, all pipe insulation in the shop areas
     south of the 81 column line should be considered PACM.
     2.1.5. Request assistance from 76th Maintenance Support Squadron (76 MXSS)
     Equipment Engineering Flight (76 MXSS/MXDEA) as needed to evaluate equipment
     cost and maintenance history to determine cost effectiveness of performing equipment
     O&M work/abatement versus replacement of equipment.
     2.1.6. Provide procurement personnel, if purchasing replacement or new equipment, with
     terminology that prohibits ACM in replacement or new equipment unless the government
     specifically approves purchasing equipment that has ACM integral to the equipment. If
     non-ACM replacement equipment is not available, the requesting organization will work
     with the procurement personnel for the granting of approval for the purchase of
     equipment with ACM.
  2.2. 76th Maintenance Support Group (76 MXSG) Maintenance and Installation Personnel
  will:
     2.2.1. Use the Facility Equipment Maintenance System (FEMS) database to document
     the presence of ACM in equipment. This includes all information pertinent to the
     equipment including the removal of the ACM or disposal of the equipment. This
     information must be forwarded to 72 AMDS/SGPB annually.
     2.2.2. Review available information in the FEMS database, equipment labeling, and
     original equipment manufacturer (OEM) maintenance data prior to beginning work on
     equipment to assess whether ACM has been determined to be present or not present. If
     there is any doubt that ACM is present in equipment, contact 72 ABW/CEIE.
     2.2.3. Contact 776 MXSS/MXDEB prior to performing maintenance work on equipment
     containing ACM. 776 MXSS/MXDEB in conjunction with 72 ABW/CEIE will
     determine whether proposed work can be performed using the OSHA expanded standards
     for non-friable ACM, or if asbestos abatement needs to be performed by an abatement
     contractor. OC-ALC personnel will not remove friable ACM. Prior to any removal or
     disruption of ACM/PACM, contact 72 AMDS/SGPB for personal protective equipment
     (PPE) and/or exposure control requirements.
     2.2.4. Attend and successfully complete annually asbestos awareness training, course
     MTEMAS0069741CB, TAFB Asbestos Awareness Training.
     2.2.5. Coordinate needed asbestos sampling and testing with the 72 ABW/CEIE and 72
     AMDS/SGPB for suspected ACM. NOTE: 72 AMDS/SGPB only performs personal
     air sampling to determine asbestos exposures to government employees.
  2.3. 76th Propulsion Maintenance Group (76 PMXG) Process and Facility Personnel will:
     2.3.1. Attend and successfully complete annually asbestos awareness training, course
     MTEMAS0069741CB, TAFB Asbestos Awareness Training, attend additional training as
     required by the OSHA classification of work being performed. At least one individual
4                                                                 OC-ALCI32-8 3 JULY 2014


       must have the Asbestos Supervisor training to meet the OSHA competent person
       requirement.
       2.3.2. Coordinate needed asbestos sampling and testing with the 72 ABW/CEIE and 72
       AMDS/SGPB for suspected ACM. Note: 72 AMDS/SGPB only performs personal
       air sampling to determine asbestos exposures to government employees.
       2.3.3. When non-friable ACM work is anticipated, initiate corrective actions by AF
       Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, and Air Force Materiel Command
       (AFMC) Form 299, Safety, Fire and Health Review, for each piece of equipment or
       facility component where ACM has been identified.
       2.3.4. If ACM is confirmed to be present, immediately notify supervisor for further
       guidance.
       2.3.5. Properly utilize protective clothing and equipment during maintenance activities as
       directed by 72 AMDS/SGPB.
       2.3.6. Ensure that all PPE and ACM are properly placed in sealed impermeable bags or
       other closed, impermeable containers, and labeled.
       2.3.7. Contact base asbestos program manager for proper disposal procedures for
       contaminated PPE and asbestos waste.
    2.4. 72AMDS/SGPB:
        2.4.1. Provides consultant services to OC-ALC on matters concerning health effects and
        exposure control requirements related to asbestos.
       2.4.2. Provides air monitoring and analysis of airborne concentration of asbestos fibers
       for government employee work.
       2.4.3. Maintains air monitoring documentation IAW AF requirements.
    2.5. 72 ABW/CEIE:
       2.5.1. Determines training requirements and work methods IAW OSHA standards.
       2.5.2. Provides coordination of the disposal of ACM and PPE used during asbestos
       removal.
       2.5.3. Samples and tests suspected ACM and report findings to 76 MXSS representatives
       and to the affected group shop supervisor or management chain.
       2.5.4. Assists in identifying engineering controls and work methods to reduce worker
       exposure levels.
       2.5.5. Assists in determining whether proposed work can be performed using the OSHA
       asbestos expanded standards, or asbestos abatement needs to be performed by a licensed
       abatement contractor.
       2.5.6. Ensures that damaged friable ACM found in equipment is removed by a licensed
       abatement contractor.
       2.5.7. Solicits contractual support, reviews/approves asbestos abatement contractor’s
       abatement submittal prior to start of work and provide contractor oversight.
OC-ALCI32-8 3 JULY 2014                                                                    5


      2.5.8. Reviews contractor abatement sampling results and maintains copies of contractor
      clearance sampling results.
3. Program Documentation.
   3.1. The Production Acceptances Control Scheduling System (PACSS) and/or Training
   Schedule System (TSS) shall be used to document the initial and annual awareness and
   specialized asbestos training.
   3.2. The FEMS database shall be used to document the presence or absence of ACM in
   equipment when sampling and testing is performed.




                                          DONALD E. KIRKLAND, Brig Gen, USAF
                                          Commander
 6                                                               OC-ALCI32-8 3 JULY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR Part 1910, Occupational Safety and Health Standards, 1 July 2013
29 CFR Part 1910.1001, Asbestos; General Industry, 1 July 2013
29 CFR Part 1926.1101, Asbestos; Construction, 1 July 2013
AFI 32-1052, Facility Asbestos Management, 4 January 2013
AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Standards, 25 July 2013
AFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure Controls, 16 April 2010
Tinker AFB Asbestos Management Plan, February 2011
Adopted Forms
AFMC Form 299, Safety, Fire and Health Review
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request

Abbreviations and Acronyms
72 ABW/CEIE—72d Air Base Wing/Civil Engineering Directorate, Environmental Compliance
Office
72 AMDS/SGPB—72d Aerospace Medicine Squadron/Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
76 MXSG—76th Maintenance Support Group
76 MXSS—76th Maintenance Support Squadron
76 PMXG—76th Propulsion Maintenance Group
76 MXSS/MXDEA—76th Maintenance Support Squadron/Equipment Engineering Flight
776 MXSS/MXDEB—776th Maintenance Support Squadron/Environmental and Occupational
Health Flight
ACM—Asbestos-Containing Material(s)
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
FEMS—Facility Equipment Maintenance System
OC—ALC —Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex
OC-ALCI32-8 3 JULY 2014                                                                          7


OEM—Original Equipment Manufacturer (Owner’s Manual)
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OMF—Occupational Medicine Flight
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PACM—Presumed Asbestos-Containing Material(s)
PACSS—Production Acceptances Control Scheduling System
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
TSS—Training Schedule System

Terms
Asbestos Containing Material (ACM)—Any material that contains more than one percent
asbestos.
Expanded Standards—Sections of 29 CFR 1910 Subpart Z following 29 CFR 1910.1000.
Each of these OSHA standards discusses a specific substance and has specific requirements that
apply where these substances are used.
Friable ACM—Material when dry that may be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder by
hand pressure, releasing fibers into the air.
Non—friable ACM—Material when dry that cannot be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to
powder by hand pressure (damage and deterioration increases the friability of asbestos-
containing material; water damage, continued vibration, aging, and physical impact such as
drilling, grinding, cutting, sawing, or striking can break the material making fiber release more
likely).
Operations and Maintenance Equipment—All industrial production equipment (non-RPIE),
and steam condensate chilled water supply/return lines back to the first valve off the main is the
responsibility of 76 MXSS Industrial Plant Equipment Maintenance Flight.
Operations and Maintenance Activities—Those tasks such as, but not limited to, replacement
of asbestos-containing gaskets on valves, installation of wiring or electrical conduits through or
proximate to asbestos-containing materials, or minor repairs to damaged thermal system
insulation (provided such activities are required in the performance of other repair or
maintenance activities not intended as asbestos abatement). Work to be conducted under this
definition will be performed on a case by case basis.
 8                                                        OC-ALCI32-8 3 JULY 2014


                                    Attachment 2
                     ASBESTOS OPERATIONAL CHECKLIST

Figure A2.1. OC-ALC Visual Aid 32-8, Asbestos Operational Checklist
OC-ALCI32-8 3 JULY 2014                          9


                                  Attachment 3
                            ACM EQUIPMENT LIST

Figure A3.1. ACM Equipment List
