BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE (ACC)                                                36-01

                                                                           3 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                   Personnel

                                              EXCUSED ABSENCE FROM DUTY DUE TO
                                                               SEVERE WEATHER

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 55 FSS/FSMC                                                    Certified by: 55 MSG/CC
Supersedes: OAFBI 36-01, 6 June 2005                                 (Col Michael Allshouse)
                                                                                     Pages: 13


This instruction establishes procedures to be used in excusing Offutt AFB personnel from duty
due to severe weather emergency conditions. It applies to all military members and civilian
employees (whether paid from appropriated or non-appropriated funds) assigned to or employed
at Offutt AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as required. Send suggested
comments, questions, and improvements to the publication on an AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through 55 CS/SCXKP, 201 Lincoln Highway,
Suite 206, Bldg 41, Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, 68113.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes MSS to FSS. Consistently uses term Weather-Essential rather than occasional use of
the term weather-emergency. Adds/deletes FSS activities such as deletion of Rod and Gun Club;
addition of Lodging and second Child Development Center. Minor grammatical and
administrative changes have been made throughout the instruction.
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. 55 WG/CC, CV and 55 MSG/CC. The 55 WG/CC or 55 WG/CV, and the 55 MSG/CC
   jointly determine an emergency weather situation exists and takes necessary actions to
   excuse personnel from duty, using early dismissal, late reporting, or base closure during
   periods of severe weather. The decision on the ending date/time of the emergency weather
 2                                                       OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011


     situation is made as soon as possible, to allow supervisors and managers to notify personnel
     on other shifts. No other commander, manager, or supervisor is authorized to decide to close
     the base or release personnel from duty during emergency weather situations.
     1.2. 55th Wing Command Post. Upon notification by 55 WG/CC, CV, and/or 55 MSG/CC
     that an emergency weather situation exists, advises all organizations of the decision to close
     the base or dismiss personnel utilizing the pyramid alert systems. The 55 WG/CP, using the
     pyramid recall, will notify the Groups of the ending date/time of the emergency, and the
     Groups run the pyramid recall, so personnel on other shifts know whether to report for duty.
     55 WG/CP will also issue the warning via ACC‟s ATHOC system.
     1.3. Commanders, Chiefs of Special Staff Agencies, or Associate Units. Identify the
     minimum number of critical positions necessary to accomplish the mission or to continue the
     operations of essential functions and activities during severe weather. Commanders and
     organizational chiefs may excuse absences and authorize civilian dismissals from duty only if
     an emergency weather situation has been declared by the 55 WG/CC, CV, or 55 MSG/CC.
     1.4. Managers and Supervisors. Ensure incumbents of critical positions are aware they must
     remain on, or report for duty as scheduled during severe weather emergency situations. In
     some cases, all personnel may be designated weather-essential, but not all will be required to
     work during a particular emergency. To prevent misunderstandings, it is important
     supervisors communicate expectations clearly to all personnel. In other cases, supervisors
     can use any standard rotational system among qualified individuals, so long as it is applied as
     equitably as possible.
     1.5. Military Members and Civilian Employees. Be aware whether they are, or are not
     assigned to critical positions and whether they are required to report for, or remain on duty in
     an emergency weather situation. All other personnel dismissed from duty because of a
     severe weather emergency will leave the base according to the staggered schedule at
     Attachment 2. They should travel directly to their residences and not stop at other base
     facilities. If the emergency weather situation is declared prior to the beginning of the work
     day, nonessential personnel will follow instructions received via the pyramid alert, ATHOC,
     posted on Offutt‟s Facebook page, or the Offutt Snow and Information Line (232-2653).
     55WG/PA will also send the delayed reporting and base closure statements to local radio and
     television stations as a secondary means of notification (non-official). If unsure of reporting
     instructions, individuals not previously designated, are responsible for contacting their
     supervisors directly. In the absence of instructions to the contrary, all personnel will report
     for duty. Finally, when the pyramid alert system is used, all personnel will ensure the chain
     of contact is not broken.
2. Designating Individuals as Weather-Essential Personnel.
     2.1. Commanders and organization chiefs identify critical positions requiring weather-
     essential designation, ensure incumbents of these positions are informed they are “weather
     essential” in writing, are aware of their weather-essential responsibilities, and are reminded
     of this designation, in writing, on an annual basis.
     2.2. The number of personnel designated as Weather-Essential Personnel will vary according
     to mission needs of each organization. However, managers and supervisors will designate
     only the minimum number needed to accomplish the mission and maintain essential services
OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011                                                                3


  during an emergency. When possible the requirement may be rotated among qualified
  individuals. Supervisors of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement (Wage
  Grade/Wage Leader, and GS Firefighters) must follow union contract requirements when
  determining which positions are critical and how to rotate the weather-essential assignment.
  2.3. If the services of Weather-Essential Personnel are not needed in a specific emergency
  weather situation, supervisors may release these individuals from duty or excuse their
  absence under the same authority as for nonessential personnel discussed in this instruction.
3. Procedures for Excusing and Dismissing Personnel During Emergency Weather
Situations
  3.1. Emergency Weather Situations Occurring Before the Start of Normal Day-Time Duty
  Hours
     3.1.1. Once the determination of an Emergency Weather Situation is made by the
     command authorities listed in paragraph 1.1, above, the 55 WG/CP will begin
     notifications utilizing the pyramid alert system and ATHOC.
     3.1.2. 55 WG/PA will update the Offutt Facebook page and the Snow and Information
     Line as follows:
         3.1.2.1. Offutt AFB is open; all employees are expected to attempt to report for work
         at their normal start time. Supervisors are authorized to excuse up to (specified
         number) hours for nonessential personnel unable to get to work on time if severe
         weather conditions cause commuting delays.
         3.1.2.2. Due to severe weather conditions, only Weather-Essential Personnel will
         report at the normal time. All others observe __ hours delayed reporting.
         3.1.2.3. Due to severe weather conditions, Offutt AFB is closed today; only Weather-
         Essential Personnel will report for duty.
     3.1.3. When an Emergency Weather Situation is declared before the beginning of the
     normal day shift, supervisors are responsible for notifying personnel assigned to other
     shifts whether to report for duty at their scheduled times. In many cases, this information
     may not be available until later in the day, depending on weather conditions.
  3.2. Emergency Weather Situations Occurring During the Workday. When an Emergency
  Weather Situation is declared during the workday, triggering employees to be released early,
  all Offutt AFB organizations will be notified through command channels.
     3.2.1. The 55 WG/CP initiates standard emergency notification procedures to all 55th
     Wing units and on-base associate units.
     3.2.2. Commanders of units having official or operational relationships with other
     organizations and associate units on and off base will ensure these activities are notified
     of any decision under this instruction. These activities include the American Red Cross,
     on-base contractors, Great Western Bank, the SAC Federal Credit Union, Burger King,
     and others.
     3.2.3. Supervisors and managers will release personnel from duty according to the
     schedule in Attachment 2. They will order Weather-Essential Personnel to remain on
     duty unless their services will not be needed. Supervisors must also notify all personnel
 4                                                     OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011


        assigned to other shifts whether they will be required to report for duty at the scheduled
        time.
4. Closing On-Base Facilities During an Emergency Situation. All nonessential facilities at
Offutt AFB will close during emergency weather situations. The schedule for closure of these
activities can be found at Attachment 2.
5. Administrative Orders. 55 CPTS advises timekeepers for civilian employees on correct
timekeeping entries. When civilian employees are properly excused from duty due to an
emergency weather situation, there is no charge to leave. Attachment 3 lists situations when it is
appropriate to excuse absences or charge annual leave, sick leave, or leave without pay for
civilian employees. Unauthorized absences from duty by civilian employees may be charged as
absence without leave as provided by AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave.
6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     6.1. Prescribed Forms. None
     6.2. Adopted Forms.
     AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             JOHN N.T. SHANAHAN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                             Commander
OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011                                                                 5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 Sep 02
DoD 1400.25-M, Department of Defense Personnel Manual, 28 April 2006
DoD 7000.14-R Vol 8, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation, May 2009
5 USC, Chapter 63, Leave, 1 January 2010
5 CFR, Part 630, Absence and Leave, 1 Jan 2010
Agreement Between Offutt Air Force Base, NE and the Int’l Assoc. of Fire Fighters (AFL-CIO),
Local F-191, 2 Sep 1986
Agreement Between Offutt Air Force Base and The American Federation of Gov’t Employees,
Local 1486 AFL-CIO, 20 December 2001

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES— Army Air Force Exchange Service
AFB— Air Force Base
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AWOL— Absent Without Leave
CC— Commander
CP— Command Post
CPTS— Comptroller Squadron
CV— Vice Wing Commander
FSS— Force Support Squadron
GS— General Schedule
LWOP— Leave Without Pay
MSG— Mission Support Group
PA— Public Affairs
WG/CC— Wing Commander
WL/WG— Wage Leader/Wage Grade
 6                                                     OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011


Terms
ACC’s ATHOC System— is a web browser that uses secure login credentials and an existing IP
network to notify personnel through a multiple of channels including personal computers, land
and mobile phones pagers, BlackBerries, Giant Voice, text message, voice mail or desktop pop-
up alerts.
Emergency Weather Situation— Severe weather conditions often, but not always associated
with severe winter storm warnings. These often include freezing rain and cold temperatures, and
can be expected to result in large numbers of employees being prevented from reporting for duty
safely, on time, or may require personnel be dismissed early to return to their residences safely.
Critical Positions— Positions considered vital to mission accomplishment or to the continued
operation of essential functions or activities during periods of severe weather.
Weather-Essential Personnel— Individuals assigned to critical positions. During Emergency
Weather Situations, Weather-Essential Personnel report for duty at the scheduled time or remain
at work until released by their supervisors. Some organizations may rotate assignment of
Weather-Essential Personnel. Weather-Essential Personnel will not be required to work during a
specific severe weather situation, if their services are not needed to accomplish the mission or to
continue essential functions.
Nonessential Personnel— Individuals not assigned to critical positions, as defined in paragraph
above.
Late Reporting— An emergency weather situation developing prior to the beginning of the
normal daytime shift and the 55th Wing Commander (55 WG/CC), 55th Vice Wing Commander
(55 WG/CV) and/or 55th Mission Support Group Commander (55 MSG/CC) authorize
supervisors to excuse a specified number of hours for nonessential employees, who are prevented
from reporting for duty at the normal time due to the weather emergency. The 55 WG/CC, CV,
or 55 MSG/CC notify the 55th Wing Command Post (55 WG/CP); the 55 WG/CP disseminates
the information and 55 WG/PA ensures the information is announced to the media prior to 0600
hours, whenever possible.
Early Dismissal— An emergency weather situation developing during the normal daytime work
shift and the 55 WG/CC, CV, or 55 MSG/CC determine the situation serious enough to warrant
dismissing nonessential personnel from duty before the end of the normal duty day.
Base Closed— An emergency weather situation developing prior to the beginning of the normal
daytime work shift and the 55 WG/CC, CV, or 55 MSG/CC determine the weather emergency
severe enough to close the base for the entire workday or longer. The 55 WG/CC, CV, or 55
MSG/CC notifies 55 WG/CP of the base closure decision; the 55 WG/CP disseminates the
information and 55 WG/PA ensures the information is announced to the media prior to 0600
hours, whenever possible. Nonessential personnel will not report for duty. For civilian
employees, it is considered a non-workday, and is excused without charge to leave, even for
employees already on scheduled leave.
OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011                                                           7


                                   Attachment 2
                 WEATHER EMERGENCY RELEASE SCHEDULE

Table A2.1. Weather Emergency Release Schedule (Normal Duty Hours)

ZONE      DISMISSAL TIME            AREA OF RESIDENCE
          (See Notes 1 and 2)
E         “H” Hour                  1. North of Blondo St in Omaha
                                    2. West of 108th St in Omaha
                                    3. East of the Missouri River,
                                       including Carter Lake, IA
                                    4. South of Platte River


D         “H” Hour + 20 Min         1. North of Interstate 80 in Omaha
                                    2. West of 72d St.
                                    3. South of Platteview Rd in
                                       Sarpy County, NE


C         H” Hour + 40 Min          1. North of Harrison St in
                                       Sarpy County, NE
                                    2. West of 36th St in Sarpy County, NE
                                    3. All areas in Sarpy County, NE south of Capehart
                                       Rd including Capehart Housing units south of
                                       Capehart Rd.


B         H” Hour + 60 Min          1. North of NE Highway 370 (Mission St
                                       in Bellevue, NE)
                                    2. West of 25th St in Sarpy County, NE


A         “H” Hour + 80 Min         1. Remaining areas of Capehart Housing
                                    2. Coffman Heights Housing
                                    3. Dormitory residents
                                    4. All other areas
 8                                                               OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011


NOTE 1: Individuals may have children in day care facilities including the Offutt Child
Development Center. Some are also responsible for the care of elderly or disabled persons.
Supervisors should release these persons as soon as possible after “H” Hour, so that they can
transport these people safely to their residences.
NOTE 2: If local schools close early, supervisors will try to accommodate personnel who must
arrange transportation for students.

Table A2.2. Weather Emergency Termination Schedule (Nonessential Base Activities)

CLOSING TIME               ACTIVITY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-
“H” Hour                   FSS Activities:                              Base Activities:
                           Skills Development Center                    Chapel
                           Wood Skills Center                           Base Education Center
                           Outdoor Recreation                           Military Retiree Activities Center
                           Fitness Center                               Civilian Retiree Service Center
                           Community Center
                           Library
                           Peacekeeper Lanes
                           Auto Skills Center
                           Aero Club
                           Equipment Rental
                           Vet Clinic
                           Willow Lakes/Warrior Nine
                            Golf Courses
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-
“H” Hour                   FSS Activities:                              Base Activities:
+ 60 Minutes               Youth Program & Child                        Base Exchange
                           Development Centers (Will close              Capehart Theater
                            when all children have been                 All AAFES retail, food and
                            picked up (See Note 5)                       concession facilities
                           Family Child Care
                           Offutt Club
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011                                                                   9


-
WILL REMAIN           Commissary (Purchases will be limited to necessities after “H” Hour)
OPEN AS               Gas Stations
SCHEDULED             Dining Halls
                      Lodging


NOTE 3: Based on weather conditions and in the interest of providing necessary support and
services, 55 MSG/CC may determine facilities, including the Commissary or the Base Exchange
should remain open for business when scheduled to close during an emergency weather situation.
NOTE 4: Activities, except gas stations, will close their doors at “H” Hour and will not allow
new customers to enter. All customers currently in the facility will be served and advised that an
emergency weather situation has been declared.
NOTE 5: When an emergency weather situation exists and personnel are released from duty
early, the Child Development Center will close when all children have been picked up. The
Child Development Center will open normally if the emergency situation in para 3.1.2.1 or
3.1.2.2 (open or delayed reporting) is announced before the duty day.
 10                                                    OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 3
   WEATHER EMERGENCY SITUATIONS(EFFECT ON CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES)

Table A3.1. Weather Emergency Situations
                 SITUATION                           EFFECT ON CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES
A. Before the start of the normal daytime work All nonessential personnel on a regular
shift, the 55 WG/CC, CV, or 55 MSG/CC             daytime work shift are excused from duty with
authorize closure of the base for the entire day, no charge to leave for their full tour of duty.
and the determination has been announced

                                                  If previously scheduled leave for the day,
                                                  either annual or sick, nonessential personnel
                                                  are also excused with no charge to leave.

                                                  Weather-essential personnel who had approved
                                                  leave scheduled for the day are not required to
                                                  report for duty unless their supervisor contacts
                                                  them and cancels their leave. If not called in to
                                                  work during a severe weather emergency,
                                                  weather-essential personnel are treated just as
                                                  nonessential personnel—the absence is
                                                  excused with no charge to leave.

                                                  Weather-essential personnel not on approved
                                                  leave who do not report for duty may initially
                                                  be charged Absence Without Leave (AWOL)
                                                  and may be subject to disciplinary action.
                                                  After discussing the matter with the employee,
                                                  the supervisor may later change the AWOL
                                                  timecard entry to Leave Without Pay (LWOP),
                                                  annual leave, or sick leave, as circumstances
                                                  warrant.

                                                  Employees not already at work on an evening
                                                  or night shift when the closing is announced
                                                  are treated as described in Situation D below.

B. Before the start of the normal daytime work All personnel are expected to attempt to get to
shift, the 55 WG/CC, CV, or 55 MSG/CC            work at their normal time.
authorize late reporting, and the determination
has been announced, supervisors are authorized
to excuse without charge to leave, up to two (2)
hours of tardiness for nonessential personnel.
                                                  Tardiness in excess of two (2) hours may be
OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011                                                                 11


                                               excused in individual cases, personally
                                               reviewed by the supervisor, as discussed in this
                                               instruction.

C. Before the start of the normal daytime work Nonessential personnel are excused without
shift, the 55 WG/CC, CV, or 55 MSG/CC            charge to leave for either:
authorize delayed reporting, with nonessential
personnel reporting either at a specified length
of time after their normal duty start time
(“report two (2) hours late”) or at a later
specified time (“report at 1000” or „report at
1200”) and the determination has been
announced.
                                               -A fixed amount of time for all employees,
                                               even though employees may be arriving at
                                               different times (if the authorization is to report
                                               a specified number of hours after the usual
                                               reporting time), or

                                               -A varying amount of time for different
                                               employees even though all employees arrive at
                                               the same time (if the authorization is to report
                                               to work at a specific time). For example, if
                                               personnel are to report at 1000, an employee
                                               whose duty hours are 0800-1700 would have
                                               two (2) hours of excused absence. An
                                               employee whose duty hours are 0730-1630,
                                               would have two and a half (2 ½) hours of
                                               excused absence.

                                               Nonessential personnel who do no wish to
                                               attempt to report for duty at all, who call their
                                               supervisor to request annual leave, and annual
                                               leave is granted must be charged annual leave
                                               for the full duty day.

                                               If the announced reporting time is 1200,
                                               employees are expected to report for duty at
                                               1200, and have already had lunch, unless the
                                               announcement specifies otherwise.

                                               Weather-essential personnel report for duty at
                                               their regular time.
 12                                              OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011


                                             Supervisors may excuse personnel for up to
                                             one (1) hour after the announced reporting time
                                             if the employee has report (albeit late) and the
                                             supervisor verifies an unavoidable delay
                                             caused by the severe weather condition.
                                             Nonessential personnel and not reporting at all
                                             for the day‟s shift are charged annual leave for
                                             the full duty day, unless the supervisor
                                             determines, after personal review, the
                                             employee made every reasonable effort to get
                                             to work, but was unable to do so, because of
                                             the severe weather conditions. After
                                             consulting with the Civilian Personnel
D. During the course of the normal daytime   Nonessential personnel are released from duty
work shift, the 55 WG/CC, CV, or 55          with no charge to leave according to the release
MSG/CC authorizes early dismissal of         schedule outlined in Attachment 1; individual
nonessential personnel.                      employees will have different amounts of time
                                             excused.

                                             Employees on scheduled leave are charged for
                                             the leave (sick or annual) for as much of the
                                             duty day as they had scheduled for leave. This
                                             includes the personnel who start leave before
                                             the early release is announced.

                                             Employees who start leave after the early
                                             release has been announced, but before the
                                             actual release time are charged leave only for
                                             the time between when they departed and the
                                             early dismissal time. Those scheduled to start
                                             leave after the early dismissal time are not
                                             charged leave for their absence.

                                             Employees who were on scheduled leave until
                                             the time of early dismissal, but were scheduled
                                             to report back to duty at the early dismissal
                                             time, are charged leave for their scheduled
                                             leave and are excused without charge to leave
                                             for the remainder of the time. For example, an
                                             employee with four (4) hours of annual leave
                                             scheduled from 0800 until 1200, would be
                                             charged four (4) hours of annual leave, and
                                             have four (4) hours excused absence if the
                                             dismissal time is 1200 hours.
OFFUTTAFBI36-01 3 JANUARY 2011                                                                    13



E. Stormy weather—heavy snow, ice, but NO            Employees are expected to report for duty at
base closure, late reporting, or early dismissal     their regularly scheduled duty start time.
has been authorized                                  Supervisors are authorized to excuse
                                                     unavoidable absences of less than one (1) hour,
                                                     as provided in AFI 36-815. Supervisors should
                                                     exercise discretion in such cases to excuse
                                                     brief tardiness related to the weather.
                                                     However, neither the supervisor, nor an
                                                     organizational commander has the authority to
                                                     excuse more than one (1) hour for weather-
                                                     related reasons when there has been no official
                                                     base closing, late reporting, or early dismissal
                                                     authorized.

F. Under any of the above situations, the 55         Employees would still have to comply with
WG/CC, CV, or 55 MSG/CC could also                   their organization‟s policies on requesting
announce that a liberal leave policy is in effect.   annual leave, but organizations would be urged
                                                     to grant all possible requests, without the
                                                     normal criteria of a certain manning level
                                                     being maintained within the organization.

                                                     In emergency situations, employees would
                                                     request approval of leave as soon as possible.
                                                     Supervisors are advised to approve such
                                                     requests when the commander has announced
                                                     that a liberal leave policy is in effect.
