                          Personally Identifying
                         Information Essentials
What Is Personally Identifying Information (PII)?
Information which can be used to identify a person uniquely and reliably.
What Information Is Included In The Definition Of PII?
Age and date of birth (MM/DD/YYYY).
Financial credit and medical data.
Home address, telephone number, and personal e-mail address.
Number, age, and sex of dependents.
Social Security Number (SSN) (entire nine digits or any partial portion of the digits)
Just Ask And The Air Force Will Tell You That You Have The Right To:
Request copies of records the Air Force maintains on you.
Designate a person such as a parent, spouse, or attorney to have access to information about you.
Seek and amend any factual inaccuracies (not opinions) for records maintained on you.
Receive information and understanding regarding how records are retained on you before being accessioned or
destroyed.
Appeal any denial of information to you.
What You Need to Do To Protect Personally Identifying Information (PII):
Think about your computer, memory sticks, PDA, etc, as to whether PII information may be stored on the device.
Properly mark e-mail with required Privacy Act Warning Statement and “FOUO/Privacy Act” in the subject line.
Think about what you would do if one of the above devices was stolen.
Validate whether information such as the Social Security Number (SSN) is required when preparing memorandums,
e-mails, or other communications. Include SSN only when required by law, or other policies mandate inclusion.
Don't place PII on websites or public folders. Restrict access to folders placed in ERM systems or common drives to only
those who need access for their official DoD duties.
When Is The Collection Of Personal Information Required? The AF Requires Personal Information To:
Hire you, retain you, pay you, separate you, compensate you, locate you, educate you, discipline you, rate you,
Provide services (i.e. health care) to you.
Five Rules To Remember For PII:
Think Privacy when accessing, maintaining, transmitting or destroying PII!
If you collect it, you must protect it!
If in doubt, you must leave it out!
Just because you handled PII one way in the past does not mean it is the best or right way!
Promptly report suspected or actual loss, theft or compromise of PII to your Supervisor, Unit Privacy Act Monitor,
Base Privacy Act Manager and/or Commander!
Air Force Approved System Of Records Notices:
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf
Air Force Instructions Regarding The Privacy Act:
See AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program for additional information.


        For More Information Contact Your Unit Privacy Act Monitor


                                       OFFUTT AFB VA: 33-6
                                         20 September 2010 Certified Current 4 June 2013
                          RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this
                                              publication
                                               OPR: 55 CS/SCXKF
                                            Per: AFI 33-332/OAFB SUP
