BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                       OFFUTT AFB INSTRUCTION 13-214
OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                                              8 NOVEMBER 2010

                                                                                 Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                                                                            AIRFIELD DRIVING



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 55 OSS/OSAA                                                                                           Certified by: 55 OG/CC
Supersedes: OAFBI 13-214, 1 Oct 2006                                                                        (Col John M. Hansen)
                                                                                                                          Pages: 41


This instruction establishes procedures and requirements for vehicles and personnel operating on
the aprons, taxiways, and runways at Offutt Air Force Base (AFB). It is applicable to all units
assigned, attached, deployed or TDY to Offutt AFB. Unless specifically designated by mission
or type of aircraft, the procedures contained herein are applicable to all aircraft operations at
Offutt AFB. This instruction supplements AFI 13-213, Airfield Management. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Send suggested comments, questions, and
improvements to the publication on an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through 55 CS/SCXKP, 201 Lincoln Highway, Suite 206, Bldg 41, Offutt Air Force
Base, Nebraska, 68113. The reporting requirements shown in this instruction will be managed
according the procedures outlined for RCS: HAF-SE (AR) 7602 in the parent AFI 91-202, The
US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised since the last publication and must be completely
reviewed. Revisions within this publication comply with the most current changes in current Air
Force guidance, letters of agreement and local policy.

       1.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................   2
 2                                                                   OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


       2.     TRAINING CRITERIA AND TESTING REQUIREMENTS. .............................                                               7
       3.     VEHICLE OPERATING PROCEDURES ON THE AIRFIELD. ........................                                                 10
Table 3.20.   Procedures and Phraseology. .................................................................................          19
       4.     REPORTING, ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATION CONSEQUENCES .........                                                            20
       5.     TDY and Non-base Assigned Contractor Personnel ..............................................                          21
       6.     PRIVATELY OWNED AND GOVERNMENT LEASED VEHICLE PASSES .                                                                 22
       7.     Prescribed Forms. ..................................................................................................   25
       7.1.   Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................   26

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       27

Attachment 2—OFFUTT AFB BASE AIRFIELD DRIVING PROGRAM UNIT SELF-
             INSPECTION CHECKLIST                                                                                                    31

Attachment 3—SAMPLE AF IMT 483                                                                                                       33

Attachment 4—SAMPLE AIRFIELD DRIVING CERTIFICATION REQUEST                                                                           34

Attachment 5—OFFUTT AFB AIRFIELD VEHICLE TRAFFIC FLOW                                                                                35

Attachment 6—OFFUTT AFB TOWER BLIND SPOTS                                                                                            36

Attachment 7 —GLIDESLOPE AND LOCALIZER CRITICAL AREAS                                                                                37

Attachment 8—END-FIRE GLIDE SLOPE CRITICAL AREA                                                                                      38

Attachment 9—AIRFIELD SIGNS AND MARKINGS                                                                                             39

Attachment 10—ATCT LIGHT GUN SIGNALS                                                                                                 40

Attachment 11—GROUND VEHICLE/RADIO CALL SIGNS FOR OFFUTT AFB CMA                                                                     41


1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. Wing Commander.
       1.1.1. Designate personnel and agencies to support the Airfield Driving Program.
       1.1.2. 55 WG/CC has delegated the authority to the 55 OSS/OSAA Airfield Manager
       and Deputy Airfield Manager (DAFM) to issue, suspend, or revoke airfield driving
       licenses and/or permanent/temporary airfield vehicle pass privileges as required.
       1.1.3. 55 WG/CC has delegated the authority to Unit Airfield Driving Program Managers
       (ADPM) to suspend or revoke airfield driving license and/or permanent/temporary
       airfield vehicle pass privileges.
       1.1.4. May reinstate airfield driving privileges in writing to perform mission essential
       duties following suspension/revocation of base driving privileges. Authority must not be
       delegated.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                               3


     1.1.5. Approves publication of the Airfield Driving Instruction (ADI).
  1.2. Unit Commanders.
     1.2.1. Appoint a ADPM to administer the unit airfield driving program. Ensure the
     ADPM is a minimum of a SSgt 7-level (or civilian equivalent) unless manning
     constraints absolutely prohibit, then the most qualified SSgt 5-level available. Ensure
     ADPM complies with all training requirements of this instruction. Provide a copy of the
     appointment letter to Airfield Management. Update the appointment letter when the
     ADPM changes.
     1.2.2. Ensure newly appointed ADPMs contact Airfield Management for training at least
     30 days prior to assuming the duties of unit ADPM.
     1.2.3. Through ADPMs, ensure a airfield driving program is established with this and
     other referenced directives to meet the needs of the organization and restrict the number
     of personnel authorized to drive on the airfield to an absolute minimum.
     1.2.4. Upon suspension or revocation of a unit member’s base driving privileges and/or
     AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card, suspend or
     revoke the member’s airfield driving license and/or Permanent/Temporary Airfield
     Vehicle Pass and notify the unit ADPM and Airfield Management. The 55 WG/CC may
     authorize reinstatement of airfield driving and/or permanent/temporary vehicle pass
     privileges to perform critical mission-essential duties. The Unit Commander will forward
     copies of reinstatement approvals to 55 OSS/OSAA.
  1.3. Unit Airfield Driving Program Managers.
     1.3.1. Be appointed in writing by the unit commander and shall be certified to operate a
     vehicle on the airfield.
     1.3.2. Be certified by Airfield Management before conducting airfield driving training.
     1.3.3. Revoke the unit member’s airfield driving privileges when violations
     occur. Notify the unit commander and Airfield Management after revoking an
     individual’s airfield driving privileges and/or Permanent/Temporary Airfield Vehicle
     Pass privileges.
     1.3.4. Immediately notify Airfield Management of any lost or stolen Airfield Vehicle
     passes.
     1.3.5. Develop and administer the unit’s airfield driving program in accordance with this
     instruction.
     1.3.6. Administer the color vision test using Pseudo Isochromatic Plates according to
     instructions contained in the plates. Refer individuals that fail to the 55th Medical Group
     (55 MDG) for further evaluation.
     1.3.7. Maintain the following documentation and ensure each is current and readily
     available:
        1.3.7.1. ADPM and Airfield Trainer appointment letter.
        1.3.7.2. All training and certification documentation for all unit personnel issued an
        AF IMT 483.
4                                                  OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


          1.3.7.3. An excel spreadsheet listing unit personnel with a valid airfield driver’s
          license. The spreadsheet shall be updated quarterly and include name, grade, AF IMT
          483 certificate number, date of issue, and date of refresher training.
          1.3.7.4. Unit Self-Inspection Checklist and last inspection results.
          1.3.7.5. Copies of approved Permanent/Temporary Airfield Vehicle Pass request.
          1.3.7.6. A airfield driving training binder or folder consisting of the following: This
          instruction, AFMAN 24-306, Chapter 25, AFOSHSTD 91-100, Chapter 6, AFI 21-
          101 COMBAT AIR FORCE SUP I Paragraph 14.9, AFI 13-213 ACC Sup. 1, Ch 4,
          training package, ADPM appointment letter, procedures for checking color vision,
          procedures for training TDY personnel, and copies of all required forms. This binder
          will be inspected by Airfield Management annually to validate each unit’s program.
          The regulations can either be printed out or saved on a disk.
       1.3.8. Conduct and document a self-assessment of the unit’s airfield driving program
       using attachment 1 of this instruction semi-annually or when a change of ADPM occurs.
       1.3.9. Accomplish an initial review of each airfield driving trainee’s driving record IAW
       AFOSHSTD 91-100 para. 6.3.5.2. The initial review will ensure the individual possesses
       a valid state and government driver’s license, the individual is qualified to operate all
       vehicles listed on the government driver’s license, and the individual’s driving privileges
       have not been revoked.
       1.3.10. Confirm training and certification documentation has been accomplished for all
       required tasks on the Airfield Driving Certification Letter. The certification letter must
       be signed by both the ADPM and the unit commander.
       1.3.11. Ensure additional training is conducted and documented on personnel who fail a
       test or commit a violation.
       1.3.12. Appoint and train airfield driving qualified trainers as required.
       1.3.13. Ensure annual refresher training is completed and documented on the back of all
       unit individual’s AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency.
    1.4. Airfield Manager/Deputy Airfield Manager
       1.4.1. Provide quality assurance over the airfield driving program and assist the unit
       ADPM with their unit airfield driving program.
       1.4.2. Inspect each unit’s airfield driving program annually or as requested by unit
       commanders. Inspection will focus on program integrity, compliance, and support. If the
       unit program is deemed non compliant IAW AFI 13-213 and this regulation, the program
       will be suspended. Results of unit inspections are directly forwarded by the DAFM to the
       unit Commanders and briefed at the Airfield Operations Board (AOB). Suspension of a
       program means that the unit will no longer be authorized to administer the unit Airfield
       Driving Program until the deficiencies have been corrected.
       1.4.3. Airfield Management will notify the unit commander and ADPM when revoking
       an individual’s airfield driving and/or permanent/temporary airfield vehicle pass
       privileges. Maintain records of all airfield driving violations.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 5


     1.4.4. Attend base transportation semi-annual Vehicle Control Officer (VCO)/Vehicle
     Control Non Commissioned Officer (VCNCO) meetings as required. Be prepared to
     provide guidance on incidents that occurred on the airfield to include runway intrusions,
     safety violations, any changes to driving procedures, and reports of vehicle Foreign
     Object Damage (FOD). Be prepared to brief on current and/or pending construction
     projects that may impact normal driving operations.
     1.4.5. Train all newly appointed ADPMs.
     1.4.6. Provide a copy of the Airfield Driving Computer Based Training, Offutt AFB
     airfield local orientation slideshow, access to the Offutt AFB airfield local orientation
     written web quiz test, Air Traffic Control phraseology test, and the Offutt AFB airfield
     diagram tests to unit ADPMs.
     1.4.7. Administer the Offutt AFB Airfield Orientation Slideshow written test.
     1.4.8. Provide airfield driving training information and material to unit ADPMs as
     required.
     1.4.9. Establish contractor routes to and from work areas on the airfield.
     1.4.10. Process requests for airfield vehicle passes. Maintain records of annual and
     temporary airfield driving permits issued annually.
     1.4.11. Periodically conduct random stop of vehicles on the airfield and verify members
     are airfield qualified.
     1.4.12. Periodically check non-government vehicles to ensure a valid vehicle pass is
     visible while operating on the airfield.
     1.4.13. Immediately notify 55th Security Forces Squadron (55 SFS) of any lost or stolen
     vehicle passes.
     1.4.14. Investigate and document airfield violations.
     1.4.15. Provide 55 SFS with a current listing of all permanent airfield vehicle passes.
  1.5. Contracting.
     1.5.1. Inform Airfield Management on all contracts that will involve the airfield
     environment. Ensure routes to and from the airfield work sites are approved by Airfield
     Management and published in the contract, and any other contracts that would require
     access to the airfield.
     1.5.2. Inform Airfield Management of all pre-construction meetings involving contracts
     that will require driving within the airfield environment.
     1.5.3. Ensure all contracts requiring access to the airfield state that contractors must
     contact sponsoring units ADPM for training on airfield driving procedures, and that
     compliance with this instruction is mandatory.
  1.6. 55th Wing Public Affairs (55 WG/PA).
     1.6.1. Inform Airfield Management of all tours that will require driving on the airfield.
     1.6.2. Ensure 55 WG/PA drivers receive proper training on airfield driving procedures.
6                                                  OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


    1.7. 55th Wing Safety (55 WG/SE).
       1.7.1. Coordinate with Airfield Management and unit ADPMs to ensure a proper airfield
       driving program is being conducted. Conduct and document an annual review of the base
       airfield driving program.
       1.7.2. Conduct periodic spot inspections for airfield driving violations. Provide Airfield
       Management a copy of any documented results.
       1.7.3. Assist Airfield Management if necessary, or when requested, when reviewing unit
       airfield drivers training programs.
       1.7.4. Assist Airfield Management in the development of the local airfield driver’s
       program and in any related safety investigations.
       1.7.5. Assist Airfield Management in documenting any type of formal hazard report as a
       result of an airfield driving violation.
    1.8. 55th Security Forces Squadron (55 SFS).
       1.8.1. Inspect, as required, non-government vehicles to ensure they have a valid airfield
       vehicle pass. Secure any airfield vehicle pass that has expired, was reported lost or
       stolen, or is being used for an unauthorized purpose and escort the vehicle off the
       airfield. Forward the pass to Airfield Management with information pertaining to the
       incident.
       1.8.2. Randomly check vehicle operators for the proper vehicle passes if required, valid
       state driver’s license, and AF IMT 483.
       1.8.3. Monitor and enforce safe airfield driving practices.
       1.8.4. Report violations to Airfield Management
    1.9. Control Tower.
       1.9.1. Control vehicles operating on the airfield in accordance with FAA JO7110.65, AFI
       13-203, Air Traffic Control, and this instruction.
       1.9.2. Immediately report violations of this instruction to Airfield Operations. File an
       AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report, or AF Form 651, Hazardous Air Traffic Report, as
       required and provide a copy to Airfield Management.
       1.9.3. When unable to establish communications with personnel in the Controlled
       Movement Area (CMA), immediately notify Airfield Operations of the situation, attempt
       to contact the vehicle by using light gun signals. If on the runway, raise and lower the
       intensity of the runway edge lights. This signal directs personnel to immediately exit the
       runway and establish communication with Tower.
    1.10. Unit Airfield Driving Trainers.
       1.10.1. Unit Commander or ADPM appoint airfield driving trainers in writing IAW AFI
       13-213 par 4.3.1.2.
       1.10.2. Conduct training in accordance with the unit’s training program and this
       instruction.
       1.10.3. Annotate all training on the Airfield Drivers Training and Certification Letter.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                   7


       1.10.4. Ensure trainees performing On-the-Job Training (OJT) for airfield duties do not
       operate a vehicle within 50 feet of aircraft. This restriction does not apply to fire fighting
       vehicles and equipment, operators and OJT operators who are towing aircraft, loading
       and unloading material-handling equipment, and vehicles servicing aircraft. In all cases,
       drivers in OJT must be qualified to operate the vehicle and must be accompanied by
       someone qualified to certify them on airfield driving.
   1.11. Airfield Drivers.
       1.11.1. Provide feedback to trainer and unit ADPM on training received.
       1.11.2. Comply with the requirements in this instruction.
       1.11.3. Complete the Airfield Driving CBT (Computer Based Training), Offutt AFB
       Airfield Orientation Slideshow, Offutt AFB Airfield Orientation Slideshow test, and
       Offutt AFB Airfield Diagram Test as a refresher annually.
   1.12. Convoy and Escort.
       1.12.1. Be authorized and certified to drive on the Offutt AFB airfield and fully aware of
       associated escort responsibilities.
       1.12.2. Brief following drivers on route, speed, procedures, etc.
       1.12.3. Not escort more than five vehicles at one time on the airfield. Fire Department
       and munitions convoys are exempt.
   1.13. 55th Medical Group (55 MDG).
       1.13.1. Verify an individual’s color vision by reviewing medical records or conducting a
       color vision screening to ensure the individual can distinguished between red, green,
       white, yellow, and, blue when the individual fails their unit’s airfield driving color vision
       test.
2. TRAINING CRITERIA AND TESTING REQUIREMENTS. All personnel (military,
DoD/contractor, TDY, etc.) operating a vehicle on the Offutt AFB airfield must be trained on
local airfield driving procedures, complete the Airfield Driving CBT and be licensed and/or
certified either to operate a privately/government/contractor owned or leased vehicle and possess
an AF IMT 483 endorsed for airfield driving IAW this instruction.
   2.1. Issuing AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency
       2.1.1. After successful completion of all airfield driving qualification training and the
       airfield driving examinations, the trainer will sign certifying the trainee has been fully
       trained on airfield driving IAW this instruction.
           2.1.1.1. The ADPM and Squadron Commander both sign the Airfield Driving
           Certification letter which certifies that all required training has been completed and
           the driver is authorized to operate a vehicle on the airfield.
       2.1.2. The ADPMs will submit an AF IMT 483 with name of the driver along with the
       Airfield Driving CBT score sheet, completed Airfield Driving Certification letter, the
       Offutt Airfield Diagram score sheet, and the Offutt local written test results to Airfield
       Management for approval. (The AF IMT 483 may be either typed or hand-written and
       printed on plain or card-stock paper.)
8                                                OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


       2.1.3. Airfield Management will verify training and testing documentation, then endorse
       the Airfield Driving Certification letter and validate the AF IMT 483 with an
       ―AUTHORIZED ON OFFUTT AFB AIRFIELD.‖ stamp which indicates the bearer has
       completed all required airfield driver training and is authorized to drive on the Offutt
       AFB airfield.
    2.2. Local Training Curriculum
       2.2.1. At a minimum, airfield drivers training will ensure documented review of:
          2.2.1.1. Reading AFMAN 24-306 Chapter 25; AFOSHSTD 91-100 Chapter 6; AFI
          21-101 COMBAT AIRFORCE Sup.1 Chapter 14 Section 14.19; this instruction;
          special interest items provided by Airfield Management; and any additional material
          specific to the assigned unit. Unit ADPMs are responsible for issuing this material.
          2.2.1.2. Complete a practical Air Traffic Control light gun signal recognition test
          with a minimum test score of 100%..
          2.2.1.3. Complete the Airfield Driving CBT with a minimum test score of 80%.
          2.2.1.4. Complete the Offutt AFB Airfield local orientation slideshow and pass
          written test with a score of 85%.
          2.2.1.5. Complete the Offutt AFB Airfield Diagram Test and pass with a minimum
          score of 90% correctable to 100%. ADPMs have the option to add any questions to
          the test applicable to the unit.
          2.2.1.6. Accomplish at a minimum one practical driving evaluation to certify items in
          the unit airfield driving training program guide.
          2.2.1.7. Completing FOD awareness training IAW AFI 21-101 COMBAT
          AIRFORCES Sup.1, Chapter 14, Section 14.19.
    2.3. Color Vision Requirements.
       2.3.1. Individuals that have a requirement to drive in a CMA must pass a color vision
       test.
          2.3.1.1. Individuals that fail color vision testing using Pseudo Isochromatic Plates
          will be referred to the 55 MDG for further evaluation.
          2.3.1.2. Those individuals that fail to pass the color vision test can be issued a
          ―limited access‖ AF IMT 483.
       2.3.2. Drivers identified as color blind with an approved waiver to operate a vehicle on
       the airfield will have their AF IMT 483 stamped by Airfield Management with,
       ―AUTHORIZED OFFUTT AFB AIRFIELD LIMITED ACCESS‖ and are not authorized
       to operate a vehicle in the CMA without a qualified escort.
       2.3.3. Personnel that have a mandatory requirement for normal color vision (entry and
       retention) in their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) are exempt from color vision testing
       portion of the Airfield Driving Program. Note: The unit ADPM must provide the DAFM
       a current copy of AFSC specialty job description.
    2.4. Day and Night Orientation Test Ride.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                               9


     2.4.1. One Day and Night Orientation ride (practical) on training items in the unit’s
     airfield driving training program guide are required.
        2.4.1.1. Individuals who have not received a night orientation ride are not authorized
        to operate vehicles on the airfield at night and the ADPM will annotate ―Not
        authorized to drive at night‖ on the reverse side of the AF IMT 483.
  2.5. Airfield Driving CBT Completion/Tracking.
     2.5.1. Airfield Driving CBT will be accomplished for initial and annual refresher
     training.
     2.5.2. ADPMs are required to document the date and score of the CBT Test Results on
     the Airfield Driver’s Training Log.
     2.5.3. ADPMs will document refresher training annually on the reverse side of the
     member’s AF IMT 483.
  2.6. Local Testing Administration.
     2.6.1. Authority to administer tests is delegated to the unit ADPMs.
     2.6.2. Trainees who fail the Airfield Driving CBT will be automatically locked out of the
     program for one week. No attempt will be made for the trainee to re-take the test prior to
     the end of this period.
     2.6.3. First time failures: Individuals who fail the Airfield Driving CBT, the Offutt AFB
     Airfield Diagram Test, the Offutt Airfield local orientation slideshow written test, the Air
     Traffic Control light gun test, or the Air Traffic Control phraseology test will receive
     additional training by the unit ADPM. This training will be documented on a
     memorandum for record and attached to the Airfield Driving Certification letter
     (Attachment 3). Drivers can be rescheduled for testing upon completion of additional
     training but no earlier than 7 days from the failure.
     2.6.4. Second time failures: Individuals who fail a second time will receive additional
     training by the unit ADPM. This training will be documented on a memorandum for
     record and attached to the Airfield Driving Certification letter (Attachment 3). Drivers
     will be rescheduled for testing upon completion of additional training no earlier than 14
     days from the failure.
     2.6.5. Third time failures: Individuals who fail the same test three times will not be
     granted driving privileges.
  2.7. Airfield Diagram/Layout Test.
     2.7.1. Airfield Diagram/Layout test is required for all individual’s requesting AF IMT
     483 with a minimum score of 90% correctable to 100%.
        2.7.1.1. ADPMs have the option to add any questions to the test applicable to the
        unit.
  2.8. Air Traffic Control Phraseology Testing Requirements.
     2.8.1. Air Traffic Control Phraseology test is required for all individual’s requesting AF
     IMT 483 with a minimum score of 90% correctable to 100%.
 10                                                OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


       2.8.2. ADPMs will simulate radio contact with the control tower for individuals who
       operate vehicles in the CMA.
       2.8.3. The following definitions/examples will be used when communicating with the
       Control Tower.
           2.8.3.1. ACKNOWLEDGE - Let me know that you understand my message.
           2.8.3.2. AFFIRMATIVE – Yes.
           2.8.3.3. HOLD SHORT - Stop your vehicle, maintain your present position.
           2.8.3.4. I SAY AGAIN - The message will be repeated.
           2.8.3.5. NEGATIVE - No, permission not granted; or that is not correct.
           2.8.3.6. OVER - My transmission is ended, I expect a response.
           2.8.3.7. ROGER - I have received all of your last transmission.
           2.8.3.8. SAY AGAIN - Please repeat your last transmission.
           2.8.3.9. STANDBY - The controller is busy with a higher priority item and cannot
           answer you. If the delay is lengthy (3 minutes), the caller should re-establish contact.
           2.8.3.10. CROSS/PROCEED ON - The ―action words‖ allowing access to controlled
           movement area.
           2.8.3.11. READ BACK HOLD INSTRUCTIONS – The caller shall read back hold
           instructions verbatim.
   2.9. Refresher Training.
       2.9.1. Required on an annual basis for all base assigned personnel who operate a vehicle
       on the airfield.
       2.9.2. Training requires a documented review of this instruction, any special interest
       items provided by Airfield Management, completion of the Airfield Driving CBT, Offutt
       AFB Airfield local orientation slideshow, Offutt AFB Airfield local orientation slideshow
       test, and Offutt Airfield diagram test.
       2.9.3. Annotate refresher training on the rear of the AF IMT 483 with the date and name
       of the individual conducting the refresher training. Unit ADPMs will document refresher
       training in unit tracking log/database.
3. VEHICLE OPERATING PROCEDURES ON THE AIRFIELD. The following will be
observed at all times when vehicles are operated on the airfield. Care, attention, and strict
adherence to these precautions will prevent accidental damage to aircraft and injury to personnel.
Personnel who are authorized to operate bicycles, tricycles, gators or mini truck type vehicles
will conform to airfield vehicle traffic standards.
   3.1. Procedures for Controlled Movement Area access.
       3.1.1. Controlled Movement Area is defined as areas which require two-way radio
       communication with the control tower. This area consists of the runway and 100 feet
       from the runway pavement edge. Aircraft movement areas are defined as the runways,
       overruns, taxiways, infields, service aprons, hard stands and other areas of the airport
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                            11


     which are utilized for taxiing or takeoff and landing of aircraft. These areas require two
     way radio contact with ―OFFUTT TOWER‖ before entering and at all times within the
     CMA.
     3.1.2. ATC Ground Control is responsible for the control of aircraft/vehicles and
     personnel operating on all portions of the movement areas. All aircraft and vehicles must
     be in two-way radio contact with ―OFFUTT TOWER‖ before entering any movement
     areas. A vehicle that is equipped with a radio may escort vehicles without radios.
     3.1.3. Offutt tower will provide aircraft with all known hazards which exist along an
     aircraft taxi route. Note: In accordance with AFI 13-204, no vehicle or person may enter
     the CMA without specific approval from Air Traffic Control (ATC). See Attachment 6
     for CMA.
  3.2. Airfield Markings.
     3.2.1. Edge of Stressed Pavement Marking: A double yellow line used to mark the edge
     of the pavement stressed to support aircraft.
     3.2.2. Hold Line: Two solid yellow lines adjacent to two dashed yellow lines, located
     100 feet from the edge of the runway. The dashed lines are always closest to the runway.
     Vehicles and aircraft must contact the Air Traffic Control Tower (ATCT) and obtain
     permission prior to proceeding beyond the hold line. Additionally, all aircraft/vehicles
     must maintain radio contact with the ATCT while operating beyond the hold lines (i.e.,
     on the runway).
     3.2.3. Restricted Area Boundary Markings: A solid red line used to designate restricted
     areas. Vehicles requiring access to or from restricted areas will do so in designated
     entry/exit control points (ECP). All personnel entering restricted areas must have a valid
     restricted area badge authorizing access to the area in question or an escort who has
     proper access.
     3.2.4. Taxiway Centerline Marking: Solid yellow line highlighted in black used to
     designate the center of the taxiway.
     3.2.5. Entry Control Points: Black and white striped box used to designate the entry/exit
     control points into a restricted area.
  3.3. Airfield Lighting.
     3.3.1. Runway Lights: White lights located on the runway edges. The last 2000 feet of
     runway lights are yellow. These high-intensity lights run the length of the runway and
     identify the runway edge.
     3.3.2. Taxiway Lights: Blue lights used to outline taxiways.
     3.3.3. Taxiway Entrance/Exit Lights: Double blue lights used to identify entrances and
     exits.
     3.3.4. Light Gun Signals: Various light signals used to control aircraft and vehicles on
     the airfield when radio communication is lost or cannot be established (Attachment 8).
12                                              OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


     3.3.5. Extreme caution should be used not to confuse the rotating beacon with the Tower
     light gun signal. Tower light gun signals can be observed through the large glass
     windows of the Tower cab.
  3.4. Lateral Distance Requirement for Mobile Obstacles.
     3.4.1. An obstacle is anything posing a threat to aircraft movements, e.g.; fire bottles,
     maintenance stands, vehicles, Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE), etc.
     3.4.2. Obstacles must remain at least 1,000 feet from runway centerlines, 200 feet from
     taxiway centerlines, and at least 125 feet from the edge of aprons when not directly
     supporting aircraft.
     3.4.3. Equipment and vehicles not directly supporting aircraft must be parked or placed
     at the nose of the aircraft with the driver’s side closest to the aircraft.
     3.4.4. Equipment may be pre-staged on parking aprons or hardstands no earlier than 3
     hours prior to arrival of the aircraft and be removed no later than 3 hours after aircraft
     departure.
  3.5. Authorized Airfield Vehicles.
     3.5.1. Government Managed Vehicles (GMV) in the performance of official duties.
     3.5.2. Privately Owned Vehicles (POV) issued an airfield POV pass for the performance
     of official duties.
     3.5.3. Rental vehicles utilized by deployed personnel possessing an airfield license and
     POV pass in the performance of official duties.
     3.5.4. Contractor vehicles possessing an airfield POV pass in the performance of
     contracted duties.
     3.5.5. Only government owned bicycles may be operated on the aircraft ramps provided
     they are equipped with lights and reflectors or reflective tape during night operations.
     3.5.6. Golf-type carts or similar utility vehicles will follow all rules established for
     general and special purpose vehicles and will be equipped with forward and rear lamps if
     operated at night. The operator must have an AF IMT 483.
     3.5.7. Authorized personnel requiring access to the Air Traffic Control Tower (e.g., air
     traffic control personnel working in the Tower) may operate privately owned vehicles,
     motorcycles, and bicycles on the access road to the Control Tower parking area without
     an airfield license. Vehicle operators shall comply with airfield speed limits.
  3.6. Unauthorized Vehicles.
     3.6.1. Motorcycles, mopeds, two-wheeled scooters, roller skates, skateboards and
     bicycles are not authorized on the Offutt AFB airfield except when being pushed or
     carried from Gate 5 to Hanger 6 (Bldg 307), except bicycles as noted in 1.10.5.5 above.
     3.6.2. POVs are prohibited from driving or parking in restricted areas containing PL 1, 2
     and 3 resources, to include external clear zones.
  3.7. Speed Limits.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                              13


       3.7.1. No vehicle will be operated at a speed in excess of that deemed reasonable and
       prudent for existing traffic, road, and weather conditions.
       3.7.2. The speed limit in the general airfield area is 15 MPH for general purpose vehicles
       and 10 MPH for special purpose vehicles.
       3.7.3. Twenty-five MPH on the parallel taxiway from Charlie 1 to the south of taxiway
       November.
       3.7.4. Twenty-five MPH on access road to the Control Tower.
       3.7.5. The speed limit for all vehicles is 5 MPH when:
          3.7.5.1. Within 25 feet of an aircraft.
          3.7.5.2. Within 50 feet of an airfield facility.
       3.7.6. Aircraft equipment and trailer towing:
          3.7.6.1. Towing speed is 5 MPH for all aircraft and when towing two or more
          maintenance stands.
          3.7.6.2. Towing speed for one maintenance stand is 10 MPH.
          3.7.6.3. The maximum towing speed for AGE is 15 MPH.
   3.8. Speed Limit Exceptions.
       3.8.1. Emergency response vehicles responding to an emergency may operate at a
ny prudent speed commensurate with safety.
       3.8.2. Transient Alert (TA) when positioning for a ―Follow Me‖ operation. When
       necessary to accommodate the optimum safe taxiing speed of aircraft, ―Follow Me‖
       vehicles will be permitted to exceed the normal 15 MPH speed limit.
       3.8.3. Any time the Control Tower advises to ―expedite‖ or uses the term ―immediately‖
       to facilitate clearing the active runway.
       3.8.4. Snow removal equipment may operate at any prudent speed commensurate with
       safety in the performance of snow plowing operations IAW with the Base Snow Plan.
       3.8.5. Alert response vehicles responding to an emergency may operate at any prudent
       speed commensurate with safety.
   3.9. FOD Control and Prevention.
       3.9.1. Drivers shall not operate a vehicle on the airfield without first stopping and
       thoroughly checking tires for stones and other foreign objects that may fly away or fall
       from the vehicle. A roll over FOD check shall be completed. The driver will check for
       FOD, get back in the vehicle and move vehicle back to expose tire surface previously on
       the ground and complete FOD check again. Vehicle operators will ensure the cargo bed
       and the passenger compartment floor are clean to prevent debris from falling onto the
       airfield.
       3.9.2. General and special purpose government motor vehicles which routinely require
       access to the airfield will carry containers clearly marked for deposit of FOD. These
       containers will be securely fastened to the vehicle and will be emptied frequently.
14                                              OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


     3.9.3. Vehicles utilizing the airfield at night will carry a flashlight to accomplish the
     FOD check.
     3.9.4. Vehicles shall not leave the hard surfaces unless it is absolutely necessary due to
     an emergency situation or in performance of their official duty. Immediately upon
     returning to the hard surface, vehicles operators shall check their vehicle for possible
     FOD material. This also applies to vehicles operating on any broken pavement areas of
     the airfield.
     3.9.5. Vehicle operators shall be constantly alert for and will pick up any foreign object.
     If the debris is too small or to abundant to be thoroughly picked up by hand, the
     individual will notify Airfield Operations, Control Tower, or the Maintenance Operation
     Control Center and provide the location of debris so an airfield sweeper can be
     dispatched.
  3.10. Passengers in Vehicles.
     3.10.1. Vehicle drivers will ensure all passengers are seated with seat belts fastened
     while the vehicle is in motion. Air Force personnel may transport personnel in the cargo
     area of a vehicle IAW AFI 91-207, U.S. Air Force Traffic Safety Program.
         3.10.1.1. Passengers will remain seated while the vehicle is in motion.
         3.10.1.2. Passengers will not ride on any part of the vehicle not intended for carrying
         passengers nor will they ride on any part of moving equipment not designed to carry
         passengers.
         3.10.1.3. Passengers will not ride in the doorways or sit on the engine cover of
         metro/step vans. Rear door nets will be in place while passengers are transported with
         the doors open.
         3.10.1.4. Side doors on passenger vans will be closed when the vehicle is in motion.
  3.11. Vehicle Traffic.
     3.11.1. When operating on the airfield, operators will follow the basic ―rules of the
     road‖. Vehicles will not be driven diagonally across the parking apron or ramp but, at a
     90-degree angle to the driving lanes.
     3.11.2. All vehicles must approach parked aircraft with the driver’s side of the vehicle
     toward the aircraft.
     3.11.3. Emergency response vehicles (e.g., Fire Department, Security Police,
     Ambulance, Airfield Management, Civil Engineering, Supervisor of Flying, Wing Safety,
     etc.) are exempt from normal traffic flow patterns while in the performance of official
     duties.
     3.11.4. Before attempting a U-turn, the operator will slow the vehicle and ensure it is
     clear to the front, side, and rear.
     3.11.5. Airfield dedicated vehicle parking areas on the lower ramp will be outside of the
     E-6 wing tip clearance line extending from Alpha and Bravo 1 to Alpha and Bravo
     6; also, inside the aircraft restricted area and adjacent to the blast fence and security
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                15


     shelter of Echo 1, 2, and 3. On the upper ramp, dedicated vehicle parking will be inside
     the Foxtrot 1 through 4 aircraft restricted area.
  3.12. Jet Blast Safety Requirements.
     3.12.1. Vehicles will not be operated within 25 feet to the front or 200 feet to the rear of
     an aircraft with engines operating except as prescribed in the applicable aircraft
     instructions.
     3.12.2. Vehicles will not be operated within 300 feet to the rear of MD-11, B-747, E-4,
     C-5, C-17, KC-10, or KC-135 type aircraft when engines are running at low power
     settings and within 800 feet to the rear when the engines are running at high power
     settings.
     3.12.3. Vehicles will not be operated within 100 feet of a helicopter with rotors turning.
  3.13. Right of Way Priorities.
     3.13.1. Emergency response vehicles responding to an emergency. No vehicle will be
     driven in front of an emergency response vehicle responding to an emergency.
     3.13.2. Aircraft.
     3.13.3. All other authorized vehicles.
  3.14. Immediate Vicinity of Aircraft.
     3.14.1. Vehicles will not be backed or parked closer than 25 feet in front of or 200 feet to
     the rear of any aircraft (300 feet to the rear of heavy aircraft), except as authorized for
     operations such as loading, unloading, servicing or towing. A spotter will be posted when
     a vehicle is backed towards an aircraft. Pre-positioned wheel chocks will be used to
     prevent vehicles from being backed into aircraft. The spotter will pre-brief the operator
     on the standard signals used.
     3.14.2. When aircraft engines are about to start or in operation, no vehicle will be parked
     or driven closer than 25 feet in front of or 200 feet to the rear of any aircraft (300 feet to
     the rear of heavy aircraft). Vehicles parked at the side of an aircraft will be located clear
     of the wingtips plus 25 feet and be clearly visible to personnel in the aircraft cockpit.
     3.14.3. Vehicles parked at the side of an aircraft will be located clear of the wing tips and
     clearly visible to personnel in the aircraft cockpit.
     3.14.4. Vehicles will not be parked/stopped directly in front of or behind an aircraft
     loaded with forward firing ordnance.
     3.14.5. Except for ―Follow Me‖ vehicles, vehicles will not be parked in front of or driven
     into the path of taxiing aircraft. No vehicles will be driven between a taxiing aircraft and
     its ―Follow Me‖ guide.
     3.14.6. All vehicles, except those responding to an emergency, must yield to taxiing
     aircraft. Vehicles will be driven on a paved surface by the shortest route. Only as a last
     resort will vehicles be driven off the paved surface to ensure adequate clearances for
     aircraft. Minimum aircraft wing tip clearance is 25 feet.
 16                                                 OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


       3.14.7. When approaching an aircraft at night, headlights will be immediately turned off,
       so the pilot’s night vision is not affected, and remains off until the aircraft is out of
       range. The vehicle parking lights or emergency flashers will be turned on so the vehicles
       position will be known. Headlights will be turned ON prior to putting the vehicle in
       motion. NOTE: Vehicles equipped with daytime running lights will park in a safe
       location with ignition off, parking brake set, and emergency flashers on.
       3.14.8. Never drive a vehicle under any part of an aircraft unless, in the performance of
       your job. Such activities are authorized by applicable technical orders and governing
       regulations.
       3.14.9. Vehicles will not be left unattended on any taxiway or the runway.
Vehicles temporarily unattended on any ramp will have the ignition off with keys remaining in
the ignition, parking brake engaged, transmission in lowest or reverse gear for manual
transmissions or park for automatic transmissions with the steering wheel turned to prevent
contact with an aircraft should the vehicle roll. Vehicles left unattended at night will engage the
emergency flashers.
       3.14.10. When a vehicle has a malfunction that prevents operation under its own power,
       the vehicle operator will:
       3.14.11. Use all means available to alert any taxiing aircraft in the vicinity.
       3.14.12. Leave the vehicle parking lights or emergency flashers on if the malfunction
       occurs during hours of darkness.
       3.14.13. If the vehicle has two-way radio capability, contact the ATCT and state the
       nature of the problem and your position on the airfield. The ATCT will notify AM
       Operations and other base agencies as appropriate for assistance.
       3.14.14. If the vehicle does not have two-way radio capability, stay with the vehicle and
       continue attempts to get the attention of the taxiing aircraft. Attempt to flag down any
       other vehicles in the vicinity to assist in contacting Airfield Management Operations
       (AMOPS). AMOPS with contact appropriate agencies to recover the broken vehicle.
   3.15. Vehicle Parking Procedures.
       3.15.1. Vehicles will not be left unattended on taxiways.
       3.15.2. No unattended vehicle will park in front of hangar doors. This area must be kept
       clear for aircraft towing operations and a minimum 25 feet wing-tip clearance must be
       maintained.
       3.15.3. Vehicles may be left unattended on service                    aprons,     ramps,   and
       hammerheads/run-up areas under the following conditions:
           3.15.3.1. Vehicle is located beyond the wing tip clearance line toward the service
           apron, hardstand or ramp.
           3.15.3.2. Ignition is turned off and keys left in the ignition.
           3.15.3.3. The transmission is placed in park (automatic transmission) or the lowest
           gear (manual transmission).
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                           17


        3.15.3.4. Parking brake set. Vehicles not equipped with an internal braking system
        will have chocks placed both in front and behind one of the rear wheels. One chock
        will be placed between the tandem wheels of dual (tandem) axle vehicles.
        3.15.3.5. Vehicle doors will remain unlocked.
        3.15.3.6. At night, when parked unattended, the parking lights and/or emergency
        flashers shall be turned on.
        3.15.3.7. Only aircraft servicing support vehicles and emergency response vehicles
        that require the vehicle engine to operate as a power source for auxiliary components
        may be left unattended while the engine is running. The parking brake will be set,
        transmission placed in neutral (manual transmission) or park (automatic transmission)
        and the wheels chocked when the driver’s seat is not occupied.
        3.15.3.8. Aircraft Ground Equipment (AGE) towing vehicles may be placed in
        neutral and left running while the driver completes hookup operations.
        3.15.3.9. Drivers will shut off the vehicle, set the parking brake, and place the
        vehicle in park or reverse if they do not drive off with the AGE immediately
        following hookup.
  3.16. Inclement Weather Procedures.
     3.16.1. Headlights will be used during hours of darkness, restricted visibility (example:
     haze, fog, rain, snow, etc.) and whenever vehicle windshield wipers are in operation.
  3.17. Accident/Vehicle Breakdowns.
     3.17.1. In the event of an accident or vehicle breakdown on the airfield, the Control
     Tower (if on the runway), Base Defense Operations Center, and Airfield Operations must
     be notified by the fastest means possible. Emergency flashers should be on, and hood
     open as appropriate. Drivers will stay with the vehicle until the situation is resolved.
     3.17.2. A vehicle malfunction preventing it from operating under its own power must be
     immediately removed to prevent blocking taxiway and runway use. If possible vehicles
     will be pushed beyond the wing tip clearance line.
     3.17.3. Leave the vehicle parking lights or emergency flashers ON, if the malfunction
     occurs during the hours of darkness or inclement weather.
     3.17.4. If the vehicle has two-way radio capability, make the following transmission:
     ―All agencies BREAK, BREAK - This is (call sign) with an emergency for Airfield
     Operations, Tower, and Maintenance Operations Center.‖ State the nature of your
     problem and your position on the airfield.
     3.17.5. Operators of other radio-equipped vehicles (SFS, Civil Engineers [CE], etc.) will
     contact their control center and have the information relayed to Airfield Operations for
     relay to the Control Tower.
     3.17.6. If a vehicle is not equipped with a radio, stay with the vehicle and continue
     attempts to get the attention of the taxiing aircraft or other vehicle operators.
     3.17.7. Vehicles involved in accidents shall not be moved until released by Wing Safety,
     Airfield Management, and SFS.
18                                               OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


  3.18. Smoking.
     3.18.1. Smoking is prohibited in aircraft maintenance facilities, weapon storage and
     maintenance areas, runway, taxiways, aprons, and any other location on the airfield
     except where designated by the 55 MXG/CC, 55 OG/CC and 55 OSS Airfield Manager,
     and approved by the Fire Chief or his designated representative.
     3.18.2. Smoking is not permitted within 50 feet of hangars, aircraft repair docks, paint
     and dope shops, and flammable fuel or liquid petroleum gas storage areas.
     3.18.3. Smoking is not permitted within 100 feet of any area where flammable liquids,
     combustible gases, liquid or bottled oxygen are used, stored or dispensed.
  3.19. Controlled Movement Area Communication Procedures.
     3.19.1. Crossing the runways shall be for mission essential purposes only. Runway
     crossing for convenience is not authorized. Base roads shall be used to travel to the
     opposite side of the airfield. Crossings are limited to vehicles transporting hazardous
     materials, vehicles engaged in continuous operation on the airfield (Airfield
     Management, TA, CE, etc.), K-loaders, tugs, responding emergency vehicles, and those
     vehicles designated as too large to transit the base roads.
     3.19.2. Taxiway Mike is the primary runway crossing point.
     3.19.3. The Control Tower is responsible for the control of vehicles crossing or operating
     on the runway.
     3.19.4. Vehicles entering the CMA must have two-way radio contact with the Control
     Tower or be escorted by a vehicle, meeting this requirement. Vehicle operators shall
     remain in radio contact at all times with the Control Tower while in a CMA. A vehicle
     with direct two-way radio contact with the control Tower may escort a maximum of five
     non-radio equipped vehicles requiring runway crossings. Vehicle operators escorted in
     CMAs shall remain in visual and voice contact with the escort vehicle operator and shall
     adhere to any escort instructions. After obtaining Control Tower approval for crossing,
     the escort vehicle will ensure all vehicles cross the runway. The escort vehicle will notify
     the Control Tower when all vehicles have departed the CMA.
     3.19.5. Vehicle approaching a CMA will stop at the hold/instrument lines and obtain
     clearance prior to crossing.
     3.19.6. Vehicles operating in any CMA shall use the installed vehicle emergency
     flashers, and/or emergency rotating beacons to maximize their visibility. Special care
     will be taken during periods of restricted visibility when Control Tower visual
     surveillance of the CMA is degraded.
     3.19.7. Vehicles requesting to cross the runway at a specific location shall do so
     expeditiously after receiving the control Tower’s approval. Vehicles requesting access
     onto the runway to a specific location shall remain in the immediate vicinity of that
     location unless authorized by the Control Tower to move. Vehicles anticipating travel
     along the length of the runway shall advise Tower upon initial request. Vehicle operators
     required to leave their vehicle for a brief period while in the CMA will have portable
     radio communication with the Control Tower and advise tower that the vehicle will be
     unoccupied; however vehicle operator must maintain radio contact with the tower.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 19


       3.19.8. Vehicles entering the CMA at the Northwest Hammerhead must contact the
       Control Tower for permission prior to entering the gate.
   3.20. Radio Terminology/Phraseology Discipline Procedures.
       3.20.1. Vehicle Call Signs.
          3.20.1.1. IAW AFI 13-213 (Airfield Management), the DAFM is required to review
          all call signs for ground vehicles operating in the CMA to ensure there are no
          duplicates that could cause confusion.
          3.20.1.2. Airfield Management publishes a list of call signs in Attachment 9 of this
          operating instruction. Offices that change, add, or delete call signs will submit the
          changes to AMOPS prior to the change going into effect so that AMOPS can update
          Attachment 9.
       3.20.2. The phrases ―CLEAR‖, ―CLEARED‖, OR ―CLEARANCE‖ shall not be used by
       personnel/vehicles operating on the airfield. These words are used strictly by air traffic
       control in communication with an aircraft only to convey permission to take-off or land.
       3.20.3. To eliminate miscommunications and possibly compromising safety, it is
       imperative Air Traffic Control phraseology is adhered to. Under no circumstances shall
       the vehicle be driven onto the runway if there is any uncertainty concerning approval. It
       is the vehicle operator’s responsibility to confirm authorization to enter the CMA.
       3.20.4. It is up to every individual talking on the radio to ensure transmission is done in a
       professional manner. Slang, CB jargon and incorrect radio procedures can compromise
       safety. One of the most important items in radio communication is for you to speak in a
       manner ensuring others understand what you have said.
       3.20.5. Normal communications to the Tower will be initiated with call sign (who you
       are), present location (where you are), and request (what you want to do).
       3.20.6. All vehicle operators will ensure the Tower is aware of and uses their exact call
       sign. Hearing the correct location of your vehicle but the wrong call sign does not give
       approval for your request. For example, if your vehicle’s call sign is Ops 3 and you are
       requesting access onto the runway from Charlie Taxiway and Tower gives approval for
       Ops 1 to proceed across the runway, you do not have approval to cross until the Tower
       states the correct call sign, even if it appears obvious you are the only vehicle at that
       location. The following phraseology will be used when requesting access inside the
       Controlled Movement Area:

Table 3.20. Procedures and Phraseology.
Driver: State who you are calling and who you       Offutt Tower response: ―Ops 3, Tower‖
are (Use this radio call to initiate all radio
communications) ―Offutt Tower, Ops 3‖
Driver: Tower Ops 3, I am on Taxiway Mike           Offutt Tower response: ―Ops 3 proceed to
South, request permission to cross runway from      cross runway at Mike South report when off
Mike South to Mike North.‖                          runway.‖
Driver: ―Tower Ops 3, proceeding across
runway will report when off.‖
 20                                               OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


(After you have driven past the hold line on
Taxiway Mike North call Offutt Tower to
report)
Driver: ―Tower Ops 3, I am off the runway at       Offutt Tower response: ―Roger Ops 3,
Taxiway Mike North.‖                               remain off runway.‖
Driver: ―Tower Ops 3, roger will remain off
runway.‖
       3.20.7. Vehicle operators will repeat all instructions verbatim back to the Tower prior to
       moving the vehicle. When reporting off of the CMA, the vehicle operator will ensure a
       response indicating the Tower understands the vehicles have exited the CMA.
       3.20.8. If escorting vehicles to a CMA, the vehicle escort will say the word, ―plus‖ and
       the number of vehicles that will accompany, for example; ―OPS 1 plus 2‖.
   3.21. Control Tower Light Gun Signals.
       3.21.1. Light gun signals from the Tower are used to control aircraft and vehicle traffic
       on the airfield during communication outages see Attachment 8.
       3.21.2. All vehicles operating on the airfield will have AFVA 11-240, Airport Signs and
       Markings signal decal (available for order at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/). The
       decal will be permanently affixed in plain view of the driver or clipped to the inside of
       the sun visor on the driver’s side of the vehicle so that it can flipped down for ready
       reference. Drivers will know and comply with the following signals:
          3.21.2.1. Steady Green Light: ―Proceed across‖
          3.21.2.2. Steady Red Light: ―STOP! Vehicle will not be moved‖
          3.21.2.3. Flashing Red Light: ―Immediately exit the runway‖
          3.21.2.4. Flashing White Light: ―Return to starting point‖
          3.21.2.5. Red and Green Light: ―General warning. Exercise extreme caution‖
       3.21.3. If vehicles on the runway do not respond to light gun signals, Tower will raise
       and lower the intensity of the runway lighting. This signal means to immediately exit the
       runway and establish communications with the Tower.
4. REPORTING, ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATION CONSEQUENCES
   4.1. Airfield Driving Violations.
       4.1.1. All personnel qualified to drive on the airfield are responsible for identifying and
       reporting violations to Airfield Management Operations immediately.
       4.1.2. All Airfield Management and the affected Unit’s ADPM personnel have the
       authority to confiscate individual’s AF IMT 483 pending an investigation of the
       violation.
       4.1.3. Contractor vehicle operators violating the rules of this instruction can be banned
       from operating vehicles on the airfield. Replacement driver(s) are the contractor’s
       responsibility.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                21


      4.1.4. Any airfield driver committing a runway intrusion or a violation involving aircraft
      safety issues will automatically have their driving privileges suspended pending an
      investigation of the incident.
      4.1.5. The driver will immediately notify their supervisor and unit ADPM.
      4.1.6. The driver is encouraged to submit a statement describing the incident to their
      ADPM.
      4.1.7. Airfield Management will notify applicable ADPM, supervisor, Wing Safety, and
      Airfield Operations Flight Commander of the violation.
      4.1.8. Airfield Management and/or Wing Safety will conduct investigations by gathering
      data from involved agencies.
      4.1.9. Airfield Management will determine the corrective course of action for airfield
      driving violations and notify all appropriate agencies.
      4.1.10. Any further action is at the discretion of the unit commander.
      4.1.11. Airfield Management will maintain a record of violations for current
      year, and previous calendar year.
      4.1.12. Airfield violations are briefed to the 55 OG/CC at the quarterly AOB, and at the
      ADPM meetings.
   4.2. Prohibited Activities.
      4.2.1. Using Gates 8 and 9, unless participating in a mobility movement, is prohibited.
      4.2.2. Entering Gate 2 (Northwest Hammerhead), except for CE snow removal and grass
      cutting equipment. The Northwest Hammerhead is considered part of the CMA and
      personnel must contact Control Tower prior to entering and maintain radio contact with
      the Control Tower while in the Northwest Hammerhead.
      4.2.3. Driving any vehicle outside the established driving lanes, except to go from the
      driving lane to the destination.
      4.2.4. Operating any vehicle on or within 100 feet of the runway without direct two-way
      radio contact with and approval from the Tower.
   4.3. Enforcement.
      4.3.1. Airfield drivers committing a runway intrusion or any violation impacting aircraft
      operations will lose their airfield driving privileges until a safety investigation is
      completed and/or for a minimum period of 30 days whichever is later.
      4.3.2. Airfield drivers that commit minor violations, such as speeding, failing to perform
      FOD checks, operating a vehicle on the airfield without a license in possession or driving
      outside the driving lane will lose their airfield driving privileges for a minimum of 15
      days.
      4.3.3. Drivers who commit three violations within a 12 month period will lose their
      driving privileges for a minimum of 6 months.
5. TDY and Non-base Assigned Contractor Personnel
 22                                                OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


   5.1. Procedures for Operating a Vehicle on the Airfield.
       5.1.1. TDY and non-base assigned contractors must possess an AF IMT 483 and be
       trained on local airfield driving procedures to operate a vehicle on the airfield without an
       escort.
       5.1.2. Units sponsoring TDY personnel or contractors are responsible for providing
       training and an escort by a driver possessing a valid AF IMT 483 prior to entry to the
       airfield. Contractors and TDY personnel must meet all delivery vehicles at the front gate.
       5.1.3. The sponsoring unit’s ADPM will submit a memorandum to Airfield Management
       stating that all TDY personnel have been briefed on Offutt AFB airfield driving
       procedures and completed the airfield orientation training. This memorandum will
       include the following: name and rank, home unit, TDY unit, duration of TDY, member’s
       home station and AF IMT 483 number. Bring the memorandum and the home station AF
       IMT 483 to the Airfield Management office for an Offutt AFB airfield stamp and
       endorsement memorandum.
       5.1.4. Non-Airfield Qualified TDY Personnel. Non-airfield qualified personnel that are
       TDY to Offutt AFB must complete the entire airfield drivers training course.
   5.2. Local Training. Must include a detailed briefing of the following as a minimum:
       5.2.1. Airfield signs, markings and lighting.
       5.2.2. Speed limits for aircraft parking aprons, taxiways and special purpose vehicles.
       5.2.3. Operating vehicles in the immediate vicinity of aircraft.
       5.2.4. Parking and chocking requirements.
       5.2.5. Lateral distance requirements for mobile obstacles on runways, taxiways and
       aprons.
       5.2.6. FOD control/prevention.
       5.2.7. Runway incursion prevention.
       5.2.8. Airfield Violations and Consequences.
       5.2.9. Proper radio terminology and phraseology.
       5.2.10. Airfield layout.
NOTE: DAFM or designated representative may tailor minimum briefing requirements, when
TDY/contractor (s) route(s) to/from work site does not cross active taxiways or runways. 1.14.2.
Training and Certification Procedures.
6. PRIVATELY OWNED AND GOVERNMENT LEASED VEHICLE PASSES
   6.1. Issuing POV and Government Leased Vehicle Passes.
       6.1.1. POVs are discouraged on the Offutt AFB airfield and shall be restricted to an
       absolute minimum, except as determined by Airfield Management.
           6.1.1.1. All vehicle requests for POV airfield passes must be endorsed by the
           individual’s unit commander and Airfield Management.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 23


        6.1.1.2. A temporary airfield pass is required regardless if a qualified escort will be
        escorting the vehicle.
        6.1.1.3. POV and Government Leased Vehicles authorized on the airfield will
        display a temporary authorized pass while on the airfield.
        6.1.1.4. Airfield Management will fill out the POV/Government Leased Vehicle
        Airfield Authorization Log prior to issuing the temporary authorized pass.
        6.1.1.5. Contract administrators, project officers or contractor will notify Airfield
        Management of any changes in project duration and return temporary airfield driving
        permits when the project is complete. They will notify Airfield Management of any
        lost or stolen POV passes.
  6.2. Security and Control of POV/Government Leased Passes.
     6.2.1. POV and Government Leased Vehicle Passes will have expiration dates for the
     time frames required to complete operations.
     6.2.2. POV and Government Leased Passes must be displayed on the vehicle dash when
     on the Offutt AFB airfield. Remove pass when not in use.
  6.3. Temporary Airfield POV Pass (Offutt AFB Form 175B, Temporary Airfield POV
  Pass).
     6.3.1. Personnel requiring a temporary airfield POV pass to operate a vehicle on the
     airfield will obtain an airfield driving briefing on this regulation, the airfield, and driving
     hazards prior to obtaining a temporary airfield driving permit. Airfield Management or
     the applicable unit ADPM will conduct this briefing.
     6.3.2. After personnel receive the airfield driving briefing, Airfield Management will
     issue temporary airfield POV passes. Personnel shall only utilize routes to and from
     work areas that have been approved by Airfield Management. Vehicles will be operated
     in approved areas only and in conjunction with official duties.
     6.3.3. Requirements.
        6.3.3.1. Military personnel must possess a valid AF IMT 483.
        6.3.3.2. Civilian contractors will need a valid driver’s license and possess an AF IMT
        483.
        6.3.3.3. The contractor or sponsoring unit will submit request to Airfield
        Management.
        6.3.3.4. The memorandum will include driver’s name, unit/company, project and
        contract number, AF IMT 483, civilian driver’s license number, contract completion
        date, areas of operation, complete license plate number, and vehicle description
        (make, model, color, and year).
        6.3.3.5. If approved, Airfield Management or the unit ADPM will issue the operator
        a temporary airfield POV pass.
        6.3.3.6. The Airfield Manager, DAFM, or designated Airfield Management
        representatives are the only individuals authorized to sign a temporary airfield pass.
24                                              OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


        6.3.3.7. The pass will be displayed on the driver’s side of the windshield at all times
        while operating the POV on the airfield. POVs not displaying a POV placard will be
        ticketed and removed from the airfield.
        6.3.3.8. All POV operators are subject to all provisions outlined in this instruction.
        6.3.3.9. The license plate number on the vehicle must correspond with the license
        plate number on the request letter.
  6.4. Annual Airfield POV Passes (Offutt AFB Form 175A, Annual Airfield POV Pass).
     6.4.1. General.
        6.4.1.1. Contractors/vendors requiring daily access to the airfield must submit a letter
        to Airfield Management requesting an annual airfield POV pass. Pass requests must
        be received no later than 30 Nov of each year.
        6.4.1.2. For Mass Parking Ramp (MPA) authorization, civilian contractors who are
        not authorized a GMV may use their company owned/leased POV in the same
        manner as a GMV (POV pass requirement still applies). Company owned/leased
        contractor vehicles will be treated as GMVs if the contractor has unescorted
        entry. Contractor’s personal vehicles are prohibited from the MPA. If the contractor
        has escorted entry, the company owned/leased vehicle may enter the MPA following
        inspection by the escort official and the SFS entry controller. All contractors new to
        driving on the Offutt AFB airfield must receive a briefing/training by the sponsoring
        Airfield Driving Program Manager or Airfield Management before driving on the
        airfield.
        6.4.1.3. Offutt AFB Form 175A are issued annually to drivers requiring routine
        access to areas of the airfield in a POV.
        6.4.1.4. Airfield POV Passes are not intended as authorization to be on the airfield
        but permission to drive on the airfield if the person has been granted access on the
        airfield.
        6.4.1.5. Issuance of annual airfield POV passes are kept to the absolute minimum and
        are normally not issued for active duty personnel’s POV. Every effort should be
        made to utilize GMVs from transportation for driving on the airfield.
        6.4.1.6. Airfield Management maintains control of all POV passes and changes the
        design of all permanent and temporary passes yearly to ensure integrity.
     6.4.2. Requirements.
        6.4.2.1. Possess a valid Civilian Vehicle Operators License.
        6.4.2.2. Submit a request to Airfield Management. Memorandum must contain:
            6.4.2.2.1. Driver name.
            6.4.2.2.2. Organization/Company Name.
            6.4.2.2.3. Office symbol.
            6.4.2.2.4. Duty title.
            6.4.2.2.5. Civilian license number: Collection of individual civilian driver's
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 25


              license number and associated plate number is required to determine eligibility to
              operate a motor under provisions of this instruction. The vehicle plate number is
              required to validate vehicle
authorized for use and ownership of the vehicle. Information can be shared with Law
Enforcement or other government agency as part of conducting official Department of Defense
business. Providing the information is optional; however, failure to provide part or all of the
information will result in persons making requesting to operate POV under the provisions of this
instruction ineligible to do so.
              6.4.2.2.6. Complete license plate number.
              6.4.2.2.7. Vehicle description(s): (make, model, color, and year).
              6.4.2.2.8. Telephone number.
              6.4.2.2.9. Areas/Facilities on the airfield where the vehicles will be operated.
              6.4.2.2.10. Justification/Purpose.
              6.4.2.2.11. A statement confirming that the person(s) operating the vehicle on the
              airfield has received Offutt AFB airfield driving training.
       6.4.3. If approved, Airfield Management will issue the operator an annual airfield POV
       pass. Each pass will bear a signature of an Airfield Management representative.
       6.4.4. The POV pass will be displayed on the driver’s side of the windshield at all times
       while operating a POV on the airfield. POVs not displaying a placard will be ticketed
       and escorted or towed off the airfield by Airfield Management, SFS, and/or
       Transportation.
       6.4.5. Military personnel will return airfield vehicle passes to Airfield Management
       when the member is scheduled to PCS, PCA or separate from the military. Civilian
       contract personnel will return their passes upon expiration of their contract or when no
       longer required by the company.
       6.4.6. An annual airfield POV pass expires at the end of the calendar year or when the
       operator’s duties no longer require access, whichever comes first.
       6.4.7. POV operators are subject to all provisions outlined in this instruction.
       6.4.8. The license plate number on the vehicle must correspond with the license plate
       number on the request letter.
       6.4.9. The vehicle is authorized only in the areas(s) designated on the pass with the
       proper security clearance requirements.
       6.4.10. Organizations will notify Airfield Management of any lost, stolen, or expired
       permanent POV passes.

7. Prescribed Forms.

Offutt AFB Form 175A, Annual Airfield POV Pass
Offutt AFB Form 175B, Temporary Airfield POV Pass
 26                                                OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


7.1. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT 483, Certificate of Competency (Airfield)
AF IMT 457, USAF Hazard Report
AF IMT 651, Hazardous Air Traffic Report (HATR)




                                           JOHN N. T. SHANAHAN, Brigadier General,
                                           USAF
                                           Commander, 55th Wing
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                      27


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-213, ACC Sup 1, Airfield Management, 28 August 2008
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFOSHSTD 91-100, Aircraft Flightline – Ground Operations and activities, 1 May 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AOB—Air Operations Board
ACC—Air Combat Command
ADI—Airfield Driving Instruction
ADPM—Airfield Driving Program Manager
AFB—Air Force Base
AFH—Air Force Handbook
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
ATCT— Air Traffic Control Tower
AM—Airfield Management
AMOps—Airfield Management Operations
CBT—Computer Based Training
CE—Civil Engineering
CMA—Controlled Movement Area
DAFM—Deputy Airfield Manager
DoD—Department of Defense
e- Publishing——the e-Publishing website (www.e-publishing.af.mil)
FAA— Federal Aviation Association
FOD— Foreign Object Damage
GMV— Government Managed Vehicle
IAW— In accordance with
IMT—Information Management Tool 96 AFI33
OJT— On the Job Training
PA— Public Affairs
 28                                                OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


POV— Privately Owned Vehicle
SFS— Security Forces
TDY—Temporary Duty
USAF— United States Air Force
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO— Vehicle Control Non-Commissioned Officer

Terms
AF IMT 483— Certificate of Competency (Airfield). A document issued by Airfield
Management Operations used to demonstrate that the holder is qualified to drive on the airfield
in performance of official duties (See Attachment 11.)
Airfield— The controlled area boarded by perimeter road (on the north, east and west sides of
the airfield) and the aircraft hangars (on the south side of the airfield) including all buildings,
facilities, parking aprons, hard stands, entrances, infield and clear zones. Note: AF IMT 483,
Certificate of Competency, is required to drive on the airfield. The airfield is considered a
controlled area and will be marked and protected IAW controlled area procedures.
Authorized Driver—Personnel who possess an AF IMT 483 valid for Langley AFB and are
performing official duties.
Authorized Personnel— Any DOD and/or contract personnel whose presence on the airfield is
required in the performance of official DOD duties.
Authorized Vehicle— Any government (including GSA) vehicle with an authorized mission
and/or has official business on the airfield.
Circle of Safety—An imaginary circle, extending 10 feet beyond the nose, wing tips, and, tail
section of an aircraft (See Attachment 8).
Controlled Movement Area (CMA)—The CMA encompasses the area 100 feet laterally from
the pavement edge of the runway and overruns, and the Northwest Hammerhead. All personnel
must establish two-way radio contact with the Air Traffic Control Tower (ATCT) to receive
approval before entering the CMA. Communications must be maintained for the entire time
personnel are in the CMA.
Runway Intrusion (CMA Violation)—Personnel or vehicle(s) crossing the hold line or entering
within 100 feet of the runway or overruns without prior authorization from ATCT.
Runway Incursion (CMA Violation)— Any occurrence at an aerodrome involving the
incorrect presence of an aircraft, vehicle or person on the protected area of a surface designated
for the landing and take-off of aircraft. A violation is considered an incursion if it directly
affected the safe operation of an aircraft.
CMA Violation categories— Runway Intrusion/Incursions are classified into three operational
categories:
Operational Error— A failure of the air traffic control system that results in loss of separation.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 29


Pilot Deviation (PD)— Action of a pilot resulting in the violation of ATC instructions, AFIs
and/or Federal Aviation Regulations.
Vehicle/Pedestrian Deviation (V/PD)— An entry or movement on the CMA by a vehicle
(including aircraft operated by non-pilots) or pedestrian not authorized by ATC.
Emergency Vehicles—Agencies including the Fire Department, Hospital
ambulance, Security Forces, Crash Rescue, Flight Safety, Supervisor of Flying (SOF),
Airfield Management operations, and the On—scene Commander’s vehicle.
Airfield Entry Points—Those areas along the airfield designated for vehicles and/or pedestrians
to enter the airfield.
Flight line Road— The road located north of the maintenance hangars extending east to west.
NOTE: Drivers requiring access to Flight line Road must possess a Langley AF IMT 483 issued
by Airfield Management operations.
Foreign Object Damage— An acronym denoting a "FOREIGN OBJECT‖ (rocks, aircraft
parts, debris, etc), which could potentially cause damage to an aircraft.
General Purpose Vehicles— Any vehicle designed to move personnel/material and utilized to
tow trailers or semi-trailers; a vehicle which satisfies general automotive transport needs.
Instrument Hold Line— The markings consist of two solid yellow lines, two feet apart,
extending across the width of the taxiway and shoulders, connected by pairs of solid yellow lines
ten feet apart, on a black background. See Attachment 23.
Mobile Obstacle— Moving or parked vehicles, construction equipment, AGE, fire
extinguishers, aircraft chalks, maintenance stands, etc., posing a hazard to aircraft.
POV Airfield/Airfield Decal (Annual)— Decal issued by AMOPS for vehicles that are
required for completion of mission essential business. Decals are limited to an absolute
minimum as required to support mission requirements. Members requesting decals must possess
an AF IMT 483 for Langley AFB, reapply annually, and have their unit commander’s
endorsement. See Attachment 9.
Annual/Temporary Airfield POV Pass (Temporary)— A pass issued by AMOPs for vehicles
that are required for completion of mission essential business and government contracts. Passes
are valid for only 90 days at a time. For contractors, passes are issued for no longer than the time
listed on their base access pass. See Attachment 10.
Privately Owned Vehicles— All vehicles (including two-wheeled vehicles) not owned by the
U.S. government. Any POV operator requiring access to any part of the airfield must have a
POV pass issued by AM operations. See Attachment 9 and 10. NOTE: POVs are prohibited in
restricted areas containing PL 1, 2 and 3 resources. EXCEPTION: Rental mini-van (or
equivalent), displaying an airfield pass, may be used to conduct official military duties in place
of government vehicles.
Restricted Area— Areas bordered by a red line or rope used to protect priority DOD resources.
Persons may not enter without specific authorization. Vehicles requiring entry to or from
restricted areas will do so only at designated entry/exit control points. Restricted area badge is
required for access.
 30                                               OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


Runway—The area of the airfield prepared for the landing and takeoff run of aircraft along its
length.
Runway Hold Line— Also referred to as VFR hold line or hold line. Hold lines are positioned
on each taxiway at least 100 feet from the edge of the runway. The markings consist of a set of
solid double yellow lines paired with a set of dashed double yellow lines perpendicular to the
axis of the taxiway centerline (or runway edge), extending across the taxiway. See Attachment
23. These lines mark the boundary of the CMA. Vehicles will not cross the runway hold lines
or proceed onto the runway without first obtaining permission from the Tower.
Special Purpose Vehicles— Any vehicle designed for a special requirement, including aircraft
support equipment, tractors, forklifts, etc.
Stop Bar— A white line painted on all access roads leading directly to the runway and all
taxiways. All vehicular access roads leading to runways must be marked with a white "stop" bar
at the normal positions for VFR or instrument hold lines. The Stop Bar is used to alert vehicles
and/or personnel that the runway or taxiway is near. Vehicles will not cross the stop bar or
proceed onto the runway without first obtaining permission from ATCT.
Taxiway— The area of the airfield used for taxiing aircraft to and from the runway.
Taxi Lane— Ramp space between rows of parked aircraft used to maneuver aircraft to and from
aircraft parking aprons and taxiways.
Airfield Driver Program Manager— Member(s) designated in writing by the unit commander
to manage their respective airfield driving program. NOTE: The UADPM is normally the unit
VCO or VCNCO.
Vicinity of an Aircraft— Within 25 feet in front of and 200 feet to the rear of an aircraft with
engines operating or within 25 feet of the front, back, and sides of an aircraft with no engines
running.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                              31


                                         Attachment 2
   OFFUTT AFB BASE AIRFIELD DRIVING PROGRAM UNIT SELF-INSPECTION
                             CHECKLIST

A.2.1. Instructions.
A.2.1.1. The following checklist is a management tool to determine the status of your unit’s
driving program. Your assessment should focus on program integrity, compliance, and support.
As a minimum, this checklist must be completed annually or within 30 days of changing the
primary ADPM. The annual review should be completed when scheduled for the annual unit
inspection conducted by Airfield Management. Units are encouraged to add any additional items
particular to their unit.
A.2.1.2. Has the unit commander appointed a ADPM?
A.2.1.3. Is a current copy of the ADPM appointment letter on file with Airfield Management?
A.2.1.4. Is the ADPM certified to drive on the airfield?
A.2.1.5. Is the unit commander notified when individuals commit a violation?
A.2.1.6. Does the ADPM notify the unit commander and Airfield Management when revoking
individuals driving privileges?
A.2.1.7. Does the ADPM ensure drivers have a valid civilian and government driver’s license
and are qualified to operate applicable vehicles?
A.2.1.8. Does the ADPM ensure drivers have their color vision verified?
A.2.1.9. Are AF IMT 483s completed correctly?
A.2.1.10. Is the ADPM maintaining a list of all drivers issued an AF IMT 483?
A.2.1.11. Does the ADPM have training documentation on file for all drivers that have been
issued an AF IMT 483?
A.2.1.12. Are TDY personnel driving credentials verified?
A.2.1.13. Are TDY personnel trained on driving requirements for Offutt AFB in accordance
with the driving instruction?
A.2.1.14. Is TDY training documented in accordance with the driving instruction?
A.2.1.15. Has the ADPM added unit requirements to the Airfield Driving Program Training
Guide?
A.2.1.16. Are trainees receiving academic training?
A.2.1.17. Are trainees receiving practical driving training?
A.2.1.18. Are trainees receiving at least one daytime and nighttime orientation drive?
A.2.1.19. Does the ADPM provide unit personnel with references and materials necessary to
complete training?
A.2.1.20. Are unit trainers carefully selected and appointed by letter, with a copy maintained at
Airfield Management?
A.2.1.21. Are unit trainers currently assigned duties that involve airfield driving?
A.2.1.22. Are unit trainers conducting training in accordance with the units training plan?
A.2.1.23. Is remedial training conducted and documented on personnel that fail a test or commit
a violation?
A.2.1.24. Is passing and fail data used to validate the unit’s training program?
A.2.1.25. Are POV pass requests kept to an absolute minimum necessary for mission
accomplishment?
A.2.1.26. Is Airfield Management supporting requests from the unit in regards to airfield driving
issues?
 32                                             OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


A.2.1.27. Do you have any suggestions for improving the Airfield Driving Program?
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                                                      33


                                            Attachment 3
                                   SAMPLE AF IMT 483

                                                           CERTIFICATE NO.
       CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY
                                                           Leave this section blank
       NAME (Last, first, Middle Initial)                  DATE


       COMMAND                                             INSTALLATION

       ACC                                 OFFUTT AFB, NE
       HAS SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED THE PRESCRIBED COURSE OF
       INSTRUCTION AND/OR PRACTICAL TEST AS REQUIRED BY CURRENT
       DIRECTIVES AND IS DEEMED QUALIFIED TO PERFORM THE DUTIES OF


       TYPED NAME, TITLE AND ORGN                  SIGNATURE

       Leave this section blank                    Leave this section blank

COMPLETION INSTRUCTIONS

CERTIFICATE NUMBER: This number is issued by Airfield Management

NAME: Self-explanatory

DATE: Date of completion of Airfield Driving CBT

COMMAND: ACC
 34                                                                           OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


                                                               Attachment 4
                      SAMPLE AIRFIELD DRIVING CERTIFICATION REQUEST
MEMORANDUM FOR 55 OSS/OSAA                                                                                    ___________
                                                                                                                  Date
FROM: _____________________________

SUBJECT: Documentation of Airfield Driver Training and Certification Request

1. Request for the following individual to be granted airfield driving privileges:

Full Name/Rank: ______________________________                   Duty Phone _____________

Unit: ______________           Does individual have a civilian License?: Yes/No

2. The individual above has been trained and certified on the following items:

TRAINING ITEMS                                                DATE                   TRAINER         TRAINEE
Ability to distinguish between
Red/Green/Yellow/White/Blue                                 ______________ ________                ________

Light Gun Signal Recognition Test (Practical)                      ______________ ________                 ________

Airfield Driver Training & Test CBT                         ______________ ________                ________
Score___________

Offutt AFB Airfield Local Orientation (slides/ test)        ______________ ________                ________

Offutt AFB Airfield Diagram/layout Test (Written)           ______________ ________                ________

Daytime Airfield Orientation (Practical)                ______________ ________                 ________

Nighttime Airfield Orientation (Practical)              ______________ ________                 ________

Offutt AFB Airfield Driving Evaluation (Practical)           ______________ ________                ________

Air Traffic Control Phraseology Test (Written)                       ______________ ________                 ________

FOD Awareness Training (AFI 21-101 COMBATAIRFORCES Sup.1, Chapter 14, Sec 19)
                                                         ______________ ________       ________
Airfield Driving Instruction Review (OAFBI 13-214) ______________ ________       ________

Special Interest Item Review                                 ______________          ________       ________

Runway Incursion/CMA Training                                ______________          ________       ________

Trainer’s rank and name                                      ________________________________________

3. The Airfield Driving Program Manager (ADPM) will retain this letter until the individual is reassigned.

_______________________________Print                          _______________________________Print

_______________________________Signature                      _______________________________Signature
Unit Airfield Driving Program Manager                         Unit Commander

1st Ind, 55 OSS/OSAA

MEMORANDUM FOR 55 OSS/OSAA (AIRFIELD MGMT)

Approve/Disapprove Airfield Driving Authorization.                         License #________________

                                                                     ______________________________
                                                                                Airfield Management Representative
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                       35


                            Attachment 5
            OFFUTT AFB AIRFIELD VEHICLE TRAFFIC FLOW
36                                                                                                          OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


                                                                  ATTACHMENT 6

                                 OFFUTT AFB TOWER BLIND SPOTS




     LOCALIZER
                  HA

                   NO ER
                    M
                     M
                      RT HE
                        H AD




             12




                                                                                                                               XXX
                                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                               RT
                                                                                                            NO                                      LEG EN D
                                                                                                       KE
                                   LI
                                      MA                                                             MI

                                                                                                                                                         TO WER BLIND
                                      JU
                                         L IET




                                                                                                      TO WER                                             SPO TS
            BOPS
                       KI LO

                                     DIA
                                  IN
                                                  H
                                                UT                                              PAR
                                             SO
                                        KE
                                                             CH




                                      MI
                                                              AR




                                                                                       ER
                                                                                  MB
                                                                  LIE




                                                                             VE
                                                                        NO

                                                         T
                                                       RO
                                                  XT
                                             FO
                          GO
                            LF




                                                                                            O SCA R




                                                                                                C1
                                                                                                       CH
                                                                             DE




                                                                                                            AR
                                                                                  LT




                                                                                                             LIE
                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                              TACAN


                                                                                                                   C2



                                                                                                                                                                              GL IDESLOPE
                                                                                                                        AL
                                                                                                                          PH
                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                             BR
                                                                                                                 AV




                                                                                                                                               C3
                                                                                                                   O




                                                                                                                                                    C4
                                                                                                                                          HO                              H
                                                                                                                                     EC                                UT P
                                                                                                                                                                     SO N U
                                                                                                                                                                     RU
                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                             P AP




                                                                                                                                                                                            30
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                      37


                            Attachment 7
            GLIDESLOPE AND LOCALIZER CRITICAL AREAS
 38                                             OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


                                       Attachment 8
                      END-FIRE GLIDE SLOPE CRITICAL AREA




Notes:
1. This distance is 253ft.
2. This distance is 100ft, this is measured to RWY edge strip painted 75ft from the
pavement edge.
3. The Critical area is defined by the area “ABCD”.
4. Snow removal area “EFGH”.
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                 39


                            Attachment 9
                   AIRFIELD SIGNS AND MARKINGS
40                OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010


          Attachment 10
     ATCT LIGHT GUN SIGNALS
OFFUTTAFBI13-214 8 NOVEMBER 2010                             41


                                  Attachment 11
        GROUND VEHICLE/RADIO CALL SIGNS FOR OFFUTT AFB CMA

CALLSIGN                       OFFICE
SENSOR 1 .................55 WG/CC
SENSOR 2 .................55 WG/CV
SENSOR 3 .................55 OG/CC
SENSOR 3 Alpha ......55 OG/CD
SENSOR 3 Bravo ......55 OG/CD
SENSOR 4 .................55 MSG/CC
SENSOR 4 Alpha ......55 MSG/CD
SENSOR 5 .................55 MSG/CC
SENSOR 5 Alpha ......55 MSG/CD
SENSOR 6 .................55 CG/CC
SENSOR 6 Alpha ......55 CG/CD
SENSOR 7 .................55 MDG/CC
SENSOR 7 Alpha ......55 MDG/CD
SENSOR 8 .................55 WG/SE (WING SAFETY)
SENSOR 8 Alpha ......55 WG/SEF (FLIGHT SAFETY)
SENSOR 8 Bravo ......55 WG/SEG (GROUND SAFETY)
SENSOR 9 ................PROTOCOL
SENSOR 10 ...............55 WG/CP Chief
SENSOR 11 ...............55WG/DS
FOXTROT .................SOF
SENSOR CONTROL WG/CP
SECURITY 1……….55 SFS/CC
OPS 1 .........................55 OSS/OSA (AOF/CC)
OPS 2 .........................55 OSS/OSA (AOF/DO/SO)
AIRFIELD 1………...AFM
AIRFIELD 2………...DAFM
AIRFIELD 3………...AMOP’S
AMOPS ......................AIRFIELD MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS
ENGINEER 42………AIRFIELD LIGHTING
