BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               OFFUTT AFB INSTRUCTION 32-100
OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                          12 NOVEMBER 2010

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                                   ENERGY CONSERVATION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: 55 CES/CECE                                                       Certified by: 55 MSG/CC
                                                                      (Col Michael J. Allshouse)
                                                                                         Pages: 4


This instruction outlines responsibilities and procedures to reduce energy usage on Offutt Air
Force Base. This instruction applies to all personnel on Offutt Air Force Base. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Send suggested comments, questions, and
improvements to the publication on an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through 55 CS/SCXKP, 201 Lincoln Highway, Suite 206, Bldg 41, Offutt Air Force
Base, Nebraska, 68113.

1. All base personnel are directed to adhere to the following:
   1.1. Increase vigilance in the use of personal electronic devices (radios, CD/tape players,
   fans). Turn off when not in use and never leave devices on at the end of the day.
   1.2. Turn off lights in offices, conference rooms, break rooms, bathrooms, etc. when areas
   are unoccupied during the day even for short periods of time.
2. All facility managers are directed to coordinate the following:
   2.1. Inspect your facilities at least annually and note any energy related deficiencies. Submit
   an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, for resolution. For more information
   on Energy Management Programs and project actions, to include assistance with inspection
   of facilities for energy issues, contact the 55 CES Engineering Flight at 294-7623.
 2                                            OFFUTTAFBI32-100              12 NOVEMBER 2010


     2.2. Replace incandescent lamps with compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs). For information
     on appropriate CFL use and lamp availability, contact the 55 CES Engineering Flight at 294-
     7623. Potential for use of CFLs should be part of your energy facility inspection.
     2.3. Energy Efficient Equipment/Appliances: Procure only ENERGY STAR or Federal
     Energy Management Program (FEMP) listed products. Listings can be found at
     www.energystar.gov. Use only front-load washers & dryers (Fitness Centers, Dorms, TLFs
     & VQs).
     2.4. Temperature: Maintain facility temperatures in accordance with the table below. This
     standard applies to occupied and unoccupied portions of ACC facilities, associate
     organizations and reimbursable customers.

Table 2.1. Facility Temperature Settings

                                              Occupied:      69 degrees F
                   Administrative Spaces
 Heating                                      Unoccupied: 55 degrees F
 Season                                       Occupied:      65 degrees F
                   Shop Spaces
 (max temps)                                  Unoccupied: 55 degrees F
                   Warehouse Spaces           60 degrees F
                                              Occupied:      76 degrees F
                   Administrative Spaces
                                              Unoccupied: 84 degrees F
 Cooling
 Season            Shop Spaces                Occupied:      76 degrees F
 (min temps)                                  Unoccupied: 84 degrees F
                                            Not cooled unless required for proper storage of
                   Warehouse Spaces
                                            perishables
NOTE: Although climate control systems for mission and communication equipment are
exempt from the above settings, energy efficiency should be key in the equipment operation.
Hospitals are covered by their own unique criteria.
3. Commanders are directed to implement the following:
     3.1. Space heaters will not be used to supplement climate control in facilities unless required
     for validated safety or health issues. Non-medical facility managers should contact the 55
     CES Customer Service at 294-6101 to report heating or cooling concerns. Medical facilities
     should contact Medical Group Facility maintenance at 232-2255 to report heating or cooling
     concerns. When heating concerns are reported, a diagnostic evaluation will be accomplished
     by Civil Engineering or Medical Group Facility Maintenance personnel. As soon as
     practical, the agency will coordinate correction of the problem. Personal space heaters will
     be authorized only through a letter signed by the unit commander. All space heaters without
     an approval letter will be removed.
     3.2. Appliances such as refrigerators, coffee makers and microwave ovens should be
     consolidated in designated break areas. To limit the number of personal refrigerators, coffee
     makers, and microwave ovens, the unit commander will evaluate the impact on mission and
OFFUTTAFBI32-100             12 NOVEMBER 2010                                                  3


   provide a signed letter of authorization for any of these appliances not located in a break
   room. Personal appliances not located in the common break room without an approval letter
   will be removed.
   3.3. Procedures for securing your facility at the end of the day will be reviewed and
   reworked to include turning off any unnecessary interior or exterior lighting not needed to
   meet safety/security requirements.
4. These directives are not intended to be all-inclusive. Ideas to save energy can be submitted
through the “War on Waste” link on the Wing Portal. Please work within your unit to identify
any additional steps that might be taken to help save energy. For questions or information on the
Energy Management Program, contact the 55 CES Engineering Flight at 294-7623.
5. Prescribed Forms: None
   5.1. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                      JOHN N.T. SHANAHAN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                      Commander
 4                                    OFFUTTAFBI32-100    12 NOVEMBER 2010


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363 - Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC— Air Combat Command
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
CFL— Compact Fluorescent Lamps
FEMP— Federal Energy Management Program
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
