BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               OFFUTT AFB INSTRUCTION 32-200
OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                          17 NOVEMBER 2010

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                         OFFUTT AFB SIGN MASTER PLAN



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 55 CES/CECE                                                       Certified by: 55 MSG/CC
Supersedes: UFC 3-120-                                                (Col Michael J. Allshouse)
            01_OFFUTTAFBSUP, 1 Feb                                                       Pages: 8
            2007


This regulation contains general guidance for the design, construction, and placement of exterior
and interior signs at Offutt AFB. The intent of this guidance is to reduce clutter and establish
signs that are professional in appearance, properly located, and uniform throughout the entire
base. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as required. Send suggested
comments, questions, and improvements to the publication on an AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through 55 CS/SCXKP, 201 Lincoln Highway,
Suite 206, Bldg 41, Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, 68113.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction supersedes UFC 3-120-01_OFFUTTAFBSUP, Offutt AFB Sign Master Plan,
20 Feb 07. The intent of this document is to standardize the design, construction and placement
of Air Force signs. This document sets standards for identification, direction, regulation,
motivation and information signs; street address signs; base destination signs; parking regulation
signs; and interior signs. The criteria introduced in this document are intended for
implementation at all Air Force installations. Implementation is subject to funding priorities,
mission objectives and MAJCOM coordination. MAJCOMs are encouraged to adopt these
standards, but do have the authority to adjust them to meet their own objectives for design and
compatibility, using the standard colors listed in paragraph 2.18. This authority does not,
 2                                                      OFFUTTAFBI32-200 17 November 2010


however, apply to the portion of these criteria, which are based on such national standards as the
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), the Americans with Disabilities Act
Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG), and the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS).
The ADAAG, UFAS, and the Federal Highway Administration’s MUTCD are national standards
for sign design and placement. The MUTCD is the authority for all traffic control devices on
Air Force installations. This document incorporates the Americans with Disabilities Act
Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG) and the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS)
applicable to Air Force signs and is composed in the latest Air Force Instruction (AFI) format.
1. Base Policy: Offutt AFB policy is to minimize the number of signs and eliminate
nonessential signs. The updated ACC policy requires wing commander approval for all exterior
signs via an installation master plan and places responsibility of ensuring compliance with
interior sign standards on squadron commanders. In addition to this policy change, an ACC
Special Interest Item (SII) distributed through Inspector General channels emphasizes installation
and facility sign standards during inspections. In addition to ensuring future signs meet ACC
standards, squadron commanders are responsible for ensuring current signage is compliant. If
compliance of any existing sign is questionable, an AF Form 332, Work Order Request should be
submitted requesting advice and replacement as appropriate. New and replacement facility
signage requests must be submitted on an AF Form 332 signed by the squadron commander or
equivalent, and submitted to the 55th Civil Engineer Squadron Deputy Director (55 CES/CD),
for approval. Requests must contain a clear description of the requested sign type, message,
location, and adequate justification. Signs not in compliance with OAFB Sign Master Plan are
subject to removal without notice.
2. General Guidelines:
     2.1. Signs will conform to UFC 3-120-01, AIR FORCE SIGN STANDARD, in regard to
     message, format, size, and location. References contained herein to type B3, B4, F3, etc.,
     signs refer to UFC 3-120-01.
     2.2. Offutt AFB will use brown background with white letters for all exterior signs, with the
     exception of traffic control signs, (reference the Manual for Uniform Traffic Control Devices
     (MUTCD)), and some commercial signs, such as the Base Exchange or Commissary,
     historical facilities, such as the Billeting office, and temporary signs that are used for parking
     during open house or parking lot striping operations.
     2.3. Informational signs identifying facility users will be limited to one entrance.
     2.4. Individual raised letter signs affixed to buildings and pressure sensitive lettering on
     entranceway glass is the command standard for identifying facility use. Such lettering will
     be white, brown, tan, or metallic, and coordinated with the facility and compatible with the
     architectural scheme of the installation.
     2.5. Signs at base entry gates are to be minimized and professional.
     2.6. Signs providing general information about the building, such as operating hours, will be
     approved on an individual basis. This type of sign will be tastefully displayed and will be the
     responsibility of the building manager to procure, maintain, and keep current.
     2.7. Names of individuals will not be included on exterior signs. Those signs with names
     now existing will be removed or converted by attrition.
OFFUTTAFBI32-200 17 November 2010                                                               3


   2.8. Homemade or stenciled signs are not allowed on Offutt AFB.
   2.9. Marquee, changeable message signs, and mobile signs are not allowed without specific
   approval of 55 WG/CC.
   2.10. Sign posts shall be perforated, galvanized metal finish, and shall be properly installed
   in the ground or pavement. Signposts, frames, and the backs of signs shall be brown. The
   back of traffic control signs will be per MUTCD, typically galvanized metal finish.
   2.11. The USSTRATCOM shield will be limited to facilities within the Building 500
   complex.
   2.12. The use of our command slogan "The Sun Never Sets on the Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth" and
   the large command shield will be limited to high visibility areas and subject to specific
   approval of 55 WG/CC. Use of AF Symbol is regulated by AF Sign Standard.
   2.13. Temporary signs on movable bases may be used for special events or visitors, as well
   as during periods of snow and ice when reserved parking pavement markings are obscured.
   Temporary signs will be standardized when possible, (to present a professional appearance)
   and approved by CE. The placement, alignment, and storage of these signs will be the
   responsibility of the individual organization or the facility manager of the building where the
   temporary signs are used. Not everyone with a reserved parking space will be authorized a
   temporary sign. It will be the individual’s responsibility to uncover their reserved painted
   pavement parking sign if obscured by snow, ice, or soils.
3. Main Building Identification Signs: Buildings requiring information on functions located
inside will be identified by one sign in the area of the main entrance. Wall mounted (raised
letter) signs placed IAW Chapter 10 or UFC 3-120-01 or pressure sensitive letters on entrance
glass will be used whenever possible. Sign standards and placement will be considered during
the design stage of the facility. Names of individuals who will be used in the naming of a
building must be approved IAW all procedures contained in AFR 900-9, Memorialization
Program and associated ceremonies. Main Building Identification Signs when not wall mounted
shall be monument-mounted. Base shall be brick with a concrete cap. No squadron shields or
mottoes are allowed. An emblem shall be placed in the upper left corner of the Primary
Organization occupying the facility (55 WG, AFWA, 343 RS, etc.). The 55th Wing shield shall
be used for all buildings occupied by members of the 55th Wing. The layout and dimensions of
sign panel are to be IAW Sign Type B1, Figure 4.16. in UFC 3-120-01. See Attachment 2 for
Base Standard for Main Building Identification Sign.
   3.1. Multiple Roadways (Building Orientation): If the main entrance does not face the major
   roadway, or if there is more than one major roadway and the main identification sign is not
   visible from all roadways, additional pressure sensitive letters, entrance glass, or a raised
   letter sign, may be placed facing the other roadway(s).
   3.2. Multiple Occupancy: If a building is occupied by more than one organizational unit, the
   building will be identified as related to the major occupant unless a non-unit connected name
   is agreed upon and approved, such as Martin Bomber Building or Skipworth Building, etc.
   The major occupant is defined as the unit occupying the most square footage in the building.
   In a building where a unit has extensive storage space, best judgment will play a part in how
   much of the space is used to make the comparison. If the host unit and an associate unit
   occupy the same building, the building name will be determined by the host unit.
 4                                                     OFFUTTAFBI32-200 17 November 2010


     3.3. Secondary Entrances: When a building has several entrances, all entrances commonly
     used by visitors (not those designated for use primarily by personnel working in the building)
     may be identified with an entrance number.
     3.4. Aircraft Hangar and Maintenance Buildings: These facilities will be identified by large
     raised letter signs. Secondary entrances will be identified only if personnel other than those
     working in the building are authorized entry.
4. Building Facility Number Signs: These signs are located on each building for quick
identification.
5. Traffic Control Signs: All traffic control signs must conform to the standards described in
the MUTCD. The standard symbols illustrated in the MUTCD shall be used in lieu of word
messages on all new and replacement signs. Signs shown in Military Traffic Management
Command (MTMC) Pamphlet 55-17, Better Military Traffic Engineering, are intended to
supplement the MUTCD standards. The selection, installation, or removal of any traffic control
signs must be approved by Base Civil Engineering in order to ensure the signs are appropriate
and conform with the MUTCD. Additional guidelines are as follows:
     5.1. Paint on curbs is prohibited, with the exception of the Building 500 (USSTRATCOM
     HQ) parking lot (upper level).
     5.2. Reserved parking signs shall be limited and will be used only when absolutely necessary
     and as approved by the Reserve Parking Board. The preferred method of designating
     reserved parking is brown painted rectangles on the pavement with white letters. All
     reserved parking signs will be painted by 55 CES or by contract through them. No self
     painted or installed parking signs are allowed.
     5.3. In parking lots where all parking is reserved, one sign shall be placed at each entrance to
     eliminate the need for individual stall pavement markings.
     5.4. Reserved parking stalls will receive painted markings on the pavement at the rear of
     each reserved stall. Reserved parking stalls for handicapped employees, government
     vehicles, and privately-owned vehicles of key personnel (military, civilian, or contractor) will
     be marked with a letter "R" followed by a reference number; i.e., R23. Stalls reserved for
     handicap parking shall be marked with the international symbol on the pavement and with a
     sign on a post. Sign and pavement marking shall be blue background with white symbol.
     Stalls reserved for visitors or customers will be marked with the word VISITOR. Additional
     or other information may be included if essential and brief; i.e., VISITOR 2 HOURS;
     VISITOR PARKING 30 MINUTES; FITNESS CENTER; BOWLER ONLY; etc. Curb
     plates and signs on posts will be minimized. Temporary signs may be used IAW paragraph
     2.13.
     5.5. Traffic control signs shall be installed on galvanized perforated metal poles or on
     existing utility poles. With few exceptions, no more than two signs facing the same direction
     shall be installed on one pole.
     5.6. Directional signs shall be minimized and only used to denote places used by off-base
     visitors (hospital, billeting, clubs), but not used by the base population (library, bowling
     alley, gym, exchanges, and bank).
OFFUTTAFBI32-200 17 November 2010                                                                5


6. Base Entrance Signs: At the main gates these signs will be monument-mounted. At
secondary gates they will be handled IAW UFC 3-120-01. Each gate will display the AF
symbol.
7. Interior Signs: All interior signs shall be in accordance with UFC 3-120-01 and shall be
coordinated through 55 CES/CEC and approved by 55 CES/CEO. Interior signs shall be kept to
a minimum. They are intended to assist visitors in locating areas, not necessarily each specific
office. Directories may be located at main entrances to assist visitors and to reduce the use of
interior signs. With few exceptions, interior signs with "custom," non-safety, or security
messages shall not be used. Where justified, they will be the responsibility of the individual unit
to identify, fund, and procure through base supply; sizes, colors, and locations must be first
coordinated and approved through 55 CES/CEC/CEO, as stated above.
8. Signs on Fences: Signs on fences and gates shall be kept to a minimum to reduce clutter.
Spacing of any particular sign shall be the maximum allowed by its directing publication. Signs
hung on wires or ropes will not be permitted.
9. Electronic Message Signs: Electronic message signs are not allowed except at Base Main
Entrances and co-located clubs IAW UFC 3-120-01. All electronic message signs must be
approved prior to purchase or installation by HQ ACC/A7. Co-located Club electronic message
signs must also be approved by HQ ACC/A1 prior to purchase, replacement, or installation.
10. Neon Signs: No exterior neon lights or signs are allowed.
11. Temporary Non-Mission Signs: No commercial advertisement, announcements, banners,
temporary signs on fences, or other temporary signs will be allowed without prior approval of the
55 WG/CC and 55 CES/CECE. All signs not in compliance with OAFB Sign Master Plan are
subject to removal without notice.
12. Waiver Authority: Sign type, sign size, sign color, font, use of shields, mottoes, layout not
conforming to UFC shall not be allowed except for Historic signs, #13. Any deviation from the
referenced Sign Standards must be approved by HQ ACC/A7 before purchase or installation.
13. Historic District Building Signs: Shall be a 2’-0” aluminum panel ¼” thick painted brown.
Lettering shall be white. Font shall be Clarendon Medium. Frame shall be 4 x 4 redwood posts
with turned wood caps painted white. See Attachment 3 for Base Standard for Historic Building
Signs.
14. Forms Adopted: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 332, Work Order Request
15. Forms Prescribed: None




                                             JOHN N.T. SHANAHAN, Brigadier General,
                                             USAF
                                             Commander, 55th Wing
 6                                                  OFFUTTAFBI32-200 17 November 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Uniform Facility Criteria (UFC) 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard, 6 Feb 2003
ACC Instruction 32-1054, Exterior Signs, 22 May 2003
ACC Special Interest Item (SII) 03-01, Facility Signs, 20 Dec 2002
Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS)
American Disability Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG)
Federal Highway Administration Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC— Air Combat Command
ADAAG— Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines
AFB— Air Force Base
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFPAM— Air Force Pamphlet
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFWA— Air Force Weather Agency
CSAF— Chief of Staff of the Air Force
HQ ACC/A1— Head Quarters Air Combat Command
MAJCOM— Major Command
MTMC— Military Traffic Management Command
MUTCD— Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
OAFB— Offutt Air Force Base
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SII— Special Interest Item
UFAS— Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards
UFC— Unified Facilities Criteria
USSTRATCOM— United States Strategic Command
OFFUTTAFBI32-200 17 November 2010                            7


                              Attachment 2
       BASE STANDARD FOR MAIN BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN
8                  OFFUTTAFBI32-200 17 November 2010


          Attachment 3
    HISTORIC BUILDING SIGN
