BY ORDER OF THE                                 OGDEN AIR LOGISITCS DEPARTMENT OF
OGDEN AIR LOGISITCS DEPARTMENT                             PERSONNEL MANUAL 90-201
OF PERSONNEL
                                                                               30 AUGUST 2011

                                                                            Special Management

                                                               SELF INSPECTION PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: OO-ALC/OO-ALC/DPD                                     Certified by: OO-ALC/OO-ALC/DPD
                                                                           (Mr. Dale Emmerson)
                                                                                       Pages: 5


This Manual is for the Manpower, Personnel and Training Directorate (OO-ALC/DP)-Self
Inspection Program (SIP) and is an extension of Air Force Instruction 90-201 Inspector General
(IG) Activities, Air Force Material Command Supplement GM-1 and the Hill Air Force Base IG
Supplement. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records                Disposition              Schedule               (RDS)               located
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

1. Introduction.
   1.1. Purpose: The OO-ALC/DP-SIP program purpose is to provide a tool for conducting
   inspections through all functions residing in OO-ALC/DP. The inspections reporting period
   is 12 months i.e., Apr 10 – Mar 11, followed by formal inspection compliance reporting to
   OO-ALC Inspector General (IG) office the preceding month. Additionally, OO-ALC/DPD
   may conduct monthly on-the-spot, no-notice inspections for specific processes at the
   direction of directorate/division level management.
   1.2. Scope: The OO-ALC/DP-SIP program provides the OO-ALC/DP directorate chief an
   internal assessment tool for determining the health of the organization or sometimes referred
   to as the organizational battle rhythm, as well as preparation for Air Force inspections. The
 2                                                 OO-ALC/DPMAN90-201 30 AUGUST 2011


     OO-ALC/DP organization assigned OO-ALC/DP/Force Development Division (OO-
     ALC/DPD) the responsibility to administer and manage the OO-ALC/DP-SIP program. The
     OO-ALC/DP-SIP program office conducts inspections, identifying/analysis of deficiencies,
     recommend solutions/corrective actions and reports inspection results to management. In
     addition, the OO-ALC/DP-SIP is intended to educate workforce on new/existing inspection
     requirements and ultimately increase situational awareness in functional areas.
     1.3. Background: The OO-ALC/DP-SIP inspections are categorized into four areas;
     Security, Administrative, Safety, and Training with applicable checklists contained therein.
     The applicable checklist(s) are completed and accompanied with a Unit Self Inspection
     Record/Deficiency Report in lieu of Air Force Material Command (AFMC) Information
     Management Tool (IMT) Forms 21/24. All checklists and record/reports are maintained and
     available in the OO-ALC/DP-SIP SharePoint site.
2. General Program Guidelines.
     2.1. Database: The OO-ALC/DP-SIP program is managed and available via OO-ALC/OO-
     ALC/DP-SIP SharePoint site. The site information at a minimum provides categorized
     inspection areas, associated checklists, record reports, data analysis results and inspection
     historical data.
     2.2. Inspectors: The OO-ALC/DP organization designates inspector augmentee’s as
     requested by the OO-ALC/DP-SIP program manager. These, inspector augmentee’s conduct
     inspections, record findings (data collection) across division lines, providing an independent
     assessment and enhancing compliance opportunities.
     2.3. Checklists:
        2.3.1. The OO-ALC/DP-SIP checklists contain applicable Head Quarters (HQ) checklist
        and/or local checklists references. The distinction between HQ and local checklist is
        identified by the checklist element number i.e., HQ10-APOO-ALC/DP or MANPR.1, etc.
        The checklists are developed and/or up-dated annually, at a minimum by the SIP program
        manager office. All checklists are maintained and available in the OO-ALC/DP-SIP
        SharePoint site.
        2.3.2. The applicable checklist (hard copy) is utilized by the inspector augmentee during
        the performance of inspection. The data collected from the checklist is transferred to an
        automated soft copy checklist and submitted/saved OO-ALC/DP-SIP SharePoint site.
     2.4. Record/Report:
        2.4.1. The OO-ALC/DP-SIP program utilizes Unit Self Inspection Record/Deficiency
        Report to record all inspection activities into one consolidated automated document.
        2.4.2. The record/report is populated and submitted/saved by the inspector augmentee.
        The required record/report data fields are dependent on the completed checklist
        information and subsequent inspection rating/deficiency findings by the inspector
        augmentee.
        2.4.3. The record/report provides inspector augmentee’s opportunities to input their
        analysis of inspection e.g. identification of systemic/isolated deficiencies,
        potential/contributing causes for non-compliance and corrective/preventative measures
        taken or to be taken.
OO-ALC/DPMAN90-201 30 AUGUST 2011                                                              3


   2.5. Reporting:
       2.5.1. Inspection Rating: The Unit Self Inspection Record/Deficiency Report requires an
       inspection rating be entered by the inspector augmentee. Inspection ratings are generally
       located adjacent to the applicable checklist elements description, noting headquarters
       driven inspection ratings cannot be downgraded. The Inspection Rating(s) are
       categorized and defined below:
          2.5.1.1. CRITICAL, any deficiency that results or could result in widespread mission
          impact or failure.
          2.5.1.2. SIGNIFCANT/MAJOR, a validated deficiency that has or could have
          significant mission impact.
          2.5.1.3. MINOR, a validated deficiency that does not meet the definition for a critical
          or significant deficiency but requiring a corrective action.
          2.5.1.4. PASS, no defects/no deficiency noted.
   2.6. Corrective/Preventative Criteria: The Unit Self Inspection Record/Deficiency Report
   field titled corrective/preventative taken requires selecting one of the following dropdown
   options:
       2.6.1. NA, self explanatory.
          2.6.1.1. On-The-Spot corrective action is selected when a checklist element is
          marked with a ―NO‖ or non-complaint but corrected at the time of inspection. Any
          on-the-spot selection(s) is then later analyzed for potential systemic problems and
          reported accordingly.
          2.6.1.2. Root-Cause-Analysis (RCA): An RCA may be conducted on checklist
          elements rated as CRITICAL or SIGNIFICANT/MAJOR, that were rated as ―NO‖ or
          non-compliant at the time of inspection. Also, a RCA may be applicable when
          numerous repeatable MINOR ratings are identified as systemic. Any RCA effort
          utilizes proven Air Force Smart Operations 21 Century principles e.g., 8 Step-
          Problem-Solving Model.
   2.7. Corrective-Action-Plan (CAP).
       2.7.1. Is initiated when a Unit Self Inspection Record/Deficiency Report inspection
       rating is CRITICAL, corrective action plan is de-noted as ―YES‖ and subsequently
       approved by OO-ALC/DP management.
       2.7.2. Any CAP effort consists of utilizing the Air Force Smart Operations 21 Century
       principles e.g., 8 Step-Problem-Solving Model and any applicable continuous process
       improvement tools contained therein.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   3.1. OO-ALC/DP Management:
       3.1.1. Directorate designates, in writing, the OO-ALC/DP-SIP program manager and
       alternate.
       3.1.2. Directorate coordinates/approves IG compliance reports as applicable.
4                                                 OO-ALC/DPMAN90-201 30 AUGUST 2011


       3.1.3. Directorate and division level management determine when OO-ALC/DP-SIP
       CRITICAL, SIGNIFCANT/MAJOR or MINOR inspection ratings requires either follow-
       up inspection or if next yearly inspection period is sufficient to maintain the health of the
       organization or job impact e.g. return-on-investment.
       3.1.4. Directorate determines when a RCA or CAP is justified and if applicable monitors,
       applies realistic timelines i.e. get-well-dates, approves solutions(s), evaluates
       effectiveness and subsequently approves close-out of effort.
       3.1.5. Directorate reviews recommended closure of a corrective/preventatives action
       taken or to be taken, accordingly.
       3.1.6. Approves Unit Self Inspection Record/Deficiency Report closeout approval(s).
       An inspection rating of PASS or MINOR is approved at the section/branch chief level
       with SIGNIFICANT/MAJOR/CRITICAL approvals at the section/branch and division
       level respectively. Additionally, a CAP effort requires directorate/commander approval.
       3.1.7. Identify inspector augmentee’s as requested.
    3.2. OO-ALC/DP-SIP Program Manager:
       3.2.1. The OO-ALC/DP-SIP program is managed by OO-ALC/DPD Force Development
       and maintained by the designated program manager. This program manger or designated
       alternate are responsible for database content, general information i.e. continuity book,
       currency and management of inspection data.
       3.2.2. Serves as the OO-ALC/DPD liaison with the OO-ALC Inspector General Office
       point of contact. Additional duties include providing compliance reports and reporting
       open HQ ―CRITICAL‖ findings within 30 days of identification.
       3.2.3. Initiates and monitors internal and external inspection activities, data collection,
       conducts analysis and notifies the directorate, division and branches chiefs as applicable.
       The forum for reporting is generally conducted during management staff meetings. The
       analysis of data collected during the inspection reporting period includes identifying
       systemic or negative trends, job impact and solution opportunities.
       3.2.4. Coordinates     with     OO-ALC/DPD        management       on       results    of
       investigation(s)/compliance reporting and any subsequent reporting activities out-side of
       OO-ALC/DP.
       3.2.5. Establishes continuous process improvement events for RCA and/or CAP efforts,
       at the direction of directorate/division level management.




                                             ANDY FLOWERS
                                             Director of Manpower, Personnel & Training
OO-ALC/DPMAN90-201 30 AUGUST 2011                                                    5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009
AFI90-201_AFMCSUP1_GM2, Inspector General Activities, 30 March 2011
AFI90-201_AFMCSUP1_HILLAFBSUP, Inspector General Activities, 22 February 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 22 Sep 2009
Air Force Material Command (AFMC) Form 21, Instructions for AFMC Inspector General
Minor Deficiencies, 17 Dec 2010
Air Force Material Command (AFMC) Form 24, AFMC Inspector General Inspection Minor
Deficiency Report, 26 Apr 2005, V2

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CAP—Corrective-Action-Plan
DP—Manpower, Personnel and Training Directorate
DPD—Force Development Division
IG—Inspector General
OO—ALC – Ogden Air Logistics Center
RCA—Root Cause Analysis
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SIP - Self Inspection Program
