BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               OGDEN AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEX
OGDEN AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEX                                        INSTRUCTION 21-113

                                                                              27 MARCH 2013

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                          NONDESTRUCTIVE INSPECTION


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 809 MXSS/CLA                                                  Certified by: 309 MXSG/CL
                                                                            (Mr. David Hansen)
                                                                                      Pages: 18




This instruction establishes the minimum requirements for the qualification and certification of
both organic and contractor nondestructive inspection (NDI) personnel in the Ogden Air
Logistics Complex (OO-ALC); to include operations at 309th Aerospace Maintenance and
Regeneration Group, located at Davis Monthan Air Force Base (AFB), 309th Electronics
Maintenance Group, located at Kadena Air Base, 571st Aircraft Maintenance Squadron, located
at Randolph AFB, 581st Missile Maintenance Squadron, and all other satellite sites conducting
NDI related activities also managed by the OO-ALC. This instruction meets or exceeds the
requirements of National Aerospace Standard (NAS), Revision 3, Certification and Qualification
of Nondestructive Test Personnel. This instruction applies to personnel using NDI methods to
accept materials, products, subsystems, components or systems. It also applies to individuals
responsible for the technical adequacy of NDI procedures, and those providing technical training
for NDI personnel. This publication supplements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 20-114, Air and
Space Equipment Structural Management; Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI)
21-101, Depot Maintenance Activation Planning, Chapter 19, Depot Maintenance Technical
Data and Work Control Documents; AFI 21-101, Air Force Materiel Command Supplement
(AFMCSUP), Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, Paragraph 14.54-14.55,
Maintenance Training and Production Acceptance Certification (PAC) Programs; AFI21-
101_AFMCSUP_309MXW Guidance Memorandum (GM) 21-04, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management, Paragraph 14.70; Technical Order (T.O.) 33B-1-1, Nondestructive
Inspection Methods, Basic Theory; and T.O. 33B-1-2 Nondestructive Inspection General
Procedures and Process Controls. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
 2                                                           OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013


prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force (AF) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.
1. General Information. This instruction establishes guidance and procedures for NDI. This is
a new publication established to meet requirements and must be read in its entirety.
     1.1. NDI Methods. This instruction relates to the following methods of NDI:
        1.1.1. Liquid Penetrant (PT);
        1.1.2. Magnetic Particle (MT);
        1.1.3. Eddy Current (ET);
        1.1.4. Ultrasonic (UT);
        1.1.5. Radiography (RT);
        1.1.6. Shearography (ST);
        1.1.7. Thermography (IRT).
     1.2. Other NDI Techniques. Other types of NDI performed at OO-ALC are considered
     techniques within the methods listed above. Personnel performing computed tomography,
     computed RT, and real-time RT will be certified in RT. OO-ALC personnel utilizing
     specialized equipment to perform C-scan UTs will be certified in UT. It will be the
     responsibility of the supervisor to ensure that personnel have been trained and are proficient
     in the use of special equipment IAW the PAC program.
        1.2.1. OO-ALC NDI Techniques within NDI Methods:
            1.2.1.1. RT. Film RT, computed tomography, computed RT, and real time RT;
            1.2.1.2. UT. A-Scan, C-Scan and Phased Array;
            1.2.1.3. PT. Type I fluorescent (portable and stationary);
            1.2.1.4. MT. Fluorescent wet (portable and stationary);
            1.2.1.5. ET. Surface, bolt hole automated, automated wheel scanner, conductivity;
            1.2.1.6. IRT. Indirect thermal;
            1.2.1.7. ST. Vacuum stressing, thermal stressing, mecad stressing.
     1.3. New Methods. New workloads may require new methods of NDI to be performed at
     OO-ALC. New methods may be considered techniques within an existing method as stated
     above, or as standalone methods. The OO-ALC NDI Program Manager (PM) will determine
     the requirements for personnel training, experience, and examinations for any new NDI
     methods. Initial certification requirements for individuals performing new methods will be
     determined by the OO-ALC NDI PM (see paragraph 4.1.).
OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013                                                                      3


   1.4. Technique Forms/Process Orders. Applicable to each NDI element and approved by the
   assigned cognizant level 3.
2. NDI Levels.
   2.1. Levels of Qualification. Levels of qualification established by this instruction are:
       2.1.1. Trainee.
       2.1.2. Level 1
       2.1.3. Level 2
       2.1.4. Level 3
   2.2. Instructor.
   2.3. Auditor.
   2.4. Levels of Certification. Levels requiring certification IAW this instruction are:
       2.4.1. Level 1
       2.4.2. Level 2
       2.4.3. Level 3
3. NDI Requirements.
   3.1. Cognizant NDI Organization. The 809th Maintenance Support Squadron (809 MXSS),
   NDI Program Management Office (809 MXSS/MXDEA) shall be the cognizant NDI
   organization in support of the OO-ALC. 809 MXSS/MXDEA shall be responsible to
   maintain this instruction, and shall be responsible for the training, certification, and
   qualification of all personnel. 809 MXSS Materiel Engineering Flight (809 MXSS/MXDEA)
   Level 3 personnel shall develop or approve new NDI procedures, provide general training,
   provide training on specific procedures, and administer the NDI certification program. The
   OO-ALC NDI PM (assigned to the 809 MXSS/MXDEA), as defined in AFI 21-105
   paragraphs 3.3.3.1, shall be the responsible Level 3 for the OO-ALC. The OO-ALC NDI PM
   Level 3 individual should be appointed in writing by the OO-ALC Commander/Director. All
   809 MXSS/MXDEA Level 3 personnel shall be designated special skills qualification (SSQ)
   officials as required in       AFI 21-101_AFMCSUP, paragraph 14.54.2. in the applicable
   Level 3 certified NDI method.
4. Detailed Certification Procedure.
   4.1. Levels of Qualifications.
       4.1.1. Trainee. A trainee is an individual who is participating in training for an NDI
       method and is not certified. Trainees shall obtain work experience only under the direct
       supervision of a Level 2, Level 3, or certified instructor in the same method. Trainees
       shall not independently conduct tests, make, accept or reject decisions, or perform any
       other NDI functions.
       4.1.2. Level 1. Level 1 is the first certifiable qualification level. The Level 1 individual
       shall have the skills and knowledge to perform specific tasks and specific calibrations. A
       Level 1 individual may perform actual inspections for acceptance or rejection of
       production parts only under the direction of a certified Level 2 or Level 3 individual, or
4                                                           OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013


       be task certified for a specific task. The Level 1 individual shall be knowledgeable of
       any necessary preparation of parts before, or after inspection. The individual shall be
       able to follow procedures in the techniques for which they are certified.
       4.1.3. Level 2. Level 2 individuals shall have the skills and knowledge to set up and
       calibrate equipment, conduct tests and to interpret, evaluate and document results IAW
       procedures approved by 809 MXSS/MXDEA NDI Level 3 personnel. The individual
       shall be thoroughly familiar with the scope and limitations of the method in which they
       are certified, and shall be capable of directing the work of trainees and Level 1 personnel,
       along with conducting on-the-job training (OJT) for lesser trained inspectors. The
       individual shall be able to organize and document NDI results. The individual shall be
       familiar with standards, T.O.s, Time Compliance Technical Orders, etc., that pertain to
       the method of inspection and product being evaluated. NDI Level 2 personnel shall write
       procedures when required, which must be approved by the 809 MXSS/MXDEA NDI
       Level 3 personnel prior to use.
       4.1.4. Level 3. Level 3 individuals shall have the skills and knowledge to interpret
       codes, standards, and other contractual documents that control the methods and products
       utilized at OO-ALC. Level 3 personnel shall select the method and technique for a
       specific inspection, and prepare and/or verify the adequacy of procedures. Only 809
       MXSS/MXDEA individuals certified to NDI Level 3 shall have the authority to approve
       procedures for technical adequacy in the method to which they are certified. The
       individual shall have a general knowledge of all other NDI methods utilized at OO-ALC.
       The individual shall be capable of directing the training and examination of personnel in
       the method certified. The individual must pass an appropriate Level 2 practical
       examination to conduct NDI for the acceptance of parts.
       4.1.5. Instructor. Instructors shall have the skills and knowledge to plan, organize and
       present classroom, laboratory or OJT programs of instruction IAW approved course
       outlines. OO-ALC NDI PM shall be responsible for providing instructors and
       performing classroom training. Note: Reference paragraph 4.6. for qualification
       requirements.
       4.1.6. Auditor. Auditors shall have the education, training skills, and knowledge to
       understand the processes and procedures utilized in the application of NDI. The
       individual shall be familiar with the applicable codes, standards, and other contractual
       documents that control the method. Note: Reference paragraph 4.7. for qualification
       requirements.
    4.2. Training. Candidates for certification as Level 1 or Level 2 shall complete sufficient
    organized classroom training to become proficient with the principles and practices of the
    applicable test methods and techniques. Formal training requirements for Level 1 and Level
    2 personnel may be accomplished by structured/traditional OJT, as long as sufficient time has
    been spent on classroom training, and the OJT is documented on AF IMT 797, Job
    Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS. This applies to all NDI methods. This
    will be at the discretion of the OO-ALC NDI PM, or the 809 MXSS/MXDEA Level 3
    responsible for meeting these requirements. The training will be conducted IAW a detailed
    course outline approved by the OO-ALC NDI PM IAW NAS 410 Revision 3. Classroom
OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013                                                                    5


   training is provided by 809 MXSS/MXDEA. Any NDI method certification requires prior
   completion of the “Introduction to Metals Course”.
      4.2.1. Minimum Required Classroom Training Hours. Training will encompass Level 1
      and Level 2 combined for all candidates seeking certification. The minimum training
      hours for this type of training is given in Table 1. for the specified NDI methods. There
      are no additional training requirements to transition from Level 2 to Level 3, nor can an
      individual have sufficient training to allow certification to Level 3, without prior
      certification as a Level 2.

Table 1. Minimum Formal Training Hours, Level 1 and Level 2




      4.2.2. Previous/Equivalent Training. Personnel who have received previous training or
      have been trained IAW other NDI qualification/certification programs must have the
      training documented. The previous training must be approved by the OO-ALC NDI PM.
      For personnel credited with training, or those not certified within 6 months of their
      training, refresher training must be provided. The depth of coverage shall be determined
      by the OO-ALC NDI PM.
      4.2.3. Military Training. Personnel who completed military NDI technical school
      training shall be regarded as having met the formal training requirements for Level 2.
      Satisfactory proof of this training is a copy of their school house training certificate. A
      copy shall be placed in the employee's qualification records. Personnel who have
      completed this schooling will still be required to take a general, specific, and practical
      examination for each applicable method of requested certification.
   4.3. Experience. Candidates for certification at Levels 1, 2, or 3 shall have sufficient
   practical experience to assure that they are capable of performing the duties of the level for
   which certification is sought. The minimum requirements for Levels 1 and 2 are given in
   Table 2., and Level 3 is given in Table 3 Experience/OJT time shall be documented on AF
   IMT 797 daily, specifying equipment used, components tested and time accumulated per
   method. OJT will be under the direction of the direct supervisor and the wage leader trainer.
   Specialized equipment or technique training (see paragraph. 1.3.) shall also be the
   responsibility of the direct supervisor and documented in the employee’s PAC record.
      4.3.1. OO-ALC NDI Method Category Breakdown:
 6                                                          OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013


Table 2. Minimum Experience Requirements, Levels 1 and 2




Table 3. Minimum Experience Requirements for Level 3




        4.3.2. Previous/Equivalent Experience. Previous or equivalent experience IAW any
        other NDI qualification/certification programs must be documented to be accepted. The
        equivalency of the previous experience will be determined by the OO-ALC NDI PM.
     4.4. Examinations. The examinations to verify the visual acuity and technical qualifications
     of candidate personnel shall consist of a vision examination, a general examination, a
     specific examination and a practical examination. Test questions will be made available only
     during administration of examinations. Actual test questions given during certification
     examinations for the most current certification of each method will be kept in each
     individual's records. The OO-ALC NDI PM shall approve test questions. Test questions
     will be kept in a locked container or electronically. These questions will only be accessible
     to 809 MXSS/MXDEA NDI Level 3 personnel.
        4.4.1. Visual Acuity. The visual acuity examination shall assure that the applicant’s near
        vision and color perception meet the following requirements. The testing facility must be
        approved by the OO-ALC NDI PM. The visual acuity test shall be administered annually
        by the Civilian Dispensary, and recorded on Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Form
        74, Nondestructive Inspection Personnel Qualification and Certification Record. The
        Civilian Dispensary is medically qualified and authorized by the OO-ALC NDI PM to
        administer the annual vision tests.
OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013                                                                     7


        4.4.1.1. Near Vision. Jaeger #1 test chart at not less than 12 inches; 20/25 Snellen at
        16 inches +/- 1 inch, or approved equivalent as determined by cognizant Level 3.
        Testing must be completed by medical personnel, with one eye either natural or
        corrected.
        4.4.1.2. Color Perception. Distinguish and differentiate between the colors used in
        the method for which certification is sought; shall be administered prior to
        certification or re-certification.
     4.4.2. General Examination. The general examination for all levels shall be a closed
     book examination consisting of questions that cover the cross-section of the applicable
     method at the appropriate level. A minimum of 40 questions shall be used for the general
     examination at each level. For Level 3, the general examination questions will address
     the general knowledge of other methods, as well as the method for which certification is
     sought. Possession of a current American Society for Nondestructive Testing (ASNT)
     Level 3 or equivalent certificate may be satisfactory evidence that the general
     examination is satisfied. These equivalent ASNT Level 3 certificates may be from a
     previous employer. Other outside source Level 3 examinations may be used provided the
     source is approved by the OO-ALC NDI PM. Outside agency exams will be maintained
     in the applicable NDI Level 3 certification record for audit review.
     4.4.3. Specific Examination. The specific examination for all levels shall be a closed
     book examination, except reference material, and shall cover the specifications, codes,
     equipment, operating procedures and test techniques the candidates may use in the
     performance of their duties. A minimum of 30 questions shall be used for the specific
     examination at each level.
     4.4.4. Written Test. All written tests will be stored in a secure computer-based testing
     system, or maintained electronically in a secure area until needed. This database will be
     made available to an auditor if required. No paper copies of tests will be stored
     anywhere, except in the training records. The tests stored in the training records will
     have a score on them, along with the individual’s name and date that the test was taken.
     These training records will be kept in a locked container.
     4.4.5. Practical Examination. The practical examination shall consist of a demonstration
     of proficiency in performing tasks that are typical of those to be accomplished in the
     performance of the candidate's duties. Test samples used in the examination may be
     actual hardware if the candidate is required to demonstrate proficiency in the application
     of the process, as well as interpretation of results. Images may be used (i.e., such as
     radiographs), if the candidate is only required to interpret the results, and not perform the
     process of generating the image. SSQ checklists (Attachment 2) shall be used by SSQ
     officials during NDI method practical examinations. SSQ checklists and OO-ALC Form
     208, NDI Practical Exam Checklist, shall be used during each practical exam to assist in
     the administration and grading of the examination. Additional SSQ checklists will be
     approved by the OO-ALC NDI PM. All certification and re-certification practical exams
     will require a written procedure to be completed for each test specimen being evaluated.
     One test specimen per technique under a method, and a minimum of two specimens will
     be evaluated for each NDI method during practical exams. These procedures will
     become part of the certification documentation, and maintained in each individual
8                                                      OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013


    training record. As practical test specimens are crack mapped and cataloged, they will be
    used accordingly. Cracked specimens used for practical exams will be identified on the
    individual’s applicable SSQ checklist within SSQ guidance for audit purposes (see
    Attachment 2). X-ray film from practical exams will be maintained in the 809
    MXSS/MXDEA NDI Program Management Office. All test specimens will be kept
    secured until needed.
       4.4.5.1. Level 1. The candidate shall demonstrate proficiency by using the
       appropriate method to examine at least one test sample for each technique to be used,
       and document the results. The test samples shall be representative of the products to
       be encountered by the candidate in the performance of their duties. The SSQ
       checklist shall address proficiency in the use of equipment and material, adherence to
       procedural details, and documentation of results.
       4.4.5.2. Level 2. The candidate shall demonstrate proficiency by using the
       appropriate method to examine at least two test samples for each method. The test
       samples shall be representative of the product to be encountered by the candidate in
       the performance of their duties. The candidate shall interpret, evaluate and document
       the results of the examination of the test samples. The SSQ checklist shall include
       proficiency in the use of equipment and materials. The candidate shall adhere to
       procedural details, interpretation, and the evaluation of all relevant indications. The
       candidate also will be required to demonstrate the ability to develop work
       instructions.
       4.4.5.3. Level 3. The candidate shall demonstrate proficiency by preparing an NDI
       procedure appropriate to T.O. requirements.
       4.4.5.4. Level 3 Production Acceptance. When the candidate's duties will include
       inspection or evaluation of products, the proficiency in performance of such tasks
       shall be demonstrated and documented using the applicable SSQ checklist. SSQ
       checklists shall address the practical and technical adequacy of the procedures
       prepared by the candidate, and when applicable, the adequacy of interpretation and
       evaluation of indications. In the event that the candidate has already developed
       satisfactory procedures, it is not necessary to develop another one for the practical
       examination. The results of the practical examination shall be documented.
    4.4.6. Administration. An 809 MXSS/MXDEA NDI Level 3, who is knowledgeable and
    familiar with the specifications, standards, codes, techniques and products inspected at
    OO-ALC, and certified Level 3 in the method for which examinations are given, shall be
    responsible for the administration of all qualification examinations. The administration
    and grading of those examinations using multiple choice or true/false type questions can
    be delegated by the Level 3. Responses to essay questions must be evaluated by the
    responsible Level 3 to verify the certification candidate’s adequate understanding of the
    subject matter. Only the appropriate 809 MXSS/MXDEA NDI Level 3 can administer
    practical examinations in the methods for which they are certified. All 809
    MXSS/MXDEA Level 3 certifications must be approved by the OO-ALC NDI PM. The
    OO-ALC NDI PM shall approve any outside agency used to administer all tests. Note:
    Under no circumstance can an examination be administered by one's self, or by a
    subordinate.
OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013                                                                      9


     4.4.7. Grading. The candidate for certification must achieve a minimum grade of 70%
     on the general and specific qualification examinations. The candidate must detect all
     discontinuities or conditions specified by the Level 3 during the practical examination,
     and achieve a minimum score of 70%. The candidate must have an average score on all
     three required tests (general, practical, and specific) of no less than 80%, in order to be
     eligible for certification. All examination scores shall be of equal weight in determining
     the average score. Scores for third party examinations where grading is pass/fail, the
     value of pass used for the average score shall be 80%.
     4.4.8. Re-Examination. A candidate failing a portion of any examination shall wait a
     minimum of 30 days before being re-examined. The 30 days shall be utilized for
     refresher training (both OJT and self-study). Training shall be under the direction of the
     first-level supervisor, and shall address those areas found deficient in the candidate’s skill
     or knowledge. During the training period, the supervisor will ensure that the candidate is
     assigned to work with a certified Level 2 individual, with extensive knowledge in the
     areas where the candidate has deficiencies. Re-examination shall not utilize the same
     written exams or test specimens that were used in initial qualification. The additional
     training shall be documented, and shall address those areas found deficient in the
     candidate's skills or knowledge. The candidate’s supervisor shall be responsible for
     documenting this training, and all training shall be entered in the individual’s PAC folder.
     A copy of this documentation shall also be provided to the certifying official, prior to re-
     examination of the candidate. The re-examination shall not utilize the same written tests,
     or practical specimens that were used in the previous failed examination. The re-
     examination written tests must contain a minimum of 25% new questions. Note: If
     Level 2 personnel with the required skills to perform OJT are not available, the
     supervisor may request Level 3 support to perform the additional training. The request
     for Level 3 support will be made in writing from the second-level supervisor to the OO-
     ALC NDI PM. The request shall provide justification why there are no certified Level 2
     personnel capable to perform this OJT training.
        4.4.8.1. Requests for first re-examination: The first-level supervisor will document
        and certify in writing, a minimum of 40-hours refresher NDI training. Training
        documentation and a request for re-examination must be submitted to the OO-ALC
        NDI PM, or designated alternate by the first-level supervisor.
        4.4.8.2. Second re-examination: If the candidate fails any portion of first re-
        examination, the first-level supervisor will document and certify in writing an
        additional 40-hours refresher NDI training. The training documentation and a request
        for second re-examination request must be submitted to the OO-ALC NDI PM, or
        designated alternate with a NDI production flight chief endorsement.
     4.4.8.3. Third re-examination: If the candidate fails any portion of a second re-
     examination, he/she will be required to perform 80-hours of refresher training, and repeat
     the basic course in the applicable method. Upon successful completion of the basic
     course, the first-level supervisor will document and certify 80-hours of refresher training
     and submit a request for third re-examination to the OO-ALC NDI PM, or designated
     alternate with a science and engineering lab chief endorsement.
10                                                         OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013


         4.4.8.4. If the candidate fails any portion of a third re-examination, the certification
         shall be revoked. Note: See paragraph 4.10. for certification reinstatement
         requirements.
  4.5. Instructors. Instructors shall have the skills and knowledge to plan, organize and
  present classroom, laboratory, or OJT programs of instruction IAW approved course outlines.
  Instructors shall be certified Level 3, and assigned to the 809 MXSS/MXDEA. If for any
  reason the 809 MXSS/MXDEA does not have the required expertise, the OO-ALC NDI PM
  shall approve the instructor for the applicable method.
     4.5.1. In addition to the skill and knowledge in the NDI method, instructors must attend
     the following course:
         4.5.1.1. Special Skills Qualification Official Course (Hill AFB Course # 1217).
  4.6. Approval of Instructors. Instructors shall be approved by the OO-ALC NDI PM, and
  must have the following:
     4.6.1. Certified to Level 3 in the method for which they will be designated instructors.
     4.6.2. Possess the equivalent of a bachelor of science in engineering, physical science or
     technology, and have adequate knowledge in the method for which they will be
     designated instructors.
     4.6.3. Possess an associate's degree in physical science or technology, and have a
     minimum of 2 years experience, or equivalent as a Level 2 in the method for which they
     will be designated instructors.
     4.6.4. Possess a minimum of 4 years experience as a Level 2, or equivalent in the method
     for which they will be designated instructors.
  4.7. Qualification and Approval of Auditors. The OO-ALC NDI PM shall approve
  personnel performing audits, surveys or assessments. Audit personnel shall meet the
  requirements in NAS 410 Revision 3, paragraph 5.1.6.
  4.8. Certification. Personnel who have demonstrated that they meet the requirements herein,
  shall be certified by the SSQ official in 809 MXSS/MXDEA IAW this instruction.
  Certification is not required for personnel who are trainees, or those who are designated as
  instructors or auditors.
     4.8.1. Records. All training records will be kept secured until needed. The following
     records shall be kept by the appropriate organization for as long as an individual’s
     certification is in effect.
         4.8.1.1. Name of the individual certified (809 MXSS/MXDEA, certification
         document);
         4.8.1.2. Level, method, and techniques for which individual is certified (809
         MXSS/MXDEA, certification document);
         4.8.1.3. Results of all qualification examinations including latest written test, and test
         scores that the individual has taken. Practical exam results will be recorded on SSQ
         checklist (809 MXSS/MXDEA);
OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013                                                                   11


         4.8.1.4. Date and expiration of current certifications (809 MXSS/MXDEA,
         certification document);
         4.8.1.5. History of all previous NDI certifications (809 MXSS/MXDEA and PAC
         record);
         4.8.1.6. Training history which identifies source, type of training, dates of training,
         course hours and grades (if given after training), and instructor's name (PAC record
         and 809 MXSS/MXDEA AF Form 1151, Training Attendance and Rating);
         4.8.1.7. Experience history with current and previous employers, sufficient to justify
         satisfaction of experience requirements for certification (809 MXSS/MXDEA and
         PAC record);
         4.8.1.8. Results of physical examinations (AFMC Form 74);
         4.8.1.9. Extent and documentation of formal education (809 MXSS/MXDEA
         personnel folder/PAC folder).
     4.8.2. The detailed course outlines (for courses listed below) approved by the OO-ALC
     NDI PM, will be maintained and controlled in the office of the 809 MXSS/MXDEA. In
     order to save document space, they are not included in this document, but are
     immediately available upon request.
         4.8.2.1. MT Inspection Stationary and Portable Level 2 (CTEMAS0000200SU);
         4.8.2.2. ET Inspection Level 2 (CTEMAS0000103SU);
         4.8.2.3. Fluorescent Penetrant Inspection Stationary and Portable Level 2
         (CTEMAS0000100SU);
         4.8.2.4. RT Inspection Level 2 (CTEMAS0000401SU);
         4.8.2.5. UT Inspection Level 2 (CTEMAS0000301SU);
         4.8.2.6. Infrared IRT Level 2 training provided by vendor (Thermal wave Imaging);
         4.8.2.7. ST Level 2 training provided by vendor (Laser Technology Incorporated).
     4.8.3. Qualification Status. Qualification status is provided in writing to the employee’s
     supervisor and the group PAC training monitor. This information is provided to
     management on a regular basis in order to facilitate scheduling of requalification training,
     and to provide a list of personnel currently qualified in each NDI method.
     4.8.4. N-Stamps. Once the candidate has completed all qualification requirements, he or
     she will be issued an N-stamp. The N-stamp is used to certify completed NDI work, and
     is the PAC stamp for NDI operations. N-stamps for all NDI personnel are controlled and
     issued by the 309th Maintenance Support Group (309 MXSG) Business Office PAC
     Program               (309 MXSG/OBA).
     4.8.5. Program Review. Each year, the 309 MXSG Quality Office will conduct a review
     to determine OO-ALC compliance with this instruction.
  4.9. Loss of Certification. Certification may expire, be suspended or revoked. Certification
  shall expire when employment is terminated, or when the certification interval has lapsed
  with no re-certification issued. Certification shall not be extended to cover temporary duty or
12                                                        OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013


  leave time. Certification shall be suspended when the physical examination is overdue; the
  individual does not perform in the method certified for at least 3 consecutive months; the
  individual's performance is found to be deficient in any manner. Certification shall be
  revoked when the individual does not perform in the method certified for at least 6
  consecutive months. Certification shall be revoked if the individuals conduct is found to be
  unethical or incompetent, and shall not be eligible for reinstatement. Certification shall also
  be revoked after failure of the 3d re-examination attempt (fourth total attempt), and may only
  be reinstated by repeating all initial qualification requirements (examination and experience)
  for that method.
  4.10. Reinstatement of Certification. Suspended certifications may be reinstated when the
  cause for the suspension has been corrected, and the correction was verified by the OO-ALC
  NDI PM. Note: Expired or revoked certifications may not be reinstated except by re-
  certification.
  4.11. Re-certification.
     4.11.1. Level 1 and Level 2 Re-certification. Level 1 and Level 2 personnel shall be
     recertified every 3 years. The year that re-certification is due, visual acuity, general,
     practical and specific examinations equivalent to those required for initial certification
     shall be administered. Annual SSQ re-qualification can be satisfied through the annual
     exam.
     4.11.2. Level 3 Re-certification. Level 3 personnel shall be re-certified every 5 years.
     Re-certification including practical may be accomplished by the Level 3 credit system for
     re-certification identified in Annex A of NAS 410 Revision 3. If equipment operation or
     accepting production hardware is required as part of their duties, a practical exam
     equivalent to initial certification shall be administered. In years which re-certification is
     not due, only the vision examination will be required; annual SSQ can be satisfied
     through the annual exam.
  4.12. Authorization of Contractors. In the event a contractor is used to augment OO-ALC
  capability to perform NDI, the contractor shall only be authorized by the OO-ALC NDI PM.
  The contractor must have a certification program IAW NAS 410 Revision 3. The contractor
  shall provide the OO-ALC NDI PM a copy of the inspectors’ training records, past OJT
  records, along with current and valid certifications for all NDI methods to be performed in
  support of OO-ALC. This documentation must show compliance with NAS 410 Revision 3,
  and provided for each individual performing inspections under this support contract, and will
  be required to attend any additional training as deemed necessary by the owning organization
  and the OO-ALC NDI PM. Authorization of contractors stated in this section applies to all
  entities governed by the OO-ALC, and stated in this instruction. Note: Unless otherwise
  stated in the contract management office contract, all contractors are responsible for the
  above listed certification process and all funding associated with obtaining these required
  certifications.
OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013                                                               13



5. Stamp.
   5.1. Contractor Stamping Paperwork. Any approved contractor performing inspections at
   OO-ALC shall provide the OO-ALC NDI PM with stamp number information for each
   individual authorized to inspect actual hardware. The individual performing the inspection
   shall use the stamp issued by their employer to stamp paperwork. The contractor shall be
   aware of the requirements of AFMCI21-101, as it applies to accepting work accomplished.




                                          HERMAN J. RAIFF, GS-15, DAF
                                          Vice Director, Ogden Air Logistics Complex
 14                                                      OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101_AFMCSUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 April 2012
AFI 21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-04, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management, 16 March 2012
AFI 20-114, Air and Space Equipment Structural Management, 07 June 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008
AFMCI 21-101, Depot Maintenance Activation Planning, 14 June 2012
NAS 410 Revision 3, Certification and Qualification of Nondestructive Test Personnel,March
2008
T.O. 33B-1-1, Nondestructive Inspection Methods, Basic Theory, 15 November 2010
T.O. 33B-1-2, Nondestructive Inspection General Procedures and Process Controls, 1 April,
2008
Prescribed Forms
OO-ALC Form 208, NDI Practical Exam Checklist, Pending Publication
Adopted Forms
AF Form 1151, Training Attendance and Rating, 23 March 2003
AFMC Form 74, Nondestructive Inspection Personnel Qualification and Certification Record,
1 July 1992
AF IMT 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS, 01 August 2002
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AF IMT—Air Force Information Management Tool
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFMCSUP—Air Force Materiel Command Supplement
ASNT—American Society for Nondestructive Testing
ET—Eddy Current
OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013                                                                 15


GM—Guidance Memorandum
IAW—In Accordance With
IRT—Thermography
MT—Magnetic Particle
NANDTB—National Aerospace Nondestructive Testing Board
NAS—National Aerospace Standard
NDI—Nondestructive Inspection
NDT—Nondestructive Testing
OJT—On-the-job Training
OO—ALC – Ogden Air Logistics Complex
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAC—Production Acceptance Certification
PM—Program Manger
PT—Liquid Penetrant
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RT—Radiography
SSQ—Special Skills Qualification
ST—Shearography
T.O.—– Technical Order
UT—Ultrasonic
309 MXSG—Maintenance Support Group
309 MXSG/OBA—Business Office PAC Program
809 MXSS—Maintenance Support Squadron
809 MXSS/MXDEA—Materiel Engineering Flight/NDI Program Management Office

Terms
Auditor:—An individual who reviews nondestructive testing (NDT) facilities and general
procedures for compliance to NDT technical requirements.
Certification: The formal documented authorization for an individual to certify and accept
responsibility for the conformance of a specific product, or service—related tasks under the
PAC program. This document refers to the latter of these uses. This certification is
accomplished by the first-level supervisor or above, with authority over the individual after
completion of required training and demonstration of proficiency. Technicians must first be SSQ
qualified IAW this instruction, prior to certification for any PAC NDI associated task.
 16                                                         OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013


Closed Book Examinations:—An examination administered without access to reference
material, except that provided with or in the examination.
Cognizant NDT Organization:—The prime contractor or employer’s organization recognized
as being responsible for administering qualification and certification of NDT personnel.
Direct Readout Instrument:—Direct readout instruments physically display values either as
digital readout, or an analog display, such as a scale/pointer configuration. Direct readout
instruments do not involve adjusting signal displays such as gates, delays, gain, or phase to
obtain measurements.
Documented:—The condition of being in written or electronic form.
Employer: A government prime contractor, sub—contractor, supplier, processor, or outside
agency employing individuals performing NDT.
Evaluation:—A review; following interpretation of the indications noted during an NDT
inspection, to determine whether they meet specified acceptance criteria, or to determine its
significance.
Examination:—Formal, controlled and documented testing conducted IAW a documented
written practice to verify the candidate’s knowledge of applicable NDT methods.
Experience:—Actual performance or observation conducted in the work environment resulting
in the acquisition of knowledge and skill. This does not include classroom or laboratory training,
but does include OJT.
Formal Training: An organized and documented program of activities designed to impart
the knowledge and skills necessary to be qualified to this standard. Formal training may
be a mix of classroom, practical, and programmed self—instruction as approved by the
responsible Level 3, or National Aerospace Nondestructive Testing Board (NANDTB).
General Examination:—A written examination addressing the basic principles and theory of
the applicable NDT method.
Indication:—The response or evidence of a condition resulting from an NDT inspection, which
requires interpretation to determine its significance.
Instructor:—An individual qualified and designated IAW this standard to provide training for
NDT personnel.
Interpretation: The determination of whether indications are relevant or non—relevant.
Method:—One of the disciplines of NDI or testing (e.g. RT) within which different techniques
exist.
National Aerospace Nondestructive Testing Board:—An independent national aerospace
organization representing a nation’s aerospace industry chartered by the participating prime
contractors, and recognized by the nation’s regulatory agencies; to provide or support NDT
qualification and examination services IAW this standard. Such services may include
participation in certification.
On—the-Job Training (OJT): Training in the work environment involving: learning
instrument set-up, equipment operation, recognition of indications, and interpretation under
appropriate technical guidance.
OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013                                                                   17


Outside Agency: An independent or national body providing training and examination of
NDT personnel, or any other NDT services to the requirements of this standard.
Consultants and self—employed individuals are included in this definition.
Practical Examination:—The examination used to demonstrate an individual’s ability to
conduct the NDT method that will be performed for the employer. Questions and answers do not
need to be written, but a SSQ checklist must be used, and observations and results must be
documented.
Prime Contractor:—An organization having overall responsibility for design, control and
delivery of a system, component, or product.
Procedure:—A general or detailed written instruction for conducting a given process.
Qualification:—The skill, training, knowledge, experience and when applicable, the visual
acuity required for personnel to properly perform to a particular level.
Responsible Level 3: The responsible Level 3, as defined by NAS 410 Revision 3, is the
OO—ALC NDI PM.
Specific Examination:—The written examination to determine an individual’s understanding of
operating procedures, codes, standards, product technology, test techniques, equipment, and
specifications for a given method as used by the employer.
Sub—Contractor: An organization responsible to the prime contractor for the manufacture or
maintenance of aerospace products. For the purposes of this standard, this includes suppliers and
processors.
Technique:—A category within a method; for example, UT immersion testing or UT contact
testing. Specific techniques within a method are defined by the cognizant NDT organization or
NANDTB.
Test Samples:—Parts or images containing known discontinuities or defects used in the
practical examination to demonstrate the candidate’s proficiency in using a particular method.
Test samples can refer to images of actual hardware, such as radiographs.
Written:—Retrievable electronic or hard copy.
Written Instruction:—A procedure detailing the NDT technique, and testing parameters used
for the inspection of a specific component, group of parts (e.g., aluminum extrusions or
aluminum brackets), or assembly. These are sometimes referred to as technique sheets or data
cards.
Written Practice:—A procedure that describes the control and administration of NDT
personnel, qualification, and certification.
 18                                                       OO-ALCI21-113 27 MARCH 2013


                                        Attachment 2
                                     SSQ CHECKLISTS

Figure A2.1. SSQ Checklists
14-0001 Eddy Current Inspection Levels I, II, III (Certification (Cert) Code 401, 402, 403)
14-0002 Fluorescent Penetrant Inspection Levels I, II, III (Cert Code 3298, 3299, 3300, 3301,
3302, 3303)
14-0003 Magnetic Particle Inspection Levels I, II, III (Cert Code 3304, 3305, 3306, 3307, 3308)
14-0004 X-Ray Inspection Levels I, II, III (Cert Code 416, 417, 418)
14-0005 Ultrasonic Inspection Levels I, II, III (Cert Code 420, 421, 422)
14-0006 Shearography Inspection, Levels I, II, III (Cert Code 1700, 1702, 1703)
14-0007 Thermography Inspection, Level I, II, III (Cert Code 1703, 1704, 1705)
