BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                OGDEN AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEX
OGDEN AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEX                                         INSTRUCTION 21-114

                                                                            9 JANUARY 2013
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 14 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                    AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE QUALITY
                                                            SYSTEM INTERNAL AUDITS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OO-ALC/QPQ                                                        Certified by: OO-ALC/QP
                                                                               (Mr. Buddy Paden)
                                                                                        Pages: 7


This instruction establishes the policies and minimum requirements for the Ogden Air Logistics
Complex (OO-ALC) Aerospace Maintenance Quality System (AMQS) internal audit (IA)
program. The IA program supports the requirements of Aerospace Standard AS9100, Quality
Management Systems - Requirements for Aviation, Space and Defense Organizations; Aerospace
Standard AS9110, Quality Management Systems - Requirements for Aviation Maintenance
Organizations, and International Standard ISO 9001, Quality Management Systems -
Requirements. Internal and higher authority directives relevant to this instruction are listed in
Attachment 1. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements
must be routed to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) of this publication for coordination,
prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force (AF) Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the chain of command of all
groups affected by proposed changes.

The purpose of this instruction is to describe the activities the OO-ALC uses to administer its
Internal Audit (IA) process. The purpose of Internal Audits (IAs) is to determine whether the
Aerospace Maintenance Quality System (AMQS) conforms to AS9100 and AS9110; appropriate
and applicable Air Force (AF) requirements related to the AMQS; customer or locally identified
 2                                                          OO-ALCI21-114 9 JANUARY 2013


planned arrangements; or imposed quality system requirements. IAs determine if the AMQS is
effectively implemented and maintained.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change addresses AS9110 training for personnel performing internal audit functions
and changes the OPR due to changes in the organization.
1. Scope: All OO-ALC AMQS processes are subject to IAs. IAs may be conducted in any area
within the scope of registration, or as directed by leadership.
2. Responsibilities and Authorities.
     2.1. Lead Auditor (LA): Determines the audit schedule, audit scope, and audit team. Leads
     the audit and manages audit activities. Coordinates audit activities with appropriate levels of
     leadership.
     2.2. Auditors: Performs audit activities as assigned by the LA.
3. Procedure.
     3.1. Audit Schedule:
        3.1.1. The OO-ALC AMQS LA maintains the overall IA schedule and develops the audit
        plan. The overall audit plan contains approximate dates and scope. The schedule
        frequency and scope are based on the status and criticality of the processes and areas to
        be audited. Audit frequencies are adjusted as necessary due to changes in the AMQS, or
        the results of previous audits. Each clause of the standards will be audited annually at a
        minimum.
        3.1.2. The LA, approved by the OO-ALC AMQS LA, develops a detailed audit schedule,
        selects team members, and assigns responsibilities for the portion of the overall audit plan
        to which he/she is assigned to lead and manage. The LA coordinates the IA activities
        with the organization being audited. At the conclusion of the IA, the team lead prepares
        the audit report.
        3.1.3. The audit team consists of a LA and may include one or more additional auditors.
        It may also include non-auditors with technical or other expertise to help facilitate the
        audit process. In selecting the audit team, the LA ensures auditors shall not audit their
        own work, shall not audit areas they have direct responsibility for, and shall not audit any
        other area that might encourage partiality or lack of objectivity.
4. Audit Process. IA may be conducted as different types of audits (i.e., system, process,
conformance). Note: For a macro view of the IA Process Flow see Attachment 2.
     4.1. The LA and audit team should use the objective evidence record (OER) found in
     AS9101, Quality Management Systems Audit Requirements for Aviation, Space, and Defense
     Organizations. The LA may use the OER to develop an audit-specific group of questions
     consistent with the scope of the audit. Additional questions may be developed to facilitate a
     more detailed examination of a process, or to support a specific scope requested by
     leadership. The questions are guidelines and may be modified or added to as desired, to
     ensure evidence collected meets the audit objectives.
OO-ALCI21-114 9 JANUARY 2013                                                                  3


   4.2. Prior to the audit, the audit team should review applicable procedures and documents to
   familiarize themselves with the processes and areas they will be auditing. They should also
   review past audit reports and corrective actions to determine what follow-up activities may
   be needed.
   4.3. The audit may begin with an opening meeting attended by the audit team, key auditee
   leadership, and personnel. This is a short meeting for introductions, to review the scope of
   the audit, reconfirm the scheduled audit activities, and answer auditee questions.
   4.4. The audit is performed using the OER or an audit-specific group of questions as a guide
   for interviewing personnel, reviewing documents, and observing existing conditions. During
   the audit, the team collects objective evidence as proof of conformance or nonconformance
   and records the evidence on the OER or the audit-specific group of questions.
   4.5. If nonconformities are identified, corrective action request (CARs) are recommended to
   leadership. Potential improvement areas or other comments regarding the AMQS may be
   documented and reported as opportunities for improvement.
   4.6. If the audit lasts more than 1 day, daily audit status meetings may be held to ensure
   leadership and auditees are informed of findings and audit progress.
   4.7. At the conclusion of the audit, management will be made aware of the audit results. The
   results and conclusions of the audit are summarized and are discussed with the organization’s
   leadership and key auditee personnel. A formal closing meeting may be held.
5. Audit Report.
   5.1. The audit report is the official record of the audit. At a minimum, the audit report
   contains the audit scope, a list of team members, a summary of the audit activities, positive
   findings, requests for corrective actions, opportunities for improvement, and supporting
   evidence such as the OER, audit-specific group of questions, and auditor notes. The audit
   report will be available to auditee management as soon as possible following the audit;
   preferably at the audit closing meeting. Audit report records are stored for a minimum of 3
   years.
6. Audit Follow-up and Closure.
   6.1. After the audit has concluded, the OO-ALC Corrective/Preventive Action Coordinator
   (C/PAC) monitors corrective and preventive actions. Nonconformities identified during IAs
   are required to be resolved IAW 309th Maintenance Wing (309 MXW) Manual 63-501,
   Aerospace Maintenance Quality System (AMQS), corrective action process. Opportunities
   for improvement require no action, but should be considered as a possible continuous process
   improvement (CPI) event or preventive action request (PAR) and entered in the Maintenance
   1 database.
   6.2. After the CARs, PARs, and CPIs are complete, follow-up activities will verify actions
   taken and report verification results IAW the OO-ALC CAR/PAR process.
7. Auditor Qualifications.
   7.1. Before participating in an audit, auditors will attend and pass an AS9100 or AS9110 40-
   hour lead auditor training course including written examination conducted by an
   International Aerospace Quality Group (IAQG) approved training provider.
 4                                                       OO-ALCI21-114 9 JANUARY 2013


        7.1.1. The audit process.
        7.1.2. Current AS9100 and/or AS9110 standards.
            7.1.2.1. Auditors who only attended training on the AS9100 standard must complete
            locally developed training to address the differences between the AS9100 and
            AS9110 standards, with emphasis on AS9110 specific requirements. This training
            will be accomplished within 3 months of attending the AS9100 training.
            7.1.2.2. Regarding revision changes to AS9100 and AS9110, auditors will receive
            locally developed training addressing changes within 3 months of the newly revised
            publication(s).
     7.2. (DELETED)
     7.3. (DELETED)
8. Records.
     8.1. The primary records are the final report and the audit schedule (planned to actual).
     Other records may include OERs, opening/closing meeting attendance sheets, etc.




                                            H. BRENT BAKER, SR., Brig Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
OO-ALCI21-114 9 JANUARY 2013                                                              5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AS9100C, Quality Management Systems -Requirements for Aviation, Space and Defense
Organizations, 01 January 2009
AS9101D, Quality Management Systems Audit Requirements for Aviation, Space, and Defense
Organizations, 01 March 2010
AS9110B, Quality Maintenance Systems - Requirements for Aviation Maintenance
Organizations, 01 April 2012
ISO 9001, Quality Management Systems – Requirements, 15 November 2008
309MXWMAN 63-501, Aerospace Maintenance Quality System (AMQS), 26 January 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMQS—Aerospace Maintenance Quality System
C/PAC—Corrective/Preventive Action Coordinator
CAR—Corrective Action Request
CPI—Continuous Process Improvement
IA—Internal Audit
IAQG—International Aerospace Quality Group
IAs— - Internal Audits
IAW—In Accordance With
LA—Lead Auditor
OER—Objective Evidence Record
OO—ALC – Ogden Air Logistics Complex
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAR—Preventive Action Request
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
309 MXW—Maintenance Wing
 6                                                        OO-ALCI21-114 9 JANUARY 2013


Terms
AMQS: OO—ALC Quality Management System that establishes and maintains a standardized
approach to achieve excellence in supporting the maintenance mission through a focus on
process certification, process surveillance, and configuration management. AMQS drives and
requires leadership involvement and engagement at all levels to ensure its success. AMQS
enables our organization to perform aerospace maintenance with defined, controlled, and
repeatable processes using a systems approach developed by the OO-ALC.
Corrective Action:—Action to eliminate the causes of nonconformities in order to prevent
recurrence.
Leadership:—Supervisors at all levels of the organization to include senior leadership.
Nonconformity: A finding that states the non—fulfillment of a requirement pertaining to
policy, process and/or product.
Opportunities for Improvement:—An observation which documents a case, in which a
reviewed organization is progressing with regard to a change or improvement, but has not fully
implemented the improvement; a suggestion for improvement; a suggestion for sharing best
practices.
Plan:—How an organization intends to accomplish, deliver or produce their objective.
Preventive Action:—Preventive actions are steps taken to remove the causes of potential
nonconformities or potential undesirable situations. While corrective actions prevent recurrence,
preventive actions prevent occurrence. In general, the preventive action process can be thought
of as a risk analysis process.
Procedures:—Specified way to perform an activity.
Record:—Project artifact, (proof of compliance).
OO-ALCI21-114 9 JANUARY 2013                          7


                                     Attachment 2
                        INTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS FLOW

Figure A2.1. Internal Audit Process Flow
