BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               OGDEN AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEX
OGDEN AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEX                                        INSTRUCTION 23-102

                                                                                  13 MAY 2013

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                               CONSOLIDATED SUSTAINMENT ACTIVITY
                                                GROUP MAINTENANCE DIVISION (CSAG-
                                                 MD) OWNED MATERIAL MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.epublishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OO-ALC/SL                                                        Certified by: OO-ALC/SL
                                                                              (Mr. Patric Miller)
Supersedes:   309MXWI23-102,                                                            Pages: 9
              23 July 2010


This instruction establishes policy, responsibilities, and procedures for the turn-in of
Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group-Maintenance Division (CSAG-MD) owned excess
material. Procedures in this instruction pertaining to data systems that 309th Aerospace
Maintenance and Regeneration Group do not utilize and are not applicable; however,
maintenance repair shops will be required to follow material control procedures within this
instruction. These guidelines augment the process in Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
(AFMCI) 21-130, Depot Maintenance Materiel Control. Foreign object damage (FOD)
prevention procedures in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management, and subsequent supplements will apply to all serviceable items. The
use of name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
the publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW)
the Air Force (AF) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

1. General Information. This instruction identifies the roles and responsibilities for the
production support technician/production support specialist (PST/PSS) in this process and the
transfer of material requirements between the AF and Defense Logistics Agency (DLA).
 2                                                               OO-ALCI23-102 13 MAY 2013


Training on the turn-in of CSAG-MD owned excess material using the Depot Maintenance
Accounting and Production System has been placed on the Ogden Air Logistics Complex (OO-
ALC)      Workload      Business     Office (OO-ALC/OBW)       SharePoint    located  at
https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/309MXWOPS/IADP/workloading/default.aspx.
     1.1. Direct (CSAG-MD owned) excess material is material that can be identified to a
     production job order number (JON), but is not consumed in the repair of the end item.
     1.2. Direct material can be turned in to the ‘Y’ store if there is a future requirement for the
     item. Production is required to write a letter of justification for any material that has been
     stored more than 180 days. The letter must include an estimated date of when the material
     will be consumed and a legitimate reason why material should remain in the ‘Y’ store.
        1.2.1. Only serviceable, (Condition A) direct material will be turned in to the ‘Y’ store.
        Material turned in to the ‘Y’ store does not have to be in its original package. If the
        material is not in the original package, it will be tagged by production with a yellow
        Serviceable Tag – Material or yellow Serviceable Label – Material (DD Form 1574,
        Serviceable Tag – Material, and DD Form 1574-1, Serviceable Label – Material,
        respectively).
     1.3. Indirect material is material that is charged to an overhead control number because it
     cannot be easily identified to a particular end item or system. The material is always coded
     as expendability, recoverability, reparability category (ERRC) ‘N’ or ’P’ only.
     1.4. Residue from work orders, which can be identified to a stock number or part number,
     can be retained if a future need exists. This material will be turned in to the PST/PSS for
     disposition.
        1.4.1. Under no circumstance is direct residue material to be maintained on the shop
        floor.
     1.5. Unidentified or unserviceable indirect material, not eligible for reconditioning or
     repairing, will be disposed of under the Scrap Material Reclamation Function Program.
     Reference 309MXWI23-103, Scrap Material Reclamation Function (SMRF).
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Production:
        2.1.1. Turn in excess serviceable/unserviceable residue material to the PST/PSS for
        disposition. Material is required to be properly tagged/identified and marked with
        appropriate condition code by the maintenance mechanic. All items determined to be
        serviceable will meet FOD prevention measures of having caps/plugs installed.
        2.1.2. Return items removed from bench stock locations and not used in the production
        process to the designated bench stock location. When possible, the mechanic who
        removed material from a bench stock location will place material back in its designated
        location.
     2.2. The PST/PSS.
        2.2.1. Assist production in identifying material, if required. Utilizing the production
        support determination checklist (Attachment 2) using AF Form 2519, All Purpose
OO-ALCI23-102 13 MAY 2013                                                                       3


      Checklist; decide proper disposition of assets, e.g., turn serviceable items in to supply,
      retain items with future requirements in the ‘Y’ store, etc.
      2.2.2. If future requirements exist for material being turned in and items need to be
      retained in the ‘Y’ store, coordinate with DLA Aviation to ensure there is adequate
      storage space. Input detail when required, prior to the turn-in of the items. NOTE:
      Reference training package on the OO-ALC/OBW SharePoint.
          2.2.2.1. Accept properly tagged/identified/capped/plugged material and process turn-
          in.
          2.2.2.2. Turn material in to the ‘Y’ store using Naval Air System Command
          Industrial Material Management System (NIMMS) MN044P (turn in to Naval
          Industrial Fund [NIF] store) screen.
      2.2.3. Turn material in to supply using NIMMS MN045P (turn in to Supply) screen.
      2.2.4. Accept industrial product-support vendor (IPV) indirect material when determined
      to be excess to production requirements. Material will be turned in to DLA Disposition
      Services (DLADS); it will not be turned back to supply.
      2.2.5. Conduct a weekly walk around of the production areas they support and observe
      possible problem areas. Any excess material encountered will be reported to the
      appropriate maintenance shop supervisor.
          2.2.5.1. Contact work leaders in the various maintenance shops to encourage open
          communication and determine the reasons for increasing excess material.
3. Excess CSAG-MD Material Turn-In Procedures.
   3.1. Direct Material turned in to the ‘Y’ store.
      3.1.1. When an item is identified as a ‘serviceable’ direct item, with future requirements,
      material can be turned in to the ‘Y’ store using the NIMMS MN044P (turn in to NIF
      store) screen. NOTE: Reclaimed, unidentified (scrap), and exchangeable material will
      not be turned in to the ‘Y’ store.
      3.1.2. When a control number is not available or the JON is closed and determination is
      made that direct material should be retained, the material can be turned in to the ‘Y’ store
      by using the indirect production material JON, X56326100000. NOTE: Material turned
      in to the ‘Y’ store using this process, will be issued as a direct item using production
      number and JON.
      3.1.3. When material is turned in to the ‘Y’ store, a ‘NIMMS Stowage Order’ will be
      generated in the DLA’s Shop Service Center (SSC). The PST/PSS will contact DLA to
      obtain a copy and file for a minimum of 1 year. This document can be used for research
      during store inventories and during error corrections of the Defense Industrial Financial
      Management System (DIFMS) error reports.
   3.2. Turn-Ins to Supply.
      3.2.1. From the ‘Y’ store. After the 6-month validation of the ‘Y’ store material, if it is
      determined by production that no future requirement exists, approval will be provided to
4                                                                OO-ALCI23-102 13 MAY 2013


       DLA Aviation for a turn-in from the ‘Y’ store to supply using the NIMMS MN041P
       (returns processor) screen.
           3.2.1.1. The OO-ALC Production Support Office (OO-ALC/OBWP) will ensure
           validation listings of the ‘Y’ store are being managed. This will be accomplished by
           submitting a letter with attachment (‘Y’ store listing) to the production support flight
           chief every 6 months.
       3.2.2. The PST/PSS will:
           3.2.2.1. Perform research to see if the item is still on a bill of material or if the
           production number is still active and is being repaired.
           3.2.2.2. Annotate each item on the list with ‘turn-in’ or ‘retain’.
           3.2.2.3. Attach a justification letter for all items to be retained, signed at the
           production support flight level, and return to OO-ALC/OBWP. Justification should
           be valid and verifiable. NOTE: A copy of the listing/justification letter will then be
           provided to the DLA-SSC.
           3.2.2.4. If items with no usage are requested to be retained in the ‘Y’ store beyond 12
           months, requirement for these items will be approved and the justification letter
           signed by the squadron director.
    3.3. Turn-Ins from the Production Shop Floor to Supply.
       3.3.1. Material that has been previously issued to production, that has been ordered
       through the Automated Bill of Material (ABOM) system and is determined to be excess
       to current requirements or will not be consumed in the 6-month period, will be turned in
       to supply using NIMMS MN045P screen, following the instructions as outlined on the
       OO-ALC/OBW                         SharePoint                 located                   at
       https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/309MXWOPS/IADP/workloading/default.aspx. The
       document number of the original issue and all related information will be used to turn the
       material in to supply.
       3.3.2. When a turn-in is processed from the shop floor to supply using the NIMMS
       MN045P screen or a sale of an end item, a DD form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt
       Document, or a turn-in document will be generated. Two copies of the DD form 1348-
       1A, or the turn-in document are required to accompany the material to DLA for
       processing. The PST/PSS must ensure their name and phone number is on the document
       as a point of contact (POC). A copy of the turn-in document will be attached with the
       end item.
       3.3.3. Maintenance will ensure all listed guidance on completed condition tag are
       followed and that the remarks section of the condition tag includes either (1) a legible
       mechanic’s stamp, or (2) a POC, office extension and organization identifier. If a
       mechanic’s stamp is used, maintenance certifies that each mechanic’s stamp is unique
       and can be traced to a specific person.
       3.3.4. Unless prohibited for engineering or safety reasons, the tag will be attached to the
       item using wire or string, so tags are not accidentally exchanged at any point during
       receipt, storage, issue, or transportation. If the material cannot be tagged for the above
OO-ALCI23-102 13 MAY 2013                                                                      5


      reason, maintenance will include with the item a letter, signed by the item manager (IM)
      or the equipment specialist that explains the reason the tag cannot be attached.
      3.3.5. If required, the OO-ALC/OBWP will be the responsible OPR for obtaining
      undated information from each Maintenance Production Group. The updated list will
      include POCs (fully qualified PSS), telephone numbers and organization identifiers,
      which explains how Defense Distribution Center Hill Utah (DDHU) can contact the
      appropriate mechanics or supervisors. The OO-ALC/OBWP will forward the combined
      list of POCs to DDHU on a quarterly basis.
      3.3.6. One copy of the turn-in document will be file maintained for a minimum of 1 year,
      and will be used for research during error correction of the DIFMS financial error reports.
   3.4. Found on Base (FOB).
      3.4.1. If no owner/JON can be identified, then FOB turn-in is authorized through
      NIMMS following instructions as outlined on the OO-ALC/OBW SharePoint located at
      https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/309MXWOPS/IADP/workloading/default.aspx.
      Material must be in the original package. NOTE: Material will not be turned in as FOB
      when it is found on the shop floor and ownership can be identified, but will be turned in
      following the instructions in paragraph 3.1.2.
      3.4.2. A manually assigned document number consisting of unique identifier code,
      current julian date and sequential ‘T’ serial numbers beginning with T001 and continuing
      thru T999 will be used.
   3.5. Indirect material.
      3.5.1. Indirect material that is not managed by a contractor (Contractor Inventory Control
      Point, IPV, etc.) considered excess will be turned in to supply. The PST/PSS will process
      the turn-in transaction in the NIMMS system MN045P screen, using a cost code ‘L’. The
      material will be turned in to DLA Aviation for disposition. The applicable indirect JON
      will be used. NOTE: Material being turned in to supply must be a full unit of issue. If
      not a full unit of issue, material will be turned in to DLADS. Training for the turn-in of
      material through NIMMS is available on the OO-ALC/OBW SharePoint located at
      https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/309MXWOPS/IADP/workloading/default.aspx.
          3.5.1.1. Bench stock items managed outside of IPV contract; the ABOM indirect list
          of materials will be used for material management.
4. Turn-In of parts that resulted from an end item disassembly/reclamation.
   4.1. End Item. When the IM has approved disassembly/reclamation through the AFMC
   Form 206, Temporary Work Request, process the turn-in will be IAW the disposition
   instructions in block 19. This policy does not allow maintenance to gain financial credit.
      4.1.1. If the end item is to be turned in to supply, the PST/PSS will process the turn-in
      through G402A. The turn-in will include the production section/scheduling designation
      in the document number field, the temporary control number (from the AFMC Form
      206), the ‘L’ job designator, an ‘H’ cost code, and the condition code as indicated on the
      condition code tag.
 6                                                               OO-ALCI23-102 13 MAY 2013


     4.2. Consumables. If instructions on the AFMC Form 206 allow material to be cannibalized
     in support of an end item, the AFMC Form 206, in addition to the save list, must accompany
     the material until consumed in the repair process.
        4.2.1. Storage responsibilities of cannibalized material. Material will be maintained on
        the shop floor labeled with noun and/or part number and location.
        4.2.2. Inventory. An AFMC Form 206 and save list will be required to be placed with
        the material to be utilized during an inventory count.
            4.2.2.1. A complete inventory will be accomplished semiannually using the
            following procedures:
               4.2.2.1.1. The quantity on the save list must match quantity of items maintained
               on the shop floor. NOTE: If quantity does not match, dispose of any excess
               material.
     4.3. Landing Gear and Armament Assembly Buffer material. Procedures for parts taken off
     an end item for disassembly, reclamation and/or repair IAW the disassembly document.
        4.3.1. Serviceable disassembled items that will be consumed in the repair of the end
        item, will be maintained on the shop floor and accounted for in Maintenance Business
        System Modernization (MABSM) formerly Impresa or Material Processing System, and
        will be managed by production until all parts are ready to be reassembled on the end
        item.
     4.4. When reclaimed material is pulled for use on an end item, the PST/PSS will contact
     DLA Aviation to input a demand history adjustment (DHA) in to the D035K system.
     Reference 309MXWI23-107, Processing Demand History Adjustment (DHA) Data to
     Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) for more information on DHAs.
5. DIFMS Error Corrections.
     5.1. Financial errors that generate as the result of turn-in transactions can be kept to a
     minimum by following procedures outlined on the OO-ALC/OBW SharePoint located at
     https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/309MXWOPS/IADP/workloading/default.aspx.
        5.1.1. The PST/PSS processing material turn-ins will be responsible to ensure
        transactions post correctly and any financial errors that generate are corrected in a timely
        manner.
        5.1.2. The PST/PSS will coordinate with DLA Aviation on transactions that require
        correction in the D035K system.




                                              HERMAN J. RAIFF, GS-15, DAF
                                              Vice Director, Ogden Air Logistics Complex
OO-ALCI23-102 13 MAY 2013                                                     7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMCI 21-130, Depot Maintenance Materiel Control, 15 November 2007
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
309MXWI 23-103, Scrap Material Reclamation Function (SMRF), 3 February 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist, 01 November 1991
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AFMC Form 206, Temporary Work Request, 20 October 2006
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document, July 1991
DD Form 1574, Serviceable Tag – Material, October 1988
DD Form 1574-1, Serviceable Label – Material, October 1966

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
ABOM—Automated Bill of Material
CSAG—MD – Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group-Maintenance Division
DDHU—Defense Distribution Center Hill Utah
DHA—Demand History Adjustment
DIFMS—Defense Industrial Financial Management System
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DLADS—DLA Disposition Services
ERRC—Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability Category
FOB—Found On Base
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
IAW—In Accordance With
IM—Item Manager
IPV—Industrial Product-Support Vendor
 8                                                       OO-ALCI23-102 13 MAY 2013


JON—Job Order Number
NIF—Naval Industrial Fund
NIMMS—Navair Industrial Material Management System
OO—ALC – Ogden Air Logistics Complex
OO—ALC/OBW – Workload Business Office
OO—ALC/OBWP – Production Support Office
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
PST/PSS—Production Support Technician/Production Support Specialist
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SMRF—Scrap Material Reclamation Function
SSC—Shop Service Center
OO-ALCI23-102 13 MAY 2013                                         9


                            Attachment 2
  TURN-IN OF CSAG-MD MATERIAL TO THE ‘Y’ STORE, SUPPLY OR DLADS
