BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           PACIFIC AIR FORCES MANUAL 24-302
PACIFIC AIR FORCES
                                                                        24 NOVEMBER 2009
                                                           Certified Current 24 February 2014
                                                                                Transportation

                                               VEHICLE PARTS SUPPLY ORGANIZATION




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ PACAF/A4RV                                               Certified by: HQ PACAF/A4R
Supersedes: PACAFM 24-302, 6 July                                         (Col Tracy Hardwick)
            2001                                                                      Pages: 8


This PACAF Manual implements AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation
Vehicles and adds to procedures in AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management. It provides guidance,
establishes procedure, and assigns responsibility in the use of PACAF’s Vehicle Parts Supply
Organization at 3rd Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS), Vehicle Maintenance Flight,
Elmendorf AFB, Alaska. Deviations from procedures described in this manual are prohibited
without written approval from HQ PACAF/A4RV. Send requests for deviation, with
justification, to HQ PACAF/A4RV, 25 E Street, Suite I-326, Hickam AFB HI, 96853-5427.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This manual adds/modifies information on the Vehicle Parts Supply Organization’s (VPSO)
primary function in Sections A and B, responsibilities in paragraph 2, VPSO purchase priorities
in paragraph 3, VPSO goals in paragraph 4, request processing in paragraph 5, shipments in
2                                                  PACAFMAN24-302 24 NOVEMBER 2009


paragraph 6, and VPSO reports in paragraph 12. Section C, including paragraphs 13, 14, and 15,
is deleted.

Section A— Background

1. Overview: The PACAF Vehicle Parts Supply Organization (VPSO), located in the 3rd
Logistics Readiness Squadron, Vehicle Maintenance Flight, Elmendorf AFB, Alaska, is
established to provide an alternative source for the acquisition of commercial repair services;
special tools/equipment not available from the supporting Base Supply, local community, and the
General Services Administration warranty tool program; and as a last-resort, hard-to-find parts
procurement resource. VPSO accomplishes this by acquiring needed vehicle repair services,
tools, and parts from local or continental U.S. automotive vendors through the use of the
International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card (IMPAC), AF Form 9 Request for
Purchase, or use AF Form 616 Fund Cite Authorization. VPSO is not for the purchase or
replenishment of administrative or housekeeping supplies. Vehicle maintenance flights requiring
vehicle component repair or tools must first exhaust local resources, i.e., Base Supply, local
commercial vendors, salvaged vehicles, etc. Vehicle maintenance flights may obtain needed
services or items through the VPSO when these resources are exhausted. The flight’s IMPAC
Approving Official will accomplish purchase requests sent to VPSO, when costs don’t exceed
$3,000. Requests exceeding $3,000 must be funded with an AF Form 616. Requests may be
accomplished via Facsimile (FAX), E-mail, or telephone. The Approving Official (AO)
confirms to VPSO that local resources were checked prior to contacting VPSO. VPSO personnel
coordinate with commercial automotive vendors for availability of the requested services, tools,
or parts and coordinate shipping to the requester. VPSO also provides statistical data to using
organizations for potential improvement of local resources.
2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. HQ PACAF/A4RV will:
       2.1.1. Ensure VPSO is staffed at the established authorized level.
       2.1.2. Act as a mediator to resolve conflicts between VPSO and their users as necessary.
       2.1.3. Approve operational policy changes which affect VPSO’s support to users.
    2.2. 3rd Logistics Readiness Squadron will:
       2.2.1. Provide adequate office space and equipment to support VPSO.
       2.2.2. Ensure qualified buyers are assigned to meet VPSO purchasing requirements.
       2.2.3. Establish internal control procedures for IMPAC purchases to meet VPSO user
       requirements.
       2.2.4. Initiate actions to ensure VPSO personnel maintain their mechanical skills.
    2.3. 3rd Contracting Squadron (3 CONS) will:
       2.3.1. Provide IMPAC training to VPSO personnel.
       2.3.2. Perform IMPAC surveillance on VPSO personnel. Surveillance reports will be
       forwarded to the appropriate Contracting Squadron/Office for necessary action.
PACAFMAN24-302 24 NOVEMBER 2009                                                             3


  2.4. 8th Contracting Squadron, 18th Contracting Squadron, 35th Contracting Squadron, 36th
  Contracting Squadron, 374th Contracting Squadron and US Army Contracting, Korea will:
     2.4.1. Process applications for IMPAC account establishment for VPSO personnel
     supporting the Transportation Vehicle Maintenance Squadrons/functions at their location,
     based on customer adherence to applicable USAF or Army IMPAC procedural
     requirements. Cardholder applications will be submitted through the Approving Official
     at the flight the VPSO cardholder will be supporting.
     2.4.2. Review surveillance reports submitted by 3rd Contracting Squadron and take
     necessary action.
  2.5. VPSO will:
     2.5.1. Provide Price and Availability (P&A) for items on all such requests.
     2.5.2. Research, source, and purchase “hard-to-find” vehicle parts and items as
     determined by the VPSO customer.
     2.5.3. Facilitate warranty repairs by serving as a liaison between the VPSO customer and
     the applicable vendor.
     2.5.4. Facilitate contract component and vehicle repairs/rebuilds/overhauls by
     coordinating with the VPSO customer, 3 CONS, Defense Finance and Accounting
     Service (DFAS), and the applicable vendor.
     2.5.5. Perform daily runs to pick up items from or deliver items for warranty or contract
     repair to local vendors that don’t provide a pickup and delivery service.
     2.5.6. Prepare DD Form 1149 Requisition and Invoice Shipping Document and ship all
     authorized items received by VPSO for expeditious shipment to the appropriate agency,
     military or civilian. VPSO will not be responsible for tracking items shipped through
     VPSO. i.e items dropped off to VPSO from vendors using VPSO as a drop shipment
     source. VPSO will provide a Tracking Control Number (TCN) to the end user for
     tracking purposes.
     2.5.7. Consolidate multiple shipments to individual bases when feasible. Coordinate
     with applicable unit before consolidation to ensure no mission impact is incurred by
     delays associated with consolidating shipments.
     2.5.8. Provide performance indicator reports of the VPSO function, upon request.
     2.5.9. Make available to VPSO users a monthly status report on their use of VPSO.
     2.5.10. Comply with all applicable IMPAC procedural requirements. Enforce procedures
     to ensure vendor receipts are sent to each using organization.
     2.5.11. Provide statistical data related to the use and operation of the VPSO function to
     HQ PACAF/LGTV quarterly, i.e., number of purchases, total funds expended, shipments
     initiated, etc.
     2.5.12. VPSO will not combine purchases for more than one flight under a single
     IMPAC card transaction. Transactions must be made separately for each flight using
     only the card for that flight.
4                                                      PACAFMAN24-302 24 NOVEMBER 2009


       2.5.13. Only make purchases based on receipt of a vehicle parts request signed by the
       Approving Official stating the parts for purchase to include a “Not to Exceed” amount.
       2.5.14. Make available to VPSO users a consolidated list of all repairs procured and
       items ordered (past 12 months of data if available) to allow users to review for price and
       availability of parts prior to submitting requests.
       2.5.15. Enable the VPSO customer to become self-sufficient to the maximum extent
       possible by providing training, guidance, historical VPSO database, and vendor card file
       copies as necessary.
       2.5.16. Mail the IMPAC Statement of Account (SOA) to the Approving Official (AO)
       within one (1) working day of receipt. Additionally, the SOA shall be faxed to the AO
       within one (1) working day of receipt. The cardholder shall retain a copy of the SOA for
       their IMPAC file.
    2.6. Users of VPSO will:
       2.6.1. Provide funding for all purchases.
       2.6.2. Advise VPSO of IMPAC card balance upon request.
       2.6.3. Submit complete purchase/service request in format requested by VPSO.
       2.6.4. Initiate follow-up request for status.
       2.6.5. Initiate tracer action on overdue shipments.
       2.6.6. Ensure that local Supply levels are verified prior to submitting a purchase request
       to VPSO.
       2.6.7. Provide Required Delivery Date (RDD) to VPSO.
       2.6.8. Upon prior coordination with VPSO, ship return core items to VPSO for credit
       using project code 777.
       2.6.9. Notify VPSO upon receipt of damaged or incomplete shipments.
       2.6.10. Establish IMPAC accounts through the local contracting squadron/office for
       VPSO personnel designated to support their unit. IMPAC account establishment shall be
       the responsibility of the Approving Official.
       2.6.11. Provide point of contact to include Name, Rank, DSN/Commercial FAX number,
       DSN/Commercial voice phone number, and E-mail address.
       2.6.12. Provide complete shipping address to include Air Mobility Command (AMC)
       Channel address, commercial express carrier shipping address, and local mailing address.
       2.6.13. Provide local Base Supply a list of NSN assigned parts ordered through VPSO
       for establishing demand levels.
       2.6.14. Track shipments, from date of shipment to date of receipt, and provide VPSO the
       average shipping time for AMC and commercial shipments.
       2.6.15. Notify the VPSO of any misdirected shipments and reship to the correct shipping
       destination as directed by the VPSO. Any misdirected or lost shipments will be handled
       on a case by case basis. All effort to recover/redirect items will be coordinated through
PACAFMAN24-302 24 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                5


      the servicing Traffic Management Office (TMO). Once a shipment is signed for and
      processed by the shipper the item becomes the shipper’s responsibility to make it to the
      end destination.
      2.6.16. Utilize to the greatest extent possible the acquisition historical data provided by
      VPSO to check price and availability of items desired prior to submitting request.
      2.6.17. Appoint an AO in accordance with the applicable IMPAC procedures. The AO
      shall be responsible to carry out all required duties.
      2.6.18. Ensure monthly cardholder statements are received and approving official
      statements are accomplished within 12 days after receipt.
      2.6.19. Retain cardholders supporting documentation for a period of 3 years after final
      payment.
      2.6.20. Research, source through competitive pricing, and order all parts within their
      capability.
      2.6.21. Procure shipment for all items not ordered through VPSO. VPSO will not be
      responsible for completing shipment of items ordered from other sources. Utilize any of
      the following methods to ship parts not ordered through VPSO:
          2.6.21.1. U.S. Postal Service (USPS)
          2.6.21.2. Federal Express (FedEx)
          2.6.21.3. United Parcel Service (UPS)
          2.6.21.4. DHL
      2.6.22. Military aircraft (AMC), priority level 999. Prepare and send DD Form 1149 to
      VPSO.
3. VPSO Purchase Priorities in Order of Precedence:
   3.1. Hard-to-find parts acquisition for vehicles not mission capable.
   3.2. Component repair requests for vehicles not mission capable.
   3.3. Cost for repair requests for vehicles not mission capable.
   3.4. Contract/warranty repair initiation and follow-up actions.
   3.5. Special shop tools and equipment required for new vehicles/new mission requirements,
   or to meet safety and environmental requirements when items are not available from
   supporting base supply and/or General Services Administration warranted tool program.
4. VPSO Goals: The following paragraphs depict VPSO goals in meeting customer needs and
expectations.
   4.1. Price & Availability quotes for parts and repair requests for vehicles not mission
   capable are accomplished and returned to the requester within 48 hours after receipt of parts
   request.
   4.2. Parts for commercial vehicles not mission capable which are not immediately available
   within the local area are sourced for price and availability from Continental United States
6                                                  PACAFMAN24-302 24 NOVEMBER 2009


    (CONUS) sources and purchased for direct shipment, if possible, within 24 hours after
    receipt of parts request.
    4.3. Parts for vehicles not mission capable which are not immediately available from the
    local area or CONUS sources are placed on back order within 24 hours after receipt of parts
    request. These orders will be placed with the source that can best meet the RDD based upon
    price, timeliness, and quality.
    4.4. Request for working stock, special shop tools, and equipment are purchased for either
    immediate shipment or back ordered for follow-on shipment within 72 duty hours after
    receipt of parts request, regardless of source.
    4.5. Maintain detailed accountability of all parts ordered and funds expenditures by logging
    all transactions into the VPSO computer database.
    4.6. Reconcile all IMPAC bill statements within 3 duty days of receipt.

Section B— Procedure

5. Request Processing. Submit requests to VPSO by FAX or E-mail. Contact VPSO personnel
regarding required information and format of requests. Use of the IMPAC program is the
standard operating procedure for the purchasing of vehicle component repair services or
tools/equipment totaling less than $3000 per single purchase. Expenditures exceeding $3000 are
funded using an AF Form 616. Requests will be accepted by phone for emergencies, or when
FAX or E-mail is not available. Emergency requests require follow-up with a formal request for
file purposes. All requests will include an Approving Official signature and a “Not to Exceed”
amount. Only designated Approving Officials for each flight can authorize VPSO IMPAC
cardholders to expend the flight’s funds using IMPAC. Names of VPSO points of contact, FAX
numbers, E-mail addresses, and phone numbers will be provided to each organization using
VPSO. Requests for follow-ups will be submitted to the VPSO by FAX, E-mail, or by phone.
6. Shipments. Shipments to units will be made via AMC cargo flights or commercial express
carrier small package 2nd day air shipments. The 3rd Logistics Readiness Squadron, Traffic
Management Flight will determine the best mode of shipment based on RDD for shipments
originating from Elmendorf AFB. RDDs are established by the customer to VPSO. AMC cargo
flights will be used when the RDD can be met and the cost is less than the commercial express
carrier shipping cost, or the size of the package exceeds the commercial express carrier small
package shipping criteria, i.e., weight and cube. For shipments originating from CONUS sources,
the VPSO will attempt to arrange direct shipment from the nearest AMC base or by commercial
express carrier based upon the RDD and the overall cost to the Air Force. Items that cannot be
shipped directly from CONUS sources will be shipped to the VPSO and reshipped to the
requester by mode of shipment based upon the RDD, upon request.
    6.1. For each shipment, VPSO will provide the following advance documentation:
       6.1.1. TCN for AMC shipments or the commercial express carrier Government Bill of
       Landing (GBL) number.
       6.1.2. List of all items being shipped.
       6.1.3. Vehicle registration number and work order from the original request sheet, if
       applicable.
PACAFMAN24-302 24 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                    7


       6.1.4. Point of shipment, i.e. CONUS or Elmendorf AFB.
       6.1.5. Date of shipment.
       6.1.6. Affix the applicable Mission Capable/Mission Capability (MICAP), Not Mission
       Capable Supply (NMCS), 777 and/or 999 labels to shipments originating at Elmendorf
       AFB.
7. Core Charges and Returns. Core charges and return items are those, which when
exchanged for new or rebuilt parts, result in a discounted price. Examples of the parts normally
associated with a core charge are alternators, starters, radiators, and brake shoes. The core
charge will be included on the invoice unless the core is available for exchange at the time of
purchase. Core exchange items will not be shipped to VPSO without prior coordination. Core
items with an exchange value of less than 100 dollars should be consolidated for return to VPSO.
Otherwise, marginal benefit is gained due to transportation costs. The VPSO will maintain a
record of all outstanding core items. Core items sent to the requester in the original container
must be returned in the original container to receive credit. VPSO personnel will identify the
container as “Must return to receive core credit.”
8. Receipt of Wrong Items.
   8.1. Wrong Item Received: If after coordination with VPSO, a requester was verified to
   have ordered the correct item, all efforts will be made to get credit for the item. If the vendor
   refuses to provide credit, the unit will place the item on the command residue listing. VPSO
   will minimize its use of vendors with undesirable “return-for-credit” performance. NOTE:
   All items returned for credit MUST be in the original packaging with a copy of the receipt
   attached.
   8.2. Wrong Item Ordered: If a requester orders the wrong item and that item is received, it
   cannot be returned for credit and should be added to the command residue listing.
9. Warranties: Warranties will be annotated on the original vendor invoice, and if necessary,
on the original container. It is the responsibility of the requester to annotate warranty
information and to track all warranty aspects in On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management
System (OLVIMS). The requester will provide VPSO the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN)
and mileage of the vehicle the warranted repaired/overhauled component is installed on so this
information can be relayed to the vendor to validate the warranty.
10. Repair of Assemblies: Coordination with VPSO is required prior to shipping any
assemblies for repair. All assemblies sent to the VPSO for contract repair will be accompanied
by a parts request. Assemblies will be repaired and billed to the appropriate requester’s IMPAC
card. Any repairs that will exceed $3000 must be coordinated through the 3rd Wing Contracting
Office and will require the requester to generate an AF Form 616 authorizing the VPSO Manager
to have the assembly repaired. An AF Form 9 will be initiated by VPSO for repair of assembly.
An authorization letter from the requester’s Resource Advisor is required for any Form 9
transactions. After repairs are completed, the assembly will be shipped back to the requester
using the most efficient mode.
11. Purchase of Hazardous Materials: Hazardous Materials will only be purchased after the
requester has coordinated with their servicing HAZMART/HAZMAT facility and it is annotated
on the parts request. It is the requester’s responsibility to ensure that all hazardous materials are
8                                                   PACAFMAN24-302 24 NOVEMBER 2009


used and disposed of IAW proper procedure. Any questions on these purchases should first be
directed to the servicing HAZMART/HAZMAT facility.
12. VPSO Reports. VPSO, will make available a monthly transaction report of each
organization having transactions during the month. VPSO will also make available to users a
consolidated listing of all items (12 months of data if available) purchased to include the cost of
each item at the time of purchase.
    12.1. VPSO will provide a consolidated quarterly transaction report to HQ PACAF/A4RV
    containing number of purchases, total funds expended, shipments initiated, and their
    performance goals.
    12.2. VPSO IMPAC cardholders will mail and fax the IMPAC SOA to the Approving
    Official within one (1) duty day of receipt. The cardholder will retain a copy of the SOA for
    their IMPAC file.

13. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change Publication
DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice Shipping Document




                                             JAMES T. SILVA, Colonel, USAF
                                             Assistant Director of Logistics
