BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     PACAF INSTRUCTION 36-2101
PACIFIC AIR FORCES (PACAF)
                                                                                 11 JUNE 2014

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                 PACAF SQUADRON COMMANDER, WING
                                                      CHIEF OF SAFETY, DIRECTOR OF
                                                       OPERATIONS, AND OPERATIONS
                                                        OFFICER HIRING AND TENURE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ PACAF/A1K                                                Certified by: HQ PACAF/A1K
                                                                         (Mr. Clifford J. Hogue)
Supersedes:   PACAFI 36-2101,                                                          Pages: 13
              27 April 2005


This instruction implements AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military
Personnel. It establishes command hiring requirements for squadron commander billets and
delineates tenure policy for all squadron commanders. This instruction additionally sets forth
requirements for managing wing chief of safety and director of operations billets. This
instruction applies to all active duty officers (below the rank of colonel) selected and approved
by an appropriate hiring authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates agency names throughout; deletes HQ PACAF Operations Squadron
Commander Candidate selection procedures; adds tenure requirements and waiver provisions for
squadron commanders; adds mandatory actions for squadron commanders prior to assuming
command; adds hiring, tenure, and waiver provisions for Wing Chief of Safety (COS), flying,
non-flying operations, and support squadron commander and Director of Operations.
 2                                                            PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014


1. Overview. The squadron commander, Wing Chief of Safety, and Director of Operations and
Operations Officer hiring and tenure process outlined in this instruction is designed to give
Numbered Air Force (NAF) and Wing commanders maximum hiring latitude for filling critical
leadership positions. This instruction applies to appointments of squadron command. A
“squadron” is defined as a unit which exists within a wing and/or group structure for the
purposes of this instruction. It does not apply to detachments, flights, centers, or staffs.
2. Application. All direction in this instruction applies to active duty officers and positions in
the grades of O-5 and below. Active duty officers and squadron command positions in the grade
of O-6 and O-6 selects are managed by AF/DPO.
     2.1. Flying Squadrons.
     2.2. Non-Flying Operations Squadrons. This includes squadrons such as, but not limited
     to Operations Support Squadrons (OSS), Air Control Squadrons (ACS), and Air Support
     Operations Squadrons (ASOS), Mobility Response Squadrons (MRS), Communications
     Squadrons (CS), Weather Squadrons (WS), and Rescue Squadrons (RQS).
     2.3. Support Squadrons. The following squadrons will be identified as support squadrons
     in this instruction:
        2.3.1. Acquisition Squadrons. This includes squadrons such as Contracting Squadrons
        (CONS) and Comptroller Squadrons (CPTS).
        2.3.2. Base Support Squadrons. This includes squadrons such as, but not limited to
        Security Forces Squadrons (SFS), Civil Engineer Squadrons (CES), and Force Support
        Squadrons (FSS).
        2.3.3. Logistics Squadrons. This includes squadrons such as, but not limited to
        Logistics Readiness Squadrons (LRS), Maintenance Squadrons (MXS), Aircraft
        Maintenance Squadrons (AMXS), and Munitions Squadrons (MUNS).
        2.3.4. Medical Squadrons. This includes squadrons such as, but not limited to Medical
        Operations Squadrons (MDOS), Medical Support Squadrons (MDSS), Dental Squadrons
        (DS), and Aerospace Medicine Squadrons (AMDS).
     2.4. Wing Chief of Safety (COS) (S-prefix) positions.
     2.5. Director of Operations (DO) and Operations Officer (OPSO) (B-prefix) positions.
3. Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) Management.
     3.1. Candidate Requirements.
        3.1.1. Flying Squadrons. Candidates must be on a current Air Combat Command (ACC)
        Combat Air Forces (CAF), Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Hawk, Air
        Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) Commando Eagle, or Air Mobility
        Command (AMC) Mobility Air Forces (MAF) Phoenix Eagle (PE) squadron commander
        candidate list.
        3.1.2. OSS. Candidates for command of an OSS must be on a current MAJCOM flying
        squadron commander list. OSS commanders may also be selected from the Headquarters
        Air Force Personnel Center (HQ AFPC) squadron commander candidate list for Air
        Force Specialty Code (AFSC): 13D (Control and Recovery), 13L (Air Liaison Officer),
PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014                                                                      3


     13N (Nuclear and Missile Operations), 13S (Space Operations), 14N (Intelligence), 15W
     (Weather), 17D (Cyberspace Operations), or 13M (Airfield Operations).
     3.1.3. ASOS, ACS, MRS, RQS, and other non-flying operational squadron commands
     must be on a current MAJCOM flying squadron commander list or HQ AFPC squadron
     commander candidate list.
     3.1.4. Support officer command candidates must be on an applicable HQ AFPC
     squadron commander candidate list.
  3.2. Interim Commanders. Interim commanders are not required to be on any squadron
  commander list during the temporary absence of a commander (e.g., filling an interim
  command position for a deploying commander).
  3.3. Hiring Procedures.
     3.3.1. The hire process for selecting officers to C-prefix squadron commander positions
     is considered a direct hire. Direct hires will be honored unless, after careful evaluation, it
     is determined the move is counter to Air Force policy. If there are multiple requests for
     the same officer, AFPC/DPA, in consultation with the MAJCOM functionals and hiring
     authorities, will determine the officer/position match that best meets the needs of the Air
     Force.
     3.3.2. The wing commander hires the squadron commander and the NAF commander
     approves/disapproves the hire.     NAF/CC approved hires/bids are forwarded in
     accordance with paragraphs 3.3.3 and 3.3.4. NAF/CC disapproved hires are returned to
     the wing.
     3.3.3. Flying Squadrons, OSS, ASOS, MRS, and RQS. Wing commanders submit the
     memorandum in Table 1 to HQ PACAF/A1KO (pacaf.a1ko@us.af.mil) and cc
     COMPACAF for hiring officers to flying squadrons, OSS, ASOS, MRS, and RQS
     commander positions.
 4                                                             PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014



Table 1. Sample Memorandum for Flying Squadrons, OSS, ASOS, MRS, and RQS
Commander Hires
(Appropriate Letterhead)
                                                                                            (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFPC/DPALR

FROM: (WG/CC)

SUBJECT: FOUO – (##SQ/CC) Direct Hire – (rank, name, last four of SSAN)

1. (name) is hired as the next (##SQ) squadron commander. This hire does/does not require a
PCS. The following projected assignment information applies:

a) PAS:
b) DAFSC:
c) Authorized Position Number:
d) Authorized Grade:
e) RNLTD:
f) Training requirements (e.g. flying requal tng):
g) Projected Change of Command Date:
h) Incumbent Status (reason why the position needs to be backfilled, e.g. PCS, retirement, etc.):
i) Losing commander’s contact information with whom the hire and RNLTD was coordinated
and agreed upon (for PCSs or inter-command PCAs).
j) DEROS extension as applicable (for PCAs) to ensure the commanders serves a two year
squadron command tour (one year for remote tours).

2. Requesting commander POC information.




                                                     //signed//
                                                     Wing Commander Signature Block
cc:
COMPACAF

1st Ind, (NAF/CC, date)

Approve/Disapprove



                                                     //signed//
                                                     NAF Commander Signature Block
PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014                                                                    5




2nd Ind, (PACAF/A1KO, date)

This action has been requisitioned in AMS and identified with AFPCID:




                                                    //signed//
                                                    PACAF/A1KO Signature Block

The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected under the
Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. Unauthorized disclosures or misuse of the Personal
Information may result in criminal and/or civil penalties.

          3.3.3.1. HQ PACAF/A1KO will update an assignment requisition for each hire and
          forward the memo to HQ AFPC and respective DTs. EXCEPTION: MAF squadron
          commander final bids/hires are submitted directly to HQ AMC/A1KO in accordance
          with their bidding guidance with cc to COMPACAF and PACAF/A1KO.
       3.3.4. MAJCOM functional managers will coordinate with hiring authorities through a
       bid process to hire support and operations squadron commanders not specified in
       paragraph 3.3.3. Upon NAF/CC approval, final bids/hires are submitted in accordance
       with the respective functional bidding guidance and cc to COMPACAF.
       3.3.5. Waiver Provisions. The selection of an individual not on a candidate squadron
       commander candidate list requires a waiver. In those rare instances, the wing
       commander will forward a recommendation for command and a waiver request to the
       NAF for commander endorsement. The recommendation must include justification as to
       why this would be in the best interest of PACAF and the Air Force. Forward the
       NAF/CC- endorsed recommendation for command and waiver request to HQ
       PACAF/A1KO for COMPACAF approval.                  HQ PACAF/A1KO will coordinate
       personnel assignment actions with HQ AFPC. Exception: AF/SG1 does not waive the
       requirement to be on the AFPC Medical Squadron Command list. However, they will
       consider a waiver for the particular Flight Path Corps designation for a specific squadron
       commander position. This is done using a Wing- or NAF-commander-endorsed request
       for a Flight Path Waiver which is coordinated through the MAJCOM/SG to AF/SG1 for
       approval.
   3.4. Training Requirements. Wing commanders will ensure the following new squadron
   commander actions are accomplished prior to squadron commanders assuming command:
       3.4.1. Squadron Commanders Course Training. Wing commanders will coordinate
       with HQ PACAF/A1KO to register the commander for the PACAF Squadron
       Commanders Course.
6                                                           PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014


          3.4.1.1. The PACAF Squadron Commanders Course is mandatory for all first-time
          PACAF squadron commanders prior to assuming command. Previous cross-
          command attendance does not waive the PACAF course requirement. Officers who
          have previously served as a PACAF squadron commander are not required to attend
          the PACAF Squadron Commanders Course; however, they must provide HQ
          PACAF/A1KO with the dates of the previous command or course attendance.
          3.4.1.2. Personnel selected for a PACAF squadron command have first priority to
          attend the course. The following may attend on a space available basis: in-garrison
          commanders; detachment commanders; PACAF guard or reserve commanders; staff
          squadrons, and other MAJCOM squadron commanders.
          3.4.1.3. Commanders’ spouses are encouraged to attend the PACAF Squadron
          Commanders Course. This course meets the spouse travel criteria of AFI 24-101,
          paragraph 2.8.7.3. Military spouses will use Invitational Travel Orders (ITO)—this
          instruction serves as ITO approval authority. ITOs fund transportation costs only;
          spouse per diem and other expense allowances are not authorized. Spouses on ITOs
          must attend the entire course. The commander’s gaining unit will provide the fund
          cite.
          3.4.1.4. Waiver requests are required if an individual is unable to attend the
          mandatory PACAF Squadron Commanders Course prior to assuming command.
          Wing commanders will staff a waiver request memorandum to HQ PACAF/A1 for
          approval.
       3.4.2. Maintenance Orientation for Flying Squadron Commanders. Individuals
       should be scheduled for the Maintenance Course for Operational Commanders (MCOC)
       as soon as they are placed on the flying squadron commander candidate list. Flying
       squadron commanders must make every effort to attend MCOC before taking command;
       attendance is mandatory no later than 6 months after taking command. Attendance
       priority should be given to commanders who will be responsible for aircraft maintenance
       in their flying squadron. The scheduling point of contact is HQ PACAF Operational
       Support Division (HQ PACAF/A3T).
    3.5. Tenure. Time in Command (TIC) is important for the professional development of the
    commander and the stability of the squadron.
       3.5.1. Requirements. Squadron commander tenure requirement is 24 months for long
       tours, CONUS locations, and those designated key billet positions, and 12 months for
       remote dependent-restricted locations. Some contracting squadron commanders are in
       critical acquisitions positions with a minimum TIC of 3 years per Title 10 United States
       Code, Subtitle A, Part II, Chapter 87, Subchapter III, Section 1734. Office of Primary
       Responsibility is the Air Force Installation Contracting Agency, Contracting Hawaii,
       office of the Senior Contracting Official (AFICA/KH).
       3.5.2. Waiver Provisions: Waiver to tenure should be rare. Wing commanders will
       route tenure waiver requests through the NAF commander to HQ PACAF/A1KO for
       action at the appropriate level. The NAF commander may disapprove Wing commander
       tenure waiver requests. HQ PACAF/CV is the approval authority for TIC waivers when
       a commander has 18-23 months in command (11 months for remote tours).
PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014                                                                   7


     COMPACAF is the approval authority when a commander has less than 18 months in
     command (less than 11 months for remote tours). Exception to the tenure policy:
     Commanders with an approved retirement/separation date or promoted to colonel do not
     require a TIC waiver. In addition, commanders do not require a TIC waiver if the unit is
     on inactivation orders.
  3.6. Relieved Commanders. The assignment authority will track any officer on G-Series
  orders who is removed for cause (fired, rotated early, forced retirement, etc.) due to Uniform
  Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) violations, impropriety, investigations of impropriety, lost
  faith, etc., and report to AF/A1 as needed.
     3.6.1. The NAF commander will immediately notify COMPACAF when a squadron
     commander is relieved for cause. The commander taking action must accomplish the
     memorandum in Table 2 and forward to AFPC/DPAPP with cc to COMPACAF and
     PACAF/A1KO.
 8                                                              PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014



Table 2. Sample Memorandum for Squadron Commanders Relieved for Cause
(Appropriate Letterhead)
                                                                                             (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFPC/DPAPP

FROM: XXX/CC

SUBJECT: (FOUO) Relieved of Command for Cause

1. This is to inform you that by my authority, (Rank, Name) has been relieved of the command
of (Squadron/Wing/etc). His/Her performance as commander has not met the level expected of
an officer commensurate with that duty. I have relieved (Rank, Name) of command for the
following reasons: (state reasons). Note: If there was any sexual misconduct, it must be
reported in this notice. As a result, I have lost confidence in (Rank, Name)’s ability to command
which has necessitated his/her removal effective (Date).

2. Consequently, I request (include one of the following options as appropriate: (a) that (Rank,
Name) be PCS’d as soon as possible as a local utilization is not feasible because (explain); (b) a
local move of (Rank, Name) to (Unit, AFSC, and duty title) be made as soon as possible; or (c)
that (Rank, Name)’s retirement request be expedited.). In the interim, until such time as (Rank
Name) has been reassigned or processed for retirement, I have determined he/she will be
assigned as (temporary duty).



3. (Rank, Name) is/is not currently under investigation for misconduct and is/is not subject to
prosecution under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.

4. A referral OPR will/will not be accomplished. (Rank, Name) may be subject to the following
administrative action (name action).

5. In the interim, I have appointed (Rank, Name) as interim commander and, IAW AFI 38-101
and AFI 51-604, will put him/her on G-Series orders to take charge of the (unit) until a new
commander can be identified.

6. I request a replacement be identified NLT (date). (Additional justification; i.e., “This allows
approximately 2 months and 2 exercises prior to the ORI re-look.”)




                                                       //Signed//
                                                       Commander taking action
PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014                                                                      9


cc:
COMPACAF
PACAF/A1KO

1st Ind, (Relieved Commander, Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR (Commander taking action)

I acknowledge receipt of this memorandum and that effective (date) I have been relieved of the
command of (unit).




                                                           //Signed//
                                                           Relieved Commander

The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected under the
Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. Unauthorized disclosures or misuse of the Personal
Information may result in criminal and/or civil penalties.

       3.6.2. For relieved commanders in the rank of Colonel and Colonel Select, the
       commanders taking action must notify the assignment authority (AF/DPO) with required
       documentation, as directed.
4. Wing Chief of Safety (COS) Management.
   4.1. Candidate Requirement: A Wing COS may be selected from either a squadron
   commander or the Combat Air Forces Chief of Safety and Director of Operations candidate
   list. Chiefs of Safety play a crucial role in preventing mishaps and due to the importance
   placed on safety and risk management, Chiefs of Safety are expected to be of the same
   caliber as a squadron commander. Hiring authorities should consider their Chief of Safety
   for squadron command at the successful conclusion of his or her duties as Chief of Safety.
   4.2. Hiring Procedures. The hire process for selecting officers to Wing COS positions is
   considered a By Name Request (BNR). Only a Wing commander or equivalent may submit
   a BNR. For clarification, the Wing commander or equivalent is defined as an officer having
   an SRID. BNRs will be just one factor in the assignment decision process; AF needs,
   functional prioritization/allocation plans, and officer professional development still take
   precedence. Current Air Force time on station policies apply in the BNR process. BNRs are
   not guaranteed. EXCEPTION: For MAF COS positions, use Phoenix Eagle bidding
   procedures as outlined by AMC/A1KO and cc PACAF/A1KO.
       4.2.1. Submit BNR to PACAF/A1KO (pacaf.a1ko@us.af.mil) with the following
       information: Name and rank of the officer being hired and report not later than date
       (RNLTD). The hire and RNLTD should be coordinated with the officer’s current
       commander prior to submission to de-conflict multiple bids for the same officer and
       rotation timeline.
 10                                                         PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014


      4.2.2. Waivers to COS hiring policy are the same as outlined in paragraph 3.3.5.
   4.3. Training Requirement. Wing commanders will coordinate through their NAF safety
   office and HQ PACAF Directorate of Safety (HQ PACAF/SE) to schedule the COS selectee
   for the Air Force Chief of Safety Course which should be attended prior to assuming duties.
   However, IAW AFI 91-202, assigned individuals must complete the COS course within 90
   days of assuming the COS position.
   4.4. Tenure Requirement. Tenure is a minimum of 12 months. NAF commanders exercise
   tenure waiver authority.
5. Squadron Director of Operations (DO) and Operations Officer (OPSO) Management.
   5.1. Candidate Requirement. Candidates must meet functional manager established
   requirements and/or be on the respective functional DO candidate list.
   5.2. Hiring Procedures.
      5.2.1. The hire process for selecting officers to DO B-Prefix positions in flying
      squadrons, OSS, ASOS, MRS, and RQS is considered a BNR. Submission requirements
      are the same as paragraph 4.2. For MAF DO positions, coordinate hiring requests
      through AMC/A1KO and cc PACAF/A1KO. Exception: The requested officer is not
      required to be on a squadron commander candidate list.
      5.2.2. DO and OPSO B-Prefix positions in squadrons not specified in paragraph 5.1.1.
      are filled through the Air Force Assignment System (AFAS) requisition process unless
      otherwise dictated by AFPC and respective development team (DT). BNRs may be
      submitted; however, only the Wing commander or equivalent may submit a BNR. BNRs
      will only be considered for field grade officers (FGOs), to include major selects, and
      associated FGO positions. Refer to the AFAS Commander’s Supplement for BNR
      procedures.
   5.3. Training Requirement. Training will be specified by the gaining unit as necessary.
   5.4. Tenure Requirement. Tenure should be 12-24 months. NAF commanders exercise
   tenure waiver authority and may delegate to no lower than the Wing commander.




                                           JULIE C. BOIT, Colonel, USAF
                                           Director of Manpower, Personnel and Services
PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014                                                                  11


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, 27 October 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel, 1 April 1998
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 22 September 2009
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
Title 10 United States Code Armed Forces, Subtitle A, Part II, Chapter 87, Subchapter III,
Section 1734
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACS—Airborne Control Squadron
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFAS—Air Force Assignment System
AFICA/KH—Air Force Installation Contracting Agency, Contracting Hawaii
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ASOS—Air Support Operations Squadron
BNR—By Name Request
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CC—Courtesy Copy
COMPACAF—Commander, Pacific Air Forces
COS—Chief of Safety
DO—Director of Operations
DT—Development Team
FGO—Field Grade Officer
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ AMC—Headquarters Air Mobility Command
 12                                                           PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014


HQ PACAF/A1KO—Headquarters Pacific Air Forces Officer and Civilian Development
Branch
HQ PACAF/A3T—Headquarters Pacific Air Forces Operational Support Division
HQ PACAF/CV—Headquarters Pacific Air Forces Vice Commander
HQ PACAF/SE—Headquarters Pacific Air Forces Directorate of Safety
ITO—Invitational Travel Orders
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—Major Air Command
MCOC—Maintenance Course for Operational Commanders
MRS—Mobility Response Squadron
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OPSO—Operations Officer
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
PE—Phoenix Eagle
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RNLTD—Report Not Later Than Date
RQS—Rescue Squadron
SQ/CC—Squadron Commander
SRID—Senior Rater Identification
TIC—Time In Command
TOS—Time On Station

Terms
Appointments of Squadron Command—when a senior commander selects and appoints an
officer to command a subordinate unit.
HAWK—Air Education and Training Command (AETC) operations squadron commander
selection board.
Commando Eagle—Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) special operations
squadron command and chief of safety selection board.
Operational Squadron—a unit with a rated squadron commander C-prefix position, typically
units under the operations group.
Permanent Change of Duty Station (PCS)—In general, movement of an Airman to a different
duty location for permanent duty, regardless of distance (with or without concurrent change in
unit of assignment) under competent orders that do not specify the duty as temporary, do not
provide for further assignment to a new permanent duty station, or do not direct return to the old
permanent duty station.
PACAFI 36-2101 11 JUNE 2014                                                                    13


Phoenix Eagle—Air Mobility Command (AMC) operations squadron commander, operations
support squadron commander, mobility squadron commander, and chief of safety selection
board.
Remote—Dependent Restricted Duty Station, an overseas duty station where the Joint Federal
Travel Regulation (JFTR), Appendix Q does not authorize an accompanied tour.
Squadron—a unit which exists within a wing and/or group structure.
Staff—as defined in the Rated Staff Allocation Plan, a non-flying group, squadron, or flight that
directly reports to a MAJCOM or a NAF.
