BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     PACAF INSTRUCTION 32-1056
PACIFIC AIR FORCES
                                                                          1 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                       AIRFIELD PLANNING AND DESIGN

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ PACAF/A7PI                                                Certified by: HQ PACAF/A7P
                                                                         (Mr. Mark M. Aoyama)

Superseded: PACAFI32-1056,                                                             Pages: 10
            7 December 2006


This instruction implements policy guidance in AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. Use
this instruction with Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning
and Design and AFI 32-7063, Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Program. This instruction
implements policy guidance in AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. This PACAFI outlines
procedures for preparation and submittal of temporary and permanent airfield waiver requests for
violations of airfield planning and design criteria and facility sitings for proposed facilities
within the land use control portion of the Clear Zone and Accident Potential Zones. It applies to
all PACAF airfields and base agencies having responsibilities for coordinating, processing, and
managing these processes. References providing additional information are included in
Attachment 1. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ PACAF/A7PI, 25 E Street, Suite
D-306, JBPH-H, HI 96853-5412. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication establishes command procedures to complement guidance contained in Unified
Facilities Criteria UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design. This document
 2                                                      PACAFI32-1056 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


supersedes PACAFI 32-1056, 7 December 2006. Document revised on DATE to update
responsible organization codes, addresses, and POC’s; revise references for the updated UFC 3-
260-01, 17 November 2008; provide instruction for multiple violations caused by a single
obstruction; specify requirement for PACAF Airfield Obstructions System (AOBS); limit waiver
review package requirement to within 90 days of wing change of command; eliminate the one
year limitation for temporary waivers; provide clarification regarding Exemptions and
Permissible Deviations; eliminate redundant language for non-standard waiver naming; specify
the permanent nature of waiver naming; added instruction for waiver processing on Joint Bases;
added instruction for Visual Air Navigation System Criteria; and instruction for Aircraft
Arresting System criteria.
1. General Information. Waiver approval is reserved for significant mission requirements,
conditions, and situations for which no viable and/or practical alternative exists. Requests for
waivers of airfield and heliport planning and design criteria, other than construction and air show
waivers, require PACAF/CV approval IAW UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B1-2. Waivers shall be
submitted to HQ PACAF/A7P for review and coordination prior to PACAF/CV approval.
Construction and/or alteration contracts cannot be finalized without PACAF/CV approval; same
requirement for work executed by government personnel.
2. Waivers to Airfield Criteria. PACAF installations must ensure all violations of airfield
planning and design criteria classified as permissible deviations comply with deviation criteria in
UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B13. Additionally, all HQ PACAF approved waivers shall be
managed so that all conditions included in the granting agency’s original waiver approval, safety
precautions, and additional conditions resulting from HQ PACAF waiver reviews, are met. All
installation airfield waiver submittals shall be prepared electronically using the PACAF Airfield
Obstructions System (AOBS) and be accompanied by the PACAF enterprise GeoBase standard
map layer with all obstructions labeled to correspond to the PACAF Form 48 entries. If a
waivered obstruction violates more than one criterion, the most hazardous violation will be listed
as the main entry in the Form 48; all other violation(s) will be listed in the remarks column of the
Form 48.
     2.1. Existing Waivers. Wing commanders must submit an airfield and airspace waiver
     review package for PACAF/CV approval within 90 days of accepting command. The review
     package shall include total number of waivers, number of new waivers for the past year,
     number of eliminated waivers for the past year, and be accompanied by the AOBS generated
     report of all waivers in PACAF Form 48 format and PACAF enterprise GeoBase standard
     map layer with all obstructions labeled to correspond to the PACAF Form 48 entries.
        2.1.1. Limitations on Content. The airfield and airspace waiver review package(s)
        shall be limited to previously approved waivers only. New waiver requirements must be
        submitted separately as required by Section 2.2 below.
     2.2. New Waivers. Waivers are required for airfield facilities and equipment when no other
     option exists, and when the facility or equipment must be sited in the immediate area for
     functionality. Requests for permanent airfield and airspace waivers must clearly show no
     other feasible alternative(s) exist, as well as the precautionary measures for mitigating the
     accepted risk. All waiver requests must be coordinated through the local Airfield and
     Airspace Working Group chaired by the Base Civil Engineer (BCE) or BCE designate (in
     writing), with representation from wing safety, TERPS (w/reach-back to HQ
PACAFI32-1056 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 3


  PACAF/A3OA), security forces, airfield operations, and the airfield manager. If an agency
  non-concurs, their comments must be forwarded as part of the waiver request package.
     2.2.1. Temporary (Non-Permanent) Waivers. Installations shall request temporary
     waivers for deviations from the airfield and airspace planning criteria that are considered
     correctable and with limited time period. Each temporary waiver request must identify
     precautionary safety measures for the duration of the waiver. Requests for temporary
     (non-permanent) waivers, as defined in UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B1-2.2.1, must present
     compelling justification to violate airfield and airspace criteria, and contain information
     that clearly demonstrates that no viable, practical alternative exists to meet the criteria.
     Waiver requests must meet all requirements of UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B1-2, be
     prepared electronically using the PACAF AOBS, and be accompanied by the PACAF
     enterprise GeoBase standard map layer with all obstructions labeled to correspond to the
     PACAF Form 48 entries. With the exception of the following two categories (Airfield
     Construction and Air Show Waivers), waiver approval for temporary obstructions is
     retained by PACAF/CV. Waivers processed for MAJCOM consideration will be
     prepared, coordinated, and approved at the installation level, following locally developed
     procedures for processing and approving these types of waivers.
         2.2.1.1. Airfield Construction Waivers. The Installation Commander is the
         approval authority for approving temporary waivers for construction activities on the
         airfield, as conveyed in UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B1-2.5.4.7.
         2.2.1.2. Air Show Waivers. The Installation Commander is the approval authority
         for approving temporary waivers for air shows as conveyed in UFC 3-260-01,
         Appendix B1-2.3.4. Provide info copy of waiver with ORM assessment to MAJCOM
         30 days prior to air show.
     2.2.2. Permanent Waivers. Approval authority for permanent waivers to airfield
     criteria resides with PACAF/CV. Requests as defined in UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B1-
     2.2.2, must present compelling justification to violate the criteria, and contain
     information that clearly demonstrates no viable, practical alternative(s) exists to meet the
     criteria. Waiver requests must meet all requirements of UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B1-2,
     be prepared electronically using the PACAF AOBS, and be accompanied by the PACAF
     enterprise GeoBase standard map layer with all obstructions labeled to correspond to the
     PACAF Form 48 entries.
         2.2.2.1. Facility Siting within the Land Use Control Area of the Clear Zone and
         Accident Potential Zones. PACAF/CV retains the approval authority for new use or
         facility construction within the Land Use Control Area of the 3000’ x 3000’ end of
         runway clear zone that violates land use guidelines in AFI 32-7063, paragraph 5.2.2
         or within the Accident Potential Zones I and II that violate Air Installation
         Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) land use compatibility recommendations. Locally
         approved siting requests must be submitted to HQ PACAF/A7P for final staffing and
         approval by PACAF/CV. Waiver requests must be submitted IAW paragraph 2.2.
  2.3. Exceptions to Waivers. Certain obstructions violating airfield and airspace criteria do
  not require waivers. Examples include exemptions for facilities constructed to previous
  standards, UFC 3-260-01, Chapter 1-4.1; and permissible deviations to criteria, UFC 3-260-
  01, Appendix B13-2.
 4                                                         PACAFI32-1056 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


3. Waiver Request Format and Routing.
     3.1. Waiver Request Submission. Each new waiver request must be submitted separately
     in a single package to HQ PACAF/A7P. The minimum requirements are listed in the
     following paragraphs and Table A2.1.
     3.2. Submittal Package Contents. The following items are required for all waiver requests
     and notification actions. All waiver request and notification documentation shall be prepared
     electronically using the PACAF AOBS and be accompanied by the PACAF enterprise
     GeoBase standard map layer with all obstructions labeled to correspond to the PACAF Form
     48 entries.
        3.2.1. A complete description of the facility, equipment or condition requiring a waiver
        including, but not limited to, facility dimensions, construction materials, supporting
        equipment, utilities and appurtenances, height above ground level, facility use and
        contents, and number of occupants.
        3.2.2. Detailed identification of all criteria that will be violated. Include the specific
        references from UFC 3-260-01.
        3.2.3. Waiver type - either permanent or temporary (non-permanent), as defined in UFC
        3-260-01, Appendix B1-2.2.
        3.2.4. A site plan that portrays all proposed facilities, utilities, infrastructure, and support
        equipment (including, but not limited to, concrete slabs, bollards, generators, air
        conditioning units, external fuel tanks) in the clear zone with respect to the runway
        threshold, extended runway centerline, mandatory frangibility zone, and applicable
        imaginary surfaces. The site plan must be dimensioned or drawn to scale and submitted
        in a digital format executable in the PACAF software suite.
        3.2.5. A complete justification for the waiver including an explanation why all applicable
        criteria cannot be met. Funding will not be used as sole justification for waiver request.
        3.2.6. The results of an alternatives analysis that includes, as a minimum:
            3.2.6.1. Description of each alternative/site considered.
            3.2.6.2. Risks and benefits associated with each alternative.
            3.2.6.3. Rationale for selecting an alternative that violates criteria in lieu of an
            available option that does not.
        3.2.7. Documentation of Risk.
            3.2.7.1. An operational risk analysis shall be completed by the installation
            Airfield/Airspace Waiver Working Group in accordance with AFI 90-901,
            Operational Risk Management. The results shall include a description of all safety
            precautions and measures that will be implemented to minimize the risks associated
            with the violation. Examples include: obstruction lighting/markings, NOTAMs,
            identification on the Airport Diagram published in the DoD Terminal Flight
            Information Publication (FLIP), and/or airfield restrictions published in the Airfield
            Operations Instruction.
PACAFI32-1056 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  5


       3.2.8. Documentation of Local Approval. A letter from the wing or installation
       commander showing the waiver request has been approved for submission and
       coordinated with all installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, and this
       instruction.
       3.2.9. Include a copy of FAA Form 7460-1, Notice of Proposed Construction or
       Alteration, if project requires FAA notification in accordance with UFC 3-260-01,
       Chapter 1-10.
   3.3. Additional Requirements.
       3.3.1. Submittal for waivers due to airfield construction projects, air shows, and aircraft
       parking plan revisions will include an estimated date when the violation will begin.
       3.3.2. For waivers classified as temporary (non-permanent), as defined in UFC 3-260-01,
       Appendix B1-2.2.1, indicate the estimated start date of the violation and programming
       actions that will be taken to eliminate the waived condition (include project number,
       description, programmed FY, estimated cost, and estimated completion date to eliminate
       the violation).
4. Coordination of External Airfield and Airspace Obstructions. The BCE must establish a
procedure for notice of proposed construction between the wing and the local government
(except Andersen, Hickam, and Alaska bases which will follow FAA guidance, FAR PART 77)
for a notice of proposed construction within ten nautical miles of the base. The notice of
proposed construction must identify obstructions that have a direct impact on terminal
procedures for the airfield’s approach-departure zones. As a minimum, the notice of proposed
construction must identify the following:
   4.1. Any construction or alteration of more than 200 feet in height above ground level at its
   site (water towers, buildings, antenna farms, etc).
   4.2. Any construction or alteration impacting the airfield imaginary surfaces identified in
   UFC 3-260-01, Chapter 3.
   4.3. Any highway, railroad, or transverse way for mobile objects or the height of the highest
   mobile object that would normally cross the traverse way that exceeds the standard of
   section 4.1 and 4.2 of this instruction.
   4.4. Any construction for a laser beam facility (casinos, amusement parks, etc).
   4.5. The BCE must coordinate the Procedure for Notice of Proposed Construction with the
   Operations Group Commander, Airfield Management (AM), TERPS (w/reach-back to
   PACAF/A3OA), Safety (flight, ground, and weapons), and Legal prior to wing commander
   review/approval. Provide info copies of the approved Procedure for Notice of Proposed
   Construction to PACAF/A3O/SE/A7P/CSS and NAF/A3/SE/A7.
   4.6. Waiver requests concerning deviation of siting criteria for Air Traffic Control Towers or
   Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems (ATCALS) must be approved by HQ PACAF with
   info copy to the respective NAF/A3/SE/A7.
   4.7. Temporary construction waivers will not be part of Map E-1 or the listing of approved
   waivers. Information copies of all approved temporary construction waivers shall be sent to
 6                                                     PACAFI32-1056 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


     HQ PACAF/A3O/SEF/A7P and the respective NAF/A3O/SEF/A7. The BCE and flight
     safety office shall monitor construction activities on the airfield.
     4.8. Where the U.S. Air Force is a tenant on an installation operated by the Republic of
     Korea Air Force (ROKAF), waivers shall be approved by the ROKAF Base Commander.
     However, the requesting agency shall obtain the concurrence of HQ PACAF/A3O/SE/A7P
     and the respective NAF/A3/SE/A7 before coordinating with ROKAF.
5. Airfield Obstruction Reduction Initiative (AORI). All correctable violations of airfield
criteria, regardless of classification (waiver, exemption, or non-classified), shall be programmed
for elimination IAW HQ USAF AORI guidance and identified in the wing’s AORI database.
6. Training. The BCE staff personnel assigned airfield planning and design responsibilities
shall complete the AFCESA Airfield Criteria, Standards, and Facilities computer-based training
(CBT) course.
7. Airfield and Airspace Waiver Working Group. The wing commander shall establish an
Airfield and Airspace Working Group. At minimum, representation shall include members from
SE, BCE, AM, TERPS (w/reach-back to PACAF/A3OA), and Operations. The working group
shall be chaired by the BCE. Meeting minutes shall be submitted to HQ PACAF/A7P/A3O.
     7.1. The wing commander or vice wing commander must ensure that the Airfield and
     Airspace Waiver Working Group review at least 25 percent of the wing’s airfield and
     airspace waivers quarterly and brief and document the status of the review at each Airfield
     Operations Board (AOB) meeting. The airfield operations flight commander or a designated
     representative shall notify the BCE of the proposed AOB meeting. NOTE: Galena,
     Eareckson, and Wake Island designated OPRs for the Airfield and Airspace Working Group
     shall brief the wing commander and provide an informational copy of the working group
     meeting minutes to HQ PACAF/A3O/SEF/A7P and the respective NAF/A3/SE/A7.
     7.2. Training for members of the Airfield and Airspace Waiver Working Group must be
     accomplished and documented in the individual’s training records. Each member shall
     receive recurring training on airfield and airspace waiver criteria on an annual basis.
     Members of each organization must brief the status of airfield/airspace waiver training at
     each AOB meeting. All Airfield and Airspace Waiver Working Group Members must
     complete the AFCESA Airfield Criteria Course for Civil Engineers, Airfield Managers and
     Wing Safety CBT for initial and annual recurring training. Completion will be documented
     in training records.
8. Waiver/Obstruction Naming Standards. To the maximum extent possible, installations
shall use a waiver designator of alphanumeric characters directly followed by numbers with no
spaces or hyphens between alphabetic and numerical characters. The standard will be: ‘A’ for
apron, ‘C’ for clear zone, ‘R’ for runway, ‘T’ for taxiway, and ‘AV’ for airspace violations.
Examples include: A34, T7, R19. Waiver naming is permanent and once a waiver is approved,
it shall never be re-named.
9. Waiver Format. An electronically prepared waiver package will be used for all waiver
requests and submissions. (See Attachment 2)
10. Joint Basing Requirements. Where the Air Force is the Supported Component on a joint
installation, airfield operations and airfield management functions will be retained by the Air
PACAFI32-1056 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 7


Force. Installation level coordination of existing waiver reviews (Section 2.1) and new waiver
requests (Section 2.2) shall be provided by the Supporting Component in accordance with
applicable regulations including UFC 3-260-01 and PACAFI 32-1056. After installation
coordination, the waiver documentation shall be submitted by the supported Air Force wing
commander to HQ PACAF/A7P for coordination and approval by HQ PACAF/CV.                    For
Andersen AFB/Joint Region Marianas the supported Air Force wing commander is the
36 WG/CC; for Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam the supported Air Force wing commander is the
15 WG/CC; and for Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson the supported Air Force wing commander
is the 3 WG/CC.
11. Visual Air Navigation Systems. Requests for waivers of Visual Air Navigation System
design criteria requires HQ PACAF/A7 approval IAW UFC 3-535-01, Paragraph 1-10. Waiver
approval is reserved for conditions or situations where compliance is not practical or feasible.
Funding or budgetary constraints normally are not adequate justification for granting a waiver.
The waiver request must include all supporting documentation as required for airfield obstruction
waivers described in section 3.2 of this instruction.
12. Aircraft Arresting Systems. When planning, installing and repairing aircraft arresting
systems, the BCE shall insure that all work conforms to the most current standard design
drawings which can be obtained from HQ AFCESA (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c6925EC17E18D0FB
5E044080020E329A9&programId=t6925EC2B5BEB0FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPa
geId=s6925EC13537D0FB5E044080020E329A9&parentCategoryId=-1900281).




                                            KARL S. BOSWORTH, Colonel, USAF
                                            Director, Installations and Mission Support
 8                                                   PACAFI32-1056 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-204 (Vol 1-Vol 3), Functional Management of Airfield Operations, 1 September 2010
AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements, 14 July 2011
AFH 32-1084, Standard Facility Requirements Handbook. 1 September 1996
UFC 3-260-01, Unified Facilities Criteria Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design, 17
November 2008
AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP), 12 Mar 2003
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning, 1 October 1997
AFI 32-7063, Air Installation Compatibility Use Zone, 13 September 2005
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 1 April 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineering Support Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AICUZ—Air Installation Compatibility Use Zone
ANG—Air National Guard
AOBS—Airfield Obstructions System
AORI—Airfield Obstruction Reduction Initiative
ASRR—Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report
ATCALS—Air Traffic Control and Landing System
BAOI—Base Airfield Operations Instruction
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CBT—Computer Based Training
CE—Civil Engineering
CV—Vice Commander
DOD—Department of Defense
DOOA—Aerial Events Scheduling Branch
DORO—Airfield Operations Branch
PACAFI32-1056 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  9


FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FLIP—Flight Information Publication
FY—Fiscal Year
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
LGQM—Maintenance Policy Branch
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PACAFI—Pacific Air Forces Instruction
TERPS—Terminal Instrument Procedures
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Airfield Obstructions System (AOBS)—A PACAF business process utilizing enterprise
GeoBase map layers identifying obstructions in association with standardized data tables.
Airfield Obstruction Reduction Initiative—An USAF initiative launched to eliminate the most
significant airfield obstructions from AF airfields.
Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report—Provides basic airfield and suitability
information, airfield restrictions, and other information for select airfields. It is available at
https://amc.scott.af.mil/do/doa/dovs.htm.
Airport Diagram—The airport diagram is published in the Terminal High and Low Altitude
FLIP booklets and most are accessible at http://164.214.2.62/products/digitalaero/index.html.
Base Airfield Operations Instruction—Defines local procedures for Airfield Management and
Air Traffic Control at the base, to include among other things general information regarding
airfield facilities and aircraft restrictions.
Notice to Airmen (NOTAM)—An unclassified notice, containing information concerning the
establishment of, condition of, change in any aeronautical facility, service, procedures or
hazards, the timely knowledge of which is essential to personnel concerned with flight
operations. Flight Safety and Local NOTAMs can be viewed at the Defense Internet NOTAM
Service website at https://www.notams.jcs.mil/.
 10                                                          PACAFI32-1056 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                              Attachment 2
                                    WAIVER REQUEST SUBMISSION

A2.1. Each waiver request must be submitted to HQ PACAF/A7 in a single package. A
synopsis is provided in Table A2.1 below. Details of the requirements are provided in paragraph
3.1 of this PACAF instruction.

Table A2.1. Waiver Categories and Required Submission Documentation
 Waiver Type            Permanent      Construction       CZ, APZ1,      Air Show          Aircraft Parking
                                                          APZ2 Site                        Plans
                                                          requirements
 Approval Authority      PACAF/CV       Installation/CC     PACAF/CV     Installation/CC    PACAF/CV
 Action Req’d by           Waiver         Notification        Waiver       Notification    Waiver Request
 Installation CE/CC       Request                            Request
 Description (3.2.1.)       X                 X                  X             X                  X
 Criteria Violated          X                 X                  X             X                  X
 (3.2.2.)
 Requested Waiver        Permanent        Temporary       Permanent or     Temporary         Permanent or
 Type (3.2.3.)                                             Temporary                          Temporary
 Site Plan (3.2.4.)          X                X               X                X                 X
 Justification               X                X               X                X                 X
 (3.2.5.)
 Alternatives                X                X                X               X                  X
 Analysis (3.2.6.)
 ORM & Safety                X                X                X               X                  X
 Plan (3.2.7)
 Documentation of            X                X                X               X                  X
 Local Approval
 (3.2.8.)
 FAA Form 7460-1          As Req’d        As Req’d          As Req’d       As Req’d           As Req’d
 (3.2.9.)
 Estimated Start                              X                                X                  X
 Date (3.3.1.)
 Mitigation Plan                              X
 (3.3.2.)
