 AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1
      PHARMACY TECHNICIAN




4P0X1 Qualification Training Package (QTP)


          7.3.10. Dispense Prescriptions




                                            QTP 4P0X1-7.3.10
                                                      Oct 2007
                                   OPR: SMSgt Justin H. Bodden
     AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1 PHARMACY TECHNICIAN


                    DISPENSE PRESCRIPTIONS



                       TABLE OF CONTENTS


MODULE         OBJECTIVE                          PAGES

1.             Dispense Prescriptions             3 - 12




                                                           2
                                        INTRODUCTION

1. This Qualification Training Package (QTP) was developed to enhance and standardize on-the-
job training for 4P0X1 personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs provide teachable elements of task
breakdowns. The teachable elements will assist in guiding the trainee towards independent task
performance, proficiency, and serve as an evaluation tool for task certifiers/certification
officials.

2. Review the volume(s) of the Career Development Course (CDC) and identify which
module(s) of the QTP are needed for the trainee‟s job position or upgrade skill-level training.
The QTP training for each module should be accomplished in the order which most closely
mirrors the area the trainee is working in. Items in column 2 of the Pharmacy Career Field
Education and Training Plan (CFETP) marked with a 5 or 7 are the core tasks for the 4P career
field. Additional proficiency training may be required for these tasks at the supervisor‟s
discretion.

3. Ensure the trainee reviews the training references in each module prior to attempting any task
or QTP evaluation. Review the performance checklist and training objective with the trainee. If
the trainee has questions about the objective, clarify the desired outcome/results of performance,
demonstration or completion for the task. Remember the objective of each QTP is to standardize
training and allow sufficient time for the trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform
the task independently.

4. When the trainee has received sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on the objective,
follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used as you evaluate each
task objective. When the trainee successfully demonstrates and accomplishes the objective,
document task completion appropriately in the member‟s 6-part training/competency folder.

5. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on an AF Form 1098 Special Task Certification
and Recurring Training, filed in part 3, section A of the 6-part training/competency folder.
NOTE: The individual checklists and final evaluations are not filed in each member‟s 6-part
training/competency folder. A master checklist is filed in part 3, section A of the Master
Training Plan (MTP).

6. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing further instruction.
Conduct feedback for each module with the trainee, and document appropriately in the member‟s
6-part training/competency folder. As the trainer, once you are satisfied the trainee is ready to
perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until the objective is met.

7. If a task being trained requires third party certification by a task certifier/certifying official,
the trainer ensures the trainee is qualified to perform the task independently. The trainee will
then be evaluated by certifier/certifying official. Tasks requiring third party certification are
identified in column 2 of CFETP with a number sign (#). The third party certifier will ensure
documentation in column 3E of the CFETP and appropriately documented in the members‟ 6-
part training/competency folder.




                                                                                                    3
8. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing task qualifications for upgrade training or job
position training. Such standardization benefits the CFETP training concept throughout a
member‟s career. These documents also may be used in assessing/certifying pharmacy
technicians upon arrival at a new duty station.

9. Feedback is a vital and important part of improving our educational process for pharmacy
technicians. Your first-hand expertise is valued and feedback is highly encouraged ensuring we
have the most up-to-date information and training possible. Please direct all inquires to your
immediate supervisor.




                                                                                                4
SUBJECT AREA: Outpatient Pharmacy

TASK NAME(S): Dispense prescriptions

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 7.3.1, 7.3.1.1, 7.3.2, 7.3.3, 7.3.4, 7.3.5, 7.3.6, 7.3.7, 7.3.9,
7.3.10, 7.3.11

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
1. Medications
2. Medication containers (bottles or zip lock bags)
3. Labels
4. Pens
5. Composite Health Care System computer, printer, or typewriter
6. PharmASSIST
7. AF Form 781, Multiple Item Prescription
8. AF Form 2081
9. Civilian Prescriptions

TRAINING REFERENCE(S): AFI 44-102, 4P051B CDC, Volume 1, Sec 1-1,
Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970, HQ USAF/SGO Memo, 24 Mar 04 and HQ
AFMC/SG Memo, 19 Apr 04.

REMARKS/NOTES: None

OBJECTIVE:

Given a provider‟s prescription and the necessary equipment, safely prepare and dispense
pharmaceuticals.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.   After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished without
assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee‟s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1.   Receive Written Prescription(s)

     1.1. A pharmacy technician will staff the “IN” (processing) window as point of service.




                                                                                                        5
     1.2. Check all new prescriptions for patient name. Each patient must have annotated on the
prescription, the sponsor's social security number, the patient‟s address and phone number. If the
patient is under 12 years of age, annotate patient‟s date of birth and their weight. If the
prescription is for a controlled medication, the patient and provider address is required. If the
patient reports no allergies; annotate NKDA for no known drug allergies in the CHCS profile.

     1.3. If the patient has medication allergies, and it is not already in the computer, annotate
the allergy in the (AL) Patient Allergy Information screen in the CHCS computer.

    1.4. Ensure prescriptions are written IAW AFI 44-102 and all information pertaining to the
medication is present (medication name, strength, amount, and directions for use).

     1.5. If prescription is from a military treatment facility (MTF) provider, ensure the provider
has signed the prescription and the appropriate stamp appears below the signature block

     1.6. Ensure prescriptions from civilian practitioners have been signed. Prescriptions with a
pre-printed signature or signature stamp will be accepted for all prescriptions if state laws permit,
except for Schedule II.

      1.7. If the medication is from a civilian practitioner and is non-formulary, it will not be
filled. The patient will be given a copy of the formulary to take back to his/her provider so that a
new prescription can be written for a formulary medication if the patient wants the prescription
to be filled at your pharmacy. Otherwise, the patient may request medication through the
TRICARE Mail Order Pharmacy (TMOP) or he/she may utilize a TRICARE Network Pharmacy
to have the medication filled. This option should also be used in after hours situations.

    1.8. If the medication is a special request from an in-house provider on a DD Form 2081
(Atch1), the form will be reviewed and approved or disapproved by either a pharmacist or the
Chief of the Medical Staff. Some medications require a Prior Authorization form to be filled out
by the physician for the patient. A pharmacist will inform the provider on these medications. If
approved, the pharmacy supply custodian will order the medication. Generally, it may take
several duty days to receive the medication and complete the prescriptions. The patient will be
contacted by phone/mail when the medication is in stock and the prescription is available for
pick-up.

   1.9. If a prescription needs to be clarified, the doctor‟s office will be called for verification
and the prescription will be posted in the appropriate area designated for waiting doctor call-
backs/authorization. After authorization, the change will be annotated on the prescription and
documented appropriately. Any prescription requiring telephonic clarification will be „read-
back‟ to the provider, or agent of the provider, to verify order accuracy.

   1.10. Inform the patient at the point of service of any changes to be made to the prescription.
Prescription changes should be made in red ink and initialed by the pharmacist or technician
making the change.




                                                                                                       6
   1.11. Any special instructions/patient counseling should be communicated to the patient at
this time. A patient education monograph (PEM) will be printed for each medication typed and
given to the patient.

2.   Eligibility

     2.1. Eligibility must be verified by review of the ID card of the patient or written
     verification of eligibility from the Patient Administration Office.

     2.2. The name on all prescriptions must match the name on the ID card of the patient,
except for dependents less than 10 years of age. Eligibility will be determined prior to entering a
prescription in CHCS by DEERS check. ID cards for those under the age of 10 will not be
required.

     2.3. The ID card should not be expired or mutilated.

     2.4. The reverse of the dependent ID card should contain the word "YES" in the block
         marked “Military Service Health Care”.

     2.5. If DEERS eligibility cannot be determined in CHCS patient can get documentation of
         eligibility from the Patient Administration Office.

3.   Type Hand Written Prescription(s)

     3.1. Under the RX screen in CHCS, type the first letter of the patient‟s last name and last
four numbers of the sponsor‟s social security number. Verify from the pick list, the patient‟s full
name and social security number before choosing the name.

      3.2. After choosing your patient‟s name, you will see a prompt screen with three options:
A (active prescriptions); B (inactive prescriptions); R (range of dates). Choose A, for active
prescriptions. Now type in the medication name, directions, quantity of medication, number of
refills, and doctor‟s name.

     3.3. Once the patient‟s information is typed into the RX screen, you will see prompts at the
bottom of the screen reading File/Exit, Abort, or Edit. This is where you will make any changes
to the information you just typed or to process the medication to be received by PharmASSIST.

     3.4. To batch the patient‟s medication, select LPO (Pharmacy Label Print Option) in
CHCS. You will see a prompt reading Select Baker Imaging Bar Code Printer. No date is
placed here, just hit the Enter button.

     3.5. Select the letter N (Process by Patient Name).

     3.6. At the Select Patient Name or RX # prompt, depress the space bar to return and bring
up the current patient‟s information.




                                                                                                  7
    3.7. Depress the Enter key until you reach the prompt “Requested start time: Now”.
At this prompt, depress the Enter key once more to release the prescription from CHCS.

     3.8. CHCS will download this data to PharmASSIST. A prescription label will batch to the
printer. This prescription is now ready to be filled.

4.   Fill Hand Written Prescriptions

     4.1. Filler verifies the typist correctly entered the medication information. To do this, the
filler will read the paper prescription and match it up against the label. If all data matches, the
filler will proceed with filling the prescription.

     4.2. Take the label and scan it through PharmASSIST. One of two screens will appear on
the PharmASSIST Computer, either manual fills or unit fills. If the medication is being
dispensed from the PharmASSIST unit, the screen will have numerous boxes on it (boxes
represent medication units located in the PharmASSIST). The box will turn green and indicates
the unit to retrieve the medication from. Once you retrieve the medication from the unit, a screen
will automatically appear with a picture of the medication on it. If you are filling a manual fill,
the screen will show the actual medication picture. Scan the medication stock bottle‟s bar code.
Once either of these steps is accomplished, the quantity filled for prescription will turn green in
color.

    4.3. Depress the Enter key once. At the bottom of this screen, you will see a white box with
the words Scan Badge To Pass. You must scan your pharmacy identification bar code. The
prescription is sent to the checker/pharmacist for verification.

5. Fill Provider Order Entry (POE) Prescription(s)

    5.1. To batch the patient‟s medication, select LPO (Pharmacy Label Print Option) in CHCS.
You will see the prompt “Select Baker Imaging Bar Code Printer”. Depress the Enter key. No
date is required

     5.2. Select the letter N (Process By Patient Name).

    5.3. At the Select Patient Name or RX # prompt, depress space bar return to select the
current patient‟s information.

   5.4. Depress the Enter key until prompted for the Requested start time: Now At this
prompt, you will depress the Enter button once more to release the prescription from CHCS.

   5.5. CHCS will download this data to PharmASSIST. A prescription label will batch to the
printer. This prescription is now ready to be filled.

   5.6. Take the label and scan it through PharmASSIST. One of two screens will appear on the
PharmASSIST Computer, either manual fills or unit fills. If the medication is being dispensed
from the PharmASSIST unit, the screen will have numerous boxes on it (boxes represent



                                                                                                      8
medication units located in the PharmASSIST). The box will turn green and indicates the unit to
retrieve the medication from. Once you retrieve the medication from the unit, a screen will
automatically appear with a picture of the medication on it. If you are filling a manual fill, the
screen will show the actual medication picture. Scan the medication stock bottle‟s bar code.
Once either of these steps is accomplished, the quantity filled for that prescription will turn green
in color.

  5.7. Depress the Enter key once. At the bottom of this screen, a white box with the words
Scan Badge To Pass will appear. You must scan your pharmacy identification bar code. The
prescription is sent to the checker/pharmacist for verification.

6. Verify Prescription(s) (see QTP 7.3.9.)

7.   Release of Prescription Medication(s) to Patient

     7.1. Pharmacy personnel, including pharmacists, technicians and volunteers, are required to
ensure the correct medication is dispensed to the correct patient. The following steps will be
used before releasing prescription(s) to a patient at any of the pharmacy dispensing sites:

           7.1.1. Verify patient‟s military issued ID card.

           7.1.2. Remove all medications from paper bag.

           7.1.3. Match the last 4 numbers of the sponsor‟s social security number (SSN) on the
patient‟s ID card with the patient identifier on each prescription to be dispensed.

            7.1.4. Match name identified on ID card with name printed on medication labels; if
different, determine if medication is being picked up by a patient representative and follow
directions in Step 3, Release of Prescription Medication(s) to a patient representative.

8.   Release of Prescription Medication(s) to a Patient Representative

      8.1. Pharmacy personnel, including pharmacists, technicians and volunteers, need to
protect the privacy of patients and prevent unauthorized disclosure of prescription(s) information
or release of medication(s).

     8.2. Medication(s) will be released to patient representatives who have authorization to
pick-up medications.

     8.3. Patient representatives may include spouses, parents, legal guardians, courier services,
neighbors, co-workers, and any other individual so designated.

9.   Dispense Prescription Medication(s)

   9.1. When patient comes to window to pick up medication(s), DRX items picked up in
CHCS.



                                                                                                    9
   9.2. Scan medication(s) until it displays on PharmASSIST Signature Pad.

   9.3. Have patient verify all medication(s) requested are accounted for.

   9.4. Conduct patient counseling on each medication before release to the patient.

   9.5. Have patient sign signature pad and release medication(s) to patient.

ATTACHMENT(S): None




                                                                                       10
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

                                 DISPENSE PRESCRIPTION(S)
                         PERFORMANCE ITEMS                      SAT   UNSAT
RECEIVE WRITTEN PRESCRIPTION
1. Receive prescription
2. Ensure required information on prescription
3. Annotate allergies
4. Ensure completeness of prescription
5. Check formulary status
6. Confer with provider if required
7. Annotate changes and explain to patient
ELIGIBILITY
1. Verify eligibility using ID card, CHCS, DEERS
TYPE HAND WRITTEN PRESCRIPTION
1. Enter data in RX function within CHCS
2. Batch label(s)
FILL HAND WRITTEN PRESCRIPTION
1. Verify script to label
2. Scan label
3. Retrieve medication
4. Scan mfg package bar code
5. Forward to verifier
FILL POE PRESCRIPTION
1. Batch labels
2. Follow fill hand written prescription steps
RELEASE PRESCRIPTION
1. Check two patient identifiers (ID, last 4)
2. Is it a patient representative
DISPENSE PRESCRIPTION
1. DRX in CHCS
2. Scan to signature pad
3. Counsel
4. Obtain patient signature
5. Release medication(s) to patient or patient representative

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:




                                                                         11
FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee‟s performance
indication strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee‟s 6-part training/competency folder.




                                                                                                 12
