   AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1
        PHARMACY TECHNICIAN




 4P0X1 Qualification Training Package (QTP)


9.7 Prepare Workload Reports, Report of Patients, and Cost Reports




                                                        QTP 4P0X1- 9.7
                                                                Oct 2007
                                              OPR: TSgt Jennifer K. Kirk
      AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1 PHARMACY TECHNICIAN


     PREPARE WORKLOAD REPORTS, REPORT OF PATIENTS, AND COST
                          REPORTS




                           TABLE OF CONTENTS


MODULE      OBJECTIVE                                                        PAGES

1.          Prepare Workload Reports, Report of Patients, and Cost Reports   3 - 11
                                    INTRODUCTION

1. This Qualification Training Package (QTP) was developed to enhance and standardize
on-the-job training for 4P0X1 personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs provide teachable
elements of task breakdowns. The teachable elements will assist in guiding the trainee
towards independent task performance, proficiency, and serve as an evaluation tool for
task certifiers/certification officials.

2. Review each volume(s) of the Career Development Course (CDC) and identify which
module(s) of QTPs are needed for the trainee’s job position or upgrade skill-level
training. The QTP training for each module should be accomplished in the order which
most closely mirrors the area the trainee is working in. Items in column 2 of the
Pharmacy Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) marked with a 5 or 7 are
the core tasks for the 4P career field. Additional proficiency training may be required for
these tasks at the supervisor’s discretion.

3. Ensure the trainee reviews the training references in each module prior to attempting
any task or QTP evaluation. Review the performance checklist and training objective
with the trainee. If the trainee has questions about the objective, clarify the desired
outcome/results of performance, demonstration or completion for the task. Remember
the objective of each QTP is to standardize training and allow sufficient time for the
trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform the task independently.

4. When the trainee has received sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on the
objective, follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used as
you evaluate each task objective. When the trainee successfully demonstrates and
accomplishes the objective, document task completion appropriately in the member’s 6-
part training/competency folder.

5. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on an AF Form 1098 Special Task
Certification and Recurring Training, filed in part 3, section A of the 6-part
training/competency folder. NOTE: The individual checklists and final evaluations are
not filed in each member’s six-part training folder. A master checklist is filed in part 3,
section A of the Master Training Plan (MTP).

6. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing remediation.
Conduct feedback for each module with the trainee, and document appropriately in the
member’s 6-part training/competency folder. As the trainer, once you are satisfied the
trainee is ready to perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until the objective is met.

7. If a task being trained requires third party certification by a task certifier/certifying
official, the trainer ensures that the trainee is qualified to perform the task
independently. The trainee will then be evaluated by certifier/certifying official. Tasks
requiring third party certification are identified in column 2 of CFETP with a number
sign (#). The third party certifier will ensure documentation in column 3E of the CFETP
and finally appropriately document it in the members’ 6-part training/competency folder.

8. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing task qualifications for upgrade
training or job position training. Such standardization benefits the CFETP training
concept throughout a member’s career. These documents also may be used in
assessing/certifying pharmacy technicians upon arrival at a new duty station.

9. Feedback is a vital and important part of improving our educational process for
pharmacy technicians. Your first hand expertise is valued and feedback is highly
encouraged ensuring we have the most up-to-date information and training possible.
Please direct all inquires to: your immediate supervisor.
SUBJECT AREA: Pharmacy Administration

TASK NAME(S): Prepare Workload Reports, Report of Patients, and Cost Reports

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 9.7

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:

1. Composite Health Care System (CHCS)

TRAINING REFERENCE(S): CHCS Manual

REMARKS/NOTES: None

OBJECTIVE:

1. Demonstrate the performance aspects of preparing workload reports.

2. Demonstrate the performance aspects of preparing report of patients.

3. Demonstrate the performance aspects of preparing cost reports.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the
task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished without
assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1. Prepare Workload Reports

   1.1. Log into a CHCS terminal.

   1.2. At prompt select: Pharmacy Reports Menu (PRM).

   1.3. At prompt select: General Pharmacy Reports (GER).

   1.4. At prompt select: Medical Expense and Performance Reports (MEP).

   1.5. At prompt enter the earliest date.

   1.6. At prompt enter the latest date.
   1.7. At prompt select Medical Center Division.

   1.8. At prompt choose: Breakdown of Workload (yes/no).

   1.9. At prompt choose: Summary Page (yes/no).

   1.10. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter.

   1.11.Device: Select Printer “SPOOL.”

   1.12. Select Spool Document Name.

   1.13.New Spool Document? Enter Yes.

   1.14. Select expiration date for report.

   1.15. Enter requested start time for report.

2. Prepare Cost Reports (Patient Category < 65 and > 65)

   2.1. Log into a CHCS terminal.

   2.2. At prompt type: KP (pharmacy cost reports).

   2.3. At prompt select: Option 4 Patient Category.

   2.4. At prompt enter: Start date.

   2.5. At prompt enter: End date.

   2.6. At prompt choose: Limit report by patient age range? Choose: Yes

   2.7. At Prompt: Enter patient age range.
        * Note you need to compile two reports (age 0-65 and 65-100)

   2.8. At prompt enter: Outpatient Pharmacies to Report.

   2.9. At prompt enter: Select Legal Category (enter for all).

   2.10. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter.

   2.11. Device: Select Printer “SPOOL.”

   2.12. Select Spool Document Name.

   2.13. New Spool Document? Enter Yes.

   2.14. Select expiration date for report.

   2.15. Enter requested start time for report.
3. Prepare Cost Reports (Summary by MEPRS)

  3.1. Log into a CHCS terminal.

  3.2. At prompt select: KP (pharmacy cost reports).

  3.3. At prompt select: Option 1 Summary by MEPRS and Legal Category.

  3.4. At prompt enter: Start date.

  3.5. At prompt enter: End date.

  3.6. At prompt choose: Limit report by patient age range (yes/no).

  3.7. At prompt enter: Outpatient Pharmacies to Report.

  3.8. At prompt enter: Select Legal Category (enter for all).

  3.9. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter.

  3.10. Device: Select Printer “SPOOL.”

  3.11. Select Spool Document Name.

  3.12. New Spool Document? Enter Yes.

  3.13. Select expiration date for report.

  3.14. Enter requested start time for report.

4. Prepare Cost Reports (Managed Care by PatCat)

  4.1. Log into a CHCS terminal.

  4.2. At prompt select: KP (pharmacy cost reports).

  4.3. At prompt select: Option 7 Managed Care Options, and Option 4 Managed Care
       by PatCat.

  4.4. At prompt enter: Start date.

  4.5. At prompt enter: End date.

  4.6. At prompt choose: Limit report by patient age range (yes/no).

  4.7. At prompt enter: Outpatient Pharmacies to Report.

  4.8. At prompt enter: Select Legal Category (enter for all).
  4.9. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter.

  4.10. Device: Select Printer “SPOOL.”

  4.11. Select Spool Document Name.

  4.12. New Spool Document? Enter Yes.

  4.13. Select expiration date for report.

  4.14. Enter requested start time for report.

5. Prepare Cost Reports (AHFS)

  5.1. Log into a CHCS terminal.

  5.2. At prompt select: KP (pharmacy cost reports).

  5.3. At prompt select: Option 6 Prescribing Profile, and Option 4 AHFS Categories

  5.4. At prompt enter: Start date.

  5.5. At prompt enter: End date.

  5.6. At prompt choose: Limit report by patient age range (yes/no).

  5.7. At prompt enter: Outpatient Pharmacies to Report.

  5.8. At prompt enter: AHFS Categories (enter for all).

  5.9. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter.

  5.10. Device: Select Printer “SPOOL.”

  5.11. Select Spool Document Name.

  5.12. New Spool Document? Enter Yes.

  5.13. Select expiration date for report.

  5.14. Enter requested start time for report.

ATTACHMENT(S): None
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

   PREPARE WORKLOAD REPORTS, REPORT OF PATIENTS, AND COST
                                        REPORTS
                         PERFORMANCE ITEMS                            SAT   UNSAT
1. Demonstrate the performance aspects of preparing workload
reports.
 a. Log into a CHCS terminal
 b. At prompt select: Pharmacy Reports Menu (PRM)
 c. At prompt select: General Pharmacy Reports (GER)
 d. At prompt select: Medical Expense and Performance Reports (MEP)
 e. At prompt enter the earliest date
 f. At prompt enter the latest date
 g. At prompt select Medical Center Division
 h. At prompt choose: Breakdown of Workload (yes/no)
 i. At prompt choose: Summary Page (yes/no)
 j. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter
 k. Device: Select Printer “SPOOL”
 l. Select Spool Document Name
 m. New Spool Document? Enter Yes
 n. Select expiration date for report
 o. Enter requested start time for report
2. Demonstrate the performance aspects of preparing cost reports.
  a. Log into a CHCS terminal
  b. At prompt type: KP (pharmacy cost reports)
  c. At prompt select: Option 4 Patient Category
  d. At prompt enter: Start date
  e. At prompt enter: End date
  f. At prompt choose: Limit report by patient age range? Choose: Yes
  g. At Prompt: Enter patient age range *see note 2.7
  h. At prompt enter: Outpatient Pharmacies to Report
  i. At prompt enter: Select Legal Category (enter for all)
  j. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter
  k. Device: Select Printer “SPOOL”
  l. Select Spool Document Name
  m. New Spool Document? Enter Yes
  n. Select expiration date for report
  o. Enter requested start time for report
3. Demonstrate the performance aspects of preparing cost reports.
  a. Log into a CHCS terminal
  b. At prompt select: KP (pharmacy cost reports)
  c. At prompt select: Option 1 Summary by MEPRS and Legal Category
  d. At prompt enter: Start date
  e. At prompt enter: End date
  f. At prompt choose: Limit report by patient age range (yes/no)
  g. At prompt enter: Outpatient Pharmacies to Report
  h. At prompt enter: Select Legal Category (enter for all)
  i. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter
  j. Device: Select Printer “SPOOL”
  k. Select Spool Document Name
  l. New Spool Document? Enter Yes
  m. Select expiration date for report
  n. Enter requested start time for report
4. Demonstrate the performance aspects of preparing cost reports.
  a. Log into a CHCS terminal
  b. At prompt select: KP (pharmacy cost reports)
  c. At prompt select: Option 7 Managed Care Options, and Option 4
     Managed Care by PatCat
  d. At prompt enter: Start date
  e. At prompt enter: End date
  f. At prompt choose: Limit report by patient age range (yes/no)
  g. At prompt enter: Outpatient Pharmacies to Report
  h. At prompt enter: Select Legal Category (enter for all)
  i. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter
  j. Device: Select Printer “SPOOL”
  k. Select Spool Document Name
  l. New Spool Document? Enter Yes
  m. Select expiration date for report
  n. Enter requested start time for report
5. Demonstrate the performance aspects of preparing cost reports.
  a. Log into a CHCS terminal
  b. At prompt select: KP (pharmacy cost reports)
  c. At prompt select: Option 6 Prescribing Profile, and Option 4 AHFS
     Categories
  d. At prompt enter: Start date
  e. At prompt enter: End date
  f. At prompt choose: Limit report by patient age range (yes/no)
  g. At prompt enter: Outpatient Pharmacies to Report
  h. Queue on Device: Type Q then enter
  i. Device: Select Printer “SPOOL”
  j. Select Spool Document Name
  k. New Spool Document? Enter Yes
  l. Select expiration date for report
  m. Enter requested start time for report

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:
FEEDBACK: Using the performance checklist as a review reference, discuss the
trainee’s performance, indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvement, etc. If
trainee performed all task steps satisfactorily, document appropriately in trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder.
