 AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1
      PHARMACY TECHNICIAN




4P0X1 Qualification Training Package (QTP)


         6.4.3 Perform Unit Dose Operations




                                                   QTP 4P0X1-6.4.3
                                                          Oct 2007
                                              OPR: TSgt Holly Brose
     AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1 PHARMACY TECHNICIAN


                PERFORM UNIT DOSE OPERATIONS



                       TABLE OF CONTENTS


MODULE         OBJECTIVE                          PAGES

1.             Perform Unit Dose Operations       3-8




                                                           2
                                    INTRODUCTION

1. This Qualification Training Package (QTP) was developed to enhance and standardize
on-the-job training for 4P0X1 personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs provide teachable
elements of task breakdowns. The teachable elements will assist in guiding the trainee
towards independent task performance, proficiency, and serve as an evaluation tool for
task certifiers/certification officials.

2. Review the volume(s) of the Career Development Course (CDC) and identify which
module(s) of the QTP are needed for the trainee’s job position or upgrade skill-level
training. The QTP training for each module should be accomplished in the order which
most closely mirrors the area the trainee is working in. Items in column 2 of the
Pharmacy Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) marked with a 5 or 7 are
the core tasks for the 4P career field. Additional proficiency training may be required for
these tasks at the supervisor’s discretion.

3. Ensure the trainee reviews the training references in each module prior to attempting
any task or QTP evaluation. Review the performance checklist and training objective
with the trainee. If the trainee has questions about the objective, clarify the desired
outcome/results of performance, demonstration or completion for the task. Remember
the objective of each QTP is to standardize training and allow sufficient time for the
trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform the task independently.

4. When the trainee has received sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on the
objective, follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used as
you evaluate each task objective. When the trainee successfully demonstrates and
accomplishes the objective, document task completion appropriately in the member’s 6-
part training/competency folder.

5. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on an AF Form 1098 Special Task
Certification and Recurring Training, filed in part 3, section A of the 6-part
training/competency folder. NOTE: The individual checklists and final evaluations are
not filed in each member’s 6-part training/competency folder. A master checklist is filed
in part 3, section A of the Master Training Plan (MTP).

6. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing further
instruction. Conduct feedback for each module with the trainee, and document
appropriately in the member’s 6-part training/competency folder. As the trainer, once
you are satisfied the trainee is ready to perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until
the objective is met.

7. If a task being trained requires third party certification by a task certifier/certifying
official, the trainer ensures the trainee is qualified to perform the task independently.
The trainee will then be evaluated by certifier/certifying official. Tasks requiring third
party certification are identified in column 2 of CFETP with a number sign (#). The third




                                                                                           3
party certifier will ensure documentation in column 3E of the CFETP and finally
documented appropriately in the members’ 6-part training/competency folder.

8. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing task qualifications for upgrade
training or job position training. Such standardization benefits the CFETP training
concept throughout a member’s career. These documents may also be used in
assessing/certifying pharmacy technicians upon arrival at a new duty station.

9. Feedback is a vital and important part of improving our educational process for
pharmacy technicians. Your first hand expertise is valued and feedback highly
encouraged ensuring we have the most up-to-date information and training possible.
Please direct all inquires to: your immediate supervisor.




                                                                                 4
SUBJECT AREA: Inpatient Pharmacy

TASK NAME(S): Perform Unit Dose Operations

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 5.4.2; 5.4.7; 6.4.3

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
1. Medications
2. Unit Dose medication containers (blister packs, bottles, zip lock bags, or other single
dose packaging)
3. Labels
4. Typewriter or medication prepackaging software, computer, and printer
5. Pens
6. Quality control log (AF Form 2380, Pharmacy Manufacturing Control Data or locally
generated product)
7. Latex Gloves
8. Graduated cylinder (if packaging oral liquids)
9. Composite Healthcare System (CHCS)
10. Unit Dose Cart

TRAINING REFERENCE(S): AFI 44-102, 4P051B CDC, Volume 1, Sec 1-2,
American Society of Consultant Pharmacist (ASCP) Guidelines on Prepackaging of
Medications.

REMARKS/NOTES: Select a clean area separate from other pharmacy activities to
perform this task. If automated prepackaging equipment is used operate IAW
manufacturer’s instructions. The equipment should be completely emptied, cleaned, and
inspected before use to prepare the next product for prepackaging. Upon completion of
this task ensure all unused medications and labels are removed from the area to prevent
error. A pharmacist or technician with at least a 5-skill level must check trainee’s work
prior to transferring medications from bulk containers into Unit Dose packaging and
again prior to delivering the medication cart to wards or nursing units.

OBJECTIVE:

1. Prepackage medications in Unit Dose.

2. Utilize AF Form 3069, Medication Administration Record (MAR) or automated
product (computer generated cart list) to fill individual patient drawers with correct
medications in sufficient quantities to last 24 hours.

3. Deliver medication cart to ward or nursing unit.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:




                                                                                         5
1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of
the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished
without assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1.   Prepare medications in Unit Dose (U/D)

1.1. Examine medication to be prepackaged to ensure product is not deteriorated or
     expired.

1.2. Record quality control data from bulk container on to AF Form 2380 or locally
     produced quality control log to include:
     Product name (generic and most common brand) and strength
     Manufacturer’s name
     Manufacturer’s lot number
     Manufacturer’s expiration date
     Pharmacy’s lot number (if different from the manufacturer’s)
     Pharmacy’s beyond-use date (assign an expiration date of 1 year from the date of
       prepackaging or use manufacturer’s expiration date, which ever is earliest.)
     Number of individual doses packaged

1.3. Prepare labels using the following information from quality control log:
     Product name (generic and most common brand) and strength
     Lot number (use pharmacy lot number if different from the manufacturer’s)
     Manufacturer’s name if using a unit-of-use container from the manufacturer
     Pharmacy assigned beyond-use date
     Initials of technician prepackaging the product and pharmacist/technician
       checking their work

1.4. Have pharmacist or technician with at least a 5-skill level verify:
     Correct medication has been selected for prepackaging, that there is no
       deterioration, and the product is in date
     Quality control data has been correctly recorded
     Product label is accurate and legible

1.5. Don latex gloves.

1.6. Place one dose into each medication container.



                                                                                            6
1.7. Label each container.

1.8. Have pharmacist or technician with at least a 5-skill level check finished product for
     accuracy.

2.   Fill Unit Dose Cart

2.1. Obtain MAR or cart list from Composite Healthcare Computer System (CHCS).

 2.1.1. To generate cart list use the following menu path:
    Enter ^ CAR or go to Unit Dose Menu (UDM)
    Then go to Dispensing Menu (DIM)
    Then select Print Cart List (CAR)

2.2. Label each patient drawer.

2.3. Review MAR or cart list to determine medication (s) prescribed for each patient and
     the frequency of administration.

2.4. Add the correct medication (s) to each patient drawer in quantities sufficient to last
     24 hours. NOTE: Controlled substances are never placed in a unit dose cart. Local
     policy may also dictate that some non-controlled items be omitted. Consult
     OIC/NCOIC for guidance.

2.5. Initial cart list or MAR.

2.6. Have a pharmacist check each drawer against the MAR or cart list to ensure correct
     medications were added in sufficient quantities to last 24 hours.

3.   Deliver Unit Dose Cart to ward/nursing unit

3.1. Transport the filled cart to the ward/nursing unit.

3.2. Contact nursing personnel for access to room where medication cart is kept.

 3.2.1. If the cart was filled using a cart list check each patient’s MAR to verify that the
        medications in the patient drawer are correct. Fix discrepancies if needed.

3.3. Complete the cart exchange IAW local guidelines.

3.4. Return any unused medications to stock.

ATTACHMENT(S): None


PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:


                                                                                           7
                       PERFORM UNIT DOSE OPERATIONS
                        PERFORMANCE ITEMS                                        SAT            UNSAT
PRE-PACK MEDICATIONS IN U/D
1. Examine medication to ensure it is not deteriorated and is in date
2. Record data from bulk container on to quality control log
3. Prepare labels
4. Have quality control log and labels checked by pharmacist or
technician with at least a 5-skill level
5. Place one dose into each container
6. Label product
7. Have finished product checked by pharmacist or technician with at
least a 5-skill level
FILL UNIT DOSE CART
1. Obtain Medication Administration Records or generate cart list
2. Label each patient drawer
3. Add correct medication (s) in quantities sufficient to last 24 hours
4. Initial Medication Administration Record or cart list
5. Have a pharmacist check filled cart
DELIVER UNIT DOSE CART
1. Transport filled cart to ward/nursing unit
2. Check each patient’s MAR to verify that the medications in the patient
drawer are correct (if using cart list)
3. Complete the cart exchange IAW local guidelines
4. Return any unused medications to stock

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s
performance indication strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the
trainee performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s
6-part training/competency folder.




                                                                                                8
