                                  QTP 4N0X1-11
                                      May 2005




ALLERGY/IMMUNIZATION SPECIALTY



            ALLERGY
QUALIFICATION TRAINING PACKAGES
             (SEI 453)
                                  QTP 4N0X1A-11

                  ALLERGY/IMMUNIZATION SPECIALTY

                           Volume 11:     Allergy Specialty

                             TABLE OF CONTENTS

MODULE   OBJECTIVE                                                     PAGES

1        Principles of allergy                                         1–2

2        Type 1 hypersensitivity skin testing; intradermal and prick   3-5

3        Pulmonary function testing                                    6-9

4        Obtaining and staining nasal smears                           10 - 11

5        Administration and management of immunotherapy injections     12 – 14

6        Mixing of serial 10 fold dilutions                            15 - 16

7        Type 4 hypersensitivity skin testing                          17 - 19

8        Patient education, allergy patient                            20 - 23




                                              ii
                                     INTRODUCTION

1. These Qualification Training Packages (QTPs) were developed to enhance on-the-
job training for Aerospace Medical Service Specialty personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs
provide you with the breakdown of tasks into teachable elements. The teachable
elements will help you to guide the trainee toward sufficient proficiency for task
performance without assistance. QTPs are also used by the task
certifiers/certification official to evaluate trainees concerning tasks which need third-
party certification.

2. Review each volume and identify which modules of QTPs are needed for the
trainee’s job position. Core task items are identified with the number “5” on the STS
Column 2; these items are the minimum mandatory skills which are required for all
4N0X1 personnel to be proficient in performing. You have the flexibility to arrange
training for each module in the order that you decide.

3. Review the subject-area tasks in each module with the trainee. Direct the trainee to
review the training references to gain a better understanding of the objective for each
module. If the trainee has any questions about the objective, clarify the behavior that is
expected in the objective. Review the performance checklist with the trainee, and allow
him/her sufficient time to learn each step (some objectives may take longer to teach).
Remember--the objective of each QTP is to standardize training and to allow sufficient
time for the trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform the task without
assistance.

4. When the trainee receives sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on an
objective, follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used
as you evaluate each task objective. When the trainee successfully accomplishes the
objective, document task completion appropriately in the six-part folder.

6. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on AF Form 1098, Special Task
Certification and Recurring Training, filed in Part 3, Section B of the six-part training
folder. NOTE: The individual checklists are not filed in each member’s six-part training
folder. A master checklist is filed in Part 3, Section B of the Master Training Plan (MTP)
six-part training folder.

7. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas which need
remediation. Conduct a feedback concerning each module with the trainee, and
document appropriately in the 6-part folder. As the trainer, when you are satisfied that
the trainee is qualified to perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until the objective
is met.




                                             iii
8. If the task which is being trained requires third-party certification by a task
certifier/certifying official, the trainer first must ensure that the trainee is qualified to
perform the task without assistance. Then the trainee will be evaluated by a task
certifier/certifying official. The tasks which require third-party certification are denoted
with a “^” in Column 3E of the Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). After
third-party certification, training qualification is documented appropriately in the 6-part
folder.

9. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing refresher/sustainment training.
Such standardization will benefit the CFETP training concept throughout each
member’s career. These documents also will be utilized for assessing/certifying the
Aerospace Medical Service Specialist each time that he/she is assigned to a new duty
position. The QTP developers’ goal is to publish a usable document for certifying
officials, trainers, and trainees for the purpose of enhancing on-the-job training for
Aerospace Medical Service Specialty personnel. We value your first-hand expertise,
and we encourage your feedback. Direct all inquiries to:



                            383d TRAINING SQUADRON/XUEAA
                            c/o 4N0X1 CDC WRITER/MANAGER
                            939 MISSILE ROAD STE 3
                            SHEPPARD AIR FORCE BASE, TEXAS 76311-2266
                            DSN: 736-6983




                                             iv
Volume 11                                                                    Module 1

                               PRINCIPLES OF ALLERGY

SUBJECT AREA:                         Allergy.

TASK(s):                              Principles of allergies.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):               13.1.1.1.1, 13.1.1.1.2, 13.1.1.1.3, 13.1.1.2, 13.1.1.3.1,
                                      13.1.1.3.2, 13.1.1.3.3, 13.1.1.3.4, 13.1.1.3.5, 13.1.1.3.6,
                                      13.1.1.3.7, 13.1.3.8

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                   None.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                Allergic Diseases Diagnosis and Management; Allergy
                                      Principles and Practice, Volumes I and II; Allergy/Clinical
                                      Immunology Technician Course Manual.

REMARKS/NOTES:                        Review knowledge area with the Allergy/Immunization
                                      technician and provide them with the necessary training
                                      references.

OBJECTIVE:                            The trainee must provide the trainer with the required
                                      information.



EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient review of applicable references.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
   Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
   documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                 1
Vol.11 Module 1                                                           Principles of Allergy
                          PERFORMANCE ITEM                                    SAT       UNSAT
1. Differentiate and convey understanding of Class I and Class IV allergic
     reactions on the Gell and Combs scale:
         a. Class I, immediate hypersensitivity.
         b. Class IV, delayed hypersensitivity.
2. Demonstrate the ability to identify Class II and Class III allergic
     reactions on the Gell and Combs scale:
         a. Class II, cytotoxic.
         b. Class III, immune complex.
3. Identify the types of local allergy-causing pollen.
4. Identify the pollinating seasons of specific allergy-causing pollens
(i.e. mountain cedar pollinates in winter).
5. Identify signs and symptoms and convey the understanding of specific
patient presentations:
         a. Rhinitis:
                  1. Seasonal.
                  2. Perennial.
                  3. Sinusitis.
         b. Vasomotor rhinitis.
         c. Stinging insect hypersensitivity.
         d. Anaphylaxis.
         e. Food allergies.
         f. Medication/vaccine allergy.
         g. Irritants and physical agents.
         h. Dermatological manifestations of allergy:
                  1. Urticaria.
                  2. Angioedema.
                  3. Asthma.
FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee demonstrated
accurate knowledge on all items satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                                2
Volume 11                                                                                Module 2

                   TYPE 1 HYPERSENSITIVITY SKIN TESTING;
                          INTRADERMAL AND PRICK

SUBJECT AREA:                          Diagnostic procedures.

TASK(s):                               Perform immediate skin testing.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                13.1.2.1.1.1, 13.1.2.1.1.2, 13.1.2.1.3, 13.1.2.1.3, 13.1.2.1.4,
                                       13.1.2.1.5

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                    2x2 gauze pads, alcohol pads, Skin testing device(s) skin
                                       marker, skin test ruler, antigens being tested, gloves
                                       (optional) and sharps container.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                Allergic Diseases Diagnosis and Management, Allergy
                                      Principles and Practice, Volumes I and II, Allergy/Clinical
                                      Immunology Technician Course Manual, The American
                                      Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology’s
                                      Immunotherapy Committee’s Guidelines for Reporting
                                      Immediate Skin Test Results

REMARKS/NOTES:                         Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                       technician skilled and verified in Type I hypersensitivity
                                       skin testing.

OBJECTIVE:                             The trainee must successfully demonstrate without error
                                       the performance of intradermal and prick skin testing.



EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if performance
   could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
   Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
   documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                  3
Vol.11 Module 2                    Type 1 Hypersensitivity Skin Testing; Intradermal and Prick
                          PERFORMANCE ITEM                                     SAT     UNSAT
                          PRICK SKIN TESTING
1. Verify order for skin testing.
2. Interview patient:
        a. Any antihistamines in the past 72 hours?
            Note: some allergy medications may require up to 4 weeks to
            clear the system).
        b. Is patient currently on a beta blocker?
        c. Ask Female patients if there a possibility of being pregnant?
        d. Obtain written informed consent to perform ordered skin test.
        e. Educate patient on signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis.
3. Explain procedure to patient.
4. Prep selected test site (back or volar aspect of forearm) with alcohol
    pads and allow area to dry.
5. Using skin marker, create a grid appropriate to the number of tests
    being performed (minimum of 5 cm/1 inch apart).
6. Starting by placing the positive and negative controls and wait 10
    minutes.
7. Dab excess antigen from test sites, ensuring no cross-contamination.
8. Monitor patient for 15 minutes.
9. Accurately/legibly record results on locally approved skin test form
    using grading system IAW regional criteria.
        a. 1+ erythema smaller than a nickel in diameter (21mm).
        b. 2+ erythema larger than a nickel in diameter with wheal less
            than 3mm.
        c. 3+ wheal with 3mm or greater surrounding erythema.
        d. 4+ wheal with pseudopods and surrounding erythema.
        Note: The Immunotherapy Committee felt reporting the
        results as the actual measurement of the wheal and erythema
        would improve accuracy, precision and uniformity of allergy
        testing. The committee also noted that the actual measurement
        would have been made prior to converting the reading into a 0
        to 4+ scale and recommends reporting the results as,
        measuring the longest diameter of wheal and erythema/flare
        and reporting it as millimeters.
10. Clean test area with alcohol pads.
11. Inform patient of potential for delayed reactions and to seek medical
    attention as needed.
12. Do not discuss results with patient (may show test results).
13. Place a copy of skin test in patient's medical record.




                                             4
                    INTRADERMAL SKIN TESTING
 (NOTE: This type of skin test may only be ordered by an allergist who
 is physically present in the clinic).
 1. Verify patient has had a prick skin test and the physician has ordered
     intradermal skin testing.
 2. Explain procedure to patient.
 3. Prep selected test site (volar aspect of the forearm for small numbers;
     upper arm included for larger numbers > 20), with alcohol pads and
     allow to dry.
                          PERFORMANCE ITEM                                     SAT       UNSAT
 1. Using skin marker, create a grid appropriate to the number of tests
     being performed (minimum 1.5 to 2 inches apart).
 2. Starting with negative control, inject .02 ml creating a bleb at each
     predetermined site insuring only appropriately diluted antigen strength
     is used (100-1,000 PNU/ml or 1/500-1,000 w/v) and ending with the
     positive control (histamine .01 mg/ml).
 3. Wait 15 minutes.
 4. Grade test IAW local protocol (i.e. measure wheal and flares or grade
     according to regional criteria).
 5. Clean test area with alcohol pads.
 6. Inform patient of potential for delayed reactions and to seek medical
     attention as needed.
 7. Do not discuss results with patient (may show test results).
 8. Place a copy of skin test in patient's medical record.
 FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                                5
Volume 11                                                                               Module 3

                          PULMONARY FUNCTION TESTING

SUBJECT AREA:                          13.1.2.2 - Pulmonary diagnostic and therapeutic
                                       procedures.

TASK(s):                               Perform pre- and post-bronchodilator spirometry
                                       procedures, asthma challenge or testing, peak flow meter
                                       studies, and prepare and administer respiratory medication.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                13.1.2.2.1, 13.1.2.2.2, 13.1.2.2.3, 13.1.2.2.4, 13.1.2.2.5.1,
                                       13.1.2.2.5.2,
EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                    Spirometer, hand-held updraft nebulizer, peak flow meter,
                                       patient's metered dose inhaler (or placebo for training
                                       purposes).

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                 Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual.

REMARKS/NOTES:                         Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                       technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                       performing pulmonary diagnostic and therapeutic
                                       procedures.

OBJECTIVE:                             The trainee must successfully demonstrate without error
                                       the performance of pulmonary function testing procedures.



EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if performance
   could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
   Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
   documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                 6
Vol.11 Module 3                                                  Pulmonary Function Testing
                            PERFORMANCE ITEM                                SAT     UNSAT
              BASE LINE PULMONARY FUNCTION TEST
1. Verify physician’s order.
2. Identify patient/explain procedure.
3. Gather supplies/equipment.
4. Wash hands.
5. Verify patient data:
        a. Patient’s name.
        b. Identification number.
        c. Height
        d. Weight
        e. Race
        f. Date of birth
6. Select incentive display (if applicable).
7. Select baseline spirometry.
8. Zero the sensor.
9. Instruct patient in procedure.
10. Perform and save three good forced vital capacity maneuvers.
11. Print best test result.
            PRE- AND POST-BRONCHODILATOR STUDIES
1. Perform baseline spirometry.
2. Verify physician’s order for bronchodilator.
3. Administer bronchodilator agent by nebulizer as ordered by physician.
4. Select "post-bronchodilator testing" from testing menu.
5. Enter the name of the bronchodilator used.
6. Perform and save at least two good FVC maneuvers.
7. Print best post-bronchodilator study result.
           PERFORM BRONCHIAL CHALLENGE STUDIES
1. Select correct bronchial challenge test as ordered by physician.
2. Verify patient data.
3. Perform at least two good baseline FVC maneuvers and save the best
    test result.
4. Administer saline nebulization for 2 minutes.
5.   Let patient rest for one minute.
6.   Perform two good FVC maneuvers and save the best result.
7.   Administer next required challenge nebulization for 2 minutes.
8.   Repeat steps 5 through 7 until FEV 1 has decreased > 20% from
     baseline or maximum challenged dose has been administered.
9. Administer bronchodilator nebulization if FEV 1 has decreased > 20%
    from baseline.
10. Perform post-bronchodilator FVC maneuver and save the best test
    result.




                                               7
Vol.11 Module 3                (continued)                        Pulmonary Function Testing
                        PERFORMANCE ITEM                                     SAT     UNSAT
                PERFORM PEAK FLOWMETER STUDIES
1. Verify physician's order.
2. Move the marker to 0 or to the lowest number on the scale.
3. Have patient stand or sit up straight.
4. Instruct the patient to take as deep a breath as possible.
5. Have patient close lips tightly around the mouthpiece.
6. Instruct patient to ensure their lips and tongue do not block the
    mouthpiece.
7. Have the patient blow out as hard and as fast as possible.
8. Take the meter out of the patient's mouth and locate the marker.
9. Write down the number that the marker is pointing to.
10. Repeat steps 2 through 8 two more times.
   PREPARE AND ADMINISTER RESPIRATORY MEDICATION
                        METERED DOSE INHALER
1. Verify physician’s order.
2. Verify patient by using the 5 rights.
3. Explain procedure to the patient.
4. Remove the protective caps from both the inhaler and the spacer.
5. Attach the spacer to the inhaler.
6. Shake the inhaler well.
7. Instruct the patient to hold the inhaler with their middle finger on the
    sprayer with the index finger and thumb around the spacer.
8. Instruct the patient to breathe out normally through his/her nose.
9. Have the patient put the mouthpiece of the spacer in his/her mouth and
    close his/her lips around it.
10. Press down ONCE on the sprayer ensuring the patient keeps his/her chin
    up.
11. Instruct the patient to breathe in as SLOWLY AND DEEPLY as
    possible (this should take at least 3-4 seconds).
12. Ensure patient holds his/her breathe for 5-10 seconds.
13. Remove the spacer from the lips and have the patient pucker his/her lips
    as if to blow out a candle.
14. Have patient blow out slowly.
15. Verify physician’s order for a second treatment.
                 HAND HELD/UPDRAFT NEBULIZERS
1. Verify physician’s order using the 5 rights.
2. Obtain supplies and medication, check medication for expiration date,
    discoloration and calculate dosage.
3. Identify patient/explain procedure.
4. Wash hands.
5. Prepare updraft nebulizer for treatment:
        a. Prepare medication in nebulizer reservoir.
        b. Connect tubing to compressed air or oxygen unit as ordered.


                                               8
Vol.11 Module 3                        (continued)                  Pulmonary Function Testing
                           PERFORMANCE ITEM                                    SAT     UNSAT
6. Verify the 5 rights again.
7. Confirm patient is not allergic to medication.
8. Position patient in upright position.
9. Measure and record patient’s baseline vital signs.
10. Turn on oxygen or compressed air flow to nebulizer.
11. Adjust flow to obtain a steady mist (4-6 lpm).
12. Instruct patient to hold nebulizer upright and place their mouth over the
    mouthpiece.
13. Instruct patient to inhale and exhale slowly and deeply through their
    mouth until all medication has been administered.
14. Observe patient for adverse effects during treatment (discontinue and
    notify nurse or physician immediately if pulse increases more than 20
    bpm).
15. After treatment is completed, turn off oxygen/ compressed air unit.
16. Measure and record patient’s vital signs, to include peak flow.
17. Dispose of supplies properly.
18. Document procedure.
FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                                9
Volume 11                                                                               Module 4

                   OBTAINING AND STAINING NASAL SMEARS

SUBJECT AREA:                          13.1.2.4 – Nasal smears.

TASK(s):                               Obtaining and staining nasal smear samples for
                                       examination.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                13.1.2.4

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                    Nasal swab or 4x4 inch square piece of saran wrap, 95 %
                                       methyl alcohol, distilled water, Hansel stain, microscope
                                       slide, pencil and a microscope.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                 Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual.

REMARKS/NOTES:                         Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                       technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                       performing nasal smears.

OBJECTIVE:                             The trainee must successfully demonstrate without error
                                       the performance of nasal smear (cytology) procedures.



EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if performance
   could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
   Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
   documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                  10
Vol.11 Module 4                                           Obtaining and Staining Nasal Smears
                         PERFORMANCE ITEM                                     SAT     UNSAT
1.  Verify physician’s order.
2.  Identify patient/explain procedure.
3.  Gather supplies/equipment.
4.  Wash hands.
5.  Verify patient data:
        a. Patient’s name.
        b. Identification number.
6. Label slide with the above information
7. Explain procedure to the patient.
8. Collect specimen from patient:
        a. Using a cotton tip applicator (CTA) swab from inside nostril
            (obtain sample from under the middle turbinate).
        b. Have patient blow nose into piece of saran wrap.
9. Transfer specimen by gently gliding the CTA across the microscope
    slide or by direct imprint.
10. Prepare specimen by using the following steps
        a. Dry specimen on slide using either a blow dryer or allow to air
            dry.
        b. Flood with Hansel Stain.
        c. Add 2 drops of distilled water.
        d. Wait 60 seconds.
        e. Flood slide with 95% methyl alcohol
        f. Dry slide.
        g. Examine slide under microscope.
FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                               11
Volume 11                                                                               Module 5

                    ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF
                        IMMUNOTHERAPY INJECTIONS

SUBJECT AREA:                          13.1.3.3 – Immunotherapy

TASK(s):                               Types of Immunotherapy and Administration procedures.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                13.1.3.3.1, 13.1.3.3.2

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                    Gloves (optional), appropriate needle length and gauge
                                       with syringe, 2x2 gauze pads, alcohol swabs, sharps
                                       container, immunotherapy record, allergy extract,
                                       appropriate dosing schedule, epinephrine 1:1000 w/v,
                                       blood pressure cuff, stethoscope, and emergency call bell.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                 Allergic Diseases Diagnosis and Management; Allergy,
                                       Principles and Practice, Vol. I and II.

REMARKS/NOTES:                         Review steps of the process one-on-one with the medical
                                       technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                       dosing and administering immunotherapy.

OBJECTIVE:                             The trainee must successfully demonstrate without error
                                       the performance aspects of dosing and administering
                                       immunotherapy and treating post-injection reactions.



EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if performance
   could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
   Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
   documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                 12
Vol.11 Module 5                  Administration and Management of Immunotherapy Injections
                          PERFORMANCE ITEM                                SAT     UNSAT
     ADMINISTRATION OF IMMUNOTHERAPY INJECTIONS
1. Obtain patient's vial.
2. Check expiration date on vial.
3. Ensure the vial matches the patient treatment card (i.e. name,
    concentration, contents, and vial number).
4. Gather supplies:
        a. Tuberculin syringe with 26-27 gauge needle.
        b. 2x2 gauze pad.
        c. Alcohol prep.
        d. Patient identification label.
5. Evaluate patient by asking:
        a. How are you feeling today?
        b. Did you have any problems with your last shot?
        c. Is this your vial?
        d. Any change in your medications since your last visit?
6. Establish the dose using the 5 rights and:
        a. Verify schedule.
        b. Verify date of last injection.
        c. Verify any reactions from the previous dose.
        d. Verify the next dose.
7. Explain to the patient the increase/decrease in dose if applicable.
8. Wipe the vial stopper with alcohol prep and discard prep.
9. Don gloves. (Optional)
10. Draw the correct dose.
11. Prep injection site with alcohol pad using proper aseptic technique.
12. Inject needle in the subcutaneous tissue.
13. Aspirate.
14. Inject antigen.
15. Withdraw the needle from the injection site and discard it safely.
16. Wipe the injection site with a dry 2x2 gauze pad.
17. Document procedure:
        a. Time.
        b. Site.
        c. Dose.
        d. Concentration.
        e. Schedule.
        f. Initials.
18. Instruct patient to wait 30 minutes.
19. After 30 minutes, check patient and injection site for local/adverse
    reactions.




                                           13
Vol.11 Module 5 (continued) Administration and Management of Immunotherapy Injections
                          PERFORMANCE ITEM                                   SAT UNSAT
20. Annotate the treatment card with time patient left and type of reaction.
                 TREATING ADVERSE REACTIONS
(NOTE: Each mixing facility may have different protocols for managing
local reactions. Follow written guidance from the mixing facility in dose
adjustment for local reactions).
1. Identify patient's reaction.
2. Satellites reaction: notify physician.
3. Systemic reaction: notify physician.
4. Annotate reaction on treatment card.
5. Treat local, non-systemic, reactions with ice.
                                  ANAPHYLAXIS
1. Signs and symptoms include, but are not Shortness of breath, Hoarse,
    lump in throat, difficulty swallowing, wheezing, chest tightness, nasal
    congestion, rhinorrhea, flushing, urticaria (hives) feeling of impending
    doom, nausea/vomiting, abdominal cramps/diarrhea.
2. Define anaphylaxis on a cellular level.
3. Explain how epinephrine works.
4. Treatment procedures:
        a. Obtain emergency assistance immediately.
        b. Assess patient for further intervention (ABCs).
        c. Place patient in supine position and elevate legs.
        d. Administer epinephrine 1:1000 dilution of 1 mg.
                   1) Adults: 0.3 to 0.5 mL Intramuscular (IM) into the
                        Anterolateral thigh or deltoid
                   2) Children: 0.01 mg/kg body weight, maximum of
                        0.3 mL Intramuscular (IM)
        e. Obtain vital signs.
        f. Administer oxygen (lpm per local protocol).
        g. Attempt to obtain a history from conscious patient.
        h. Follow doctor's orders/local protocol for anaphylaxis
            management.
        i. Monitor vital signs every 15 minutes.
        j. Monitor patient/explain normal physiological reactions of
            epinephrine.
        k. Make patient comfortable.
5. Ensure immunotherapy treatment record, outpatient medical record and
    allergy records (if applicable) are clearly annotated regarding
    treatment, observations, and recommendations.
FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.

                                               14
Volume 11                                                                                 Module 6

                     MIXING OF SERIAL 10 FOLD DILUTIONS

SUBJECT AREA:                          13.1.4 - Extract preparation.

TASK(s):                               Extract types, Units of potency, Diluents, Mixing 10 fold
                                       dilutions and labeling procedures.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                13.1.4.1, 13.1.4.2, 13.1.4.3, 13.1.4.4, 13.1.4.5

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                    Empty sterile vial, HSA diluent, phenol saline diluent,
                                       syringe(s), alcohol pads, labels, source vial (vial to be
                                       mixed down).

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                 Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual.

REMARKS/NOTES:                         Review Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course
                                       Manual. Review steps of the process one-on-one with
                                       medical technician skilled and verified in allergen extract
                                       mixing.

OBJECTIVE:                             The trainee must successfully demonstrate without error
                                       the performance aspect of mixing serial 10 fold dilutions.



EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if performance
   could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
   Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
   documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                 15
Vol.11 Module 6                                             Mixing of Serial 10 Fold Dilutions
                          PERFORMANCE ITEM                                    SAT     UNSAT
1. Identify potential reasons to mix down:
           a. Current vial expired.
           b. Patient had significant local/systemic reaction requiring a
               reduction in strength.
           c. Patient failed to receive immunotherapy for a significant
               time period.
2. Verify name on vial with patient or another technician.
3. Determine extract type and appropriate diluent:
           Extract types:                             Diluent:
    a. Aqueous allergen extract                  a. HSA (0.03% human
        1) Weight/Volume (w/v)                       serum albumin with
        2) Biological allergen Unit                  0.9% sodium
           (BAU)                                     chloride and 0.4%
        3) Protein nitrogen unit                     phenol).
           (PNU)                                 b. Phenol saline diluent
        4) Allergy unit (AU)                         (.09% sodium
        5) Micrograms (mcg)                          chloride with 0.4%
        6) Milligrams (mg)                           phenol).
    b. Alum-precipitated                         c. Glycerin
    c. Freeze dried
4. Determine desired strength/dilution of extract needed.
5. Gather supplies and equipment.
6. Label appropriate diluent vial:
           a. Name.
           b. Contents.
           c. Strength.
           d. Expiration (vials mixed down from the strongest
               concentration are good for 6 months, not to exceed the
               expiration date on the source vial).
7. Using aseptic technique, prepare source and diluent vial.
8. Withdraw appropriate amount of extract:
           a. 0.20mL if diluent vial contains 1.8 ml of diluent.
           b. 0.50mL if diluent vial contains 4.5 ml of diluent.
           c. 1.0mL if diluent vial contains 9.0 ml of diluent.
9. Inject extract into diluent vial, discard syringe, and swirl gently
(NOTE: Steps 6 & 7 may need to be repeated to obtain desired strength).
10. Document immunotherapy record.
11. Ensure source vial is located away from routine storage area to avoid
    accidental use and harm to patient.
FINAL RESULT:

FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.


                                               16
Volume 11                                                                             Module 7

                 TYPE 4 HYPERSENSITIVITY SKIN TESTING

SUBJECT AREA:                       13.1.6 - Delayed skin testing (Delayed Type
                                    Hypersensitivity, DTH).

TASK(s):                            Tuberculosis test and anergy panel placement and
                                    measurement.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):             13.1.6.1.1, 13.1.6.1.2.2, 13.1.6.1.2.3

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                 26/27ga. Needle and syringe, 2x2 gauze pads, alcohol
                                    swabs, sharps container, antigens, and skin marker.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):              Mortality and Morbidity Weekly Report; Allergy/Clinical
                                    Immunology Technician Course Manual; AFJI 48-115,
                                    Tuberculosis Detection and Control and Core Curriculum
                                    On Tuberculosis.

REMARKS/NOTES:                      Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                    technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                    delayed skin testing procedures.

OBJECTIVE:                          The trainee must successfully demonstrate without error
                                    the performance aspects of placing, documenting, and
                                    reading Type 4 hypersensitivity skin tests.



EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.   After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the
     task.

2.   The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
     performance could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3.   Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4.   Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT
     record. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring
     evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.




                                              17
Vol. 11 Module 7                                             Type 4 Hypersensitivity Skin Testing
                      PERFORMANCE ITEM                                          SAT      UNSAT
                   TUBERCULOSIS SKIN TESTING
1. Verify orders.
2. Verify no contraindications by asking:
             Have you ever had a positive TB skin test?
                 (If answer is NO, proceed with test. If answer is YES, refer
                 patient to Public Health for evaluation).
             Have you had any vaccines in the last 6-weeks? (Live viral
                 vaccines suppress reactivity of the Purified Protein
                 Derivative (PPD).
             Are you on long tern steroid use?
             Can you return in 48-72 hours for a reading?
3. Gather supplies (PPD 5TU).
4. Check expiration date.
5. Demonstrate proper aseptic technique (volar aspect of forearm).
6. Place test via intradermal injection with bevel facing upward.
7. Using skin marker place 4 dots around the test area.
8. Instruct patient to return in 48-72 hours (or as ordered).
9. Give patient post-procedure instruction:
             Do not Scratch
             Do not cover the area with:
                      1) Tape
                      2) Band-aids
             Do not apply:
                      1) Lotions
                      2) Creams
                      3) Cologne
                      4) Perfumes
10. Document in PHS 731 and AFCITA.
11. Read DTH skin test using the "ball point pen" method:
             a. Visually locate margin of erythema.
             b. Hold pen perpendicular to test site.
             c. Place tip of pen lightly on skin, outside of any erythema.
             d. Slowly draw a line towards center of test site until you
                 resistance is meet
             e. Measure transverse only and document in millimeters
                 (document in PHS 731 and AFCITA).
12. If test is negative, process is complete.
13. If test is positive, refer patient to Public Health for evaluation.
14. Ensure results, in millimeters, are properly annotated in the shot record.
                     INTRADERMAL ANERGY PANEL
1. Verify order for anergy panel.




                                                18
Vol. 11 Module 7            (continued                   Type 4 Hypersensitivity Skin Testing
2. Gather proper supplies
    (Note: other antigens are available, this list includes the most
    common):
            a. PPD/5TU 0.1mg.
                         PERFORMANCE ITEM                                         SAT      UNSAT
            b. Candida 0.1mg.
            c. Tetanus toxoid fluid (1:5 dilution) 0.1mg.
3. Check expiration dates.
4. Demonstrate proper aseptic technique (volar aspect of forearm).
5. Place test via intradermal injection with bevel facing upward.
6. Using skin marker place 4 dots around the test areas.
7. Instruct patient to return in 48-72 hours (or as ordered).
8. Give patient post-procedure instruction:
            a. Do not Scratch
            b. Do not cover the area with:
                    1) Tape
                    2) Band-aids
            c. Do not apply:
                    1) Lotions
                    2) Creams
                    3) Cologne
                    4) Perfumes
9. Place test via intradermal injection with bevel facing upward with
    established
10. Properly label each test.
11. Using skin marker place 4 dots around the test area.
12. Document on locally approved forms.
13. Read DTH skin test using the "ball point pen" method:
            a. Visually locate margin of erythema.
            b. Hold pen perpendicular to test site.
            c. Place tip of pen lightly on skin, outside of any erythema.
            d. Slowly draw a line towards center of test site until you meet
                resistance.
            e. Repeat technique on all three sides.
            f. Measure and document in millimeters.
            g. Instruct patient to hand carry results to requesting provider
                or follow local protocols for distributing results to ordering
                physician.
FINAL RESULT:


FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.



                                               19
Volume 11                                                                                Module 8

                    PATIENT EDUCATION, ALLERGY PATIENT

SUBJECT AREA:                          13.1.7 - Instruct patient on self care.

TASK(s):                               Instruct patient on self care.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                13.1.7

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                    Multi-dose Inhaler (MDI), peak flow meter, and EpiPen.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                 Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual;
                                       Manufacturer's instructions.

REMARKS/NOTES:                         Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                       technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                       demonstrating the proper method of conducting allergy
                                       patient education.

OBJECTIVE:                             The trainee must successfully demonstrate without error
                                       the performance aspects of teaching patients the use of a
                                       MDI, peak flow meter, and EpiPen.



EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.   After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2.   The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
     performance could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3.   Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
   Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
   documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                 20
Vol. 11 Module 8                                              Patient Educations, Allergy Patient
                       PERFORMANCE ITEM                                        SAT      UNSAT
                      MULTI DOSE INHALER
1. Verify order for MDI.
2. Using an MDI trainer, illustrate to the patient:
      a. Remove cap from the inhaler to ensure no foreign body.
      b. Vigorously shake inhaler for approximately 30 seconds.
      c. Tilt head back slightly and breathe all the way out slowly.
      d. Place the mouthpiece of the MDI past your teeth and gently
          place your lips around it to form a seal. (Note: corticosteroids
          must utilize a spacer/chamber).
      e. Take a long, deep breath as you push down on the top of the
          MDI canister. Breathe in slowly through your mouth for about
          five seconds to deliver the medication mist to your lungs.
      f. Hold your breath for a count of 10. Remove the inhaler from
          your mouth and breathe out slowly.
          Repeat procedure as directed by physician, waiting at least 30
          seconds before repeating the procedure.
3. Spacer/chamber:
      a. Demonstrate to patient how to attach device.
      b. Remove cap from the inhaler to ensure no foreign body.
      c. Vigorously shake inhaler for approximately 30 seconds.
      d. Push the mouthpiece of the MDI into the rubber end piece of
          the spacer making sure the gasket of the spacer seals around
          the MDI mouthpiece
        e. Breathe in deeply, then breathe out.
        f. Place lips firmly around the mouthpiece of the spacer.
        g. Press down on the canister of the inhaler, holding the spacer     .          .
           upright.
        h. Take a slow deep breath and hold your breath for 5 to 10
           seconds. Note:(If you cannot hold your breath, breathe in and
           out normally for 3 to 5 breaths).
         i. Repeat procedure as directed by physician, waiting 60
            seconds.
4.   Disassemble MDI and demonstrate cleaning dispenser with warm
     water and a small amount of liquid detergent.
5.   Observe and coach patient as necessary while he/she performs the
     technique.
6.   Educate patient as to the location of the expiration date on the MDI.
7.   Inform patient of local refill policies.




                                                  21
Vol. 11 Module 8             (continued)            Patient Educations, Allergy Patient
                                EpiPen
1. Verify order for EpiPen.
2. Identify reason EpiPen was prescribed.
3. Reinforce physician's instructions on avoidance/precautions.
                      PERFORMANCE ITEM                                      SAT      UNSAT
4. Discuss signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and when to use
   epinephrine.
5. Use training EpiPen to demonstrate:
       a. Activate the EpiPen by removing the gray safety cap.
       b. Hold the EpiPen with the black tip pressed firmly against the
          outer part of the upper leg using moderate pressure. You will
          hear a “click”.
       c. Push the black tip against the leg until it activates. This
          pushes the needle into the leg injecting the dose of
          epinephrine.
       d. Hold the EpiPen in place for 10 seconds after the medication
          has been injected
       e. Inform patient to seek out the nearest physician for evaluation
           as soon as possible following injection.
6. Educate patient on parameters of second injection:
       a. Must be at least 10 minutes after first injection.
       b. Symptoms must be noticeably unchanged.
7. Teach patient proper syringe disposal.
8. Inform patient that EpiPen have expiration dates and to check the
   date periodically.
                          PEAK FLOW METER
1. Verify order for issue of peak flow meter.
2. Reiterate physician instructions on when to use the peak flow meter.
3. Demonstrate to patient:
       a. Numbers on the graduated scale on the side of the peak flow
           meter.
       b. Indicator, ensuring it moves freely on the scale and is set to
           zero.
       c. From a standing up or sit straight up, take in a deep breath.
       d. Place the mouthpiece in your mouth and seal your lips around
           it creating a tight seal.
       e. Blow out as hard and as fast as you can.
       f. Obtain measurement from scale.
       g. Repeat 2 more times.
       h. Record highest number of the 3 efforts in your peak flow
           diary.




                                               22
Vol. 11 Module 8              (continued)           Patient Educations, Allergy Patient
4. Advise patient to accomplish procedure twice a day for 2 to 3 weeks
    or as ordered by physician.
5. Ask patient if instructions on the peak flow measurements and
    actions to take if measurements fall below personal best are fully
    understood.
FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                               23
