             AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1
                  PHARMACY TECHNICIAN




           4P0X1 Qualification Training Package (QTP)


9.6 Compile Drug Utilization Review (DUR), Drug Utilization Evaluation (DUE) reports




                                                                   QTP 4P0X1-9.6
                                                                        Oct 2007
                                                               OPR: CMSgt Hodge
      AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1 PHARMACY TECHNICIAN


     COMPILE DRUG UTILIZATION REVIEW (DUR), DRUG UTILIZATION
                   EVALUATION (DUE) REPORTS



                        TABLE OF CONTENTS


MODULE        OBJECTIVE                           PAGES

1.            Compile DUR, DUE reports            3-7
                                        INTRODUCTION

1. This Qualification Training Package (QTP) was developed to enhance and standardize on-the-
job training for 4P0X1 personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs provide teachable elements of task
breakdowns. The teachable elements will assist in guiding the trainee towards independent task
performance, proficiency, and serve as an evaluation tool for task certifiers/certification
officials.

2. Review each volume(s) of the Career Development Course (CDC) and identify which
module(s) of the QTP are needed for the trainee’s job position or upgrade skill-level training.
The QTP training for each module should be accomplished in the order which most closely
mirrors the area the trainee is working in. Items in column 2 of the Pharmacy Career Field
Education and Training Plan (CFETP) marked with a 5 or 7 are the core tasks for the 4P career
field. Additional proficiency training may be required for these tasks at the supervisor’s
discretion.

3. Ensure the trainee reviews the training references in each module prior to attempting any task
or QTP evaluation. Review the performance checklist and training objective with the trainee. If
the trainee has questions about the objective, clarify the desired outcome/results of performance,
demonstration or completion for the task. Remember the objective of each QTP is to standardize
training and allow sufficient time for the trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform
the task independently.

4. When the trainee has received sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on the objective,
follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used as you evaluate
each task objective. When the trainee successfully demonstrates and accomplishes the objective,
document task completion appropriately in the member’s 6-part training/competency folder.

5. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on an AF Form 1098 Special Task Certification
and Recurring Training, filed in part 3, section A of the 6-part training/competency folder.
NOTE: The individual check lists and final evaluations are not filed in each member’s 6-part
training/competency folder. A master checklist is filed in part 3, section A of the master training
plan (MTP).

6. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing remediation.
Conduct feedback for each module with the trainee, and document appropriately in the member’s
6-part training/competency folder. As the trainer, once you are satisfied the trainee is ready to
perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until the objective is met.

7. If a task being trained requires third party certification by a task certifier/certifying official,
the trainer ensures trainee is qualified to perform the task independently. The trainee will then
be evaluated by certifier/certifying official. Tasks requiring third party certification are
identified in column 2 of CFETP with a number sign (#). The third party certifier will ensure
documentation in column 3E of the CFETP and finally documented appropriately in the
members’ 6-part training/competency folder.
8. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing task qualifications for upgrade training or job
position training. Such standardization benefits the CFETP training concept throughout a
member’s career. These documents also may be used in assessing/certifying pharmacy
technicians upon arrival at a new duty station.

9. Feedback is a vital and important part of improving our educational process for pharmacy
technicians. Your first hand expertise is valued and feedback highly encouraged ensuring we
have the most up-to-date information and training possible. Please direct all inquires to: your
immediate supervisor.
SUBJECT AREA: Pharmacy Administration

TASK NAME(S): Compile and record Drug Utilization Review and Drug Utilization
Evaluation Reports

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 9.6.

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED: Composite Health Care System (CHCS)

TRAINING REFERENCE(S): 4P051A CDC, Volume 1 and CHCS Manual

REMARKS/NOTES: None

OBJECTIVE:

1. The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the performance aspects of compiling
Drug Utilization Review and Drug Utilization Evaluation Reports.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished without
assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1. Log into a CHCS terminal.

2. At prompt select: Pharmacy Reports Menu (PRM).

3. At prompt select: Drug Utilization Review Menu (DUR).

4. At prompt select: Outpatient Drug Utilization Review Report (ODU).

5. At prompt choose option 1-6 for sorting report.

6. At prompt choose option 1-4 for type of report.

7. At prompt select Medical Center Division.

8. At prompt select site(s).
9. At prompt select patient(s).

10. At prompt select drug(s).

11. At prompt select physician(s).

12. At prompt select date(s).

13. Queue report to printing device. (spool)

ATTACHMENT(S): None
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

         COMPILE DRUG UTILIZATION REVIEW AND DRUG UTILIZATION
                                  EVALUATION REPORTS
                        PERFORMANCE ITEMS                            SAT UNSAT
1. Log into a CHCS terminal
2. At prompt select: Pharmacy Reports Menu (PRM)
3. At prompt select: Drug Utilization Review Menu (DUR)
4. At prompt select: Outpatient Drug Utilization Review Report (ODU)
5. At prompt choose option 1-6 for sorting report
6. At prompt choose option 1-4 on type of report
7. At prompt select Medical Center Division
8. At prompt select site(s)
9. At prompt select patient(s)
10. At prompt select drug(s)
11. At prompt select physician(s)
12. At prompt select date(s)
13. Queue report to printing device (spool)

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance
indication strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s 6-part training/competency folder.
