                                   QTP 4Y0X2-1
                                  September 2007

     DENTAL LABORATORY
         SPECIALTY

Volume 1. General Dental Laboratory
              Experience




            381st Training Squadron

               917 Missile Road

          Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2246
    Qualification Training
         Package Author: MSgt Andrea E. Bates

    Supervisory Training
               Specialist: Shane Wood

        Office of Primary
          Responsibility: AFMOA/SG3D Certified By: CMSgt Thomas W.
                          Davis Jr.




Supersedes QTP 4Y0X2-1, 01 Sep. 2001
Introduction_____________________________________________________i


      Volume 1, General Dental Laboratory Experience, Qualification Training Package (QTP)
contains modules on constructing casts and custom impression trays, mounting casts, repairing
prostheses, and maintaining equipment. This QTP is designed to enhance 5- and 7-skill level
OJT of dental laboratory personnel. The 4Y0X2 Career Development Courses may be used to
compliment the training references listed in each module. All QTPs are intended to be used by
trainees, trainers, supervisors, and task certifiers. Before initiating any training you should
review your responsibilities—as a supervisor/trainer—for conducting on-the-job training (OJT)
per AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program On The Job Training Administration.

      Six months after the apprentice graduates, you should receive a survey that allows you to
evaluate the in-residence apprentice course. This poll is a valuable tool, your feedback is critical
to improving our 3 level course and your career field. Subsequently, 3-skill level training
provides a foundation for your OJT

       QTPs are designed to help you conduct and evaluate your field training. Once you begin
upgrade training you are required to use the QTPs. QTPs provide continuity to the trainee’s
upgrade training and are divided into the following volumes: 1) General Dental Laboratory
Experience; 2) Fixed Prosthodontics; 3) Treatment and Orthodontic Appliances, Complete and
Removable Partial Dentures; 4) Dental Laboratory Administration; 5) Medical Material; and 6)
Supervision and Training. The QTP modules were written to assist you in preparing for and
conducting training. You must use the QTP modules for training when the STS task is a core task
(minimum qualification for the specialty). Each module segments the major tasks into teachable
elements. Your goal is to provide enough training and guidance so trainees can do all task
related steps, without assistance, and produce an appliance that meets local requirements for
speed and accuracy. QTPs also aid OJT task certifiers in evaluating the trainee’s demonstrated
performance. If you have local training requirements not covered by a QTP module you should
develop “steps in performance” and “performance checklists” that support and standardize those
tasks.

      Accompanying each volume of QTPs is a qualification training progress record. This
QTP record serves as a document to record the date the trainee completes each module. Every
person in qualification/upgrade training must have this QTP progress record filed in their OJT
folder. Use and annotation of this progress record is similar to current OJT documentation.
When you are satisfied the trainee meets standards, as prescribed in the QTP performance
checklist, you must document each task completion date in the “date completed” column in the
QTP progress record. If a person is being recertified on a task that is supported by a QTP you
must use that module to complete the recertification process. You should file the QTPs in an
accessible location.

       Typically, you will manage each module by first, training the tasks and then, evaluating
performance. Your local steps in performance may vary from the method listed in the QTP
module. If this is the case, you are authorized to make changes to the first half of each module,
(i.e. steps in task performance); however, the “performance checklist” is considered a standard
and cannot be altered. You may train each QTP volume/module in any sequence; however,
Introduction_____________________________________________________ii

when conducting training use an organized and methodical approach. This will reduce your
training time and enhance your efforts.
       For effective use of this QTP, conduct training in the following manner:
           1. Review the procedures in each module with the trainee.
           2. Direct the trainee to review the training references listed to prepare for task
               performance.
           3. Review the steps in task performance with the trainee, allowing enough time to
               adequately train each step (some modules may take longer to teach).
           4. Evaluate the trainee’s work at each critical step—using the performance checklist
               at this point will be helpful.
           5. Fifth, evaluate the trainee’s performance and provide feedback on any areas for
               improvement.
           6. Finally, when the trainee has successfully completed the task you must document
               and initial both the STS and the QTP progress record. If the trainee does not
               accomplish the module, conduct follow-up instruction until the trainee successfully
               completes the task.

      The QTP project goal of the 381st Training Squadron, Sheppard AFB TX, is to publish a
useable document for trainers and trainees. You are encouraged to write-in changes or revisions
to the QTPs. A corrections/improvements letter is located on the last page of each QTP volume.
You may choose to call in your recommendations to DSN 736-6906 or FAX DSN/Commercial
736-2781 or (940) 676-2781 or email the author at andrea.bates@sheppard.af.mil.

      The inclusion of names of any specific commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication is for informational purposes only and does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
Table of Contents_________________________________________________iii

                                                                                                                         Page
Module 1.          Use Infection Control Practices ............................................................................1
Module 2.          Use of Laboratory Work Authorization and Consultation Request (DD Form
                   2322) ........................................................................................................................3
Module 3.          Construct Diagnostic Casts ...................................................................................5
Module 4.          Construct Casts for Fixed Restorations ...............................................................9
Module 5.          Construct Custom Impression Trays .................................................................12
Module 6.          Mount Casts Using Arbitrary Method ...............................................................14
Module 7.          Repair Removable Prostheses Using Acrylic Resin ..........................................17
Module 8.          Perform User Maintenance for Dental Laboratory Equipment......................20
Qualification Training Progress Record....................................................................................23
Corrections/Improvements Letter ..............................................................................................24
MODULE 1: USE INFECTION CONTROL PRACTICES
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     2.7    Use infection control practices

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     CDC 4Y052
     USAF Guidelines for Infection Control in Dentistry, September 2004
     AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    After ensuring the trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using
    the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Disinfectant
     Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
     1. Before working on laboratory items, clean, disinfect, and rinse all dental
        prostheses and prosthodontic materials by using an EPA registered hospital
        disinfectant having at least an intermediate level activity
     2. Use PPE when handling laboratory items until they have been disinfected
        (e.g., impressions, occlusal records, wax bite rims)
     3. Place all disinfected laboratory items (casts, occlusal records etc…) in a
        designated “clean area”
     4. Prior to reuse, clean and disinfect items used on appliances previously worn
        by the patient, even if the appliance was disinfected prior to the
        adjustment/repair (e.g., rag wheels, burs, lathes)
     5. Clean and disinfect countertops and lab benches when visibly soiled and at the
        end of each day




                                                 1
MODULE 1. USE INFECTION CONTROL PRACTICES
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to use infection control practices and satisfactorily perform all
     parts of the task without assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are followed.
     Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.


USE INFECTION CONTROL PRACTICES
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                      YES     NO
1. Wear proper PPE when handling laboratory items not yet disinfected
2. Use appropriate disinfectant to disinfect laboratory items (impressions,
   occlusal records etc…)
3. Place all disinfected laboratory items in a designated “clean area”
4. Disinfect countertops and lab benches daily

FEEDBACK:
    Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance indicating
    strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps of
    the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify performance by
    appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                                  2
MODULE 2. USE OF LABORATORY WORK AUTHORIZATION
          AND CONSULTATION REQUEST (DD FORM 2322)
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     3.1    Use of laboratory work authorization and consultation request (DD Form
            2322)

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     CDC 4Y052
     AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services, Attachment 15

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    After ensuring the trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using
    the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     DD Form 2322

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
       1. Properly fill out the DD Form 2322 IAW AFI 47-101, Attachment 15




                                                 3
MODULE 2. USE OF LABORATORY WORK AUTHORIZATION
          AND CONSULTATION REQUEST (DD FORM 2322)
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to use laboratory work authorization and consultation request (DD
     Form 2322) and satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance. Evaluate the
     trainee’s performance using this checklist.


USE OF LABORATORY WORK AUTHORIZATION AND CONSULTATION
REQUEST (DD FORM 2322)
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                      YES                                     NO
1. Fill out DD Form 2322 IAW AFI 47-101, Attachment 15

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance indicating
     strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps of
     the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify performance by appropriately
     documenting the OJT record.




                                                  4
MODULE 3. CONSTRUCT DIAGNOSTIC CASTS
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     3.2.2  Construct diagnostic casts

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 1, Dental Laboratory Technology

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to construct maxillary and mandibular diagnostic casts by using the one-
    step and the two-step pouring methods. Demonstrate trimming the casts, emphasizing the
    critical anatomical areas of the casts. Have the trainee construct diagnostic casts and
    suggest ways to improve performance. Throughout this process, stress the importance of a
    properly fabricated cast. After ensuring the trainee has received sufficient practice,
    evaluate his/her abilities using the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Cast Trimmer                               Preweighed Die Stone
     Disinfectant Solution                      Saturated Dihydrate Solution (SDS)
     Distilled Water                            Spatula
     Indelible Ink Marker                       Tray Holder
     Graduated Cylinder                         Vacuum Mixer
     Mixing Bowl                                Vibrator

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
One-step (Upright) Method
      1. Disinfect impression
      2. Pour the impressions as soon as possible; no more than 10 to 15 minutes after removal
          from the mouth
      3. Inspect impression for defects
      4. Remove mucous film and debris
      5. Rinse under running water
      6. Measure distilled water
      7. Either weigh or use preweighed stone
      8. Vacuum mix stone and vibrate stone into impression
      9. Place poured impression into tray holder
      10. Add enough stone on top for a base (more successful with maxillary than with
          mandibular impressions)

       NOTE: Impressions must never be poured, then inverted into a mound of gypsum material
       to form the entire cast in one step. The stone tends to settle toward the base.

       11. Allow stone to bench set for 45 minutes (Do not exceed 1 hour)
       12. Separate cast from impression and soak cast in SDS
       13. Do not trim a cast for at least 2 hours after it has reached the final set



                                                   5
MODULE 3. CONSTRUCT DIAGNOSTIC CASTS
STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED):
     14. Trim base and sides of cast using cast trimmer and SDS for rinsing
     15. Produce land area and cast thickness of proper dimensions
     16. Dry cast and print patient's name on heel using indelible ink




                                               6
MODULE 3. CONSTRUCT DIAGNOSTIC CASTS

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

Two-step Method
1. Disinfect impression
2. Pour the impressions as soon as possible; no more than 10 to 15 minutes after removal from the
    mouth
3. Inspect impression for defects
4. Remove mucous film and debris
5. Rinse under running water
6. Measure distilled water
7. Either weigh or use preweighed stone
8. Vacuum mix stone and vibrate into the anatomical portion of the impression, to include full-
    border coverage
9. Place poured impression into tray holder
10. Add stone to create nodules and roughened peaks
11. Allow first pour to bench set for 45 minutes
12. Wet the first pour with SDS
13. Invert the tray into a newly mixed mound of the same stone
14. Shape the mound up and around the borders to create the desired size and thickness of the base
15. Overbuild the base to compensate for trimming
16. Flatten the tongue area of a mandibular pour 1 mm above (occlusal to) the lingual sulcus
17. Do not allow stone to creep up over the lingual flanges and lock in the tray
18. Separate the cast within 1 hour of the first pour
19. Do not trim a cast for at least 2 hours after it has reached the final set
20. Trim base and sides of cast using cast trimmer and SDS for rinsing
21. Produce land area and cast thickness of proper dimensions
22. Dry cast and print patient's name on heel using indelible ink




                                                7
MODULE 3. CONSTRUCT DIAGNOSTIC CASTS
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to satisfactorily construct maxillary and mandibular diagnostic
     casts and perform all steps without assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are
     followed. Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.

CONSTRUCT DIAGNOSTIC CASTS
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                 YES     NO
1. Inspect the impression for defects such as voids and tears, and if present,
   act accordingly to inform the dental officer or correct them
2. Properly disinfect the impression
3. Use proper water powder ratio
4. Carefully pour the impression to prevent trapping air bubbles and create a
   cast surface with no voids
5. Allow first pour to bench set 45 minutes
6. Separate cast from impression within 1 hour of first pour
7. Trim base and sides of cast to correct dimensions and preserve critical
   anatomical areas
8. Legibly print the patient’s name on the heel of the cast using indelible ink

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance indicating
     strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
     of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify performance by
     appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                                  8
MODULE 4. CONSTRUCT CASTS FOR FIXED RESTORATIONS
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     3.2.5  Construct casts for fixed restorations

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 2, Dental Laboratory Technology
     Manufacturer's instructions

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to pour maxillary and mandibular elastomeric impressions. Demonstrate
    pinning and basing casts using the Pindex ® method. You may choose to train and
    evaluate other dowel pinning techniques or dowel pin systems. Demonstrate trimming the
    working casts. Demonstrate sawing out and bulk trimming dies. Emphasize the strength
    and accuracy requirements of properly fabricated dies and working casts. Have the trainee
    construct fixed working casts and suggest ways to improve performance. After ensuring
    the trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the performance
    checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Artist Brush                                Bard Parker Knife
     Base Former                                 Carbide Burs (Large and Small)
     Cast Trimmer                                Crown and Bridge Saw
     Cyanoacrylate Glue                          Dental Stone
     Disinfectant Solution                       Dowel Pin Drilling Machine
     Graduated Cylinder                          Handpiece or Lathe
     Indelible Ink Marker                        Mixing Bowl
     Pindex Pins And Sleeves                     Preweighed Die Stone
     Saturated Dihydrate Solution (SDS)          Spatula
     Super Sep                                   Surface Tension Reducing Agent
     Vacuum Mixer                                Vibrator
     Wax Pencil (Red & Blue)

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
     1. Disinfect impression and rinse under running water
     2. Inspect impression for defects
     3. Trim periphery of impression material if needed to remove undercut
     4. Vacuum mix die stone
     5. Vibrate die stone into impression without creating voids
     6. Continue to fill impression until there is 10-15 mm of die stone above the margins of
        the preparations
     7. Prevent excess die stone from extending laterally and in palatal/tongue area of
        impression
     8. Allow die stone to set 45 minutes
     9. Remove first pour from impression without damaging the cast



                                                9
MODULE 4. CONSTRUCT CASTS FOR FIXED RESTORATIONS
STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED):
     10. Flatten base of first pour parallel to occlusal plane and trim sides using cast trimmer
     11. Allow first pour to dry overnight
     12. Trim palatal/tongue areas of arch at 90º or slightly more than 90º to the base using a
         large carbide bur to produce a horseshoe shaped arch (this reduces facial-lingual
         thickness and keys lingual of arch in cast base)
     13. Dampen base of arch and drill two pin holes in bottom of each preparation
     14. Drill two pin holes in bottom of each tooth adjacent to preparations which will be
         removable
     15. Drill appropriate number of single pin holes in remaining cast area for indexing arch
         segments
     16. Glue one long pin and one short pin for each preparation and abutment tooth
     17. Glue long pins in remaining holes for indexing
     18. Place white sleeves on long pins
     19. Place gray sleeves on short pins
     20. Mark pin locations on arch base with wax pencil
     21. Apply Super Sep to entire base of horseshoe
     22. Vacuum mix dental stone (use dental stone to distinguish between the pours)
     23. Vibrate stone around sleeves and pins without creating voids between pours
     24. Place remaining stone in base former
     25. Invert arch in base former and vibrate gently
     26. Allow stone to set 45 minutes
     27. Remove cast from base former and trim sides of base with cast trimmer
     28. Dry cast and print patient’s name on heel using indelible ink
     29. Saw out dies, making saw cuts 90º to the cast base
     30. Remove excess stone adjacent to gingival margin of preparation using pear shaped bur
     31. Ensure exposure does not exceed 4.0 mm of stone below margin; Do not create a deep
         recess
     32. Recontour dies to resemble root contours of natural tooth
     33. Return die to dentist for final trim




                                               10
MODULE 4. CONSTRUCT CASTS FOR FIXED RESTORATIONS
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to construct maxillary and mandibular working casts for fixed
     prosthodontics and satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance. Ensure
     proper safety precautions are followed. Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this
     checklist.

CONSTRUCT CASTS FOR FIXED RESTORATIONS
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                   YES   NO
1. Inspect the impression and remove excess material from the periphery of
   the impression
2. Measure water, use preweighed die stone, and vacuum mix stone
3. Carefully pour the impression without creating voids and build an adequate
   base for the first pour
4. Separate the cast from the impression without damaging the cast
5. Flatten the base of the first pour parallel to the occlusal plane, leaving 10-
   15 mm of stone for a die base
6. Trim the outside and lingual surfaces of the first pour and create a proper
   horseshoe arch preserving critical anatomical areas and precluding
   excessive die trimming procedures
7. Drill correct number of pin holes in the arch and in the proper locations
8. Cement pins fully in the arch and place sleeves properly
9. Base cast without creating voids between pours and adequately trim sides
   of cast base without damaging the teeth
10. Legibly print the patient’s name on the heel of the cast using indelible ink
11. Saw out dies without damaging preparations, adjacent teeth, or dowel pins,
    ensuring the dies can be removed appropriately
12. Sufficiently bulk trim dies without creating deep recess or weakening dies
13. Recontour dies to resemble natural tooth contours

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance indicating
     strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
     of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify performance by
     appropriately documenting the OJT record.



                                                  11
MODULE 5. CONSTRUCT CUSTOM IMPRESSION TRAYS
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     3.3    Construct custom impression trays

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vols. 1, Dental Laboratory Technology
     4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to construct maxillary and mandibular custom impression trays for
    complete denture and fixed prosthodontic casts. Stress the importance of strength,
    accuracy, and appearance of the final products. Have the trainee construct impression trays
    and suggest ways to improve performance. After ensuring the trainee has received
    sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Acrylic Bur                          Acrylic Mixing Spatula
     Alginate Separating Medium           Artist Brush
     Bard Parker Knife                    Baseplate Wax
     Bunsen Burner                        Disinfectant Solution
     Handpiece or Lathe                   Mixing Cup
     Rubber Gloves                        Steam or Ultrasonic Cleaner
     Tray Material                        Vaseline or Petrolatum
     Wax Pencil (Red and Blue)            Wax Spatula

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
     1. Identify and mark borders of tray on cast
     2. If tray will be made without a spacer, blockout undercuts on cast
     3. Heat baseplate wax sheet until softened
     4. Form softened wax over cast to create spacer
     5. Trim excess wax to specified tray design and apply petrolatum
     6. Cut out tissue stops in wax spacer IAW dentist’s directions
     7. Apply separating medium to cast
     8. Mix tray material to dough-like consistency (unless using a light cured (Triad etc…)
         material)
     9. Do not handle resin with ungloved hands
     10. Form tray material to 3.0 mm thickness on cast
     11. Put excess tray material in bowl of cold water
     12. Form handle/finger rests from excess tray material
     13. Dampen attachment site with monomer and promptly attach handle/finger rests to tray
     14. When impression tray reaches initial set and still warm, remove tray from cast
     15. Remove wax from tray and cast, as prescribed
     16. Finish tray with bur
     17. Clean and disinfect tray



                                              12
MODULE 5. CONSTRUCT CUSTOM IMPRESSION TRAYS
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to construct maxillary and mandibular custom impression trays for
     complete denture and fixed prosthodontic casts and satisfactorily perform all parts of the
     task without assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are followed. Evaluate the
     trainee’s performance using this checklist.

CONSTRUCT CUSTOM IMPRESSION TRAYS
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                 YES     NO
1. Adequately blockout undercuts on casts for custom trays made without
   spacers
2. Identify border and location of tissue stops. Create wax spacer of the right
   thickness and properly cut out tissue stops
3. Properly mix and handle tray material (When using a light cured material
   such as Triad, mixing is not require)
4. Adapt tray material to cast so custom tray is not too thick or too thin
5. Position and shape tray handle/finger rests to the dentist’s preference
6. Remove custom tray from cast without damaging tray or cast
7. Finish tray borders to the desired outline
8. Clean and disinfect custom tray

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance indicating
     strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
     of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify performance by
     appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                                 13
MODULE 6. MOUNT CASTS USING ARBITRARY METHOD
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     3.4.2  Mount casts using arbitrary method

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 1, Dental Laboratory Technology
     4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to key and occlude maxillary and mandibular casts for mounting.
    Demonstrate how to mount casts in a semi-adjustable articulator using the arbitrary
    method. Stress proper setting and maintenance of articulators and accuracy of cast
    mountings. Have the trainee mount casts and suggest ways to improve performance. After
    ensuring the trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the
    performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Buffalo Knife                             Bunsen Burner
     Dental Stone                              Glue Gun or Impression Compound
     Hanger Wire or Old Burs                   Large Wheel or Bur
     Mixing Bowl                               Mounting Rings
     Paper Towel                               Rubber Band
     Sandpaper                                 Semi-adjustable Articulator, Hanau H2
     Spatula                                   Super Sep
     Clay

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
     1. If casts have final record bases and occlusion rims, ensure cast bases are not too thick
         by checking height of casts and their occlusion rims in denture flask
     2. Cut keys in maxillary and mandibular casts using large wheel
     3. Remove stone nodules and heel areas which can interfere with occlusion
     4. Hand articulate casts in centric occlusion or occlude casts using intraoral records
     5. Lute casts together using glue gun or compound wax and hanger wires or old burs
     6. Apply separating medium to keys of casts
     7. Ensure articulator incisal guide pin is flush with upper member
     8. Lock articulator left and right horizontal guidance at 30°
     9. Lock articulator lateral guidance at 15°
     10. Set incisal guide table and wings at 0º
     11. Place mounting rings on articulator and position rubber band plane
     12. Tripod pieces of clay on lower member of articulator




                                                14
MODULE 6. MOUNT CASTS USING ARBITRARY METHOD
STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED):
     13. Ensure adequate clearance between cast and upper member for mounting stone
     14. Center casts on articulator with occlusal plane parallel with bench surface and even
         with rubber band plane
     15. Place moist paper towel on base of maxillary cast
     16. Mix dental stone to thickened consistency
     17. Remove paper towel from cast base
     18. Apply mounting stone mix to base of cast
     19. Lower upper articulator member into stone
     20. Shape mounting stone and remove the excess; do not create an under contoured
         junction
     21. Smooth mounting stone with spatula, leaving stone/cast junction visible
     22. Allow stone to set 45 minutes
     23. Invert articulator and raise lower member of articulator
     24. Prepare second stone mix and repeat mounting procedure for mandibular cast
     25. Remove luting materials from casts
     26. Unscrew mountings from articulator and smooth them with sandpaper
     27. Replace mountings on articulator
     28. Ensure original occlusal relationship is unchanged and incisal guide pin contacts
         incisal guide table
     29. Identify mountings with patient’s ID number and articulator serial number




                                               15
MODULE 6. MOUNT CASTS USING THE ARBITRARY METHOD
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to mount maxillary and mandibular casts in a Hanau H2
     articulator using the arbitrary method and satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without
     assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are followed. Evaluate the trainee’s
     performance using this checklist.

MOUNT CASTS USING THE ARBITRARY METHOD
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                  YES      NO
1. Key casts and apply separator correctly
2. Remove occlusal interferences, occlude casts accurately, and lute the casts
   together securely
3. Ensure the articulator was in proper working order and correctly set
4. Center the maxillary cast under the mounting ring and position the occlusal
   plane at the correct height and orientation
5. Attach maxillary cast firmly to upper member and contour stone to expose
   cast junction and smooth the mounting
6. Attach mandibular cast firmly to lower member and contour stone to
   expose cast junction and smooth the mounting
7. Remove luting materials and clean up mountings
8. Ensure original occlusal relationship is unchanged and incisal guide pin
   contacts table

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source, discuss the trainee's performance indicating strengths and
     weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps of the task
     satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify performance by appropriately
     documenting the OJT record.




                                                16
MODULE 7. REPAIR REMOVABLE PROSTHESES USING ACRYLIC
          RESIN
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     3.6    Repair removable prostheses using acrylic resin

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 1, Dental Laboratory Technology
     4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Due to the availability of cases in your laboratory, training on acrylic repair procedures
    may be limited. Select actual cases or use “training” cases for demonstration and
    performance. Demonstrate how to assemble broken denture pieces and construct casts or
    stone matrices. Demonstrate repairing fractured complete or removable partial denture
    bases. Discuss probable causes for denture breakage and solutions to prevent the problem
    from recurring. Stress returning the repaired appliance to the dentist as quickly as possible.
    Have the trainee perform acrylic repair procedures and suggest ways to improve
    performance. After ensuring the trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her
    abilities using performance checklists.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Acrylic Bur                                    Acrylic Mixing Spatula
     Alginate Separating Medium                     Bard Parker Knife
     Block Out Wax, Clay, or Impression Putty       Bunsen Burner
     Cast Trimmer                                   Dappen Dishes (2)
     Dental Stone                                   Disinfectant Solution
     Distilled Water                                Handpiece or Lathe
     Hanger Wire or Old Burs                        Identification (ID) Material
     Mixing Bowl                                    Polishing Compound
     Pressure Pot                                   Pumice
     Rag Wheel                                      Repair Monomer/Polymer
     Rubber Mixing Bowl                             Small Acrylic Brush
     Spatula                                        Sticky Wax
     Vacuum Mixer                                   Vibrator
     Waxing Instrument

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
     1. Align fragments or pieces of denture base
     2. Sticky wax broken denture pieces together
     3. Stabilize large repair areas using hanger wire or old burs and sticky wax
     4. Blockout undercuts of denture base areas not in the repair site
     5. Vacuum mix dental stone




                                               17
MODULE 7. REPAIR REMOVABLE PROSTHESES USING ACRYLIC
          RESIN
STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED):
     6. Vibrate stone into denture base to construct matrix/cast
     7. Separate matrix/cast from denture base
     8. Trim cast using cast trimmer
     9. Soak cast in saturated calcium sulfate dihydrate solution (SDS) for 10 minutes
     10. Dry surface of cast and apply separating medium
     11. Cut rabbet joints in denture base fragments to be joined using bur
     12. Align fragments onto cast and sticky wax fragments in place
     13. Moisten repair site with monomer
     14. Make alternate applications of monomer/polymer described below or use sprinkle
         method
     15. Place repair monomer in dappen dish
     16. Place repair polymer in separate dappen dish
     17. Dip acrylic brush in liquid, then powder to pick up ball of repair acrylic
     18. Apply repair monomer/polymer to repair sites
     19. Cure denture repair in pressure pot filled with 115º F water at 20 psi for 30 minutes
     20. Remove denture from pressure pot
     21. Carefully separate denture from cast
     22. Apply repair monomer/polymer to any voids, if present
     23. Repeat curing process if repair resin is added
     24. Place patient identification
     25. Finish and polish repair area
     26. Clean and disinfect denture




                                                18
MODULE 7.          REPAIR REMOVABLE PROSTHESES USING ACRYLIC
                   RESIN
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to repair the fractured denture base of a complete or removable
     partial denture and satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance. Ensure
     proper safety precautions are followed. Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this
     checklist.

REPAIR REMOVABLE PROSTHESES USING ACRYLIC RESIN
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                 YES     NO
1. Accurately align and secure broken denture base pieces together so
   repaired denture base fits properly
2. Construct matrix/cast for the repair areas without damaging the denture
   base or matrix/cast
3. Adequately prepare joints in the denture base to improve the strength of the
   repair
4. Accurately reassemble broken denture base pieces with matrix/cast
5. Correctly apply and process repair resin, producing a void free surface
   which is dense and strong
6. Finish and polish repaired areas so new acrylic blends with original acrylic
7. Clean and disinfect denture

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance indicating
     strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
     of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify performance by
     appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                                19
MODULE 8.          PERFORM USER MAINTENANCE FOR DENTAL
                   LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     3.9     Perform user maintenance for dental laboratory equipment

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     CDC 4Y052
     Manufacturer’s Instructions/Operations Manual

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    After ensuring the trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using
    the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Manufacturer’s Instructions/Operations Manual
     Dental Handpiece
     Cotton Tip Applicator
     Handpiece Lubricant
     Bur

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
     Handpiece
     1. Review equipment operating manual prior to cleaning/lubricating the handpiece
     2. Disassemble handpiece and clean/lubricate IAW manufacturer’s guidance
     3. Reassemble handpiece after lubrication
     4. Place bur in collet
     5. Run handpiece IAW manufacturer’s instructions
     6. Remove excess lubricant with paper towel

      Other dental laboratory equipment
      1. Review the manufacturer’s instructions prior to performing user maintenance
      2. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions throughout the user maintenance
         process




                                                20
MODULE 8.          PERFORM USER MAINTENANCE FOR DENTAL
                   LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to perform user maintenance for dental laboratory equipment
     and satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance. Ensure proper safety
     precautions are followed. Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.

PERFORM USER MAINTENANCE FOR DENTAL LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                    YES NO
Handpiece
1. Review manufacturer’s instructions prior to cleaning/lubricating handpiece
2. Disassemble handpiece IAW manufacturer’s instructions
3. Clean/lubricate handpiece IAW manufacturer’s instructions
4. Reassemble handpiece
5. Run handpiece IAW manufacturer’s instructions
6. Remove excess lubricant
Other Dental Laboratory Equipment
1. Review manufacturer’s instructions prior to performing user maintenance
2. Follow manufacturer’s instructions throughout user maintenance process

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance indicating
     strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps of
     the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify performance by appropriately
     documenting the OJT record.




                                                 21
This page intentionally left blank.




                                      22
              Dental Laboratory Qualification Training Progress Record

 Rank/Name ___________________________________________
                                          (Circle One)

 Qualification Upgrade Training to:         5-Skill Level 7-Skill Level

                  Vol. 1 General Dental Laboratory Experience
Core   Module                     Module Title                         Date      Trainer’s
Task   Number                                                        Completed    Initials
 5       1.
                 Use Infection Control Practices
 5       2.      Use of Laboratory Work Authorization and
                 Consultation Request (DD Form 2322)
 5       3.      Construct Diagnostic Casts

 5       4.      Construct Casts for Fixed Restorations

 5       5.      Construct Custom Impression Trays

 5       6.      Mount Casts Using Arbitrary Method

 5       7.      Repair Removable Prostheses Using Acrylic Resin

 5       8.      Perform User Maintenance for Dental Laboratory
                 Equipment




                                               23
MEMORANDUM FOR               381 TRS/XWAA (CDC Writer)
                             917 Missile Rd
                             Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2246

FROM:

SUBJECT:      Qualification Training Package Improvement


1. Identify volume and module.

   Volume #__________

   Module # and title_________________________________________________________

2. Identify improvement/correction section(s)

         STS Task reference                                  Performance Checklist
         Training Reference                                  Feedback
         Evaluation Instructions                             Format
         Performance Resources                               Other
         Steps in Task Performance

3. Recommended changes--use a continuation sheet if necessary.




4. Thank you for your time and interest.

                                                 YOUR NAME, RANK, USAF
                                                 Title/Position
