                                  QTP 4N0X1-12
                                      May 2005



ALLERGY/IMMUNIZATION SPECIALTY



         IMMUNIZATION
QUALIFICATION TRAINING PACKAGES
            (SEI 454)
                                   QTP 4N0X1-12

                 ALLERGY/IMMUNIZATION SPECIALTY

                     Volume 12:      Immunization Specialty

                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

MODULE   OBJECTIVE                                                 PAGES

1        Principles of active and passive immunity                 1-2

2        Active duty immunizations                                 3-6

3        Pediatric immunizations                                   7-9

4        Management of adverse reactions following immunizations   10 - 12




                                      - - ii
                                    INTRODUCTION

1. These Qualification Training Packages (QTPs) were developed to enhance on-the-
job training for Aerospace Medical Service Specialty personnel. As a trainer, the
QTPs provide you with the breakdown of tasks into teachable elements. The
teachable elements will help you to guide the trainee toward sufficient proficiency for
task performance without assistance. QTPs are also used by the task
certifiers/certification official to evaluate trainees concerning tasks which need third-
party certification.

2. Review each volume and identify which modules of QTPs are needed for the
trainee’s job position. Core task items are identified with the number “5” on the STS
Column 2; these items are the minimum mandatory skills which are required for all
4N0X1 personnel to be proficient in performing. You have the flexibility to arrange
training for each module in the order that you decide.

3. Review the subject-area tasks in each module with the trainee. Direct the trainee
to review the training references to gain a better understanding of the objective for
each module. If the trainee has any questions about the objective, clarify the behavior
that is expected in the objective. Review the performance checklist with the trainee,
and allow him/her sufficient time to learn each step (some objectives may take longer
to teach). Remember--the objective of each QTP is to standardize training and to
allow sufficient time for the trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform
the task without assistance.

4. When the trainee receives sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on an
objective, follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used
as you evaluate each task objective. When the trainee successfully accomplishes the
objective, document task completion appropriately in the six-part folder.

6. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on AF Form 1098, Special Task
Certification and Recurring Training, filed in Part 3, Section B of the six-part training
folder. NOTE: The individual checklists are not filed in each member’s six-part
training folder. A master checklist is filed in Part 3, Section B of the Master Training
Plan (MTP) six-part training folder.

7. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas which need
remediation. Conduct a feedback concerning each module with the trainee, and
document appropriately in the 6-part folder. As the trainer, when you are satisfied
that the trainee is qualified to perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until the
objective is met.




                                          - - iii
8. If the task which is being trained requires third-party certification by a task
certifier/certifying official, the trainer first must ensure that the trainee is qualified to
perform the task without assistance. Then the trainee will be evaluated by a task
certifier/certifying official. The tasks which require third-party certification are denoted
with a “^” in Column 3E of the Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).
After third-party certification, training qualification is documented appropriately in the
6-part folder.

9. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing refresher/sustainment training.
Such standardization will benefit the CFETP training concept throughout each
member’s career. These documents also will be utilized for assessing/certifying the
Aerospace Medical Service Specialist each time that he/she is assigned to a new duty
position. The QTP developers’ goal is to publish a usable document for certifying
officials, trainers, and trainees for the purpose of enhancing on-the-job training for
Aerospace Medical Service Specialty personnel. We value your first-hand expertise,
and we encourage your feedback. Direct all inquiries to:



                             383d TRAINING SQUADRON/XUEAA
                             c/o 4N0X1 CDC WRITER/MANAGER
                             939 MISSILE ROAD STE 3
                             SHEPPARD AIR FORCE BASE, TEXAS 76311-2266
                             DSN: 736-6983




                                           - - iv
Volume 12                                                                          Module 1

           PRINCIPLES OF ACTIVE AND PASSIVE IMMUNITY

SUBJECT AREA:                        13.2.1- Principles of immunizations

TASK(s):                             Define active and passive immunizations.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):              13.2.1.1, 13.2.1.2

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                  None.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):               ImmunoFacts Vaccines and Immunologic Drugs; The
                                     Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice; Mosby’s Textbook
                                     for Nursing Assistants; Red Book Report of the Committee
                                     on Infectious Diseases; Immunization-Allergy Specialty
                                     Course Manual.

REMARKS/NOTES:                       Review knowledge area with technician and provide
                                     him/her with necessary training references.

OBJECTIVE:                           The trainee Must provide the trainer with the required
                                     information regarding the principles of active and passive
                                     immunity.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

  1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the
     task.

  2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

  3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT
     record. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring
     evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.




                                             - - 1
Vol. 12 Module 1                              Principles of Active and Passive Immunity
                         KNOWLEDGE ITEM                                      SAT    UNSAT
1. Define principles of immunity:
       a. Nonspecific defense.
       b. Specific defense.
       c. Active immunity:
                 1) Naturally acquired.
                 2) Active immunization.
       d. Passive immunity:
                 1) Natural passive (maternal antibodies).
                 2) Passive immunization.
2. Explain active immunization process:
       a. Attenuated.
       b. Killed.
3. Explain passive immunization process.
4. State rules of giving attenuated vaccines.
5. State rules when giving passive immunizations and attenuated
   vaccines.
FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s
performance indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                             - - 2
Volume 12                                                                          Module 2

                        ACTIVE DUTY IMMUNIZATIONS

SUBJECT AREA:                        13.2.1.3 - Principles of immunization.

TASK(s):                             Active duty vaccines.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):              13.2.1.3

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                  Pen, PHS 731, Gloves (Optional), appropriate needle
                                     length and gauge with syringe, 2x2 gauze pads, alcohol
                                     swabs, sharps container, Band-Aids, appropriate vaccine,
                                     certifying stamps, and access to the Air Force Complete
                                     Immunization Tracking Application (AFCITA).

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):               AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis;
                                     Immunization Tool Kit, Manufacturer's package insert;
                                     Physician Desk Reference; Vaccine Prescribing Guide;
                                     ImmunoFacts Vaccines and Immunologic Drugs; The
                                     Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice; Mosby’s Textbook
                                     for Nursing Assistants.

REMARKS/NOTES:                       Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                     technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                     administering and recording active duty immunizations.

OBJECTIVE:                           The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the
                                     performance aspects of determination, informed consent,
                                     administration and documentation of active duty
                                     immunizations.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

  1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the
     task.

  2. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
     performance could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

  3. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

  4. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT
     record. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring
     evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.




                                           - - 3
Vol.12 Module 2                                                   Active Duty Immunizations
                            PERFORMANCE ITEM                                     SAT     UNSAT
                           DIRECT PATIENT CARE
1.   Identify valid vaccine requirement by verifying the PHS 731, Outpatient
     Medical Record or AFCITA program.
2.   Provide patient with current versions of Vaccine Information Statements
     (VIS) prior to vaccine administration
3.   Verify no contraindications exists by asking:
        a. Are you sick today?
        b. Do you have any allergies to food, medications or any
             vaccines?
        c. Have you ever had a serious reaction after receiving a vaccination?
        d. Have you ever had a reaction to a shot before?
        e. Do you have cancer, leukemia, AIDS, or any other immune system
             problems?
        f. Do you have any medical conditions I should be aware of prior to
             giving you an immunization?
        g. Do you take cortisone, prednisone, other steroids, or anticancer
             drugs or have you had x-ray treatments?
        h. During the past year, have you received a transfusion of blood or
             blood products, or been given a medicine called immune (gamma)
             globulin?
        i. FOR WOMEN: Are you pregnant or is there a chance
             that you will become pregnant during the next month?
             (NOTE: Women of childbearing age receiving live viral vaccines
             must sign a pregnancy disclaimer. This disclaimer must be filed
             in the patient’s outpatient medical record).
        j. Have you received any vaccinations in the past 4 weeks?
4.   Establish informed consent for vaccine(s) being administered (circle
     vaccines certified):
           Vaccine                   Route                    Dose
        a. Anthrax                    SC                    0.5 mL
        b. Hepatitis A                IM                    1.0 mL
        c. Hepatitis B                IM                    1.0 mL
        d. Influenza                  IM                    0.5 mL
        e. Flu Mist               Nasal Spray               0.5 mL
        f. IPV                     IM or SC                 0.5 mL
        g. JEV                        SC                    1.0 mL
        h. MMR                        SC                    0.5 mL




                                          - - 4
Vol.12 Module 2                              (continued)         Active Duty Immunizations
                         PERFORMANCE ITEM                                       SAT     UNSAT
        i. Meningococcal            SC                     0.5 mL
        j. Pneumococcal          IM or SC                  0.5 mL
        k. Rabies                   IM                     1.0 mL
        l. Smallpox                Scar                   3-15 jabs
        m. Td                       IM                     0.5 mL
        n. Typhim-VI                IM                     1.0 mL
        o. Twinrix                  IM                     1.0 mL
        p. TY21a                   Oral                    4 Caps
        q. Varicella                SC                     0.5 mL
        r. Yellow Fever             SC                     0.5 mL
5. Select needle appropriate for route prescribed vaccine.
6. Withdraw appropriate dose into syringe.
7. Don exam gloves. (Optional)
8. Using appropriate aseptic technique, administer injection properly for
    route.
9. Discard syringe appropriately into sharps container.
10. Apply 2x2 dry gauze as needed to control bleeding.
11. Gently message injection site.
12. Apply Band-Aid as needed.
               DOCUMENTATION (ADMINISTRATIVE)
1. Properly document PHS 731 (shot record):
        a. Administration date (dd/mmm/yy;10 Jan 05)
        b. Type of vaccine (annotation of vaccine must appear on
           standardized abbreviation list)
        c. Series number (if applicable)
        d. Amount/Dose
        e. Annotate manufacturer
        f. Lot number
        g. Signature of vaccinator (Not your initials)
        h. For yellow fever/cholera, ensure documentation includes:
           1) Administration Date
           2) AFMPC stamp with physician's name
           3) Technician Signature above AFMPC stamp
           4) Manufacturer
           5) Lot number
           6) DOD certification stamp




                                        - - 5
Vol.12 Module 2                               (continued)        Active Duty Immunizations
                         PERFORMANCE ITEM                                       SAT     UNSAT
2. Correctly enter patient information into AFCITA.
3. Print a DD Form 2766C, sign, stamp (if title does not already appear on
   the DD Form 2766C), and place into patient's outpatient medical record.
4. If AFCITA software is not available or is being utilized:
       a. Hand-enter patient into clinic log.
       b. Document immunizations in outpatient medical record
           (information must include dose, site, route, manufacturer, lot
           number, signature and stamp).
FINAL RESULT:

FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's
performance indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
demonstrated accurate knowledge on all items satisfactorily, document the results in the
trainee’s OJT record.




                                          - - 6
Volume 12                                                                                  Module 3

                             PEDIATRIC IMMUNIZATIONS
SUBJECT AREA:                            13.2.1.4 – Principles of immunization.

TASK(s):                                 Pediatric vaccines.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                  13.2.1.4.1

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                      Pen, PHS 731, Gloves (Optional), appropriate needle length and
                                         gauge with syringe, 2x2 gauze pads, alcohol swabs, sharps
                                         container, Band-Aids, appropriate vaccine, certifying stamps,
                                         and access to the Military Immunization Tracking System
                                         (AFCITA).

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                   National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986; AFJI 48-
                                         110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis; Immunization Tool
                                         Kit, Manufacturer's package insert; Physician Desk
                                         Reference; Vaccine Prescribing Guide; ImmunoFacts
                                         Vaccines and Immunologic Drugs; The Lippincott
                                         Manual of Nursing Practice; Mosby’s Textbook for
                                         Nursing Assistants; Red Book Report of the
                                         Committee on Infectious Diseases; Morbidity and
                                         Mortality Weekly Report.

REMARKS/NOTES:                           Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                         technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and
                                         verified in administering and recording pediatric
                                         immunizations.

OBJECTIVE:                               The trainee must successfully demonstrate without error the
                                         performance aspects of determination, informed consent,
                                         administration and documentation of Pediatric Immunizations.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

   1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

   2. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if performance
      could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

   3. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

   4. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
      Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
      documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                - - 7
Vol.12 Module 3                                                     Pediatric Immunizations
                        PERFORMANCE ITEM                                       SAT UNSAT
                        DIRECT PATIENT CARE
1. Identify valid vaccine requirement for age
2. Provide patient with current versions of Vaccine Information
   Statements (VIS) prior to vaccine administration
3. Verify no contraindications exists by asking parent:
        a. Is the child sick today?
        b. Dose the child have any allergies to medications, food or any
           vaccine?
        c. Has the child had a serious reaction to a vaccine in the past?
        d. Has the child had a seizure or a brain problem?
        e. Does the child have cancer, leukemia, AIDS, or any other
           immune system disorder? (NOTE: When administering live
           virus vaccines, parent must be asked if any family member is
           immunocompromised).
        f. Has the child taken cortisone, prednisone, other steroids or
           anticancer drugs, or had x-ray treatments in the past 3 months?
        g. Has the child received a transfusion of blood or blood products,
           or been given a medicine called immune (gamma) globulin in
           the past year?
        h. Is the child/teen pregnant of is there a chance she could become
           pregnant during the next month?
        i. Has the child received vaccinations n the past 4 weeks?
4. Establish informed consent for vaccine(s) being administered,
   utilize most current CDC Vaccine Information Sheet, and
   inform parent when to return for next immunizations (circle
   vaccines certified):
          Vaccine                Route                     Dose
        a. Comvax                  IM                     0.5 mL
        b. DTaP                    IM                     0.5 mL
        c. DTaP/HIB                IM                     0.5 mL
           (TriHIBIT)
        d. DT                      IM                     0.5 mL
        e. Haemophilus             IM                     0.5 mL
           B Conjugate
        f. Hepatitis A             IM                     0.5 mL
        g. Hepatitis B             IM                     1.0 mL
        h. Influenza               IM                     0.5 mL
        i. Flu Mist            Nasal Spray                0.5 mL
        j. IPV                  IM or SC                  0.5 mL
        k. MMR                     SC                     0.5 mL




                                           - - 8
Vol.12 Module 3                 (continued)                       Pediatric Immunizations
                       PERFORMANCE ITEM                                      SAT UNSAT
        l. Pediarix          IM                          0.5 mL
            (DTaP-IPV-
            Hep B)
        m. Prevnar                  IM                   0.5 mL
        n. Td                       IM                   0.5 mL
        o. Varicella                SC                   0.5 mL
5. Select needle length and gauge appropriate for route prescribed.
6. Using appropriate aseptic technique, withdraw appropriate dose into
    syringe.
7. Don exam gloves. (Optional)
8. Using appropriate aseptic technique, administer injection
    properly for route.
9. Discard syringe appropriately.
10. Apply 2x2 dry gauze as needed to control bleeding.
11. Gently message injection site.
12. Apply Band-Aid as needed.
              DOCUMENTATION (ADMINISTRATIVE)
1. Properly document PHS 731 (shot record):
        a. Administration date (dd/mmm/yy;10 Jan 05)
        b. Type of vaccine (annotation of vaccine must appear on
        standardized abbreviation list)
        c. Series number (if applicable)
        d. Amount/Dose
        e. Annotate manufacturer
        f. Lot number
2. Correctly enter patient information into AFCITA.
3. Print a DD Form 2766C, sign, stamp (if title does not already appear on
    the DD Form 2766C), and place into patient's outpatient medical
    record.
4. If AFCITA software is not available or is being utilized:
        a. Hand-enter patient into clinic log.
        b. Document immunizations in outpatient medical record
        (information must include dose, site, route, manufacturer, lot
        number, signature and stamp).
FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's
performance indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
demonstrated accurate knowledge on all items satisfactorily, document the results in the
trainee’s OJT record.



                                          - - 9
Volume 12                                                                                  Module 4

                    MANAGEMENT OF ADVERSE REACTIONS
                       FOLLOWING IMMUNIZATIONS
SUBJECT AREA:                            13.1.3.4 - Adverse Reactions

TASK(s):                                 Identify signs and symptoms and initiate treatment of adverse
                                         reactions.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                  13.1.3.4

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                      Gloves, syringe, needle adequate for subcutaneous
                                         injection, 2x2 gauze pads, alcohol swabs, sharps
                                         container, epinephrine 1:1000w/v, blood pressure
                                         cuff, stethoscope, duress system or emergency call
                                         bell, VEARS-1 Form or Air Force Complete
                                         Immunization Tracking Application (AFCITA) access.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                   Allergic Diseases Diagnosis and Management; Allergy
                                         Principles and Practice; Mosby's Textbook for Nursing
                                         Assistants; The Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice;
                                         AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis;
                                         AFCITA users guide; National Vaccine Injury Program;
                                         Vaccine Injury Table; Manufacturers package insert.

REMARKS/NOTES:                           Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                         technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and
                                         verified in treating adverse reactions following
                                         immunizations.

OBJECTIVE:                               The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the
                                         performance aspects of treating adverse reactions following
                                         immunizations.



EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

   1. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

   2. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if performance
      could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

   3. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

   4. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
      Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
      documented on AF Form 1098.



                                                - - 10
Vol. 12 Module 4                Management of Adverse Reactions Following Immunizations
                        PERFORMANCE ITEM                                  SAT  UNSAT
                             KNOWLEDGE
1. Differentiate between anaphylaxis and vasovagal
2. Verbalize classic differences:
        a. Vasovagal: Signs and symptoms include, but are not limited
           to, hyperventilation (rapid breathing) cool clammy skin, high
           anxiety pre injection, tense, fearful and nausea/vomiting.
        b. Anaphylaxis: Signs and symptoms include, but are not
           Shortness of breath, Hoarse, lump in throat, difficulty
           swallowing, wheezing, chest tightness, nasal congestion,
           rhinorrhea, flushing, urticaria (hives) feeling of impending
           doom, nausea/vomiting, abdominal cramps/diarrhea.
3. Define anaphylaxis on a cellular level.
4. Explain how epinephrine works.
                             TREATMENT
1. Get help (911, activate duress, etc.).
2. Assess patient for further intervention (ABCs).
3. Position patient in the supine position and elevate legs.
4. Administer epinephrine 1:1000 dilution of 1 mg (simulate):
        a. Adults: 0.3 to 0.5 mL Intramuscular (IM) into the
           Anterolateral thigh or deltoid
        b. Children: 0.01 mg/kg body weight, maximum of 0.3 mL
           Intramuscular (IM)
5. Obtain base line vital signs.
6. Administer oxygen (lpm per local protocol).
7. Attempt to obtain history from conscious patient.
    Follow doctor's orders/local protocol for anaphylaxis management.
9. Monitor patient and assess vital signs every 15 minutes.
8. Explain normal physiological reactions of epinephrine to patient.
10. Follow local protocols for anaphylaxis management.
                          ADMINISTRATIVE
1. Verbalize circumstances that would indicate completing a VAERS-1
        a. Any reaction listed in the Vaccine Injury Table.
        b. Any reaction requiring medical attention or that is not listed
           in the manufacturer's package insert.
2. Complete blocks 1 through 21 on VAERS-1.
3. Verbalize where copies are distributed:
      a. Send original to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting
      System (VAERS), PO Box 1100, Rockville, MD 20849-1100
      b. Copy to HQ AFMOA/SGOP 110 Luke Avenue, Room
      400, Bolling AFB, DC 20332-7050.




                                         - - 11
Vol. 12 Module 4 (continued) Management of Adverse Reactions Following Immunizations
                       PERFORMANCE ITEM                                  SAT UNSAT
       c. Either file a copy of the VAERS report in the patient’s
           individual medical record or record the relevant information
           on the VAERS report within the medical record
4. Properly document outpatient medical record, IAW AFJI 48-110.
   Documentation must include:
       a. Lot number
       b. Manufacturer of the biological agent
       c. Date of administration.
       d. Name and location of the medical facility
       e. Type and severity of reaction.
5. Annotate PHS 731 to ensure no further injections of offending
   vaccine.
6. Verbalize recall initiation process:
       a. Immediately notify the Joint Readiness Clinical Advisory
           Board (www.jrcab.army.mil), via email message
       b. Suspend usage, but retain all such vials or lots under
           appropriate storage conditions pending further investigation.
       c. Contact manufacturer for any previous reports.
7. For active duty patients, advise attending physician if patient must
   be evaluated by an allergist for a permanent waiver/MEB IAW AFJI
   48-110.
FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s
performance indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                             - - 12
