 AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1
      PHARMACY TECHNICIAN




4P0X1 Qualification Training Package (QTP)


      6.3.2 Prepare Cytotoxic & Biological Agents




                                                  QTP 4P0X1-6.3.2
                                                         Oct 2007
                                             OPR: TSgt Holly Brose
      AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1 PHARMACY TECHNICIAN


            PREPARE CYTOTOXIC & BIOLOGICAL AGENTS



                         TABLE OF CONTENTS


MODULE          OBJECTIVE                                               PAGES


1.              Risk of exposure to chemotherapeutic drugs                   3-6

2.              Reducing risk of exposure to chemotherapeutic drugs          6-7

3               Preparing the work area                                 7-8

4.              Preparing the Chemotherapeutic admixture                8

5.              Preparing the drug for delivery                         8-9

6               Clean up of the work area                               9

7.              Clean up of spills inside Biological Safety Cabinet     9 - 10

8               Clean up of a spill outside the Biological Safety Cabinet     10 - 11

9.              Clean up of Personal Contamination                     11

10.             Performance Checklist                                       12 - 13




                                                                                        2
                                    INTRODUCTION

1. This Qualification Training Package (QTP) was developed to enhance and standardize
on-the-job training for 4P0X1 personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs provide teachable
elements of task breakdowns. The teachable elements will assist in guiding the trainee
towards independent task performance, proficiency, and serve as an evaluation tool for
task certifiers/certification officials.

2. Review the volume(s) of the Career Development Course (CDC) and identify which
module(s) of the QTP are needed for the trainee’s job position or upgrade skill-level
training. The QTP training for each module should be accomplished in the order which
most closely mirrors the area the trainee is working in. Items in column 2 of the
Pharmacy Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) marked with a 5 or 7 are
the core tasks for the 4P career field. Additional proficiency training may be required for
these tasks at the supervisor’s discretion.

3. Ensure the trainee reviews the training references in each module prior to attempting
any task or QTP evaluation. Review the performance checklist and training objective
with the trainee. If the trainee has questions about the objective, clarify the desired
outcome/results of performance, demonstration or completion for the task. Remember
the objective of each QTP is to standardize training and allow sufficient time for the
trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform the task independently.

4. When the trainee has received sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on the
objective, follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used as
you evaluate each task objective. When the trainee successfully demonstrates and
accomplishes the objective, document task completion appropriately in the member’s 6-
part training/competency folder.

5. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on an AF Form 1098 Special Task
Certification and Recurring Training, filed in part 3, section A of the 6-part
training/competency folder. NOTE: The individual checklists and final evaluations are
not filed in each member’s 6-part training/competency folder. A master checklist is filed
in part 3, section A of the Master Training Plan (MTP).

6. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing further
instruction. Conduct feedback for each module with the trainee, and document
appropriately in the member’s 6-part training/competency folder. As the trainer, once
you are satisfied the trainee is ready to perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until
the objective is met.

7. If a task being trained requires third party certification by a task certifier/certifying
official, the trainer ensures the trainee is qualified to perform the task independently.
The trainee will then be evaluated by certifier/certifying official. Tasks requiring third
party certification are identified in column 2 of CFETP with a number sign (#). The third




                                                                                           3
party certifier will ensure documentation in column 3E of the CFETP and finally
document appropriately in the members’ 6-part training/competency folder.

8. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing task qualifications for upgrade
training or job position training. Such standardization benefits the CFETP training
concept throughout a member’s career. These documents also may be used in
assessing/certifying pharmacy technicians upon arrival at a new duty station.

9. Feedback is a vital and important part of improving our educational process for
pharmacy technicians. Your first hand expertise is valued and feedback highly
encouraged ensuring we have the most up-to-date information and training possible.
Please direct all inquires to: your immediate supervisor.




                                                                                 4
SUBJECT AREA: Inpatient Pharmacy

TASK NAME(S): Preparing Cytotoxic & Biological Agents

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 6.2.7; 6.3; 6.3.1; 6.3.2; 6.3.3; 6.3.4

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
  1. Material Safety Data Sheets                   13. 70% alcohol solution/swabs
  2. Class II Biological Safety Cabinet            14. Chemotherapy emergency personal
  3. Lint-free gown                                    spill kit
  4. 2 pair latex gloves                           15. Chemotherapy contamination kit
  5. Safety glasses                                16. Syringes
  6. Hair cover                                    17. Syringe caps
  7. Surgical mask                                 18. Needles
  8. Germicidal cleanser                           19. Parenteral solutions
  9. Lint-free towels/gauze                        20. Vials
  10. Plastic sealable bag                         21. Ampules
  11. Chemotherapy disposable                      22. Filter needles/straws
      bags/waste container                         23. Chemotherapy preparation mats
  12. Chemotherapy warning labels

TRAINING REFERENCE(S): Chemocheck™ Training and Certification Program,
The OSHA Hazard Communication Standard

REMARKS/NOTES: In accordance with the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard
everyone involved in the preparation, administration, and disposal of chemotherapeutic
admixtures must be provided training on workplace risk and safe handling practices to
include proper use of Material Safety Data Sheets. The trainee should be recertified on
preparing chemotherapeutic admixtures annually.

OBJECTIVE:

1. Given a provider’s order and the necessary equipment, safely prepare and transport
chemotherapeutic admixtures and dispose of hazardous waste.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS: In evaluating the trainee’s knowledge and
technique, trainer should use non-hazardous medication solutions such as Fluorscein that
will fluoresce under UV light. OSHA recommends knowledge and competence of
trainee be evaluated after the first training session and annually thereafter.

1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of
the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished
without assistance and without error.




                                                                                            5
3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1. Risk Of Exposure To Chemotherapeutic Medications
Many medications used in the preparation of chemotherapeutic admixtures are cytotoxic
(work by eliminating existing cancer cells but can also harm and kill healthy cells),
mutagenic (cause changes in the reproductive (DNA) material of the cell resulting in
miscarriage, and birth defects, therefore should not be handled if pregnant) or
carcinogenic (cancer causing). Some are also vesicants and irritants, causing skin rash,
blistering, or discoloration. They must be handled differently from less hazardous
medications in order to reduce the risk of inadvertent exposure to staff and patients
through inhalation, absorption, ingestion, and accidental injection.

Risk of exposure from inhalation is greatest when drug particles enter the environment
through aersolization while being injected into a vial or parenteral solution, or when air
from a drug-filled syringe is expelled. This risk can be reduced by using the technique of
maintaining negative pressure during injection and the use of a Biological Control
Cabinet or a respirator.

Risk of exposure from absorption may occur when the skin comes in contact with the
medication through aersolization, spraying, spills or touching a contaminated surface. It
is important to immediately wash the contaminated area to prevent prolonged exposure.
Additionally, cuts caused by improper handling of ampules and uncapped needles can
also lead to exposure. Use of proper technique in inserting and withdrawing needles,
capping and uncapping syringes, and opening ampules should reduce this risk. Also, do
not wear soft contact lenses when preparing chemotherapeutic medications outside the
Biological Safety Cabinet. These lenses are permeable and may absorb medication
particles or dust which can be absorbed into the body.

Risk of exposure from ingestion may occur when medication particles or droplets enter
the body orally by way of food, beverages, etc. Never take these items into areas where
chemotherapy medications are stored or prepared.

Risk of exposure from injection can occur if a contaminated needle or broken glass
accidentally punctures the skin. To prevent this, it is imperative to keep the needle
capped when not in use. Punctures can occur when capping and uncapping the needle
and when opening ampules. Be sure to always proceed slowly and cautiously during
these procedures.


2. Reducing Risk Of Exposure To Chemotherapeutic Medications




                                                                                        6
OSHA guidelines for the safe handling of hazardous medications require the use of a
Class II Biological Safety Cabinet (sometimes referred to as a vertical flow hood). This
equipment provides a Class 100 clean-air workstation while providing some protection to
the preparer and the work area from exposure to the product being prepared. It also has a
glass barrier that pulls down on the front for added protection. The Biological Safety
Cabinet should be certified according to specification of the National Sanitation
Foundation Standard 49 and Class 100 specifications of Federal Standard 209C before
use. Decontaminate weekly or immediately after a spill to remove the chemical
contamination. The hood should be washed and rinsed with a detergent and distilled
water using gauze or towels. All waste should be discarded in sealable plastic bags and
placed in a plastic chemotherapy waste container for disposal.

In addition to a Biological Safety Cabinet, properly utilized protective clothing and other
equipment can minimize the risk of exposure to hazardous medications. Healthcare
workers preparing chemotherapeutic admixtures should wear powder free disposable
gloves of reasonable thickness, lint free disposable gowns with a closed front, long
sleeves, and tight-fitting elastic or knit cuffs. Proper technique and supplies designed to
aid in safe preparation should also be used. The build-up of positive pressure in
medication vials and syringes must be avoided at all times to reduce aersolization.
Syringes with Luer-lock should be used in order to reduce the potential for accidental
leaks or separation of the fittings. Venting devices with hydrophobic filters when used
properly can provide an added safety. New safe devices such as the PhaSeal system
combined with safe handling practices add an even great level of protection.

3. Preparing the Work Area

3.1. Review Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for medication being prepared

3.2. Double check calculations

3.3. Assemble the supplies needed to make the admixture (sealable bag, 70% alcohol
    solution, gauze, towels, syringes, needles, filter needles, vials, ampules, etc)

3.4. Don protective clothing
           Put on the hair cover tucking all hair inside the cap

              Using proper technique, wash hands with a germicidal cleanser for at least
               30 seconds. (Start at the top of the hands and work your way down to
               elbow. When rinsing, do so from the tip of the fingers to the elbow, do
               not let the water run off of your finger tips)

              Put on the gown (must be worn with sleeves down)

              Put on the first pair of gloves and tuck them under the cuffs of the gown




                                                                                           7
              Put on the outer gloves, pulling them securely over the gown cuffs to
               prevent skin exposure. Wash gloves with germicidal cleanser if not
               sterile. Replace gown if it gets wet.)

              Pull the gown sleeve into place

              Put on surgical masks

              Don respirator and safety goggles (if not using a Class II Biological Safety
               Cabinet)

              Put on boot/shoe covers

3.5. Clean work area with 70% alcohol solution and lint free gauze or towels (wipe from
    top to bottom, and back to front. Discarded waste in sealable plastic bag

3.6. Place preparation mat in the hood

3.7. Place plastic bag against a side wall

3.8. Place all supplies on preparation mat

3.9. Once all supplies are in the hood, swab the stoppers on vials and ports of injections,
    and wipe the outside of ampules. Discard gauze in the plastic bag in the hood.

4. Preparing the Chemotherapeutic Admixture

4.1. Reconstitute powders or break ampule

4.2. Withdraw liquid from vial or ampule (for vials use the negative pressure technique)

4.3. Have pharmacist check the quantity of drug in the syringe to assure accuracy

4.4. Inject the medication solution into the bag/bottle (use the negative pressure
    technique)

4.5. Seal IV bag/bottle

5. Preparing the Medication for Delivery

5.1. Have pharmacist check the admixture to assure that it is correct

5.2. Label the admixture with the IV label containing patient’s information and the
    Chemo Warning Label. Warning label must be clearly visible on the outside of the
    bag and should read as follow:



                                                                                          8
                                             CAUTION:
                                          CHEMOTHERAPY
                                       HANDLE WITH GLOVES
                                       DISPOSE OF PROPERLY



5.3. Have pharmacist check pharmacy label and finished product for accuracy

5.4. Place properly labeled medication in a plastic chemo bag. Ensure bag/bottle is
    capped and sealed before transport. Hand-carry to ward or clinic or let the
    nurse/doctor know the product is ready for pick-up per local procedures. Ensure
    anyone transporting the products is briefed on safe handling and risks of exposure.

6. Cleaning the Work Area

6.1. Place items to be discarded into sealable plastic bag

6.2. Disinfect Biological Safety Cabinet by wiping down with 70% alcohol. Allow
    alcohol to dry on surface. Do not rinse or towel dry

6.3. Dispose of all gauze and toweling in sealable bag and place in chemotherapy waste
    container for disposal along with needles, syringes, vials, ampules, and other waste

6.4. Remove protective clothing:

      First, remove the outer pair of gloves by placing your gloved fingers on the
       outside of the glove cuff. Remove one glove halfway by scooping the cuff over
       the palm of the hand. Never touch the inner glove or the skin with the outside of
       the gloved fingers. Once the top glove is over the palm it can be removed easily
       without touching the contaminated fingertips to any clean area. Remove the outer
       glove from the other hand and dispose of both in a plastic sealable bag.

      Remove and dispose of the gown, glasses, mask, hair cover, shoe covers, and
       inner gloves.

6.5. Dispose of all contaminated clothing and disposable equipment in a plastic sealable
    bag and place in the chemotherapy waste container

6.6. Wash hands thoroughly

7. Cleaning a Spill Inside the Biological Safety Cabinet

7.1. Don protective clothing

7.2. Contain the spill with gauze (liquid spill) or water wet toweling (powder spill)

7.3. Remove gloves, dispose of them properly and don two fresh pair


                                                                                          9
7.4. Carefully remove all sharp fragments and glass pieces with cardboard or sheets of
    paper and place them in the chemotherapy waste disposal container

7.5. Absorb the spill with gauze and dispose of it in a sealable bag

7.6. Decontaminate Biological Safety Cabinet by washing surface, including the area
    underneath the work tray, walls and shield with detergent. Place gauze in a sealable
    bag.

7.7. Rinse the surface, walls and shield with gauze saturated with distilled water

7.8. Repeat washing and rinsing three times. Place gauze in a sealable bag

7.9. Dry the surface, walls and shield with fresh gauze

7.10. Dispose of gauze in a sealable bag

7.11. Remove the outer pair of gloves and dispose of them in a sealable bag

7.12. Seal the bag and dispose of it in a chemotherapy waste disposal container

7.13. Remove protective clothing and place in a chemotherapy waste disposal container

7.14. Wash hands thoroughly

8. Cleaning a Spill outside the Biological Safety Cabinet

 8.1. Obtain a chemotherapy medication spill kit. Do not leave the area if there is a spill,
     call for help if needed

 8.2. Place warning sign at spill site

 8.3. Don protective clothing, gloves, gown, hair cover, outer utility gloves, chemical
     safety glasses, shoe covers, and respirator

 8.4. Remove glass particles and other debris using spill kit scoop. Place in the disposal
     waste bag or appropriate sharps container

 8.5. Absorb liquid spills with absorb pads or powder and dispose of them in the first
     waste disposal bag

 8.6. Absorb powder spills with water wet toweling. Dispose of it in waste disposal bag

 8.7. Wash entire area with detergent solution




                                                                                           10
 8.8. Rinse well with distilled water

 8.9. Repeat washing and rinsing until all of the medication has been removed

 8.10. Place toweling in the waste disposal bag

 8.11. Remove outer utility gloves and shoe covers. Place them in waste disposal bag

 8.12. Seal the bag and place it in the second waste disposal bag

 8.13. Remove protective clothing and place them in the second waste disposal bag

 8.14. Tie the waste disposal bag securely and dispose of it as required by workplace
    policy

 8.15. Wash hands thoroughly

 8.16. Fill out accident report form as required by your workplace

9. Personal Contamination

9.1 All preparation areas should have chemotherapy emergency kit on hand in the event
   of hazardous drugs coming in direct contact with the skin. Kit should consist of:
    500 ml of Normal Saline
    30 ml of sterile eyewash solution
    120 ml of liquid soap
    500 ml of a 5% bleach solution
    500 ml of a 3% Hydrogen Peroxide solution

9.2 For direct contact with skin, wash immediately with soap and warm water. Using a
   gauze pad wipe with bleach solution. If skin is broken, use Hydrogen Peroxide

9.3 For direct contact with eye(s), flush immediately with warm water or eyewash for at
   least 5 minutes

9.4 Seek immediate medical attention

ATTACHMENT(S): None




                                                                                        11
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

                PREPARE CYTOTOXIC & BIOLOGICAL AGENTS
                         PERFORMANCE ITEMS                                     SAT    UNSAT
 RISK OF EXPOSURE TO CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC DRUGS
1. Identify health risk associated with preparing chemotherapeutic
medications
2. List 4 methods exposure can occur
3. Identify ways to reduce risk of exposure
4. Explain the purpose of the Biological Safety Cabinet
5. Identify protective clothing worn when preparing chemotherapeutic
admixtures
6. State why Luer-lock syringes are used
7. List 2 additional safety devices
PREPARE WORK AREA
1. Identify hazards associated with medication using Material Safety Data
Sheet
2. Double-check calculations
3. Assemble supplies
4. Don protective clothing
5. Clean Biological Safety Cabinet
6. Wiped vials, amps, ports of injection with 70% alcohol
PREPARE THE ADMIXTURE
1. Reconstitute powders using negative pressure technique
2. Withdraw solution from vial or amp
3. Inject solution into bag/bottle using negative pressure technique
4. Seal bag/bottle
5. Work double-checked
6. Pharmacy and Caution labels attached
7. Finished product ready for safe transport
CLEAN WORK AREA
1. Properly dispose of waste materials
2. Disinfect Biological Safety Cabinet with 70% alcohol
3. Properly remove and dispose of protective clothing
4. Wash hands thoroughly

                         PERFORMANCE ITEM                                      SAT    UNSAT
CLEAN SPILL INSIDE THE BIOLOGICAL SAFETY CABINET
1. Don protective clothing
2. Contain the spill with gauze (liquid spill) or water wet toweling (powder
spill)
3. Remove/dispose of gloves, and don two fresh pair
4. Carefully remove fragments and glass pieces with cardboard. Place in
the chemotherapy waste container
5. Absorb the spill with gauze and dispose of it in a sealable bag


                                                                                     12
6. Decontaminate Biological Safety Cabinet by washing with detergent
7. Rinse the surface, walls, and shield with gauze saturated with distilled
water
8. Repeat washing and rinsing three times then dry with fresh gauze
9. Dispose of protective clothing/waste in chemotherapy waste container
CLEAN SPILL OUTSIDE BIOLOGICAL SAFETY CABINET
1. Obtain chemotherapy drug spill kit
2. Seal off area
3. Don protective clothing and equipment
4. Remove debris using spill kit scoop
5. Absorb liquid spill w/absorb pad/powder
6. Absorb powder spill with wet toweling
7. Wash area w/detergent solution and rinse w/distilled water, repeat till
spill is clear
8. Dispose of all materials used in clean up
9. Dispose of protective clothing/respirator
10. Wash hands thoroughly
PERSONAL CONTAMINATION
1. Prepare chemotherapy emergency kit
2. Explains steps taken if chemotherapeutic agent come in direct contact
with skin
3. Explains steps taken if chemotherapeutic agent come in direct contact
with eye

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s
performance indication strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the
trainee performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s
6-part training/competency folder.




                                                                                           13
