 AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1
      PHARMACY TECHNICIAN




4P0X1 Qualification Training Package (QTP)


       8.4. Controlled Substances Management




                                              QTP 4P0X1-8.4
                                                     Oct 2007
                             OPR: CMSgt Maurial/TSgt Rueckert
     AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1 PHARMACY TECHNICIAN


            CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES MANAGEMENT



                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


MODULE         OBJECTIVE                          PAGES

1.             Controlled Substance Management    3 - 24
                                    INTRODUCTION

1. This Qualification Training Package (QTP) was developed to enhance and standardize
on-the-job training for 4P0X1 personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs provide teachable
elements of task breakdowns. The teachable elements will assist in guiding the trainee
towards independent task performance, proficiency, and serve as an evaluation tool for
task certifiers/certification officials.

2. Review the volume(s) of the Career Development Course (CDC) and identify which
module(s) of the QTP are needed for the trainee’s job position or upgrade skill-level
training. The QTP training for each module should be accomplished in the order which
most closely mirrors the area the trainee is working in. Items in column 2 of the
Pharmacy Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) marked with a 5 or 7 are
the core tasks for the 4P career field. Additional proficiency training may be required for
these tasks at the supervisor’s discretion.

3. Ensure the trainee reviews the training references in each module prior to attempting
any task or QTP evaluation. Review the performance checklist and training objective
with the trainee. If the trainee has questions about the objective, clarify the desired
outcome/results of performance, demonstration or completion for the task. Remember
the objective of each QTP is to standardize training and allow sufficient time for the
trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform the task independently.

4. When the trainee has received sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on the
objective, follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used as
you evaluate each task objective. When the trainee successfully demonstrates and
accomplishes the objective, document task completion appropriately in the member’s 6-
part training/competency folder.

5. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on an AF Form 1098 Special Task
Certification and Recurring Training, filed in part 3, section A of the 6-part
training/competency folder. NOTE: The individual checklists and final evaluations are
not filed in each member’s 6-part training/competency folder. A master checklist is filed
in part 3, section A of the Master Training Plan (MTP).

6. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing further
instruction. Conduct feedback for each module with the trainee, and document
appropriately in the member’s 6-part training/competency folder. As the trainer, once
you are satisfied the trainee is ready to perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until
the objective is met.

7. If a task being trained requires third party certification by a task certifier/certifying
official, the trainer ensures the trainee is qualified to perform the task independently.
The trainee will then be evaluated by certifier/certifying official. Tasks requiring third
party certification are identified in column 2 of CFETP with a number sign (#). The third
party certifier will ensure documentation in column 3E of the CFETP and appropriately
documented in the members’ 6-part training/competency folder.

8. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing task qualifications for upgrade
training or job position training. Such standardization benefits the CFETP training
concept throughout a member’s career. These documents also may be used in
assessing/certifying pharmacy technicians upon arrival at a new duty station.

9. Feedback is a vital and important part of improving our educational process for
pharmacy technicians. Your first-hand expertise is valued and feedback is highly
encouraged ensuring we have the most up-to-date information and training possible.
Please direct all inquires to your immediate supervisor.
SUBJECT AREA: Controlled Substances Management

TASK NAME(S): Procedures…Adding drug to CHCS; Issues; Turn-ins (decrement);
Increment; Adjustment; Complete RX Transaction; Return RX Transaction; Remove RX
Transaction; Cancel Function; Discontinue Function

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 8.4.2.

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:

1. Composite Healthcare System Program (CHCS)

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):

CDC 4P051A, Volume 3 and CHCS User’s Manual

REMARKS/NOTES: Controlled Substances Management is vital to compliance with all
guidelines and the success of accreditation inspections. Reports for CII and reports for CIII-CV
must be filed separately. Trainee must have ―Narcotic System Reports‖ key enabled by systems
to perform task(s)

OBJECTIVE:

1. Effectively and accurately manage controlled substances according to Air Force, Federal,
State, and local laws and instructions.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished without
assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1. Identify appropriate need to Add, Issue, Turn-in (decrement), Increment, Adjust, Complete
RX Transaction, Return RX Transaction, Remove RX Transaction, Cancel RX Transaction or
Discontinue Transaction in CHCS.

2. Identify information required to Add, Issue, Turn-in (decrement), Increment, Adjust,
Complete RX Transaction, Return RX Transaction, Cancel RX Transaction or Discontinue
Transaction in CHCS.

3. Insert pertinent information in required fields in CHCS.

ATTACHMENT(S): None
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

                                PROCEDURES
                        PERFORMANCE ITEMS                                  SAT   UNSAT
1. Add Medications to CHCS
a. Identify appropriate need to add medication to inventory (new
medication added to formulary)
b. Identify information required to add medication to CHCS
c. Follow menu path – SFM – FOM – ADN
d. Drug name
e. Route
f. Dosage strength
g. Content unit
h. Dosage form
i. Insert pertinent information in required fields of CHCS
j. Drug name
k. Route
l. Dosage strength
m. Content unit
n. Dosage form
o. Drug check
p. Legal status
q. Label print name
r. Synonym
s. Drug Authorization key (under ordering restrictions…enter doc if POE)
2. Issue Medications
a. Identify appropriate need to issue controlled medication
b. Receive order/issue request
c. Identify information required to issue medication
d. Follow menu path – NAR – ISM - ISI
e. Medication
f. Requestor’s Name
g. Issue to Location
h. Units Dispensed
i. Received by
j. Expiration Date of Product
k. Manufacturer
l. Lot Number
m. Insert pertinent information in required fields in CHCS
n. Medication
o. Requestor’s Name
p. Issue to Location
q. Units Dispensed
r. Received by
s. Expiration Date of Product
t. Manufacturer
u. Lot Number
3. Turn-Ins (decrement)
a. Identify appropriate need to decrement from controlled inventory (return
medication to medical logistics)
b. Identify information required to decrement inventory
c. Follow menu path – NAR – INV - DCI
d. Medication
e. Delivery list from logistics
f. Voucher number for medication
g. Quantity
h. Insert pertinent information in required fields in CHCS
i. Voucher number for medication
j. Medication being decremented
k. Quantity
4. Increment
a. Identify appropriate need to increment controlled inventory (receive
medication from medical logistics)
b. Identify information required to increment inventory
c. Follow menu path – NAR – INV - ADD
d. Medication
e. Delivery list from logistics
f. Voucher number for medication
g. Quantity
h. Insert pertinent information in required fields in CHCS
i. Voucher number for medication
j. Medication being incremented
k. Quantity
5. Adjustment
a. Identify appropriate need to adjust controlled inventory (manufacturer
overage or shortage)
b. Identify information required to adjust controlled inventory
c. Follow menu path – SFM – NAR – ADJ
d. Controlled item
e. Vault
f. Increment or Decrement
g. Quantity
h. Insert pertinent information in required fields of CHCS
i. Controlled item
j. Vault for adjustment
k. Increment or Decrement inventory
l. Quantity
m. Reason for adjustment (be exact)
6. Complete RX Transaction
a. Identify appropriate need to complete RX transaction
b. Identify information required to complete RX transaction
c. Follow menu path – NSM – CPM – CRT
d. RX number
e. Insert pertinent information in required fields of CHCS
f. Select appropriate RX number
g. Complete process as required
7. Return RX Transaction
a. Identify appropriate need to return RX transaction
b. Identify information required to return RX transaction
c. Follow menu path – NSM – CPM – RRT
d. RX number
e. Insert pertinent information in required fields of CHCS
f. Select appropriate RX number
g. Complete process as required
8. Remove RX Transaction
a. Identify appropriate need to remove RX transaction
b. Identify information required to remove RX transaction
c. Follow menu path – NSM – CPM – REM
d. RX number
e. Insert pertinent information in required fields of CHCS
f. Select appropriate RX number
g. Complete process as required
9. Cancel Function
a. Identify appropriate need to cancel a prescription
b. Identify information required to cancel a prescription
c. Follow menu path – OPM – PM – SPM - CAP
d. RX number
e. Insert pertinent information in required fields of CHCS
f. Select appropriate RX number
g. Complete process as required
10. Discontinue Function
a. Identify appropriate need to discontinue a prescription
b. Identify information required to discontinue a prescription
c. Follow menu path – OPM – PM – DAP
d. RX number
e. Insert pertinent information in required fields of CHCS
f. Select appropriate RX number
g. Complete process as required

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:




FEEDBACK: Using the performance checklist as a review reference, discuss the trainee’s
performance, indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvement, etc. If trainee
performed all task steps satisfactorily, document appropriately in trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder.
SUBJECT AREA: Controlled Substances Management

TASK NAME(S): Reports...Supply Voucher Reports; Drug Utilization Review;
Specific/General Transaction Reports; Outstanding Issue Report; Narcotic Movement Report;
Inventory Report

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 8.4.3.

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:

1. Composite Healthcare System Program (CHCS)
2. Printer

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):

CDC 4P051A, Volume 3 and CHCS User’s Manual

REMARKS/NOTES: Controlled Substances Management is vital to compliance with all
guidelines and the success of accreditation inspections. Reports for CII and reports for CIII-CV
must be filed separately. Trainee must have ―Narcotic System Reports‖ key enabled by Systems
to perform task(s)

OBJECTIVE:

1. Generate Controlled Substance Reports

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished without
assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1. Identify appropriate need to generate Supply Voucher Reports, Drug Utilization Review,
Specific/General Transaction Reports, Outstanding Issue Report, Narcotic Movement Report or
Inventory Report in CHCS.

2. Identify information required to generate Supply Voucher Reports, Drug Utilization Review,
Specific/General Transaction Reports, Outstanding Issue Report, Narcotic Movement Report or
Inventory Report in CHCS.

3. Insert pertinent information in required fields in CHCS.

ATTACHMENT(S): None
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

                                  REPORTS
                        PERFORMANCE ITEMS                                       SAT   UNSAT
1. Supply Voucher Report
a. Identify need to generate supply voucher report (ex. Disinterested
inventory, trouble shooting perpetual inventory etc.)

NOTE: This option will print the Supply Voucher information.
   By (R)eceipts:
   by (T)urn-ins: (to logistics or returns company)
b. Identify information required to generate Supply Voucher Report
c. Follow menu path – PRM – NRR - SVR
d. Insert pertinent information in required fields in CHCS
e. Select either receipts or turn-ins (when doing a disinterested inventory
both would be provided to the inspector)
f. Select vault for review
g. Select first date logged (depending on how far back you need to review)
h. Select last date logged (normally that would be today--if it's for a
disinterested inventory it would be the actual date string (1 July 2006 to 31
July 2006 etc.)
i. Select device to print on.
j. Print report
2. Drug Utilization Review
a. Identify the need to generate an outpatient pharmacy drug utilization
report (may use when needing to call patients a particular drug was
dispensed to—provides the same information as an STR with the addition
of the patient’s name, social security number, doctors name and the SIG of
each prescription)
b. Identify information required to generate Drug Utilization Review
c. Follow menu path – PRM – DUR – ODU
d. Insert pertinent information in required fields of CHCS
e. Select sort option (1-6): 1
f. Select report option combination: 1
g. Select medical center division: (Name of your medical center/clinic)
then hit enter
h. Select outpatient site: all// or the pharmacy you need the report to
compile from then hit enter
i. Select medical center division--hit enter
j. Select patient: typically ALL//ENTER
k. Select Drug: <drug name> then enter (if other drugs are needed add
them here.
l. Select physician: typically all...but may need to do by name
m. Select earliest fill date:
n. Select latest fill date:
o. Queue on device: select appropriate printer you wish to print from
p. Requested start time: Now or a later time
3. Specific/General Transaction Report
a. Identify need to generate specific or general transaction report(s)
b. Identify information required to generate Specific/General Transaction
Report(s)
c. Follow menu path – PRM – NRR – STR or GTR
d. Insert pertinent information in required fields in CHCS
e. Select (D)rug, (I)ssue, (P)rescription, or (S)upply Vouchers
f. Select Controlled Item, Issue Number, Prescription RX #, or Supply
Transaction Voucher Number
g. Select Vault Dispensed From
h. Enter Earliest Date Transaction Completed
i. Enter Latest Date Transaction Completed
j. Input Printer Device
4. Outstanding Issue Report
NOTE: This option will print outstanding issues in the following formats.
(this report is useful when performing biennial inventory and when
determining where controlled drugs are in your facility)
    (A)ll
    (D)rug - Specific
    (L)ocation - Specific
    (R)ange of Dates Asked
a. Identify need to generate outstanding issue report (new calendar year)
b. Identify information required to generate Outstanding Issue Report
c. Follow menu path – PRM – NRR - OIR
d. Select from All/Drug Specific/Location Specific/Range of Dates Asked)
e. Queue on device: select appropriate printer you wish to print from
f. Requested start time: Now or a later time
g. Print report
5. Narcotic Movement Report
a. Identify need to generate narcotic movement report
b. Identify information required to generate narcotic movement report
c. Follow menu path – PRM – NRR- NMR
d. Select Vault for movement report
e. Enter Earliest Date
f. Enter Latest Date
g. Select Queue on Device
h. Request start time
i. Print document
6. Inventory Report
a. Identify need to generate inventory report (biennial, disinterested
inventory, perpetual inventory)
b. Identify information required to generate inventory report.
c. Follow menu path – PRM – NRR - INR
d. Sort by (A)lphabetic Name, (D)EA Schedule, or (N)ational Stock
Number
e. Select Vault Name
f. Select Printer Device

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:




FEEDBACK: Using the performance checklist as a review reference, discuss the trainee’s
performance, indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvement, etc. If trainee
performed all task steps satisfactorily, document appropriately in trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder.
SUBJECT AREA: Controlled Substances Management

TASK NAME(S): Forms and Files…85; 579; 781; 582; 701; 702; 115a

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 8.4.4.

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:

1. Computer Terminal
2. Access to Air Force Forms and Publications Website
3. Printer
4. Blue or Black Pen

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):

AFI 44-102
AFI 31-101
CDC 4PO51A, Volume Two
AFMAN 37-139
Pharmacy Practice Manual, Chapter Three
AFRIMS https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_search_act.cfm,

REMARKS/NOTES: Controlled Substances Management is vital to compliance with all
guidelines and the success of accreditation inspections. Reports for CII and reports for CIII-CV
must be filed separately.

OBJECTIVE:

1. Accurately complete Air Forms as directed by Air Force Instructions (AFI) and local policies

2. Disposition forms IAW AFI’s and local policies

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished without
assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1. Identify appropriate need for AF Forms 85, 579, 781, 582, and Standard Forms 701, 702 and
115a.

2. Identify information required for AF Forms 85, 579, 582, and Standard Forms 701, 702 and
115a.
3. Retrieve the correct form

4. Complete information as required

5. Disposition as required

ATTACHMENT(S): None
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

                              FORMS AND FILES
                       PERFORMANCE ITEMS                                      SAT   UNSAT
1. AF Form 85
a. Identify appropriate need for AF Form 85 (adjust inventory)
b. Identify information required for AF Form 85 Inventory Adjustment
Voucher
c. Adjustment justification
d. Quantity over/short
e. Voucher number (may create local policy/form for voucher
   number tracking--see attachment below)
f. Medication name
g. Actual Inventory Count
h. Actual recorded balance in CHCS or automation unit (PYXIS
   Etc.)
i. Actual cost per unit short/over
j. Retrieve form
k. Complete form
l. Route for approval (flight commander and MTF commander)
m. File AF Form 85 Adjustment voucher as indicated on file plan.
Technician should be able to describe time period required to keep voucher
as indicated by AF RIMS and AF MAN 37-139
2. AF Form 579
a. Identify appropriate need for AF Form 579 (issue controlled substance to
ward, clinic, remote site)
b. Identify information required to complete AF Form 579 Controlled
Substances Register
c. Requesting unit/clinic
d. Date initiated
e. Individual initiated by
f. Medical Treatment Facility
g. Register number
h. Article nomenclature
i. Register number of 579 that balance was transferred from (if new state
initial issue)
j. Balance forwarded (if zero state zero)
k. Initials of individual that transferred/transcribed balance
l. Date of issue
m. Time of issue
n. Identify if item was issued from pharmacy
o. Identify if item was returned to pharmacy
p. Identify the amount issued or returned
q. Identify balance of item
r. Identify Initials of pharmacy personnel and unit/clinic representative
s. Identify if balance will be forwarded to new 579 register document
register number forwarded to
t. Retrieve form
u. Complete form (issue from CHCS) or return form (in CHCS)
v. File AF Form 579 as indicated on file plan. Technician should be able
to describe time period required to keep controlled substances register as
indicated by AF RIMS and AFMAN 37-139
3. AF Form 781
a. Identify appropriate need for AF Form 781 (controlled substance
prescription)
b. Identify information required to complete AF Form 781 Multiple Item
Prescription form
c. Medication nomenclature
d. Strength
e. Amount (up to 90 days depending on local policy) must be identified by
both alpha and numeric documentation
f. Directions
g. Refills (up to 6 months or 5 refills on Sch III-V only, Sch II-no refills)
h. Full name of patient (age and weight if under 12)
i. SSN of sponsor
j. Work/home telephone number
k. Address
l. Date
m. Signature of prescriber
n. Prescriber Identification (Name, SSN or BNDD, Grade, Degree, Service,
Facility, and DEA # if civilian provider)
o. Enter pertinent information into CHCS
p. Attach appropriate pharmacy generated label to AF Form 781
q. File AF Form 579 as indicated on file plan. Technician should be able to
describe time period required to keep multiple item prescription as indicated
by AF RIMS and AFMAN 37-139
4. AF Form 582
a. Identify appropriate need for AF Form 582 (controlled substances
activity)
b. Identify information required to complete AF Form 582 Pharmacy Stock
Record
c. Article
d. Unit of issue
e. Date
f. Pharmacy tracking number
g. Name of provider
h. Patient or inpatient unit
i. Voucher number
j. Amount received
k. Amount dispensed
l. Recorded balance
m. Retrieve form
n. Complete form (Transfer information to new form once all fields have
been completed on current form or in other words full)
o. File AF Form 582 as indicated on file plan. Technician should be able to
describe time period required to keep pharmacy stock record as indicated by
AF RIMS and AFMAN 37-139
5. Standard Form 701
a. Identify appropriate need for SF 701 (pharmacy security)
b. Identify information required to complete SF 701 Security Checklist
c. Division/branch/office
d. Room number
e. Month/year
f. Time security inspection was accomplished
g. Retrieve form
h. Complete form (checkmark appropriate blocks to indicate item was
inspected, initials of individual that performed inspection, annotate time
security inspection was accomplished)
i. Physically check identified items to ensure security or resource protection
j. File SF 701 as indicated on file plan. Technician should be able to
describe time period required to keep security checklist as indicated by AF
RIMS and AFMAN 37-139
6. Standard Form 702
a. Identify appropriate need for SF 702 (open, close, check security
container)
b. Identify information required to complete SF 702 Security Container
Check Sheet
c. Room number
d. Building
e. Container number
f. Month/year
g. Date
h. Opened by initials/time
i. Closed by initials/time
j. Checked by initials/time
k. Physically check to ensure security container is open/closed according
with pertinent regulations and operating instructions
l. File SF 702 as indicated on file plan. Technician should be able to
describe time period required to keep security container check sheet as
indicated by AF RIMS and AFMAN 37-139
7. Standard Form 115a
a. Identify appropriate need for SF 115a (track 579 or issued controlled
substances)
b. Identify information required to complete SF 155a register of controlled
numbers
c. Organization or unit
d. Control number on 579
e. Location issued to or received from
f. Nomenclature of issued medication
g. Date issued or returned
h. Initials/signature of individuals involved in transaction
i. File SF 115a as indicated on file plan. Technician should be able to
describe time period required to keep register of controlled numbers as
indicated by AF RIMS and AFMAN 37-139

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:




FEEDBACK: Using the performance checklist as a review reference, discuss the trainee’s
performance, indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvement, etc. If trainee
performed all task steps satisfactorily, document appropriately in trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder.
SUBJECT AREA: Controlled Substances Management

TASK NAME(S): Inventories…Biennial; Disinterested; Perpetual

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 8.4.5.

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:

1. Computer terminal with Composite Healthcare Computer System (CHCS) access

2. Printer

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):

CDC 4P051A, Volume 3 and CHCS User’s Manual

REMARKS/NOTES: Controlled Substances Management is vital to compliance with all
guidelines and the success of accreditation inspections. Reports for CII and reports for CIII-CV
must be filed separately. Trainee must have ―Narcotic System Reports‖ key enabled by Systems
to perform task(s)

OBJECTIVE:

1. Correctly perform inventory procedures

2. Disposition inventories IAW AFI’s and local policies

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished without
assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1. Identify appropriate need for completing biennial, disinterested or perpetual inventories.

2. Identify information required for completing biennial, disinterested or perpetual inventories.

3. Insert pertinent information into required fields in CHCS.

4. Perform biennial, disinterested or perpetual inventory functions.

5. Disposition as required.
ATTACHMENT(S): None
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

                                INVENTORIES
                        PERFORMANCE ITEMS                                       SAT   UNSAT
1. Biennial Inventory
a. Identify appropriate need for completing biennial inventory (required 1
May every odd year).
b. Identify information required for completing biennial inventory.
c. Outstanding Issue Report
d. PYXIS inventory reports
e. CHCS inventory reports
f. Insert pertinent information into required fields in CHCS (see reports
checklists)
g. Perform biennial inventory (physically count on-hand quantity of every
controlled substances)
h. File Biennial Inventory as indicated on file plan. Technician should be
able to describe time period required to keep biennial inventory as indicated
by AF RIMS and AF MAN 37-139
2. Disinterested Inventory
a. Identify appropriate need for completing disinterested inventory
(Monthly requirement, report of survey or command directed)
b. Identify information required for completing disinterested inventory
c. Insert pertinent information required for completing disinterested
inventory
d. Perform disinterested inventory
e. File Disinterested Inventory as indicated on file plan. Technician should
be able to describe time period required to keep disinterested inventory as
indicated by AF RIMS and AF MAN 37-139
3. Perpetual Inventory
a. Identify appropriate need for completing perpetual inventory (daily or
shift change)
b. Identify information required for completing perpetual inventory
c. Insert pertinent information into required fields in CHCS (see reports
checklists)
d. Perform perpetual inventory
e. File perpetual inventory as indicated on file plan. Technician should be
able to describe time period required to keep perpetual inventory as
indicated by AF RIMS and AF MAN 37-139
*** NOTE*** If any numbers do not match up, an explanation of why
must be at the bottom of inventory report. Here are 3 examples of what
may be written at the bottom:
    1. Medication +1 pending AF Form 85 for signature
    2. RXJ2011109 not CRT’d before inventory
    3. RXJ2011109 filled and CRT’d after inventory


FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:




FEEDBACK: Using the performance checklist as a review reference, discuss the trainee’s
performance, indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvement, etc. If trainee
performed all task steps satisfactorily, document appropriately in trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder.
                     BIBLIOGRAPHY AND OTHER REFERENCES

1. McAllister, Everett B. Lt Col., et al. Pharmacy Practice Manual. Andrews Air Force Base,
    Washington, DC: Associate Chief, Biomedical Science Corps for Pharmacy.

2. Pharmacy Law Digest. St. Louis, Missouri: Facts and Comparisons.

3. AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 July 2006

4. AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program, 1 March 2003

5. AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 10 March 2004

6. AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006

7. AFRIMS https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_search_act.cfm

8. Pharmacy Technician Career Development Course (CDC) Set A and Set B

9. CHCS Users Manual
