                                            QTP 4N0X1-4
                                                April 1996



     MEDICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY

NURSING CARE IN THE OUTPATIENT CLINIC




TRAINING THE BEST MEDICS FOR THE BEST
       AIR FORCE IN THE WORLD



           383 Training Squadron
       Training Management Section
          939 Missile Road STE 3
   Sheppard Air Force Base, TX 76311-2262




                     i
                                  QTP 4N0X1-4

                      MEDICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY

               Volume 4:     Nursing Care in the Outpatient Clinic

                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

MODULE   OBJECTIVE                                                   PAGES

1        Perform Psuedofolliculitis barbae (PFB) treatments          1-2

2        Perform wart clinic procedures                              3-4




                                          ii
                                      INTRODUCTION


1.       These qualification training packages (QTPs) were developed to enhance on-the-job
training for Medical Service Specialty personnel. They provide for you, as a trainer, the
breakdown of tasks into teachable elements. This will help you guide the trainee toward gaining
enough proficiency to perform the tasks. They will also aid task certifiers when it becomes
necessary to evaluate trainees for task certification.

2.       As a trainer, go through each module and identify which QTPs are needed for the
trainee’s job position. Core task items (identified with an asterisk * in the STS) are mandatory
skills for all trainees to be proficient in performing. You also have the flexibility to arrange
training for each module in the order you decide. Review the different tasks related to the subject
area in each module with the trainee. Direct the trainee to review the training references to better
understand the objective of each module. If the trainee has any questions about the objective,
clarify what is expected based on the objective of the module. Go through the performance
checklist with the trainee and allow for enough time to learn each step (some objectives may take
longer to teach). Remember, the objective of each QTP is to allow sufficient time for the trainee
to learn each task thoroughly. When the trainee receives enough training and is ready to be
evaluated on an objective, follow the evaluation instructions. Use the performance checklist as
you evaluate each objective. If the trainee successfully accomplishes the objective, document
appropriately in the OJT record. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, go over the
areas needing more training until the objective is met. Conduct a feedback with the trainee on
each module. Once you, as the trainer, have ensured that the trainee is qualified to perform the
task, he/she will then be evaluated by a certifier.

3.       The goal of the developers of each QTP is to publish a usable document for trainers and
trainees that will benefit the CFETP concept of training throughout your career. We value your
expertise in meeting this goal. If you find discrepancies in a QTP, or if you have suggestions for
improvement or additional QTP development, please let us know about them. We pledge to
respond to all inquiries and will devote our resources to provide the best possible training
material.

4.      Direct all inquiries to:

                                   383 TRAINING SQUADRON/TSOXB
                                   c/o 4N051 CDC WRITER/MANAGER
                                   939 MISSILE ROAD STE 3
                                   SHEPPARD AIR FORCE BASE, TEXAS 76311-2262
                                   DSN: 736-3801




                                                 3
Volume 4                                                                        Module 1

 PERFORM PSEUDOFOLLICULITIS BARBAE (PFB) TREATMENTS

SUBJECT AREA:                        Nursing Care in the Outpatient Clinic.

TASK(s):                             Perform Pseudofolliculitis barbae (PFB) treatments.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):              13.f.

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                  Clippers, razor, skin hooks, and buff puff.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):               AFPAM 160-44.

REMARKS/NOTES:                       Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                     technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                     Pseudofolliculitis barbae (PFB) treatments.

OBJECTIVE:                           The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the
                                     performance aspects of Pseudofolliculitis barbae (PFB)
                                     treatments.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.    After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the
      task.

2.    The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
      performance could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3.    Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4.    Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT
      record. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring
      evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.




Vol.4 Module 1                               Perform Pseudofolliculitis Barbae (PFB) Treatments


                                              4
                             PERFORMANCE ITEM                                        SAT        UNSAT
                                     PREPARATION
1.   Verify physician’s order
2.   Gather supplies/equipment
3.   Identify patient/explain procedure
4.   Position patient in a sitting position and drape appropriately
5.   Wash hands and don gloves
6.   Wash patient’s face with soap and hot water using washcloth and buff puff
7.   Closely examine skin for ingrown hair and manually remove if noted
                            ELECTRIC CLIPPER METHOD
1.   Clip sideburns using a smooth, downward motion
2.   Clip cheeks, jaw line, and neck against the direction of hair growth by
     overlapping strokes without stretching skin.Reshave only if areas were missed
3.   Remove ingrown hair if noted
                             ELECTRIC RAZOR METHOD
1.   Adjust razor to greatest possible length
2.   Moisten face
3.   Shave sideburns, cheeks, jawline, and neck using slow, overlapping circles
4.   Remove ingrown hair if noted
                  ADJUSTABLE/DISPOSABLE RAZOR METHOD
1.   Apply a thin, even coat of shaving cream to face and neck
2.   Steam face with a hot towel for 2 minutes with lather on face
3.   Adjust razor to highest setting
4.   Shave sideburns using smooth, downward strokes
5.   Shave cheeks, jawline, and neck in the direction of hair growth
6.   Remove ingrown hair if noted
                 CHEMICAL/DEPILATORY SHAVING METHOD
1.   Do not wash face during preparation
2.   Mix depilatory per manufacturer’s instructions
3.   If first time use, test on small area of skin for sensitivity
4.   Apply to facial hair, avoiding eyes, nose, and mouth
5.   Allow to remain on skin for 3-5 minutes
6.   Remove depilatory with a dull butter knife in a shaving-like manner
7.   Repeat shaving action with water only, shaving rapidly to prevent burns
                                  POST-PROCEDURE
1.   Wash face with mild soap and cold water, then pat dry
2.   Apply lotion, cream, or conditioner per physician’s orders
3.   Dispose of supplies properly and document procedure
FINAL RESULT:

FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's
performance indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the
trainee performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s
OJT record.




                                                 5
Volume 4                                                                                Module 2

                   PERFORM WART CLINIC PROCEDURES

SUBJECT AREA:                             Nursing Care in the Outpatient Clinic.

TASK(s):                                  Perform wart clinic procedures.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                   13.g.

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                       Bichloracetic acid kit: acid vials, applicator sticks, “15” blades,
                                          alcohol pads, transparent dressing, and Elastoplast tape. Other
                                          materials include: silver nitrate sticks, 4x4 gauze pads,
                                          bandaids, cotton-tipped applicators, salicylic acid, cotton balls,
                                          benzoin compound, podophyllium solution in benzoin
                                          compound, cantharone, duofilm, occlusal samples, exam gloves,
                                 liquid nitrogen, styrofoam cups, verrusol, and cryac.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                    Wilford Hall Medical Center, Department of Dermatology OI
                                          160-17, and Goldstein, Beth G. and Goldstein, Adam O.,
                                          Practical Dermatology. Mosby Yearbook, 1992.

REMARKS/NOTES:                            1. Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                 technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in wart
                                 clinic procedures.

                                          2. Prior to performing the attached tasks, medical technicians
                                          must successfully pass the NLN “Basic Proficiency in
                                          Medication Administration” current edition, or locally prepared
                                          and approved written test to verify proficiency in the cognitive
                                          aspects of medication calculations.

OBJECTIVE:                                The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the
                                          performance aspects of wart clinic procedures.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
1.      After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the
task.

2.     The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
performance could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3.      Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4.      Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
        Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
        documented on AF Form 1098.




Vol.4 Module 2                                                         Perform Wart Clinic Procedures

                                                  6
                           PERFORMANCE ITEM                                          SAT        UNSAT
                                  PREPARATION
1. Verify physician’s order
2. Gather supplies/equipment
3. Identify patient/explain procedure
4. Properly position patient and drape appropriately
5. Wash hands and don gloves
               WART REMOVAL USING LIQUID NITROGEN
1. Apply liquid nitrogen until there is a freeze ball on the lesion along with 2mm
   of surrounding tissue:
   a. 10 seconds or less for flat warts
   b. 30-60 seconds for common, plantar, or palmer warts
   c. Apply 3 times unless pain tolerance is low
2. Explain normal blistering reaction that will occur to patient
3. Instruct patient to apply bacitracin or Polysporin after blister breaks
4. Schedule patient for follow-up appointment in 2-3 weeks
               WART REMOVAL USING A TOPICAL AGENT
1. Apply chemical to verruca
2. Allow chemical to dry
3. Apply dressing to site
4. Schedule patient for follow-up appointment per physician’s orders
         WART REMOVAL USING 40% SALICYLIC ACID PADS
1. Cut salicylic acid pad to size of wart
2. Remove backing of acid pad
3. Apply acid pad sticky-side down to wart
4. Secure acid pad with tape to prevent slippage
5. Schedule patient for follow-up appointment per physician’s orders
  ASSIST PHYSICIAN WITH WART REMOVAL USING CURETTAGE
                               AND DESICCATION
1. Assist physician by preparing equipment
2. Assist physician during anesthetic procedure
3. Assist physician during removal procedure
4. Dress the site
5. Schedule patient for follow-up appointment per physician’s orders
FINAL RESULT:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's
performance indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the
trainee performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s
OJT record.




                                                7
