 AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1
      PHARMACY TECHNICIAN




4P0X1 Qualification Training Package (QTP)


            7.3.9 Verify Prescriptions




                                               QTP 4P0X1-7.3.9
                                                       Oct 2007
                                    OPR: SMSgt Justin H. Bodden
     AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1 PHARMACY TECHNICIAN


                      VERIFY PRESCRIPTIONS



                       TABLE OF CONTENTS


MODULE         OBJECTIVE                          PAGES

1.             Verify Prescriptions               3-9




                                                           2
                                    INTRODUCTION

1. This Qualification Training Package (QTP) was developed to enhance and standardize
on-the-job training for 4P0X1 personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs provide teachable
elements of task breakdowns. The teachable elements will assist in guiding the trainee
towards independent task performance, proficiency, and serve as an evaluation tool for
task certifiers/certification officials.

2. Review the volume(s) of the Career Development Course (CDC) and identify which
module(s) of the QTP are needed for the trainee’s job position or upgrade skill-level
training. The QTP training for each module should be accomplished in the order which
most closely mirrors the area the trainee is working in. Items in column 2 of the
Pharmacy Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) marked with a 5 or 7 are
the core task for the 4P career field. Additional proficiency training may be required for
these tasks at the supervisor’s discretion.

3. Ensure the trainee reviews the training references in each module prior to attempting
any task or QTP evaluation. Review the performance checklist and training objective
with the trainee. If the trainee has questions about the objective, clarify the desired
outcome/results of performance, demonstration or completion for the task. Remember
the objective of each QTP is to standardize training and allow sufficient time for the
trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform the task independently.

4. When the trainee has received sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on the
objective, follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used as
you evaluate each task objective. When the trainee successfully demonstrates and
accomplishes the objective, document task completion appropriately in the member’s 6-
part training/competency folder.

5. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on an AF Form 1098 Special Task
Certification and Recurring Training, filed in part 3, section A of the 6-part
training/competency folder. NOTE: The individual checklists and final evaluations are
not filed in each member’s 6-part training/competency folder. A master checklist is filed
in part 3, section A of the Master Training Plan (MTP).

6. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing further
instruction. Conduct feedback for each module with the trainee, and document
appropriately in the member’s 6-part training/competency folder. As the trainer, once
you are satisfied the trainee is ready to perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until
the objective is met.

7. If a task being trained requires third party certification by a task certifier/certifying
official, the trainer ensures trainee is qualified to perform the task independently. The
trainee will then be evaluated by certifier/certifying official. Tasks requiring third party
certification are identified in column 2 of CFETP with a number sign (#). The third party




                                                                                           3
certifier will ensure documentation in column 3E of the CFETP and finally documented
appropriately in the members’ 6-part training/competency folder.

8. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing task qualifications for upgrade
training or job position training. Such standardization benefits the CFETP training
concept throughout a member’s career. These documents also may be used in
assessing/certifying pharmacy technicians upon arrival at a new duty station.

9. Feedback is a vital and important part of improving our educational process for
pharmacy technicians. Your first hand expertise is valued and feedback highly
encouraged ensuring we have the most up-to-date information and training possible.
Please direct all inquires to your immediate supervisor.




                                                                                  4
SUBJECT AREA: Outpatient Pharmacy

TASK NAME(S): Verify prescriptions

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 7.3.9

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
1. Medications
2. Medication containers (bottles or zip lock bags)
3. Labels
4. Pens
5. Paper bags
6. Composite Health Care System (CHCS) computer, printer, or typewriter
7. PharmASSIST
8. AF Form 781, Multiple Item Prescription
9. AF Form 2081
10. Civilian Prescriptions

TRAINING REFERENCE(S): AFI 44-102, 4P051B CDC, Volume 1, Sec 1-1,
Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970

REMARKS/NOTES: None

OBJECTIVE:

Given a provider’s prepared prescription and the necessary equipment, safely verify and
dispense pharmaceuticals

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of
the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished
without assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1.   Verifying Written Prescription(s)

     1.1. A checker will receive a filled hand written prescription.




                                                                                            5
      1.2. Scan the filled prescription label in PharmASSIST if applicable.

      1.3. A scanned image of this prescription will appear on your screen. It will show
what the medication should look like and all other typed information. If PharmASSIST
is not available, compare filled medication to stock bottle for accuracy.

      1.4. Check the following items in PharmASSIST if applicable and on label against
the original prescription and/or the scanned image when received from the filler to ensure
accuracy during prescription processing (manually compare label to prescription if no
PharmASSIST):

           1.4.1. Patient’s name and prescriber’s name.

           1.4.2. Medication name, strength, amount, directions for use, days supply and
refills.

           1.4.3. Doctor’s signature

     1.5. If prescription is from a military treatment facility (MTF) provider, ensure the
provider has signed the prescription and the appropriate stamp appears below the
signature block

    1.6. Ensure prescriptions from civilian practitioners have been signed also.
Prescriptions with a pre-printed signature or signature stamp will be accepted for all
prescriptions, except for Schedule II.

      1.7. Ensure prescriptions are written IAW AFI 44-102.

     1.8. Any filling or typing errors discovered will be returned to pharmacy line
personnel for corrections.

     1.9. Apply auxiliary labels to the prescription bottle or container. The auxiliary
labels for all medications will automatically print from CHCS.

      1.10. High Alert/High Risk medications must be checked by a pharmacist.

    1.11. All other handwritten prescriptions are reviewed by a pharmacist within 24
hours.

      1.12. Checked/verified prescriptions forms are filed sequentially in the appropriate
area. Prescriptions are stored in a designated area in the pharmacy until they are removed
for staging.

     1.13. When the prescription(s) have been verified for an individual patient, his/her
name will be called out at the “out” window. If the patient is not waiting, the
prescription(s) will be bagged and placed in the appropriate holding area until pick up.



                                                                                             6
2. Verifying Provider Order Entry Prescription(s)

   2.1. Scan the filled prescription label in PharmASSIST if applicable.

   2.2. A scanned image of the prescription will appear on your screen. It will show
what the medication should look like and all other information the provider typed. If
PharmASSIST is not available, compare filled medication to stock bottle for accuracy.

   2.3. The checker will ensure the medication in the container matches the medication
name and dosage form on the label.

   2.4. Verify the prescription for correct filling, appropriate dosing, and days supply.

    2.5. Any filling or typing errors discovered will be returned to pharmacy line
personnel for corrections.

   2.6. Apply auxiliary labels to the prescription bottle or container.

    2.7. When the prescription(s) have been verified, the patient’s name/tracking number
is announced at the “OUT” window. If the patient is not waiting, the prescription(s) will
be bagged and placed in the appropriate holding area until ready for pick-up.

ATTACHMENT(S): None




                                                                                            7
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

                               VERIFY PRESCRIPTIONS
                         PERFORMANCE ITEMS                                  SAT   UNSAT
VERIFY WRITTEN PRESCRIPTION
1. A checker will receive a filled hand written prescription
2. Scan the filled prescription label in PharmASSIST if applicable
3. A scanned image of this prescription will appear on your screen. It will
show what the medication should look like and all other typed information
If PharmASSIST is not available, compare filled medication to stock
bottle for accuracy
4. Check the following items in PharmASSIST if applicable and on label
against the original prescription and/or the scanned image when received
from the filler to ensure accuracy during prescription processing
(manually compare label to prescription if no PharmASSIST):
a. Patient’s name and prescriber’s name
b. Medication name, strength, amount, directions for use, days supply and
refills.
c. Doctor’s signature
5. If prescription is from a military treatment facility (MTF) provider,
ensure the provider has signed the prescription and the appropriate stamp
appears below the signature block
6. Ensure prescriptions from civilian practitioners have been signed also.
Prescriptions with a pre-printed signature or signature stamp will be
accepted for all prescriptions, except for Schedule II
7. Ensure prescriptions are written IAW AFI 44-102
8. Any filling or typing errors discovered will be returned to pharmacy
line personnel for corrections
9. Apply auxiliary labels to the prescription bottle or container. The
auxiliary labels for all medications will automatically print from CHCS
10. High Alert/High Risk medications must be checked by a pharmacist
11. All other handwritten prescriptions are reviewed by a pharmacist
within 24 hours
12. Checked/verified prescriptions forms are filed sequentially in the
appropriate area. Prescriptions are stored in a designated area in the
pharmacy until they are removed for staging
13. When the prescription(s) have been verified for an individual patient,
his/her name will be called out at the “out” window. If the patient is not
waiting, the prescription(s) will be bagged and placed in the appropriate
holding area until pick up.
VERIFY PROVIDER ORDER ENTRY PRESCRIPTION
1. Scan the filled prescription label in PharmASSIST if applicable
2. A scanned image of the prescription will appear on your screen. It will
show what the medication should look like and all other information the
provider typed If PharmASSIST is not available, compare filled
medication to stock bottle for accuracy


                                                                                  8
3. The checker will ensure the medication in the container matches the
medication name and dosage form on the label
4. Verify the prescription for correct filling, appropriate dosing, and days
supply
5. Any filling or typing errors discovered will be returned to pharmacy
line personnel for corrections
6. Apply auxiliary labels to the prescription bottle or container
7. When the prescription(s) have been verified, the patient’s
name/tracking number is announced at the “OUT” window. If the patient
is not waiting, the prescription(s) will be bagged and placed in the
appropriate holding area until ready for pick-up

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s
performance indication strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the
trainee performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s
6-part training/competency folder.




                                                                                                9
