                            QTP 4Y0X2-3
                           September 2007

   DENTAL LABORATORY
       SPECIALTY

Volume 3. Treatment and Orthodontic
Appliances, Complete and Removable
          Partial Dentures




           381 Training Squadron

             917 Missile Road

        Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2246
    Qualification Training
         Package Author: MSgt Andrea E. Bates

    Supervisory Training
               Specialist: Shane Wood

        Office of Primary
          Responsibility: AFMOA/SG3D Certified By: CMSgt Thomas W.
                          Davis Jr.




Supersedes QTP 4Y0X2-3, 01 Sep. 2001
Introduction _____________________________________________________i

        Volume 3, Treatment and Orthodontic Appliances, Complete and Removable Partial
Dentures, contains modules on such procedures as interim removable partial dentures, hard
nightguards, sleep apnea devices, complete and removable partial denture bases, and Hawley
retainers. This QTP is designed to enhance 5- and 7-skill level OJT of dental laboratory
personnel. The 4Y0X2 Career Development Courses may be used to compliment the training
references listed in a module. All QTPs are intended to be used by trainees, trainers, supervisors,
and task certifiers. Before initiating any training you should review your responsibilities—as a
supervisor/trainer—for conducting on-the-job training (OJT) per AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air
Force Training Program On The Job Training Administration.

        QTPs are designed to help you conduct and evaluate your field training. Once you begin
upgrade training you are required to use the QTPs. QTPs provide continuity to the trainee’s
upgrade training and are divided into the following volumes: 1) General Dental Laboratory
Experience; 2) Fixed Prosthodontics; 3) Treatment and Orthodontic Appliances, Complete and
Removable Partial Dentures; 4) Dental Laboratory Administration; 5) Medical Material; and 6)
Supervision and Training. The QTP modules were written to assist you in preparing for and
conducting training. You must use the QTP modules for training when the STS task is a core task
(minimum qualification for the specialty). Each module segments the major tasks into teachable
elements. Your goal is to provide enough training and guidance so trainees can do all task
related steps, without assistance, and produce an appliance that meets local requirements for
speed and accuracy. QTPs also aid OJT task certifiers in evaluating the trainee’s demonstrated
performance. If you have local training requirements not covered by a QTP module you should
develop “steps in performance” and “performance checklists” that support and standardize those
tasks.

       Accompanying each volume of QTPs is a qualification training progress record. This
QTP record serves as a document to record the date the trainee completes each module. Every
person in qualification/upgrade training must have this QTP progress record filed in their OJT
folder. Use and annotation of this progress record is similar to current OJT documentation.
When you are satisfied the trainee meets standards, as prescribed in the QTP performance
checklist, you must document each task completion date in the “date completed” column in the
QTP progress record. If a person is being recertified on a task that is supported by a QTP you
must use that module to complete the recertification process. It is not necessary to produce
multiple hard copies of the QTP modules; however, your workcenter requirements may require
additional copies. Regardless, you should file the QTPs in an accessible location.

          Typically, you will manage each module by first, training the tasks and then, evaluating
performance. Your local steps in performance may vary from the method listed in the QTP
module. If this is the case, you are authorized to make changes to the first half of each module,
(i.e., steps in task performance); however, the “performance checklist” is considered a standard
and cannot be altered. You may train each QTP volume/module in any sequence; however,
when conducting training
use an organized and methodical approach. This will reduce your training time and enhance
your efforts.
        For effective use of this QTP, conduct training in the following manner:
          1. Review the procedures in each module with the trainee.
Introduction _____________________________________________________ii

          2. Direct the trainee to review the training references listed to prepare for task
             performance.
          3. Review the steps in task performance with the trainee, allowing enough time to
             adequately train each step (some modules may take longer to teach).
          4. Evaluate the trainee’s work at each critical step—using the performance checklist
             at this point will be helpful.
          5. Fifth, evaluate the trainee’s performance and provide feedback on any areas for
             improvement.
          6. Finally, when the trainee has successfully completed the task you must document
             and initial both the STS and the QTP progress record. If the trainee does not
             accomplish the module, conduct follow-up instruction until the trainee successfully
             completes the task.

      The QTP project goal of the 381st Training Squadron, Sheppard AFB TX, is to publish a
useable document for trainers and trainees. You are encouraged to write-in changes or revisions
to the QTPs. A corrections/improvements letter is located on the last page of each QTP volume.
You may choose to call in your recommendations to DSN 736-6906 or FAX DSN/Commercial
736-2781 or (940) 676-2781 or email the author at andrea.bates@sheppard.af.mil.


      The inclusion of names of any specific commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication is for informational purposes only and does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
Table of Contents _________________________________________________iii


                                                                     Page

Module 1. Fabricate Simple Interim Removable Partial Dentures (RPDs………….1
Module 2. Fabricate Hard Nightguard………………………………………………...4
Module 3. Fabricate Sleep Apnea Device……………………………………………...7
Module 4. Arrange Artificial Teeth for RPD………………………………………...12
Module 5. Wax-Up RPD Denture Base………………………………………….…....14
Module 6. Process RPD Denture Base………………………………………………..16
Module 7. Finish and Polish RPD Denture Base…………………………………….18
Module 8. Fabricate Hawley Retainer………………………………………………..20


Qualification Training Progress Record………………………………………………22
Corrections/Improvements Letter………………………………………………….….23
MODULE 1. FABRICATE SIMPLE INTERIM REMOVABLE PARTIAL
          DENTURE (RPD)
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     5.1.1  Fabricate simple interim removable partial denture

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 1, Dental Laboratory Technology
     Manufacturer’s Instructions
     4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to accurately construct a simple interim removable partial denture.
    Stress the importance of eliminating unwanted interference's between the denture tooth
    and opposing occlusal forces. Ensure the trainee understands how to properly operate the
    curing unit/pressure pot. Explain the purpose for remounting, reestablishing the vertical
    dimension of occlusion, and eliminating occlusal interference's after curing. Have the
    trainee fabricate simple interim RPDs and suggest ways to improve performance. After
    ensuring the trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the
    performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Articulator                         Artificial Teeth
     Baseplate Wax                       Bunsen Burner
     Denture Bag                         Denture Bur
     Disinfectant Solution               Duplicating flask
     Identification (ID) Material        Impression Material
     Pressure pot                        Polishing Compound
     Pumice                              Self-curing acrylic Resin
     Waxing Instruments                  Wire-Bending Pliers (Bird-Beak, 3-Prong)
     Wire Cutters                        Wrought Wire

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
1. Relieve edentulous space on cast if required
2. Survey the cast at a neutral (0 degree) tilt
   a. Mark the height of contour on natural teeth
   b. Mark the height of contour on facial and lingual soft tissue
3. Design master cast per dentist’s instructions
4. Perform 0-degree blockout of lingual and proximal tooth
5. Perform 0-degree blockout of all soft tissue undercuts
6. Flash wax the gingival crevices
7. Duplicate the cast (NOTE: if local policy dictates, the blocked-out master cast may be used
   instead of a duplicate cast for simple interim RPDs)
   a. Soak master cast on heel in SDS for ½ hour



                                               1
MODULE 1.           FABRICATE SIMPLE INTERIM REMOVABLE PARTIAL
                    DENTURE (RPD)
STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED):
    b. Place cast in duplicating flask
    c. If using alginate as the duplicating material, mix 2 to 3 times more water than the
        recommended water-to-powder ratio to obtain a runny mix
    d. Pour the duplicate cast in vacuum spatulated dental stone
8. Select proper artificial tooth, shade, and mold
9. Adapt plastic denture tooth to the ridge of the duplicate cast
10. Bend wrought wire clasps, as requested
11. Hand articulate or mount casts on simple articulator
12. Adjust and arrange artificial tooth for esthetics and function
13. Secure the artificial tooth in desired position
14. Create a matrix to record the placement of the artificial tooth (remember separator)
15. Remove the tooth and matrix
16. Paint the duplicate cast with tinfoil substitute
17. Sticky wax the teeth to the matrix
18. Use the matrix to reposition the denture teeth
19. Position the wrought wire clasps (be sure they do not interfere with the teeth or matrix)
20. Apply sticky wax to the clasps on the facial surfaces of the abutments
21. Sprinkle on autopolymerizing resin 2 to 3 mm thick to form the denture base
22. Place patient identification (during application or after processing)
23. Cure the assembly in a pressure pot under water at 110o F, 20 PSI, for 10 minutes.
    (Alternately, the base may be processed using heat cured or light cured resin.)
24. Remove cast from pressure pot
25. Re-articulate
26. Eliminate undesirable contacts
27. Lift RPD off the duplicate cast with a controlled jet of air
28. Finish and polish
29. Verify fit on master cast
30. Disinfect and store in a humid environment




                                                 2
MODULE 1.          FABRICATE SIMPLE INTERIM REMOVABLE PARTIAL
                   DENTURE (RPD)
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to fabricate a simple interim removable partial denture and
     satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance. Ensure proper safety
     precautions are followed. Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.

FABRICATE SIMPLE INTERIM REMOVABLE PARTIAL DENTURE (RPD)
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                       YES                                NO
1. Survey and blockout the master cast
2. Bend wrought wire clasps as prescribed
3. Arrange denture teeth for ideal function and esthetics
4. Sprinkle the appliance to proper design and thickness
5. Properly cure autopolymerizing resin, achieving a dense porous free appliance
6. Recover, finish, and polish appliance, producing a smooth hygienic surface
7. Disinfect finished appliance
8. Place patient ID, finish, and polish appliance, producing a smooth hygienic
   surface
9. Disinfect finished appliance

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
     indicating strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
     performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify
     performance by appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                                3
MODULE 2. FABRICATE HARD NIGHTGUARD
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     5.4    Fabricate hard nightguard

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 2, Dental Laboratory Technology
     4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to accurately construct a maxillary or mandibular hard nightguard
    using the compression-molded technique. Ensure the proper amount of pin opening is
    established prior to fabricating the hard nightguard. Some laboratories may use the
    sprinkle technique to fabricate hard nightguards; you may choose to demonstrate this
    technique instead of the compression molded technique. Have the trainee fabricate a hard
    nightguard and suggest ways to improve performance. After ensuring the trainee has
    received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Articulating Paper (Red & Black)          Baseplate Wax
     Blockout Wax                              Boilout Unit
     Buffalo Knife                             Bunsen Burner or Alcohol Torch
     Burs                                      Clear Acrylic Resin
     Curing Unit                               Polishing Compound
     Denture Bag                               Disinfectant Solution
     Flask                                     Flask Press
     Handpiece or Lathe                        Pumice
     Indelible Ink Marker                      Plastic packing sheets
     Pneumatic Chisel                          Bard Parker
     Shim stock                                Surveyor
     Soft Bristle Brush                        Spatula
     Tweezers                                  Water

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
1. Mount casts on articulator; establish correct vertical dimension of occlusion (VDO)
2. Survey, design, and blockout cast
3. Wax hard nightguard to prescribed design, and occlusal scheme
4. Remove cast from mounting
5. Flask, boil-out, mix and pack acrylic IAW manufacturer’s instructions
6. Cure acrylic resin IAW manufacturer's instructions
7. Bench cool flask to room temperature




                                               4
MODULE 2. FABRICATE HARD NIGHTGUARD
STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED):
8. Remove flask from flask press
9. Deflask appliance and remount on articulator
10. Restore VDO
11. Disclose centric contacts with black articulating paper
12. Disclose eccentric contacts with red articulating paper
13. Restore prescribed disclusion
14. Confirm uniform centric contact using shim stock
15. Remove hard nightguard from cast
16. Place patient ID, finish, and polish hard nightguard
17. Disinfect nightguard and store in a humid environment




                                                5
MODULE 2. FABRICATE HARD NIGHTGUARD
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to construct a hard nightguard and satisfactorily perform all
     parts of the task without assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are followed.
     Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.

FABRICATE HARD NIGHTGUARD
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                   YES    NO
1. Verify accuracy of casts and mounting
2. Wax up (or sprinkle) the hard nightguard to the pin setting established by the
   provider
3. Flask and boil-out hard nightguard, ensuring there is no damage to the mold
4. Apply separator and pack the mold IAW manufacturer’s directions
5. Cure acrylic resin using proper time and temperature
6. Deflask hard nightguard without breaking cast or appliance
7. Remount cast on articulator and reestablish desired occlusal relationship
8. Recover, finish, and polish the appliance, producing smooth, hygienic surfaces
9. Disinfect the appliance

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
     indicating strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
     performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify
     performance by appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                                6
MODULE 3. FABRICATE SLEEP APNEA DEVICE
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     5.7    Fabricate sleep apnea device

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     Clinician Instruction Booklet/TAP II Thornton Adjustable Positioner
       CDC 4Y052

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    After ensuring the trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using
    the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Biostar or any thermo-forming machine           Biocryl material
     Red and blue pencil                             TAP device components
     Handpiece                                       Articulator
     Triad curing unit                               Surveyor
     Triad bonding agent                             Model trimmer
     Hand held light curing unit                     Scissors
     Triad gel                                       Cutting disk
     Separator                                       Acrylic burs
     Weld-on Acrylic #4                              Rubber Points
     Vibrator                                        Polishing brushes/felt wheels
     Bilaminate material                             Polishing compounds

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
Standard Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) Device
       1. Inspect casts – check for irregularities of any kind.
       2. Survey and design.
       3. Block-out undercut areas and relieve block-out wax to about 3-4mm for desirable
           undercut retention
       4. Duplicate casts using silky rock stone.
       5. Articulate max/man duplicate casts using bite registration.
       6. Remove casts from articulator.
       7. Transfer design.
       8. Paint casts with two coats of separator.
       9. Bilaminate 3mm material – do vacuum forms on both casts using Biostar, or any
           thermo-forming machine. Ensure the soft side is the side touching teeth on casts.
       10. Trim bilaminate material about 1-2mm past design line. Design line should be at
           center of the teeth on facial and 8-10 mm past gingival line on lingual side.
       11. After trimming, do not remove from casts.




                                                7
MODULE 3. FABRICATE SLEEP APNEA DEVICE
STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED):
Standard Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) Device (continued)
   12. With a #8 round bur, roughen up occlusal surface of posterior sections from distal
       of cuspids to distal of 2nd molars.
   13. Remount casts on articulator.
   14. Paint roughened occlusal surfaces with triad bonding agent.
   15. Ensure incisal guide pin is touching table.
   16. Hold case using rubber-band.
   17. Using triad gel, start filling in space between max/man posterior sections (clear
       ortho acrylic can also be used).
   18. Control gel using hand held light curing unit. Once completely filled and cured
       with hand held unit, carefully remove from casts. Be careful not to separate them.
   19. After removing from casts, place in glass beaker with water and ice.
   20. Place in triad curing unit for 8-10 minutes.
   21. Remove from curing unit, finish and polish borders to design line.
   22. Finish and polish any rough areas on the gel build-up.

TAP II Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) Device
   1. Inspect casts – check for irregularities of any kind.
   2. Survey and Design.
   3. Block-out undercut areas, then reline block-out wax about 3-4 mm for use of
       desirable undercut retention.
   4. Duplicate casts using silky rock stone.
   5. Trim away land area of duplicate casts for better adaptation of vacuum form
       material. You may also trim casts into horseshoe shape or drill holes through palate
       and tongue space for better adaptation. Casts should be approximately 15mm
       thick for strength. Let casts dry.
   6. Paint casts with two coats of separator.
   7. Bilaminate 1.8 mm Durasoft – do vacuum forms on both casts using Biostar, or any
       thermo-forming machine. Ensure the soft side is the side touching the teeth on casts.
   8. Trim Durasoft excess material at the base of the casts.
   9. Trim closely using sharp scissors or cutting disc.
   10. Center metal base plate on max tray using placement jig. Ensure long bar of jig
       is centered on midline. Set base plate over anterior teeth. Anterior teeth should be
       placed at forward most part of base plate. Base plate should be level with occlusal
       plane. Set small set screws with two holes designated for the screws.
   11. Cold cure acrylic – once the base plate is set, adhere the plate to the Durasoft layer
       with cold cure acrylic.
   12. Lower tray – place the socket flush with incisal edge of lower anterior teeth.
       Stabilize socket using small amount of wax.
   13. Cold cure acrylic – adhere metal socket to tray with cold cure acrylic. Add acrylic
       under and around socket area to bond securely to the tray. With sharp blade and
       small bur, trim excess acrylic and smooth area.



                                               8
MODULE 3. FABRICATE SLEEP APNEA DEVICE
STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED):
TAP II Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) Device
   14. Biocryl layer – before vacuum forming biocryl over casts, cover casts with a
       generous amount of weld-on acrylic #4 to create a strong bond between layers.
   15. Using 2mm biocryl material -- do vacuum forms on both casts using Biostar or any
       thermo-forming machine.
   16. Cut out the trays with a hand held wheel or cutting bur. Cut material in a
        straight line about 1mm below gingival margin.
   17. Expose base plate from biocryl layer – metal base plate must be exposed so you
        can place large set screw and hook.
   18. Using hand held wheel cut biocryl along the outer edge of base plate to include
        labial and facial sides. Completely cut all around, peel back the biocryl flap
        carefully cutting areas still attached until entire part is exposed. This material can
        also be cut using a hard bristle brush.
   19. Clean all particles from cut areas on base plate, then smooth, finish and polish
        borders of trays and any other rough areas .
   20. Add the Hook-Place large screw in base plate make sure Allen wrench side is
        facing anterior. Slide hook into designated slots, use Allen wrench to screw the
        hook completely into base plate.
   21. Expose socket from biocryl layer – use a small acrylic bur to cut away material
        from socket area. With acrylic bur, smooth area and polish.
   22. Smooth out all edges of the trays, buff, and high shine.




                                                 9
MODULE 3. FABRICATE SLEEP APNEA DEVICE
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to a sleep apnea device and satisfactorily perform all parts of the
     task without assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are followed. Evaluate the
     trainee’s performance using this checklist.

FABRICATE SLEEP APNEA DEVICE
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                    YES     NO
STANDARD OSA DEVICE
1. Inspect casts
2. Survey and design
3. Block-out undercuts and relieve block-out wax to about 3-4mm for desirable
   undercut retention
4. Duplicate casts
5. Articulate max/man duplicate casts using bite registration
6. Transfer design
7. Paint casts with two coats of separator
8. Do vacuum forms on both casts; ensure soft side is the side touching teeth
9. Trim excess material at the base of the casts
10. Roughen up occlusal surface of posterior sections from distal of cuspids to
    distal of 2nd molars.
11. Paint roughened occlusal surfaces with triad bonding agent
12. Ensure incisal guide pin is touching table
13. Fill in space between max/man posterior sections
14. Remove appliance from casts and place in glass beaker with water and ice
15. Place in triad curing unit for 8-10 minutes
16. Finish and Polish
TAP II OSA DEVICE
1. Inspect casts
2. Survey and Design
3. Block-out undercuts and relieve block-out wax to about 3-4mm for desirable
   undercut retention



                                                  10
TAP II OSA DEVICE…Continued                                                             YES     NO
4. Duplicate casts
5. Trim land area of casts for better adaptation of vacuum form material; casts
   should be approximately 15mm thick.
6. Paint casts with two coats of separator
7. Do vacuum forms on both casts using bilaminate material; ensure soft side of
   material is the side touching teeth
8. Trim excess material at the base of the casts
9. Center metal base plate on max tray using placement jig; ensuring long bar of
   jig is centered on midline. Set base plate over anterior teeth. Base plate should
   be level with occlusal plane.
10. Adhere the plate to the Durasoft layer with cold cure acrylic.
11. Place the socket flush with incisal edge of lower anterior teeth.
12. Adhere metal socket to tray with cold cure acrylic. Add acrylic under and
    around socket area to bond securely to the tray.
13. Cover the casts with a generous amount of weld-on acrylic #4 to create a
    strong bond between both layers
14. Do vacuum forms on both casts using Biocryl material
15. Cut out the trays in a straight line about 1mm below gingival margin using a
    hand held wheel or cutting bur.
16. Expose base plate from biocryl layer so large set screw and hook can be
    placed.
17. Cut biocryl along the outer edge of base plate to include labial and facial
    sides. Cut around entire base plate, peel back the biocryl flap, and carefully
    cut areas still attached until entire part is exposed.
18. Smooth, finish and polish borders of trays and any other rough areas
19. Add the hook-place large screw in the base plate making sure the Allen wrench
    side is facing the anterior. Slide hook into designated slots and use the Allen
    wrench to screw the hook completely into base plate.
20. Use a small acrylic bur to cut away material exposing the socket area.
21. Smooth edges of the trays, finish and polish.

FEEDBACK:
    Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance indicating
    strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps of
    the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify performance by appropriately
    documenting the OJT record.


                                                   11
MODULE 4. ARRANGE ARTIFICIAL TEETH FOR RPD
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
      6.6.1 Arrange artificial teeth for RPD

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 2, Dental Laboratory Technology
       4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Explain the purpose of raising the incisal guide pin 0.5 mm. Have the trainee arrange
    artificial teeth for an RPD and suggest ways to improve performance. After ensuring the
    trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the performance
    checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Acrylic Resin
     Articulator
     Baseplate Wax
     Brush
     Burs and Points
     Dental Instruments

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
     1. Review DD Form 2322 for specific instructions (shade, mold, and brand)
     2. Articulate casts using proper settings
     3. Stabilize free-end tissue stop to prevent vertical (downward) movement, if applicable
     4. Raise incisal guide pin by 0.5 mm
     5. Grind posterior teeth to fit framework using burs
     6. Set posterior teeth to framework using baseplate wax
     7. Return incisal guide pin to original setting
     8. Reposition teeth to achieve tight centric and 1 mm horizontal overlap
     9. Grind posterior teeth until incisal guide pin is in contact with incisal guide table




                                              12
MODULE 4. ARRANGE ARTIFICIAL TEETH FOR RPD
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
      The trainee must be able to arrange artificial teeth for an RPD and satisfactorily
      perform all parts of the task without assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are
      followed. Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.

  ARRANGE ARTIFICIAL TEETH FOR RPD
  DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                      YES   NO
  1. Raise the incisal guide pin 0.5 mm
  2. Set the denture teeth in the prescribed occlusal relationship
  3. Stabilize the tissue stop from occlusal vertical forces (if applicable)
  4. Return the incisal guide pin to its original position and grind the denture teeth
     into maximum intercuspation ensuring at least 1mm horizontal overlap with the
     pin in contact with the incisal guide table

 FEEDBACK:
      Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
      indicating strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
      performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should
      certify performance by appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                              13
MODULE 5. WAX-UP RPD DENTURE BASE
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
      6.6.2 Wax-up RPD denture base

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 2, Dental Laboratory Technology
     4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to wax-up an RPD denture base. Have the trainee wax-up an RPD
    denture base and suggest ways to improve performance. After ensuring the trainee has
    received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Dental Instruments Alcohol Torch
     Articulator        Artificial Teeth
     Baseplate Wax      Bunsen Burner
     Brush

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
     1. Wax RPD denture base to simulate natural tissue contours
     2. Root eminences should be subtle, round, and irregular in height to look natural
     3. Before gingival trim, determine whether the dentist wants a patients age reflected in
        the wax-up and wax according to dentist’s preference
     4. Extend the borders of the flanges slightly beyond the blue pencil outline on the cast to
        allow for finishing
     5. For distal extension cases the denture base should cover the maxillary tuberosity and
        the mandibular retromolar pads
     6. Extend a flash of wax just over the external finish line to allow for finishing




                                              14
MODULE 5. WAX-UP RPD DENTURE BASE
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to wax-up an RPD denture base and satisfactorily perform all
     parts of the task without assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are followed.
     Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.

WAX-UP RPD DENTURE BASE
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                   YES    NO
   1. Wax root eminences so they are subtle, round and irregular in height
   2. Gingival trim according to dentist’s preference
   3. Extend the borders of the flanges slightly beyond the blue pencil design
      line on the cast
   4. Wax the denture base to cover the maxillary tuberosity and the mandibular
      retromolar pads (distal extension cases)
   5. Extend a flash of wax just over the external finish line to allow for
      finishing

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
     indicating strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
     performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify
     performance by appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                              15
MODULE 6. PROCESS RPD DENTURE BASE
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
      6.6.3 Process RPD denture base

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 2, Dental Laboratory Technology
       4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to process an RPD denture base. Have the trainee process an RPD
    denture base and suggest ways to improve performance. After ensuring the trainee has
    received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Acrylic Resin      Alcohol Torch                          Flask Press
     Articulator        Artificial Teeth                       Mixing Bowl
     Baseplate Wax      Boil-Out Unit                          Packing Sheets
     Brush              Bunsen Burner                          Vacuum Mixer
     Burs               Curing Unit                            Metal Ladle
     Dental Instruments Dental Stone                           Mixing Jar with Lid
     Detergent          Gloves                                 Separating Medium
     Flask              Flask Carrier                          Patient ID material

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
  1. Boil-out and flask
  2. Mix acrylic resin IAW manufacturer’s instructions
  3. Split pack denture base areas
  4. Trial pack using cellophane sheets
  5. Perform final pack with no cellophane sheets
  6. Ensure metal to metal contact between flask halves
  7. Place flask in carrier
  8. Place flask carrier in curing unit and cure resin IAW manufacturer's instructions
  9. Remove flask from curing unit and bench cool to room temperature
  10. Remove flask from flask carrier
  11. Remove flask lid and place flask in flask ejector
  12. Place deflasking chisels into flask ejector slots
  13. Press or push downward on deflasking chisels to separate flask from stone mold
  14. Invert flask ejector and repeat separation procedures
  15. Remove mold and flask from flask ejector
  16. Make cuts in heel and cuspid area to remove RPD and cast from mold
  17. Remove stone from palate or tongue area of RPD using air chisel
  18. Clear remaining stone from cast using plaster knife




                                              16
MODULE 6. PROCESS RPD DENTURE BASE
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to process an RPD denture base and satisfactorily perform all
     parts of the task without assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are followed.
     Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.

PROCESS RPD DENTURE BASE
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                   YES    NO
   1. Flask the RPD without incorporating undercuts in the lower half flask and
      boilout the mold without breakage
   2. Mix, split pack and cure the acrylic resin following the manufacturer’s
      directions
   3. Deflask the processed RPD without breakage, remount and correct the
      processing errors
   4. Remove the RPD from the cast, ensuring the framework is not distorted
      and the acrylic resin is not fractured

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
     indicating strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
     performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify
     performance by appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                              17
MODULE 7. FINISH AND POLISH RPD DENTURE BASE
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
      6.6.4 Finish and polish RPD denture base

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 2, Dental Laboratory Technology
       4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to finish and polish an RPD denture base. Have the trainee process an
    RPD denture base and suggest ways to improve performance. After ensuring the trainee
    has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the performance checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Disinfectant Solution Patient ID material
     Burs                  Polishing compound
     Dental Instruments    Pumice
     Rag wheels

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
  1. Remount and restore occlusion, as prescribed by dentist
  2. Separate RPD from cast using air chisel or crown and bridge saw
  3. Trim off excess stone and acrylic using bur and handpiece/bench lathe
  4. Remove any sharp spots from tissue area
  5. Place patient identification either in resin or scribed in framework
  6. Remove scratches using polishing lathe with wet rag wheel and pumice
  7. Polish RPD with polishing compound using rag wheel
  8. Clean and disinfect RPD and store in a humid environment




                                               18
MODULE 7. FINISH AND POLISH RPD DENTURE BASE
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to finish and polish an RPD denture base and satisfactorily
     perform all parts of the task without assistance. Ensure proper safety precautions are
     followed. Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.

FINISH AND POLISH RPD DENTURE BASE
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                   YES    NO
   1. Remove the RPD from the cast, ensuring the framework is not distorted
      and the acrylic resin is not fractured
   2. Place patient ID and finish and polish the RPD to refine the contours and
      create a smooth, hygienic surface
   3. Clean and disinfect the finished RPD

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
     indicating strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
     performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify
     performance by appropriately documenting the OJT record.




                                              19
MODULE 8. FABRICATE HAWLEY RETAINER
STS TASK REFERENCE(S):
     8.4    Fabricate Hawley retainer

TRAINING REFERENCE(S):
     AFP 47-103, Vol. 1, Dental Laboratory Technology
     4Y052 CDC

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:
    Demonstrate how to fabricate a Hawley retainer. Ensure the trainee applies separator to
    the cast before applying the acrylic resin. Have the trainee fabricate a Hawley retainer
    and suggest ways to improve. Ensure the appliance is disinfected. After ensuring the
    trainee has received sufficient practice, evaluate his/her abilities using the performance
    checklist.

PERFORMANCE RESOURCES:
     Baseplate Wax           Bunsen Burner
     Burs                    Disinfectant Solution
     Orthodontic Pliers      Orthodontic Resin
     Orthodontic Wire        Polishing Compound
     Pressure Pot            Pumice
     Rag Wheels              Separating Medium
     Spatula                 Sticky Wax
     Wax Pencil (Red & Blue) Wire Cutters
     Patient ID material     Dental instruments

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:
     1. Transfer design from DD Form 2322 to working cast surface
     2. Block out undesirable undercuts with baseplate wax
     3. Cut orthodontic wires to approximate required length
     4. Bend orthodontic wires to design cast specifications
     5. Secure orthodontic wires to cast with sticky-wax
     6. Apply separating medium to cast
     7. Sprinkle the acrylic resin to adequate thickness and coverage
     8. Submerge cast (teeth down) in 115° F water, seal and pressurize to 20 psi for 30
         minutes.
     9. Remove cast from pressure pot
     10. Remove sticky wax
     11. Place patient identification in appliance
     12. Separate appliance from cast
     13. Finish and polish appliance
     14. Disinfect appliance and store in a humid environment




                                             20
MODULE 8. FABRICATE HAWLEY RETAINER
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST

INSTRUCTIONS:
     The trainee must be able to accurately fabricate a maxillary or mandibular Hawley
     retainer and satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance. Ensure proper
     safety precautions are followed. Evaluate the trainee’s performance using this checklist.

FABRICATE HAWLEY RETAINER
DID THE TRAINEE…?                                                                   YES    NO
1. Properly block out the cast
2. Adapt the proper size wire to the cast following the dentist’s instructions
3. Apply separator and sprinkle the acrylic resin to adequate thickness and
   coverage
4. Completely cure the acrylic resin
5. Separate the appliance without warping or breaking it
6. Finish the appliance to a uniform thickness without damaging the wires
7. Polish the appliance creating a smooth, hygienic surface
8. Disinfect the appliance

FEEDBACK:
     Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
     indicating strengths and weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee
     performed all steps of the task satisfactorily, both the trainer and trainee should certify
     performance by appropriately documenting the OJT




                                                21
          Dental Laboratory Qualification Training Progress Record

Rank/Name __________________________________________________________________


                                                 (Circle One)
Qualification Upgrade Training to:       5-Skill Level 7-Skill Level
                     Treatment and Orthodontic Appliances,
                    Complete and Removable Partial Dentures
 Core   Module                  Module Title                         Date      Trainer’s
 Task   Number                                                     Completed    Initials
  5       1.   Fabricating Simple Interim Removable Partial
               Dentures (RPDs)
   5      2.   Fabricate Hard Nightguard

   7       3.     Fabricate Sleep Apnea Device

   5       4.     Arrange Artificial Teeth for RPD

   5       5.     Wax-Up RPD Denture Base

   5       6.     Process RPD Denture Base

   5       7.     Finish and Polish RPD Denture Base

   5       8.     Fabricate Hawley Retainer




                                              22
MEMORANDUM FOR               381 TRS (CDC Writer)
                             917 Missile Rd
                             Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2246

FROM:

SUBJECT:      Qualification Training Package Improvement

1. Identify volume and module.

   Volume #__________

   Module # and title_________________________________________________________

2. Identify improvement/correction section(s)s)

         STS Task reference                                Performance Checklist
         Training Reference                                Feedback
         Evaluation Instructions                           Format
         Performance Resources                             Other
         Steps in Task Performance

3. Recommended changes—use a continuation sheet if necessary.




4. Thank you for your time and interest.



                                                   YOUR NAME, RANK, USAF
                                                   Title/Position




                                              23
