 AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1
      PHARMACY TECHNICIAN




4P0X1 Qualification Training Package (QTP)


       8.1.2 Security and Alarm Requirements




                                              QTP 4P0X1-8.1.2
                                                      Oct 2007
                                   OPR: SMSgt Maurice A. James
     AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1 PHARMACY TECHNICIAN


              SECURITY AND ALARM REQUIREMENTS



                       TABLE OF CONTENTS


MODULE         OBJECTIVE                                 PAGES

1.             Develop and perform security procedures   3 - 17
                                          INTRODUCTION

1. This Qualification Training Package (QTP) was developed to enhance and standardize on-the-job
training for 4P0X1 personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs provide teachable elements of task breakdowns.
The teachable elements will assist in guiding the trainee towards independent task performance,
proficiency, and serve as an evaluation tool for task certifiers/certification officials.

2. Review each volume(s) of the Career Development Course (CDC) and identify which module(s) of
QTPs are needed for the trainee‟s job position or upgrade skill-level training. The QTP training for
each module should be accomplished in the order which most closely mirrors the area the trainee is
working in. Items in column 2 of the Pharmacy Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)
marked with a 5 or 7 are the core tasks for the 4P career field. Additional proficiency training may be
required for these tasks at the supervisor‟s discretion.

3. Ensure the trainee reviews the training references in each module prior to attempting any task or
QTP evaluation. Review the performance checklist and training objective with the trainee. If the
trainee has questions about the objective, clarify the desired outcome/results of performance,
demonstration or completion for the task. Remember the objective of each QTP is to standardize
training and allow sufficient time for the trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform the
task independently.

4. When the trainee has received sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on the objective,
follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used as you evaluate each task
objective. When the trainee successfully demonstrates and accomplishes the objective, document task
completion appropriately in the member‟s 6-part training/competency folder.

5. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on an AF Form 1098 Special Task Certification and
Recurring Training, filed in part 3, section A of the 6-part training/competency folder. NOTE: The
individual check lists and final evaluations are not filed in each member‟s 6-part training/competency
folder. A master checklist is filed in part 3, section A of the master training plan (MTP).

6. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing remediation. Conduct
feedback for each module with the trainee, and document appropriately in the member‟s 6-part
training/competency folder. As the trainer, once you are satisfied the trainee is ready to perform the
task, he/she will be re-evaluated until the objective is met.

7. If a task being trained requires third party certification by a task certifier/certifying official, the
trainer ensures trainee is qualified to perform the task independently. The trainee will then be
evaluated by certifier/certifying official. Tasks requiring third party certification are identified in
column 2 of CFETP with a number sign (#). The third party certifier will ensure documentation in
column 3E of the CFETP and finally documented appropriately in the members‟ 6-part
training/competency folder.

8. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing task qualifications for upgrade training or job
position training. Such standardization benefits the CFETP training concept throughout a member‟s
career. These documents also may be used in assessing/certifying pharmacy technicians upon arrival
at a new duty station.
9. Feedback is a vital and important part of improving our educational process for pharmacy
technicians. Your first hand expertise is valued and feedback is highly encouraged ensuring we have
the most up-to-date information and training possible. Please direct all inquires to: your immediate
supervisor.
SUBJECT AREA: Pharmacy Support

TASK NAME(S): Security and Alarm Requirements

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 8.1.2

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
1. Keys
2. ID/Badge
3. Duress Alarm
4. SF Form 700
5. SF Form 701
6. SF Form 702
7. AF IMT 2530
8. AF IMT 1109
9. AF IMT 439
10. AF IMT 440
11. Resource Protection Binder

TRAINING REFERENCES: MTF Operating Instruction, MTF OJT and CDC 4P051A, Volume 1,
Introduction to Pharmacy Services, Module 3, AFI 31-101, and AFI 44-201.

REMARKS/NOTES:

1. Policies and Procedures:

1.1. All pharmacy dispensing areas are designated as controlled areas IAW AFI 31-101. It is the
responsibility of all assigned pharmacy personnel to ensure the security of the pharmacy is maintained
at all times.

1.2. Persons asking for access to the pharmacy are to be properly identified and must have a valid
need for entrance; identification should be verified by Medical Group ID Badge or Military ID card.
When an individual‟s identity or right to access cannot be determined, contact the Pharmacy
Flight/Element Commander or Superintendent/NCOIC who will either make the determination or
contact higher authority. Once verification is satisfied, person(s) requesting entry will sign in on AF
IMT 1109, Visitor Register Log. All visitors will be escorted while in the pharmacy.

1.3 Staff members must immediately notify the Pharmacy Flight/Element Commander or
Superintendent/NCOIC and Hospital Security of the loss or theft of their Medical Group ID Badge.
Hospital Security must be contacted as to cancel the former ID, and for the member to receive a
replacement. All reasonable attempts to locate the ID must be exhausted. ID badges will be turned in
to Hospital Security upon recovery, PCS, or employment termination.

1.4. The Controlled Area Monitor will prepare a Entry Authorization List indicating the name and
rank of all personnel who will be allowed unescorted entry to the pharmacies. These individuals will
normally include all personnel assigned pharmacy duties. This „letter of access‟ is signed by the
Medical Group Commander and is posted inside the entry to each pharmacy. It should be updated
immediately upon gain or loss of personnel.
1.5. The vault door will be locked and SF Form 702, Security Container Check Sheet, will be
annotated each time the vault/safe is opened or closed. The vault day gate (if applicable) will remain
secured at all times except when in use or in plain view of the vault/safe custodian. Current copies of
SF Form 700, Security Container Information, listing individuals responsible in case of an emergency
will be posted in each vault/safe.

1.6 All bulk controlled substances will be secured in the pharmacy vault. Working stock of controlled
substances will be maintained in the PYXIS or day-storage cabinet.

1.7 Filled prescriptions for controlled substances will follow local Operating Instructions (OIs),
policies, and procedures for placement/storage during and after duty hours.

1.8. The last person departing is responsible for securing the pharmacy. Accomplish and annotate
tasks listed on SF Form 701, Activity Security Checklist.

1.9. Combinations and access codes will be memorized, never recorded beyond the original
documents which are stored according to local OIs, policies, and procedures. Vault/safe combinations
will be changed anytime there is: a change of personnel who had access privileges, the combination is
compromised, or at the discretion of the Pharmacy Flight/Element Commander, but at least every 6
months. Combination changes are annotated in the Resource Protection binder and on SF Form 700,
Security Container Information. Electronic entry devices will have the codes of departing personnel
invalidated for entry.

1.10 Always shield the combination panel from view of unauthorized personnel. If at any time you
feel the combination has been compromised, notify a supervisor immediately.

1.11. Keys and security codes will be restricted to the minimum number of personnel needed to
operate the pharmacy. Furthermore, the vault combination and access will be restricted to the vault
custodian, supply custodian, and select personnel. A key control roster for all pharmacy keys issued
will be maintained. Loss of a key compromises security and must be reported to the Pharmacy
Flight/Element Commander or Superintendent/NCOIC immediately.

1.12. Controlled area access sign/counter-sign code numbers for the pharmacy are changed semi-
annually. An authorized member must physically go to Security Forces (SF‟s), Resource Protection
Section, to obtain the authentication code for the pharmacy. The code is then distributed to those
individuals listed on SF Form 700 and the Vault Access List. The code is “For Official Use Only” and
should be given appropriate security by the individual. If a suspected compromise does occur, contact
the Controlled Area Monitor or his alternate. He/she will then contact Resource Protection to obtain a
new code.

1.13. Alarm System Deactivation: Per established local guidelines.

1.14. Pharmacy Entry Procedures: Per established local guidelines.

1.15. Secure Pharmacy and Activate Alarm System: Per established local guidelines.

OBJECTIVE:
1. Explain security and controlled area procedures for handling and safeguarding controlled
substances IAW AFI 31-209, Air Force Resource Protection.

2. Demonstrate ability to perform security and control area procedures IAW AFI 31-209, Air Force
Resource Protection.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.     After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished without assistance
and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee‟s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring
evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1. Procedures:

     1.1. Activating, deactivating, and testing the alarms:

      1.1.1. When opening the pharmacy, input individual alarm code to deactivate alarm or contact
             Security Forces personnel to authenticate and then access the pharmacy.

      1.1.2. When securing the pharmacy, check to ensure the Activity Security Checklist is complete.

      1.1.3. Input individual alarm code to activate alarm or contact Security Forces personnel to
             authenticate and secure the pharmacy.

     1.2. When testing the alarms, wait until the desk sergeant tells you to test the first component. You
          must inform the desk sergeant when the last component is being tested.

      1.2.1. Duress alarms and motion detectors will be tested quarterly. Annotate test on AF IMT
             2530, Alarm System Test Record, maintained in the Resource Protection binder.

      1.2.2. Entry and internal circulation control procedures during normal operations:

      1.2.3. A current entry authority list signed by the group commander should be visibly posted near
             the main pharmacy entrance.

      1.2.4. Only those individuals identified on the entry authority list will be authorized unescorted
             entry and circulation. All others will sign the AF IMT 1109, Visitor Register Log upon
             entry and remain in the company of a pharmacy staff escort.


      1.2.5. Emergency entry and circulation:
   1.2.5.1.During an emergency, such as a fire or injury to persons who cannot be removed, fire
           fighting, medical, and other emergency response personnel will be permitted entry
           without having to sign the AF IMT 1109, Visitor Register Log. They will, however, be
           escorted by pharmacy personnel and restricted from free movement throughout controlled
           area.

1.3. Key /combination controls:

 1.3.1. Pharmacy keys are limited to all active duty pharmacy personnel assigned who pull call on
        a rotating basis and will be restricted to the minimum number of personnel needed to
        operate the pharmacy.

 1.3.2. Lost / theft of pharmacy keys will be immediately reported to the OIC / NCOIC, Resource
        Protection Officer, and Facility Manager. Pharmacy entry locks must be replaced /recorded
        immediately if keys are not able to be located.

 1.3.3. The combination to the vault is given only to personnel who might require it in the
        performance of their duties. The combination is changed annually or when personnel leave.

 1.3.4. A sealed envelope is maintained in the Medical Logistics, Readiness, or RMO vault with
        the combination inside for emergency entry into the vault only.

1.4. Anti-Robbery Procedures:

 1.4.1. Do not resist: Remain calm and cooperative. Do nothing that could endanger your life or
        the lives of others. Obey the commands of the robber explicitly.

 1.4.2. Release property demanded: Release ONLY what the robber wants. If simulated robbery
        occurs, DO NOT give money/drugs to a simulated robber.

 1.4.3. Activate duress alarm: Activate only when it is safe to do so or as soon as the robber has
        left the area.

 1.4.4. Call Security Forces: Dial appropriate number. A telephone call must be made
        immediately after the robber departs. As much information as possible should be given
        over the telephone, such as: who is calling, what happened, basic description, mode and
        route of travel, and is the robber armed.

 1.4.5. Form a mental picture of the robber: Using the anti-robbery checklist (AF IMT 439) obtain
        as many details as possible.

 1.4.6. Observe weapon used: Make note of which hand was used to hold the weapon and whether
        it was steady and confident or shaky and nervous.

 1.4.7. Alert all personnel in the area: Notify all personnel in the area to remain there until SF‟s
        can question witnesses.
   1.4.8. Protect any evidence: Do not touch or allow anyone to touch anything that may have been
          left at the scene by the robber. Secure the area until Security Forces arrive and take control
          of the scene.

   1.4.9. Do not discuss the incident: Refrain from discussing the incident with anyone except the
          SF‟s or other investigators.***See attached (sample) antirobbery checklist***

 1.5. Bomb Threat / Threatening Phone Calls:

   1.5.1. Keep Calm. Keep the caller on the phone line and signal someone to call Security Forces.
          Do not indicate to the caller you have notified Security Forces of the call. Complete AF
          IMT 440, Bomb Threat Aid.

   1.5.2. Record time called and do not hang up the phone.

 1.6. Actions to take during increased threats:

   1.6.1. 100% ID check for all requests / services provided.

   1.6.2. Complete AF IMT 440 Bomb Threat Card.

   1.6.3. Report any terrorist activity / acts to Security Forces and or MTF security immediately.

 1.7. End of duty security: The last person leaving the pharmacy at the end of normal duty hours,
      weekends, etc. will ensure:

   1.7.1. All controlled drugs are properly stored in the vault, the gate (if applicable) in the vault is
          secured, and the external vault door is secured and locked. The “safe security record” on
          the front of the vault will be annotated and initialed signifying the items have been
          completed.

   1.7.2. The dispensing windows and all access doors are secure.

   1.7.3. The alarms have been activated IAW with local procedures.

   1.7.4. All closing tasks are annotated on SF 701, Security Checklist.

2. Duties of the Controlled Area Monitor:

   2.1. Self-inspection of resource protection process: Ensure a self-inspection of resource protection
   is conducted annually using the pharmacy checklist and a copy maintained in the resource
   protection binder.

    2.2. Training: Ensure personnel who work in the pharmacy receive initial and annual follow-on
Resource Protection training along with Controlled Area training, both of which must be documented
in the 6-part training/competency folder.

   2.3. Ensure survey / inspection conducted: Ensure a properly documented annual survey on the
Resource Protection capabilities of the pharmacy has been conducted.
   2.4. Maintain Resource Protection binder: Binder must contain a minimum of:

      2.4.1. Letter designating the Controlled Area.

      2.4.2. Letter appointing Controlled Area Monitors.

      2.4.3. Copy of the last security police survey report.

      2.4.4. Copy of any open work orders for area security.

      2.4.5. Copy of the last self-inspections.

ATTACHMENT(S): SF 702 (Security Container Check List), SF 701 (Activity Security Checklist)
SF 700, (Security Container Information), AF IMT 2530 (Alarm Test Record), AF IMT 1109 (Visitor
Register Log). Checklist for antirobbery and opening and closing procedures.
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

                        SECURITY AND ALARM REQUIREMENTS
                      PERFORMANCE ITEMS                 SAT           UNSAT
OPEN PHARMACY
1. Contact Security Forces
2. Authenticate
3. Deactivate Alarm
4. Perform opening checklist tasks/sign off as complete on Activity
Security Checklist
CLOSE PHARMACY
1. Perform closing checklist tasks (secure controlled meds, vault,
windows, access doors etc)
2. Sign off completion on Activity Security Checklist
3. Contact SF
4. Authenticate
5. Activate Alarm
6. Secure Door(s)
TEST ALARMS
1. Contact SF
2. Request checks/tests
3. Push duress alarms
4. Record completion on AF IMT 2530
5. File in Resource Protection binder
VISITOR PROCEDURES
1. Check EAL
2. Have visitor sign AF IMT 1109
3. Escort
ANTI-ROBBERY PROCEDURES
1. Obey demands of robbers
2. Activate duress alarm
3. Call SF
4. Make notes on AF IMT 439
5. Secure Area (witnesses/evidence)
BOMB THREAT PROCEDURES
1. Complete AF IMT 440
2. Do Not Hang Up

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
Trainer:
Certifier:
Date:
FEEDBACK: Using the performance checklist as a review reference, discuss the trainee‟s
performance, indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvement, etc. If trainee performed all
task steps satisfactorily, document appropriately in trainee‟s 6-part training/competency folder.
