DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                    QTP 4N1X1X-02
Headquarters US Air Force                                                          1 July 2014
Washington, DC 20330-5000




                         SURGICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY

                               Sterilization and Disinfection




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.




                                                 i
                                           QTP 4N1X1-02
                              SURGICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY
                            Volume 02: Sterilization and Disinfection

                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS


Introduction                                                                             iii

Module 1.      Preparation of Instruments, Sets, Packs, and Supplies for Sterilization

               Clean and decontaminate items for sterilization                           1

               Assemble cleaned items for sterilization                                  4

               Package patient care items for sterilization                              7


Module 2.      Principles of Loading and Unloading a Steam Sterilizer

               Load a steam sterilizer                                                   9

               Unload a steam sterilizer                                                 11




OPR: AF/SG1E
Certified by: SMSgt Judy Hickman (60 MSGS/CCC)
Supersedes: QTP4N1X1-02, 18 Dec 2009
Pages: 16



                                                 ii
                                                 INTRODUCTION

1. This qualification training package (QTP) was developed to make available a training aid which will assist
Surgical Service Technicians to develop technical skills essential to performing specialized tasks. The tasks are
broken down into teachable elements, which help the trainer guide the trainee into becoming proficient with the
tasks. The QTP will also aid the task certifier when evaluating trainees for task certification.

2. As a trainer, go through each module (lesson) and identify which QTP tasks are appropriate for the trainee’s duty
position (items identified in the CFETP as core tasks are mandatory), then determine the order in which you want the
trainee to learn about each subject area. Direct the trainee to review the training references to better understand the
objective of each module. Go through the steps in the task performance with the trainee and allow for enough time
to learn each step; some objectives may take more time than others. Remember, the objective of the QTP is to
ensure the trainee can perform each task thoroughly. When the trainee receives enough training and is ready to be
evaluated on an objective, follow the evaluation instructions. Use the performance checklist as you evaluate each
objective. If the trainee successfully accomplishes the objective, document appropriately in the individual’s training
record. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing more training until the objective is
met. Conduct a feedback with the trainee on each module. After the trainer has ensured and documented that the
trainee is qualified to perform the task, the trainee should be evaluated by a certifier.

3. The goal of the developers of this QTP is to publish a useful document for trainers and trainees that will meet Air
Force needs under the concepts outlined in the Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). We value your
expertise in meeting this goal. If you find discrepancies in this QTP, or have suggestions for its improvement, or if
you have suggestions for other areas that may benefit from a QTP, please let us know about them by contacting the
below individual:



                                    SMSgt Judy Hickman
                                    60 MSGS/CCC
                                    Travis AFB, CA 94535
                                    DSN 799-2385
                                    Email: judy.hickman@us.af.mil




                                                          iii
Volume 02                                                                                 Module 1


     PREPARATION OF INSTRUMENTS, SETS, PACKS, AND SUPPLIES FOR STERILIZATION


                   Clean and Decontaminate Items for Sterilization
SUBJECT AREA:                    Preparation of Instruments, Sets, Packs, and Supplies for Sterilization

TASK(s):                         Patient care item processing

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):          5. Sterile Processing and Distribution
                                 5.2. Perform sterile processing procedures
                                 5.2.3.1. Washer decontaminator/sterilizer
                                 5.2.3.2. Perform Inspection & validation testing IAW manufacturer
                                           rec
                                 5.2.3.3 Ultrasonic cleaner
                                 5.2.3.4 Perform Inspection & validation testing IAW manufacturer rec
                                 5.2.3.5 Lumen Washers
                                 5.2.3.6 Perform Inspection & validation testing IAW manufacturer rec
                                 5.2.3.7 Other mechanical methods
                                 5.2.3.8 Manual methods
                                 5.2.3.9 Instrument lubrication


TRAINING REFERENCE(s):           CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I, Volume 2,
                                          Infection Control, Unit 2
                                 AAMI Standards and Recommended Practices
                                 Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A Positive Care
                                                  Approach
                                 Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI)
                                          Standards
                                 Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution, Inc.
                                          (CBSPD)

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:              Soiled or contaminated instrumentation needing to be reprocessed and
                                 prepared for surgery and/or clinic use.

OBJECTIVE:                       The trainee will, without error, properly clean and decontaminate
                                 soiled instrumentation, rendering items safe for handling during
                                 sorting, inspecting, assembling, and sterilization.

REMARKS/NOTES:                   Since this task involves handling of contaminated items, including
                                 sharps and delicate instruments, ensure the trainee understands the
                                 process, knows inherent risk factors, and is closely supervised during
                                 the evaluation. The evaluator will STOP the procedure
                                 immediately and correct the trainee if performance may
                                 compromise safety or damage resources. Ensure the trainee dons
                                 all personal protective equipment (PPE) required by current
                                 standards/precautions.




                                            1
Volume 02                                                                                                Module 1

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated during actual performance of the tasks.

2. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task. The trainee must
   satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance.

3. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating the task to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.


        PREPARATION OF INSTRUMENTS, SETS, PACKS, AND SUPPLIES FOR STERILIZATION

                                          PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
           CLEAN & DECONTAMINATE ITEMS FOR STERILIZATION                                       SAT            UNSAT
                                      Preparatory Phase
1.   Don personal protective equipment (PPE) required for cleaning and
      decontamination, and explain why this PPE is needed
2.   Explain differences between cleaning and decontamination
3.   Explain why mechanical methods are preferred over manual methods. Cite
      examples of items that must be manually cleaned and decontaminated, and explain
      why
4.   Inspect items to ensure gross contaminants were removed at point of use. Follow
      locally established protocol for processing items received grossly contaminated
      a. Flush and clean all lumens in accordance with manufacturer’s
           recommendations.
5.   Perform pre-soaking/pre-rinsing (if local policy dictates)
                         Mechanical Cleaning & Decontamination
1.   Describe what each of the following types of equipment does, and how to use the
      ones used in your facility:
      a. Washer-sterilizer
      b. Washer-decontaminator
      c. Ultrasonic cleaner
2.   Inspect items to ensure they are properly arranged for mechanical cleaning and
      decontamination; correct discrepancies per local policy
      a. Items should be placed in perforated containers such as pans, trays, or baskets
      b. Heavy instruments should be separated from lighter ones, or, heavy items
          should be placed in the bottom of the container, lighter ones on top
      c. Sharp or pointed items should be placed in separate containers, or should be
          placed on top of all other items. Sharp or pointed areas must not be damaged
          by contact with other instruments, and also must be arranged as to not injure
          processing area personnel
      d. Concave surfaces of items should face down or to the side to allow solution to
          flow through, rather than pool on, the surface
      e. Hinged instruments should be open, ratchets disengaged; ringed instruments
          may be on a stringer to help hold them open
      f. Multi-part instruments should be disassembled; ensure small pieces are safely
          contained so they are not lost
      g. All items should be arranged neatly; they should not be simply piled in the


                                                           2
Volume 02                                                                                           Module 1

          CLEAN & DECONTAMINATE ITEMS FOR STERILIZATION                                       SAT     UNSAT
         container. Do not overload the instrument trays
     h. Avoid mixing instruments made of dissimilar metals in the same load
3.   Follow the manufacturer’s instructions and local policy for loading and operating
     the mechanical cleaning equipment
                          Manual Cleaning & Decontamination
1.   Wash the items in clean, warm water, mixed with a detergent that is non-corrosive,
     low sudsing, and that will leave no residue
2.   Keep all items immersed in (except for those that cannot be immersed, such as air-
     powered instruments), and guard against splashing of, the solution while manually
     washing items
     a. Flush and clean all lumens in accordance with manufacturer’s
          recommendations.
3.   Use a soft-bristle brush to clean the box locks, ratchets, serrations, and other hard-
     to-reach places on instruments and glassware. Never use steel wool, abrasive pads,
     or other abrasive agents to routinely scrub surgical instruments
4.   Clean delicate microsurgery instruments, such as those used for eye or
     neurosurgery, according to the manufacturer’s directions
5.   Always pick up delicate instruments by their handles, and do not allow them to
     strike each other or other objects as you clean them
6.   Clean air-powered instruments according to the manufacturer’s directions
7.   Rinse all items thoroughly with hot water to remove all residual detergent and
     other matter, then allow the instruments to dry
8.   Place instruments in appropriate containers for terminal sterilization (if the
     instrument is heat and moisture tolerant) or for chemical disinfection according to
     local policy
                                         Lubrication
1.   Use instrument milk to lubricate all metal instruments with moving parts
     (providing manufacturer and local policy permits) after cleaning and
     decontamination
2.   Ensure the milk is mixed (according to manufacturer’s directions) in a container
     large enough to allow a full tray or pan of instruments to be fully immersed in the
     solution
3.   Lubricate most common instruments by:
     a. Immersing the instruments in the solution for at least 30 seconds
     b. Removing the instruments from the solution
     c. Allowing excess lubricant to drain; do not rinse or wipe off the lubricant
4.   Specialty instruments should be lubricated only according to manufacturer’s
     recommendations
                                               FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance indicating
strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.




                                                             3
Volume 02                                                                                                  Module 1


      PREPARATION OF INSTRUMENTS, SETS, PACKS, AND SUPPLIES FOR STERILIZATION

                                       Assemble Cleaned Items for Sterilization
SUBJECT AREA:                                   Preparation of Instruments, Sets, Packs, and Supplies for Sterilization

TASK(s):                                        Perform assembly procedures

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                         5.3. Perform assembly procedures
                                                5.3.1. Instruments/supplies sorting
                                                5.3.2. Instrument/supplies inspection
                                                5.3.3. Assemble instrument/supply sets
                                                5.3.4. Utilize appropriate inventory count sheets


TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                          CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I, Volume 2,
                                                          Infection Control, Unit 2
                                                AAMI Standards and Recommended Practices
                                                Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI)
                                                          Standards
                                                 Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution, Inc.
                                                                  (CBSPD)
                                                Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A Positive Care
                                                                  Approach
                                                Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                             Clean, decontaminated surgical instrumentation needing to be
                                                reprocessed and prepared for surgery and/or clinic use

OBJECTIVE:                                      The trainee will, without error, properly sort, inspect, select, and
                                                arrange instrumentation in preparation for sterilization.

REMARKS/NOTES:                                  Since this task may involve handling of sharps and delicate
                                                instruments ensure the trainee understands the process, knows inherent
                                                risk factors, and is closely supervised during the evaluation. The
                                                evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the
                                                trainee if performance may compromise safety or damage
                                                resources. Ensure the trainee dons all personal protective equipment
                                                (PPE) required by current standards/precautions.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated during actual performance of the tasks.

2. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task. The trainee must
   satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance.

3. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating the task to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished. NOTE:
   This checklist is divided into distinct steps-sort, inspect, select, and arrange. Novice/inexperienced trainees
   generally follow these steps separately. However, more experienced trainees may elect to perform some steps
   simultaneously, i.e. may sort, inspect, select, and arrange all of one type instrument in one step rather than sort all
   instruments, then inspect all, etc. This is acceptable providing the trainee performs all steps on all items.




                                                            4
Volume 02                                                                                         Module 1

4. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.

                                           PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
             ASSEMBLE CLEANED ITEMS FOR STERILIZATION                                       SAT      UNSAT
                                        Sort Items
1. Separate instruments into stacks or groups of identical instruments; ring-handled
    instruments may be grouped on rolled towel
2. Handle sharp/delicate instruments carefully; separate/pad them to prevent damage
3. Ensure instruments with locking ratchets are open
4. Group all parts of multi-part instruments (such as self-retaining retractors) together
5. Sort reusable items such as medicine glasses, metal ware by like item
6. (If applicable) Sort reusable needles by size, all pieces of multi-part needles
    together
                                      Inspect Items
1. Explain importance of inspection
2. Explain and demonstrate inspection of:
    a. Hinges/box locks
    b. Jaws
    c. Ratchet/locking mechanism
    d. Instrument shanks
    e. Bent/broken tips
    f. Cutting edges
    g. Instrument finish/corrosion
    h. Lumens.
3. Describe disposition procedures for:
   a. Soiled or dirty items.
   b. Broken or damaged items.
                                       Select Items
1. Obtain instrument count sheet or cardex
2. Select proper quantity of each item listed
3. Follow instructions on count sheet or cardex exactly
4. Annotate discrepancies per local policy
5. Describe local policy for making changes/modifications to sets
                                     Arrange Items
1. Large or heavy instruments in bottom of pan
2. Delicate or sharp instruments on top, protected per local policy
3. Hinged instruments’ ratchets and jaws open
4. Ringed instruments on stringer, curved tips facing same direction
5. Multi-part instruments disassembled (but parts grouped together)
6. Cups/basins separated by linen/gauze, placed to not hold moisture
7. Glassware wrapped/contained
8. Instruments with lumens flushed with distilled water
9. Linen freshly laundered, folded per local policy
10. Gauze/sponges packaged/counted per local policy
11. All contents arranged in neat and orderly fashion
12. Chemical sterilization indicator included
13. Count sheet annotated with number of items/discrepancies and included with set
    (per local policy)




                                                            5
Volume 02                                                                                            Module 1

        ASSEMBLE CLEANED ITEMS FOR STERILIZATION                                           SAT           UNSAT
FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance indicating
strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.

      PREPARATION OF INSTRUMENTS, SETS, PACKS, AND SUPPLIES FOR STERILIZATION
                                  Package Patient Care Items for Sterilization
SUBJECT AREA:                               Preparation of Instruments, Sets, Packs, and Supplies for Sterilization

TASK(s):                                    Perform packaging procedures

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                     5.4. Perform packaging procedures
                                            5.4.1. Rectangular wrapping method
                                            5.4.2. Diagonal wrapping method
                                            5.4.3. Peel-packs
                                            5.4.4. Rigid containers
                                            5.4.5. Item labeling

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                      CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I, Volume 2,
                                                     Infection Control, Unit 2
                                            AAMI Standards and Recommended Practices
                                            Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI)
                                                             Standards
                                            Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution, Inc.
                                                             (CBSPD)
                                            Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A Positive Care
                                                             Approach
                                            Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                         Assembled instrument sets, loose instruments, utensils, and other clean
                                            and assembled patient care items needing to be packaged for
                                            sterilization
                                            Various sizes and types of wrapping materials appropriate for the
                                            items to be packaged

OBJECTIVE:                                  The trainee will, without error, select appropriate packaging material,
                                            perform packaging method, and label various patient care items in
                                            preparation for sterilization.

REMARKS/NOTES:                              Because more than one type and method of packaging may be suitable
                                            for an item, the evaluator must be objective. Trainee should be
                                            penalized for selection of inappropriate material/method only, not
                                            simply for selecting material/method other than evaluator would
                                            choose. However, if written directions exist (such as found on cardex
                                            or count sheet), the trainee must follow them to pass evaluation.




                                                       6
Volume 02                                                                                                Module 1

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated during actual performance of the tasks.

2. Before evaluating the tasks, the evaluator should review with the trainee the material in the training references
   covering types and characteristics of wrapping materials, and should ensure the trainee understands the
   advantages and disadvantages of each type and method available.

3. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task. The trainee must
   satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance.

4. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating the task to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

5. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.


      PREPARATION OF INSTRUMENTS, SETS, PACKS, AND SUPPLIES FOR STERILIZATION
                            PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
          PACKAGE PATIENT CARE ITEMS FOR STERILIZATION                                         SAT            UNSAT
                   Types and Characteristics of Packaging Materials
1. Trainee explains advantages/disadvantages of packaging materials:
    a. Non-disposable wrappers
    b. Disposable wrappers
    c. Peel-packs
    d. Rigid containers
                             Rectangular Wrapping Method
1. Identify types of items packaged using rectangular wrapping method
2. Check item for internal chemical indicator/count sheet
3. Wrap item:
    a. Place opened wrapper(s) with long side parallel to your body
    b. Place item in wrapper center, long item sides parallel to long wrapper sides
    c. Fold one long edge of wrapper over item; make cuff
    d. Fold second long edge of wrapper over item; make cuff
    e. Fold one side over item, fold loose ends under (close to item)
    f. Fold final side over item, loose ends folded under
    g. Repeat steps b-f with second wrapper if local policy or manufacturer directions
        require.
4. Secure and label with appropriate sterilizer tape.
                               Diagonal Wrapping Method
1. Identify types of items packaged using diagonal wrapping method
2. Check item for internal chemical indicator/count sheet
3. Wrap item:
    a. Place opened wrapper(s) with one corner towards your body
    b. Place item in wrapper center, item sides parallel to your body
    c. Fold one corner of wrapper over item; make cuff
    d. Fold an adjacent corner of wrapper over item; make cuff
    e. Fold opposite corner of step d over item; make cuff
    f. Fold final corner over item; tuck flap or wrap flap per local policy
    g. Repeat steps b-f with second wrapper if local policy or manufacturer directions
        require.


                                                           7
Volume 02                                                                                         Module 1

           PACKAGE PATIENT CARE ITEMS FOR STERILIZATION                                    SAT        UNSAT
4. Secure with appropriate sterilizer tape.
                                   Peel-Pack Method
1. Identify types of items packaged using peel-pack method
2. Select appropriate size package for item. Should be a minimum of 1-inch safety
    margin on all sides of item
3. Place item in package, handle or blunt end towards end of peel-pack that will be
    opened, tips protected/ratchets held open per local policy
4. Place chemical indicator in package; indicator side visible
5. Seal pouch:
    a. If self-seal, remove protective strip and seal; ensure no air gaps or wrinkles in
        package
    b. If heat-seal, follow manufacturer directions; always check integrity of the seal
6. Label IAW local policy
                                     Rigid Container
1. Identify types of items packaged using rigid containers
2. Check item for internal chemical indicator/count sheet
3. Inspect container and gaskets for cleanliness/damage
    a. Describe disposition procedures for dirty or damaged container
4. Ensure contents will fit in container without contacting the lid
5. If container is engraved with set/content name, ensure the contents match the
    container label
6. Change filters IAW local policy and manufacturer instructions
7. Place contents in container; close lid
8. Engage locking mechanism and attach appropriate sealing/security device(s); if
    device has chemical indicator, ensure it is visible
                                       Label Items
1. Describe locally approved methods for labeling various items
2. Minimum label information:
    a. Name of article/contents
    b. Initials of individuals assembling/packaging item
    c. Sterilization control number and/or expiration date
    d. (Optional) Using unit or destination of package
FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance indicating
strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.




                                                            8
                  PRINCIPLES OF LOADING AND UNLOADING A STEAM STERILIZER

                                               Load a Steam Sterilizer
SUBJECT AREA:                                  Principles of loading and unloading a steam sterilizer

TASK(s):                                       Load sterilizer

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                        5.5.2. Sterilization procedures
                                               5.5.2.1. Steam
                                               5.5.2.2. Chemical
                                               5.5.2.3. Other

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                         CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I, Volume 2,
                                                        Infection Control, Unit 3
                                               AAMI Standards and Recommended Practices
                                               Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI)
                                                                Standards
                                               Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution, Inc.
                                                                (CBSPD)
                                               Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A Positive Care
                                                                Approach
                                               Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                            Steam sterilizer
                                               Items packaged and ready for sterilization
                                               Sterilizer rack and loading carriage
                                               Sterilizer test pack (as needed per local policy)
                                               Heat resistant gloves and other locally determined personal protective
                                                         attire

OBJECTIVE:                                     The trainee will, without error, demonstrate proper techniques for
                                               loading various items in a steam sterilizer to ensure all surfaces are
                                               contacted by the sterilant and drying of sterilized items is not
                                               compromised.

REMARKS/NOTES:                                 Review steps of the process one-on-one with the trainee to ensure full
                                               understanding of the concepts of proper loading of the sterilizer.
                                               Ensure the trainee understands common errors and how to avoid them.
                                               Review local policy and all applicable safety data before performing
                                               or evaluating the task. Since this task involves using steam apparatus,
                                               ensure the trainee understands the process, knows inherent risk
                                               factors, and is closely supervised during the evaluation. The
                                               evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the
                                               trainee if performance may compromise safety or damage
                                               resources. Ensure the trainee dons all personal protective equipment
                                               (PPE) required by current policies.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated during actual performance of the tasks.

2. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task. The trainee must
   satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance.


                                                           9
3. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating the task to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.


                   PRINCIPLES OF LOADING AND UNLOADING A STEAM STERILIZER

                                             PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
                             LOAD A STEAM STERILIZER                                          SAT             UNSAT
                                     Preparatory Phase
1.   Explain basic principles of steam sterilization:
     a. Steam temperature
     b. Steam saturation
     c. Steam purity
     d. Steam penetration/contact
2.   Describe features of common steam sterilizers, including local minimum
     parameters for sterilization using each type:
     a. Gravity displacement
     b. Prevacuum
                                     Performance Phase
1.   Ensure sterilization rack is properly and securely on its carriage
2.   Load all items onto sterilization rack—DO NOT overload
     a. Load all packages with loose contact between individual items; DO NOT
         overcrowd or overload chamber racks or sterilizer cart
     b. Place all packages, trays, and sets (except rigid containers and heavy
         instrument sets in mesh-bottom trays) on edge with the longest side of the pack
         on the rack shelf
     c. Place receptacles such as basins and bowls on their sides
     d. Tip wrapped packages slightly forward to prevent condensation from being
         trapped in the containers during load cool down
     e. Place rigid containers and heavy instrument sets in mesh-bottom trays flat on
         the shelf
     f. Allow at least 3 inches between the top of the sterilizer chamber and the
         topmost packages of the load
     g. Place hard goods on bottom shelf, linens and soft goods on top
     h. Place the larger packs and rigid containers on the lower shelves and the smaller
         packs on the top shelves
     i. Place paper and plastic peel packaged items on edge with the plastic side of one
         package facing the paper side of the adjacent package
     j. Use wire baskets to hold the peel packaged items on the rack or cart shelves to
         ensure this position is maintained during the cycle and to provide easier
         handling
     k. Whenever possible, sterilize like items together in a load, not mixed with other
         type items. For example, sterilize linens in one load and hard goods
         (instrument sets, basins, trays) in a separate load
     l. DO NOT put any items into a heated sterilizer until its time to start the
         sterilization cycle
3.   Place sterilization “challenge” or “test” pack on sterilization load IAW local policy
4.   Don heat-resistant gloves and any other locally required personal protective attire;
     FOLLOW ALL LOCAL SAFETY GUIDELINES


                                                            10
                            LOAD A STEAM STERILIZER                                      SAT          UNSAT
5. Roll carriage and sterilization rack into position in front of sterilizer chamber;
   engage carriage-to-sterilizer locking mechanism
6. Release sterilization rack-to-carriage locking mechanism and push loaded rack
   fully into sterilization chamber
7. Release and remove the empty carriage
8. Close and secure sterilizer door
9. Start appropriate sterilization cycle
FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance indicating
strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.




                                                           11
                  PRINCIPLES OF LOADING AND UNLOADING A STEAM STERILIZER

                                              Unload a Steam Sterilizer
SUBJECT AREA:                                  Principles of loading and unloading a steam sterilizer

TASK(s):                                       Unload sterilizer

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                        5.5. Sterilization procedures
                                               5.5.2.1. Steam
                                               5.5.2.2. Chemical
                                               5.5.2.3. Other

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                         CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I, Volume 2,
                                                        Infection Control, Unit 3
                                               AAMI Standards and Recommended Practices
                                               Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI)
                                                        Standards
                                               Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution, Inc.
                                                        (CBSPD)
                                               Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A positive Care
                                                                Approach
                                               Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                            Steam sterilizer
                                               Sterilizer rack containing newly sterilized items
                                               Sterilizer rack loading carriage
                                               Sterilizer test pack (as needed per local policy)
                                               Heat resistant gloves and other locally determined personal protective
                                                         attire

OBJECTIVE:                                     The trainee will, without error, demonstrate proper techniques for
                                               removing a sterilization cart, containing newly sterilized items, from
                                               the sterilizer. The trainee will then demonstrate proper techniques for
                                               unloading the various sterilized items using proper handling
                                               techniques to prevent sterilization compromise.

REMARKS/NOTES:                                 Review steps of the process one-on-one with the trainee to ensure full
                                               understanding of the concepts of proper unloading of the sterilizer.
                                               Ensure the trainee understands common errors and how to avoid them.
                                               Review local policy and all applicable safety data before performing
                                               or evaluating the task. Since this task involves using steam
                                               sterilization apparatus, ensure the trainee understands the process,
                                               knows inherent risk factors, and is closely supervised during the
                                               evaluation. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately
                                               and correct the trainee if performance may compromise safety or
                                               damage resources. Ensure the trainee dons all personal protective
                                               equipment (PPE) required by current policies.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated during actual performance of the tasks.

2. After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task. The trainee must
   satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance.

                                                           12
3. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating the task to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.


                  PRINCIPLES OF LOADING AND UNLOADING A STEAM STERILIZER
                                  PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
                           UNLOAD A STEAM STERILIZER                                          SAT             UNSAT
                       Removing Sterilization Rack from Chamber
1. When the sterilizer cycle-complete alarm sounds, check the chamber pressure
    gauge or digital readout to ensure there is no pressure in the chamber. Always
    check the chamber pressure before opening any sterilizer door
2. As you open the sterilizer door, stand behind the door, slightly towards the hinged
    side, never in front of the opening chamber
3. “Crack” the door open about 6-8 inches; allow load to cool-down IAW local policy
    (usually 15-30 minutes)
4. Don heat-resistant gloves and any locally required personal protective attire
5. Position sterilization rack carriage in front of chamber and engage carriage-to-
    sterilizer locking mechanism
6. Grasp sterilization rack and pull it fully onto carriage; ensure the rack-to-carriage
    locking mechanism engages
7. Release carriage-to-sterilizer locking mechanism and pull carriage and sterilized
    load to designated cooling area IAW local policy
                    Unloading Sterilized Items from Sterilization Rack
1. Remove sterilization challenge/test pack; process IAW local policy
   a. Describe disposition procedures for contaminated items.
2. When the load reaches room temperature, visually inspect packaging of items for
    signs of wetness. Describe reasons moisture may be present and take corrective
    actions.
3. Handle sterile items as little as possible
4. Check each package for integrity; if torn, soiled, wet, or distorted, or if dropped on
    the floor, consider item contaminated
5. If a plastic dust cover is used to extend the shelf-life of a sterilized item, allow the
    item to cool to room temperature, then place the dust cover as soon as possible
    after sterilization (and cooling)
6. If sterile and nonsterile supplies must be stored in the same area, keep them strictly
    separated.
7. Avoid packing tightly or over-stocking shelves
8. Rotate stock-first in, first out
FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance indicating
strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.




                                                            13
