                                                  QTP 4N0X1-3
                                                      May 2005



      AEROSPACE MEDICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY

NURSING CARE OF PATIENTS IN EMERGENCY SITUATIONS




     TRAINING THE BEST MEDICS FOR THE BEST
            AIR FORCE IN THE WORLD



                383 Training Squadron
             Training Management Section
                939 Missile Road STE 3
         Sheppard Air Force Base, TX 76311-2622
                                   QTP 4N0X1-3

                         MEDICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY

         Volume 3:       Nursing Care of Patients in Emergency Situations

                             TABLE OF CONTENTS

MODULE   OBJECTIVE                                                          PAGES


1        Field triage                                                       1-2

2        Set-up equipment for cardioversion/defibrillation/pacemaker        3-4

3        Irrigate eyes                                                      5-6

4        Apply simple cast/splint, trim/petal, bivalve, and remove cast     7-9

5        Emergency medication administration                                10 - 12




                                          ii
                                     INTRODUCTION

1. These Qualification Training Packages (QTPs) were developed to enhance on-the-
job training for Aerospace Medical Service Specialty personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs
provide you with the breakdown of tasks into teachable elements. The teachable
elements will help you to guide the trainee toward sufficient proficiency for task
performance without assistance. QTPs are also used by the task
certifiers/certification official to evaluate trainees concerning tasks which need third-
party certification.

2. Review each volume and identify which modules of QTPs are needed for the
trainee’s job position. Core task items are identified with the number “5” on the STS
Column 2; these items are the minimum mandatory skills which are required for all
4N0X1 personnel to be proficient in performing. You have the flexibility to arrange
training for each module in the order that you decide.

3. Review the subject-area tasks in each module with the trainee. Direct the trainee to
review the training references to gain a better understanding of the objective for each
module. If the trainee has any questions about the objective, clarify the behavior that is
expected in the objective. Review the performance checklist with the trainee, and allow
him/her sufficient time to learn each step (some objectives may take longer to teach).
Remember--the objective of each QTP is to standardize training and to allow sufficient
time for the trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform the task without
assistance.

4. When the trainee receives sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on an
objective, follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used
as you evaluate each task objective. When the trainee successfully accomplishes the
objective, document task completion appropriately in the six-part folder.

6. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on AF Form 1098, Special Task
Certification and Recurring Training, filed in Part 3, Section B of the six-part training
folder. NOTE: The individual checklists are not filed in each member’s six-part training
folder. A master checklist is filed in Part 3, Section B of the Master Training Plan (MTP)
six-part training folder.

7. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas which need
remediation. Conduct a feedback concerning each module with the trainee, and
document appropriately in the 6-part folder. As the trainer, when you are satisfied that
the trainee is qualified to perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until the objective
is met.

8. If the task which is being trained requires third-party certification by a task
certifier/certifying official, the trainer first must ensure that the trainee is qualified to
perform the task without assistance. Then the trainee will be evaluated by a task
certifier/certifying official. The tasks which require third-party certification are denoted
with a “^” in Column 3E of the Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). After
third-party certification, training qualification is documented appropriately in the 6-part
folder.


                                             iii
9. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing refresher/sustainment training.
Such standardization will benefit the CFETP training concept throughout each member’s
career. These documents also will be utilized for assessing/certifying the Aerospace
Medical Service Specialist each time that he/she is assigned to a new duty position.
The QTP developers’ goal is to publish a usable document for certifying officials,
trainers, and trainees for the purpose of enhancing on-the-job training for Aerospace
Medical Service Specialty personnel. We value your first-hand expertise, and we
encourage your feedback. Direct all inquiries to:



                          383d TRAINING SQUADRON/XUEAA
                          c/o 4N0X1 CDC WRITER/MANAGER
                          939 MISSILE ROAD STE 3
                          SHEPPARD AIR FORCE BASE, TEXAS 76311-2266
                          DSN: 736-6983




                                         iv
Volume 3                                                                        Module 1

                                       FIELD TRIAGE

SUBJECT AREA:                         Emergency care procedures.

TASK(s):                              Prehospital/ Field triage.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):               9.4.2.2.

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                   Ambulance with complete supply and equipment inventory.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                Brady Emergency Care, current edition, and local
                                      instructions.

REMARKS/NOTES:                        Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                      technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                      ambulance operations in situations involving the need for
                                      field triage.

OBJECTIVE:                            The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the
                                      performance aspects in situations involving the need for
                                      field triage.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.     This QTP should be evaluated by conducting a mock-exercise scenario.

2.     After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

3.     Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4.       Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be documented
on AF Form 1098.




                                                 1
          Vol.3 Module 1                                                                      Field Triage
                                   PERFORMANCE ITEM                                           SAT      UNSAT
1.   Respond safely to scene
2.   Use proper radio transmissions at all times
3.   Assess scene for safety hazards, don gloves, and establish a command post
4.   Perform initial triage and use tags to place in appropriate categories:
     a. Priority 1 - Immediate care required (RED) also called IMMEDIATE:
        (1) Respiratory arrest or obstruction
        (2) Suspected heart attack
        (3) Severe bleeding
        (4) Severe head injury
        (5) Cervical spine injury
        (6) Open chest or abdominal wound
        (7) Fractures to extremities with no distal pulse present
        (8) Femur fractures
        (9) Critical or complicated burns involving respiratory complications
        (10) Severe shock
        (11) Tension pneumothorax
        (12) Other correctable life-threatening illnesses or injuries
     b. Priority 2 - Care may be delayed (YELLOW) also called DELAYED:
        (1) Moderate blood loss
        (2) Moderate to critical burns without airway problems
        (3) Open or multiple fractures
        (4) Eye injuries
        (5) Back injuries
        (6) Other serious but not life-threatening illnesses or injuries
     c. Priority 3 - “Walking wounded” (GREEN) also called MINIMAL:
        (1) Minor soft tissue injuries
        (2) Simple fractures and sprains
        (3) Minor to moderate burns
     d. Priority 4 - Dead or fatally injured (BLACK/BLUE)also called EXPECTANT:
        (1) Exposed brain matter
        (2) Cardiac arrest (may be placed in Priority 1 if manpower permits)
        (3) Decapitation
        (4) Severed trunk
        (5) Incineration
5.   Assign personnel to perform initial treatment in order of priorities established
6.   Perform secondary triage as more help arrives:
     a. Reassess patients and upgrade or downgrade priority accordingly
     b. Ensure care is performed according to reassigned priorities
7.   Properly load and transport patients to hospital according to priorities
8.   Document all procedures
FINAL RESULT:

          FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
          indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
          of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                                              2
Volume 3                                                                        Module 2

                       SET-UP EQUIPMENT FOR
              CARDIOVERSION/DEFIBRILLATION/PACE MAKER

SUBJECT AREA:                         Emergency care procedures.

TASK(s):                              Set-up equipment for cardioversion/defibrillation/pace
                                      maker.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):               9.1.15.2.2

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                   ECG monitor/defibrillator with leads and electrodes,
                                      conduction gel/paste, suction unit, BVM, oxygen, pacing
                                      equipment, cutdown tray, suture and dressing material,
                                      gloves, and fully stocked crash cart.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice, current edition, and
                                             ECG monitor/defibrillator manufacturer’s operating
                                                   instructions.

REMARKS/NOTES:                        Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                      technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                      setting up equipment for cardioversion/defibrillation/pace
                                      maker.

OBJECTIVE:                            The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the
                                      performance aspects of setting up equipment for
                                      cardioversion/defibrillation/pace maker.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.     After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2.     The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
performance could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3.     Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4.       Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                   3
Vol.3 Module 2                  Set-Up Equipment for Cardioversion/Defibrillation/Pace Maker
                            PERFORMANCE ITEM                                 SAT     UNSAT
1. Verify physician’s order
2. Gather supplies/equipment
3. Don gloves
                        SET-UP FOR CARDIOVERSION
1. Identify patient, explain procedure, ensure patient has been NPO 12 hours
   before procedure, and ensure written consent has been obtained
2. Ensure IV line is established
3. Obtain baseline vital signs, to include EKG
4. Ensure appropriate lab work has been accomplished (i.e. potassium)
5. Set electrical energy level as ordered by physician
6. Apply conduction gel/paste to paddles
7. Ensure monitor recorder is running to record procedure
8. Stand clear during cardioversion
9. Observe monitor during and after cardioversion
10. Obtain post-procedure vital signs, to include EKG
                        SET-UP FOR DEFIBRILLATION
1. Perform initial patient assessment IAW AHA standards
2. Ensure CPR is initiated with airway adjunct and high flow oxygen via BVM
3. Ensure IV line is established
4. Ensure EKG monitor is connected to patient
5. Identify ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation
6. Set electrical energy level as ordered by physician
7. Apply conduction gel/paste to paddles
8. Ensure monitor recorder is running to record procedure
9. Stand clear during defibrillation
10. Observe monitor during and after defibrillation
11. Set electrical energy level(s) for subsequent defibrillation attempts or resume
    CPR as ordered by physician
12. Ensure all procedures are recorded
                    SET-UP FOR PACEMAKER INSERTION
1. Ensure all equipment is readily available
2. Ensure battery on unit is functional
3. Assist physician as directed during procedure
4. Ensure all procedures are recorded
FINAL RESULT:



FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                                     4
Volume 3                                                                        Module 3

                                      IRRIGATE EYES

SUBJECT AREA:                         Emergency care procedures.

TASK(s):                              Irrigate eyes.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):               9.4.2.7.2

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                   Sterile saline or prescribed solution, IV set-up with
                                      attached tubing, basins, gloves, and drapes.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice, current edition.

REMARKS/NOTES:                        Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                      technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                      eye irrigation.

OBJECTIVE:                            The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the
                                      performance aspects of eye irrigation.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.     After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2.     The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
performance could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3.     Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4.       Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                  5
Vol.3 Module 3                                                                         Irrigate Eyes
                           PERFORMANCE ITEM                                          SAT    UNSAT
1. Verify physician’s order
2. Gather equipment
3. Identify patient/explain procedure
4. Wash hands
5. Don gloves
6. Position patient in lying position
7. Instruct patient to tilt head toward side of the affected eye
8. Drape patient appropriately
9. Position basin to collect solution
10. Irrigate eye with solution, allowing it to flow from the inner canthus outward
11. Instruct patient to rotate eye as solution is administered
12. Pat the eye dry after the procedure
13. Assist patient to position of comfort
14. Dispose of supplies properly
15. Document procedure
FINAL RESULT:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                                     6
Volume 3                                                                         Module 4

                        APPLY SIMPLE CAST/SPLINT,
                  TRIM/PETAL, BIVALVE, AND REMOVE CAST

SUBJECT AREA:                         Emergency care procedures.

TASK(s):                              Apply and remove a simple cast/splint, bivalve, trim/petal
                                      cast.

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):               9.1.12.2.2. , 9.1.12.2.3., 9.1.12.2.4., 9.1.12.2.5.

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                   Gloves, cast padding, scissors, drapes, pail of room
                                      temperature water, casting material, stockinette, cast
                                      spreader, cast cutter, felt-tip pen.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice, current edition .

REMARKS/NOTES:                        Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                      echnician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                      cast application, trimming, petaling, bivalving, and
                                      removal.

OBJECTIVE:                            The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the
                                      performance aspects of cast application, trimming,
                                      petaling, bivalving, and removal.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.     After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2.     The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
performance could become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3.     Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4.       Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record.
Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be
documented on AF Form 1098.




                                                 7
Vol.3 Module 4                  Apply Simple Cast/Splint, Trim/Petal, Bivalve, and Remove Cast
                            PERFORMANCE ITEM                                    SAT    UNSAT
                      CAST APPLICATION PROCEDURE
1. Verify physician’s order
2. Gather supplies/equipment
3. Identify patient/explain procedure
4. Position patient in comfortable position with extremity to be treated in proper
   position and drape the patient
5. Assess neurovascular status of extremity
6. Measure and apply stockinette
7. Apply cast padding with particular attention paid to bony prominences
8. Submerge cast material in room temperature water to saturate
9. Squeeze excess water from cast material
10. Wrap the extremity with the cast material from distal-to-proximal; ensure
    overlapping the material by 1/2 the width of the roll with each turn
11. Smooth the cast material
12. Trim cast to proper size
13. Fold stockinette over edges of cast
14. Prepare and apply a second layer of cast material
15. Reassess neurovascular status in extremity
16. Dispose of supplies properly
17. Document procedure
                                TRIM/PETAL CAST
1. Verify physician’s order
2. Gather supplies/equipment
3. Identify patient/explain procedure
4. Inspect cast for any rough areas or chipped material
5. Trim frayed areas from edges of cast
6. Cut several “petals”(strips of 1 or 2 inch tape)
7. Trim edges of petals to form curves or points
8. Slip half of each petal (trimmed edge first) into the inside of the cast
9. Secure the other end of the petal over the edge and onto the outside of the cast
10. Use as many petals as needed to cover the cast edge
                                 BIVALVE CAST
1. Verify physician’s order
2. Gather supplies/equipment
3. Identify patient/explain procedure
4. Position patient in comfortable position with extremity to be treated in proper
   position and drape the patient
5. Rest thumb on cast
6. Turn on electric cutter
7. Push blade firmly and gently through the cast using the thumb to steady the
   blade
                               continued on next page




                                                     8
Vol.3 Module 4 (cont.)          Apply Simple Cast/Splint, Trim/Petal, Bivalve, and Remove Cast
                            PERFORMANCE ITEM                                    SAT    UNSAT
                 CAST APPLICATION PROCEDURE continued
8. For lower limbs, cut down the lateral and medial sides
9. Extend cut to the malleoli
10. As the material is cut through, lift blade up and begin a new cut
11. Cover bivalved parts with cast padding material and stockinette
12. Document procedure
                                CAST REMOVAL
1. Verify physician’s order
2. Gather supplies/equipment
3. Identify patient/explain procedure
4. Position patient in comfortable position with extremity properly positioned
5. Drape the patient
6. Rest thumb on cast
7. Turn on electric cutter
8. Push the blade firmly and gently through the cast using the thumb to steady
   the blade
9. As one area is cut through, lift the blade and advance up one side of the cast
10. Cut the opposite side of the cast in the same manner
11. Spread the two side open with the cast spreader
12. Cut through the padding and stockinette with scissors
13. Gently lift the extremity out of the cast
14. Cleanse the skin with mild soap and water
15. Pat dry and apply a skin cream per local protocol
16. Document procedure
FINAL RESULT:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.




                                                     9
Volume 3                                                                                 Module 5

                 EMERGENCY MEDICATION ADMINISTRATION
SUBJECT AREA:                            Medications and fluid therapy under supervision of nurse or
                                         physician, and emergency care procedures.

TASK(s):                                 Prepare and administer sublingual medications. Emergency
                                         medications: Epinephrine auto-injector, oral glucose, activated
                                         charcoal, syrup of ipecac, and assist patients with prescribed
                                         medications (bronchodilator inhalers and sublingual
                                         nitroglycerin).

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                  9.1.4.3.2.1., 9.1.4.3.2.5,. 9.1.4.3.2.12., 9.1.4.3.2.13.,

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                      Gloves, epinephrine auto-injector, oral glucose, activated
                                                 charcoal, magnesium citrate (or other locally approved liquid for
                                                 mixing with charcoal), syrup of ipecac, prescribed medications
                                                 (bronchodilator inhaler and sublingual nitroglycerin),
                                                 medication cups, tongue depressors, B/P cuff, stethoscope, and
                                                 sterile dressing material.

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                   Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice, current edition, Brady
                                         Emergency Care, current edition, and local instructions.

REMARKS/NOTES:                           1. Review steps of the process one-on-one with medical
                                         technician and/or nursing personnel skilled and verified in
                                         administering emergency medications.

                                         2. Prior to performing the attached tasks, medical technicians
                                         must successfully pass the NLN “Basic Proficiency in
                                         Medication Administration” current edition, or locally prepared
                                         and approved written test to verify proficiency in the cognitive
                                         aspects of medication calculations.

OBJECTIVE:                               The trainee will successfully demonstrate without error the
                                         performance aspects of administering emergency medications.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1.     After the trainee has received instruction, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task.

2.     The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if performance could
become detrimental to patient safety at any time.

3.     Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4.      Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s OJT record. Initial
evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form
1098.




                                                     10
Vol.3 Module5                                                 Emergency Medication Administration
                           PERFORMANCE ITEM                                      SAT     UNSAT
                       EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTOR
1. Wash hands and don gloves
2. Identify patient/explain procedure
3. Verify physician’s order using the 5 rights
4. Obtain epinephrine auto-injector and ensure medication is not expired or
   discolored
5. Position patient with thigh exposed
6. Remove cap from injector
7. Place top of injector against lateral portion of patient’s thigh, midway between
   waist and knee
8. Push injector firmly against thigh to activate
9. Hold injector in place until all medication is administered (approx.10 sec.)
10. Massage the site with a sterile gauze pad and apply band-aid
11. Dispose of supplies properly and wash hands
12. Monitor patient for adverse reactions
13. Document procedure
                                 ORAL GLUCOSE
1. Wash hands and don gloves
2. Verify physician’s order using the 5 rights
3. Obtain tongue depressor and oral glucose to be administered per physician’s
   order.
4. Identify patient/explain procedure
5. Administer glucose:
   a. For conscious patients, assist patient in drinking orange juice, sprinkling
       sugar under tongue, or administering other form of glucose under tongue.
       Monitor the patient’s airway closely
6. Monitor patient’s reaction to glucose administration
7. Dispose of supplies properly and wash hands
8. Document procedure
                            ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
1. Verify physician’s order using the 5 rights
2. Obtain activated charcoal and magnesium citrate (or other locally approved
   liquid for mixing with charcoal) and check expiration date
3. Identify patient/explain procedure
4. Position patient in upright position
5. Wash hands and don gloves
6. Prepare activated charcoal solution per manufacturer’s instructions
7. Assist patient in drinking prescribed dose
8. Monitor patient
9. Dispose of supplies properly and wash hands
10. Document procedure
                                SYRUP OF IPECAC
1. Verify physician’s order using the 5 rights (right patient, right drug, right
route, right dose, right time)
2. Obtain syrup of ipecac and check expiration date
                               continued on next page



                                                    11
Vol.3 Module 5             (continued)                        Emergency Medication Administration
                          PERFORMANCE ITEM                                       SAT     UNSAT
                        SYRUP OF IPECAC continued
3. Identify patient/explain procedure
4. Position patient in upright position
5. Wash hands and don gloves
6. Prepare correct dose of syrup of ipecac per orders
7. Assist patient in drinking syrup of ipecac and 1 to 2 glasses of water
8. Monitor patient for vomiting (Note: save vomitus for examination)
9. If vomiting does not occur within 20 minutes, administer 1 additional dose if
   ordered to do so
10. Dispose of supplies properly and wash hands
11. Document procedure
                        BRONCHODILATOR INHALER
1. Wash hands and don gloves
2. Verify physician’s order using the 5 rights
3. Obtain prescribed bronchodilator inhaler and check expiration date
4. Identify patient/explain procedure
5. Position patient in upright position
6. Shake container vigorously several times
7. Instruct patient to exhale and place mouth around mouthpiece
8. Instruct patient to depress the inhaler while inhaling deeply through the mouth
9. Instruct patient to hold breath briefly to permit medication absorption
10. Assist patient in administering additional dose(s) per orders
11. Dispose of supplies properly and wash hands
12. Monitor patient’s reaction to medication
13. Document procedure
                       SUBLINGUAL NITROGLYCERIN
1. Wash hands and don gloves
2. Verify physician’s order using the 5 rights
3. Obtain nitroglycerin tablet container and check expiration date
4. Identify patient/explain procedure
5. Position patient in position of comfort
6. Obtain baseline set of vital signs
7. Pour nitroglycerin tablet into medication cup
8. Place tablet under the patient’s tongue and instruct the patient not to swallow
   the medication
9. Monitor vital signs closely and patient’s reaction to medication
10. Administer additional dose(s) of medication per orders
11. Dispose of supplies properly and wash hands
12. Document procedure
FINAL RESULT:

FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee's performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc. If the trainee performed all steps
of the task satisfactorily, document the results in the trainee’s OJT record.


                                                    12
